
INTRODUCTION: Dorsal pathway dysfunctions are thought to underlie visuospatial processing problems in Alzheimer disease (AD). Prior studies reported compensatory mechanisms in the dorsal or ventral pathway in response to these functional changes. Since functional and structural connectivity are interrelated, these functional changes could be interpreted as a disconnection between both pathways. To better understand functional alterations in the dorsal pathway, we combined functional imaging with diffusion tensorimaging (DTI) in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a likely prodromal stage of AD. METHODS: Eighteen older male individuals with amnestic MCI (aMCI) and 18 male cognitively healthy individuals, matched for age (range 59-75years) and education, performed an object recognition task in the Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanner. Neural activation was measured during recognition of non-canonically versus canonically oriented objects. Regions showing activation differences between groups were also investigated by DTI. RESULTS: Recognition of non-canonical objects elicited increased frontal, temporal and parietal activation. Combining the functional MRI (fMRI) with the DTI results showed less deactivation in areas with decreased diffusion (mediolateral parietal and orbitofrontal) and increased activation in areas with increased diffusion (parietal and temporal) in aMCI patients. Finally, in aMCI patients decreased diffusion was found in the hippocampal cingulum, connecting both pathways. CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed increased activation in early AD patients in ventral and dorsal pathways. A decrease in deactivation and diffusion suggests functional reorganization, while increased activation and diffusion suggests compensatory processes. This is the first study showing structural evidence for functional reorganization, which may be related to connectivity loss in the cingulum.
This protocol describes an optimized method for direct in vitro monitoring of homo- and heterotypic axon-axon interactions involved in the developmental assembly of neural circuits. The assay exploits a classical example of heterotypic axonal interactions by modeling the sequential extension of spinal motor and somatosensory neuron axons, but the procedure should be readily adaptable to other neuron types. The protocol is based on the rapid isolation and primary culture of genetically identified motor neurons combined with straightforward vital dye labeling and culture of dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons. Subsequently, axonal interactions are directly monitored via live fluorescence microscopy, whereas axon type identities can be unambiguously delineated throughout the experiments. Through chemical compound application or by using neurons derived from genetically engineered mice, the protocol facilitates the dissection of molecular pathways driving the axonal interactions that are crucial for neural pathway and circuit assembly. The whole procedure can be completed in 3 d.
We describe a method for the efficient and selective identification of DNA containing the 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5-hmC) modification. This protocol takes advantage of two proteins: T4 -glucosyltransferase (-gt), which converts 5-hmC to -glucosyl-5-hmC (-glu-5-hmC), and J-binding protein 1 (JBP1), which specifically recognizes and binds to -glu-5-hmC. We describe the steps necessary to purify JBP1 and modify this protein such that it can be fixed to magnetic beads. Thereafter, we detail how to use the JBP1 magnetic beads to obtain DNA that is enriched with 5-hmC. This method is likely to produce results similar to those of other 5-hmC pull-down assays; however, all necessary components for the completion of this protocol are readily available or can be easily and rapidly synthesized using basic molecular biology techniques. This protocol can be completed in less than 2 weeks and allows the user to isolate 5-hmC-containing genomic DNA that is suitable for analysis by quantitative PCR (qPCR), sequencing, microarray and other molecular biology assays.
Many neurons have limited capacity to regenerate their axons after injury. Neurons in the mammalian central nervous system do not regenerate, and even neurons in the peripheral nervous system often fail to regenerate to their former targets. This failure is likely due in part to pathways that actively restrict regeneration; however, only a few factors that limit regeneration are known. Here, using single-neuron analysis of regeneration invivo, we show that Notch/lin-12 signaling inhibits the regeneration of mature C.elegans neurons. Notch signaling suppresses regeneration by acting autonomously in the injured cell to prevent growth cone formation. The metalloprotease and gamma-secretase cleavage events that lead to Notch activation during development are also required for its activity in regeneration. Furthermore, blocking Notch activation immediately after injury improves regeneration. Our results define a postdevelopmental role for the Notch pathway as a repressor of axon regeneration invivo.
The neuroimaging community is at a crossroads. Long characterized by individualism, the data and computational and analytic needs of the connectome-wide association era necessitate cultural reform. Emerging initiatives have demonstrated the feasibility and utility of adopting an open neuroscience model to accelerate the pace and success of scientific discovery.
Stem cells are currently seen as a treatment for tissue regeneration in neurological diseases such as multiple sclerosis, anticipating that they integrate and differentiate into neural cells. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), a subset of adult progenitor cells, differentiate into cells of the mesodermal lineage but also, under certain experimental circumstances, into cells of the neuronal and glial lineage. Their clinical development, however, has been significantly boosted by the demonstration that MSCs display significant therapeutic plasticity mainly occurring through bystander mechanisms. These features have been exploited in the effective treatment of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an animal model of multiple sclerosis where the inhibition of the autoimmune response resulted in a significant amelioration of disease and decrease of demyelination, immune infiltrates and axonal loss. Surprisingly, these effects do not require MSCs to engraft in the central nervous system but depend on the cells' ability to inhibit pathogenic immune responses both in the periphery and inside the central nervous system and to release neuroprotective and pro-oligodendrogenic molecules favoring tissue repair. These results paved the road for the utilization of MSCs for the treatment of multiple sclerosis.





Amyloid fibrillation of proteins is associated with a great variety of pathologic conditions. Development of new molecules that can monitor amyloidosis kinetics and inhibit fibril formation is of great diagnostic and therapeutic value. In this work, we have developed a biocompatible molecule that functions as an ex situ monitor and an in situ inhibitor for protein fibrillation, using insulin as a model protein. 1,2-Bis[4-(3-sulfonatopropoxyl)phenyl]-1,2-diphenylethene salt (BSPOTPE) is nonemissive when it is dissolved with native insulin in an incubation buffer but starts to fluoresce when it is mixed with preformed insulin fibril, enabling ex situ monitoring of amyloidogenesis kinetics and high-contrast fluorescence imaging of protein fibrils. Premixing BSPOTPE with insulin, on the other hand, inhibits the nucleation process and impedes the protofibril formation. Increasing the dose of BSPOTPE boosts its inhibitory potency. Theoretical modeling using molecular dynamics simulations and docking reveals that BSPOTPE is prone to binding to partially unfolded insulin through hydrophobic interaction of the phenyl rings of BSPOTPE with the exposed hydrophobic residues of insulin. Such binding is assumed to have stabilized the partially unfolded insulin and obstructed the formation of the critical oligomeric species in the protein fibrillogenesis process.
The superior memory for emotional events has been attributed to the beneficial effects of noradrenaline released into the amygdala attributable to arousal. Noradrenaline mediates the effects of different hormones and neurotransmitters, including adrenal stress hormones on consolidation (McGaugh, 2004; Roozendaal et al., 2009). The majority of human fMRI studies of the enhancement of emotional memories contrasted successful encoding of emotionally arousing and neutral stimuli (LaBar and Cabeza, 2006; Murty et al., 2010). Recently, it was highlighted that emotional stimuli elicit not only arousal but also intensify cognitive processes that contribute to the enhanced memory. In particular, the enhanced use of selective attention as well as the greater distinctiveness and semantic relatedness of emotional stimuli influence memory formation (Talmi et al., 2007a). The present study aimed to explore the effects of arousal on memory formation independent of these cognitive factors in an event-related manner. Arousal was induced by the application of a nociceptive stimulus briefly after the presentation of neutral scenes. The results show a purely arousal-driven memory enhancement for the neutral scenes that differs in critical aspects from the superior memory for emotional stimuli. In particular, the enhancement was only evident after consolidation and exclusively based on an increase in item familiarity but not recollection. Moreover, successful memory formation for stimuli followed by arousal was correlated with activity in the parahippocampal cortex but not the amygdala, as is the case for emotional stimuli.
Auditory deviance detection has been associated with a human auditory-evoked potential (AEP), the mismatch negativity, generated in the auditory cortex 100-200 ms from sound change onset. Yet, single-unit recordings in animals suggest much earlier (20-40 ms), and anatomically lower (i.e., thalamus and midbrain) deviance detection. In humans, recordings of the scalp middle-latency AEPs have confirmed early (30-40 ms) deviance detection. However, involvement of the human auditory brainstem in deviance detection has not yet been demonstrated. Here we recorded the auditory brainstem frequency-following response (FFR) to consonant-vowel stimuli (/ba/, /wa/) in young adults, with stimuli arranged in oddball and reversed oddball blocks (deviant probability, p=0.2), allowing for the comparison of FFRs to the same physical stimuli presented in different contextual roles. Whereas no effect was observed for the /wa/ syllable, we found for the /ba/ syllable a reduction in the brainstem FFR to deviant stimuli compared with standard ones and to similar stimuli arranged in a control block, with five equiprobable, rarely occurring sounds. These findings demonstrate that the human auditory brainstem is able to encode regularities in the recent auditory past to detect novel events, and confirm the multiple anatomical and temporal scales of human deviance detection.
Correlated spiking has been widely observed, but its impact on neural coding remains controversial. Correlation arising from comodulation of rates across neurons has been shown to vary with the firing rates of individual neurons. This translates into rate and correlation being equivalently tuned to the stimulus; under those conditions, correlated spiking does not provide information beyond that already available from individual neuron firing rates. Such correlations are irrelevant and can reduce coding efficiency by introducing redundancy. Using simulations and experiments in rat hippocampal neurons, we show here that pairs of neurons receiving correlated input also exhibit correlations arising from precise spike-time synchronization. Contrary to rate comodulation, spike-time synchronization is unaffected by firing rate, thus enabling synchrony- and rate-based coding to operate independently. The type of output correlation depends on whether intrinsic neuron properties promote integration or coincidence detection: &quot;ideal&quot; integrators (with spike generation sensitive to stimulus mean) exhibit rate comodulation, whereas ideal coincidence detectors (with spike generation sensitive to stimulus variance) exhibit precise spike-time synchronization. Pyramidal neurons are sensitive to both stimulus mean and variance, and thus exhibit both types of output correlation proportioned according to which operating mode is dominant. Our results explain how different types of correlations arise based on how individual neurons generate spikes, and why spike-time synchronization and rate comodulation can encode different stimulus properties. Our results also highlight the importance of neuronal properties for population-level coding insofar as neural networks can employ different coding schemes depending on the dominant operating mode of their constituent neurons.
Loss-of-function mutations in human glycine receptors cause hyperekplexia, a rare inherited disease associated with an exaggerated startle response. We have studied a human disease mutation in the M2-M3 loop of the glycine receptor 1 subunit (K276E) using direct fitting of mechanisms to single-channel recordings with the program HJCFIT. Whole-cell recordings from HEK293 cells showed the mutation reduced the receptor glycine sensitivity. In single-channel recordings, rat homomeric 1 K276E receptors were barely active, even at 200 mM glycine. Coexpression of the  subunit partially rescued channel function. Heteromeric mutant channels opened in brief bursts at 300 M glycine (a concentration that is near-maximal for wild type) and reached a maximum one-channel open probability of about 45% at 100 mm glycine (compared to 96% for wild type). Distributions of apparent open times contained more than one component in high glycine and, therefore, could not be described by mechanisms with only one fully liganded open state. Fits to the data were much better with mechanisms in which opening can also occur from more than one fully liganded intermediate (e.g., &quot;primed&quot; models). Brief pulses of glycine (3 ms, 30 mM) applied to mutant channels in outside-out patches activated currents with a slower rise time (1.5 ms) than those of wild-type channels (0.2 ms) and a much faster decay. These features were predicted reasonably well by the mechanisms obtained from fitting single-channel data. Our results show that, by slowing and impairing channel gating, the K276E mutation facilitates the detection of closed reaction intermediates in the activation pathway of glycine channels.
Synaptotagmin is the major calcium sensor for fast synaptic transmission that requires the synchronous fusion of synaptic vesicles. Synaptotagmin contains two calcium-binding domains: C2A and C2B. Mutation of a positively charged residue (R233Q in rat) showed that Ca2+-dependent interactions between the C2A domain and membranes play a role in the electrostatic switch that initiates fusion. Surprisingly, aspartate-to-asparagine mutations in C2A that inhibit Ca2+ binding support efficient synaptic transmission, suggesting that Ca2+ binding by C2A is not required for triggering synchronous fusion. Based on a structural analysis, we generated a novel mutation of a single Ca2+-binding residue in C2A (D229E in Drosophila) that inhibited Ca2+ binding but maintained the negative charge of the pocket. This C2A aspartate-to-glutamate mutation resulted in 80% decrease in synchronous transmitter release and a decrease in the apparent Ca2+ affinity of release. Previous aspartate-to-asparagine mutations in C2A partially mimicked Ca2+ binding by decreasing the negative charge of the pocket. We now show that the major function of Ca2+ binding to C2A is to neutralize the negative charge of the pocket, thereby unleashing the fusion-stimulating activity of synaptotagmin. Our results demonstrate that Ca2+ binding by C2A is a critical component of the electrostatic switch that triggers synchronous fusion. Thus, Ca2+ binding by C2B is necessary and sufficient to regulate the precise timing required for coupling vesicle fusion to Ca2+ influx, but Ca2+ binding by both C2 domains is required to flip the electrostatic switch that triggers efficient synchronous synaptic transmission.
Circulating hormones influence multiple aspects of hypothalamic development and play a role in directing formation of neural circuits. Leptin is secreted by adipocytes and functions as a key developmental signal that promotes axon outgrowth from the arcuate nucleus (ARH) during a discrete developmental critical period. To determine the cellular mechanisms by which leptin impacts development of hypothalamic circuits, we examined roles for leptin receptor (LepRb) signals in neonatal mice. LepRb, ERK, and STAT3 signaling were required for leptin-stimulated neurite outgrowth from ARH explants in vitro. Neonatal mice with disrupted LepRbERK signaling displayed impaired ARH projections but were able to compensate by adulthood. LepRbSTAT3 signaling also plays a role in early circuit formation and controls the ultimate architecture of POMC, but not AgRP, projections. Thus, the developmental actions of leptin on feeding circuits are dependent on LepRb, and distinct signaling pathways are responsible for directing formation of NPY and POMC projections.
Though the joints of the arm and hand together comprise 27 degrees of freedom, an ethological movement like reaching and grasping coordinates many of these joints so as to operate in a reduced dimensional space. We used a generalized linear model to predict single neuron responses in primary motor cortex (MI) during a reach-to-grasp task based on 40 features that represent positions and velocities of the arm and hand in joint angle and Cartesian coordinates as well as the neurons' own spiking history. Two rhesus monkeys were trained to reach and grasp one of five objects, located at one of seven locations while we used an infrared camera motion-tracking system to track markers placed on their upper limb and recorded single-unit activity from a microelectrode array implanted in MI. The kinematic trajectories that described hand shaping and transport to the object depended on both the type of object and its location. Modeling the kinematics as temporally extensive trajectories consistently yielded significantly higher predictive power in most neurons. Furthermore, a model that included all feature trajectories yielded more predictive power than one that included any single feature trajectory in isolation, and neurons tended to encode feature velocities over positions. The predictive power of a majority of neurons reached a plateau for a model that included only the first five principal components of all the features' trajectories, suggesting that MI has evolved or adapted to encode the natural kinematic covariations associated with prehension described by a limited set of kinematic synergies.
Multisensory interactions are a fundamental feature of brain organization. Principles governing multisensory processing have been established by varying stimulus location, timing and efficacy independently. Determining whether and how such principles operate when stimuli vary dynamically in their perceived distance (as when looming/receding) provides an assay for synergy among the above principles and also means for linking multisensory interactions between rudimentary stimuli with higher-order signals used for communication and motor planning. Human participants indicated movement of looming or receding versus static stimuli that were visual, auditory, or multisensory combinations while 160-channel EEG was recorded. Multivariate EEG analyses and distributed source estimations were performed. Nonlinear interactions between looming signals were observed at early poststimulus latencies (75 ms) in analyses of voltage waveforms, global field power, and source estimations. These looming-specific interactions positively correlated with reaction time facilitation, providing direct links between neural and performance metrics of multisensory integration. Statistical analyses of source estimations identified looming-specific interactions within the right claustrum/insula extending inferiorly into the amygdala and also within the bilateral cuneus extending into the inferior and lateral occipital cortices. Multisensory effects common to all conditions, regardless of perceived distance and congruity, followed (115 ms) and manifested as faster transition between temporally stable brain networks (vs summed responses to unisensory conditions). We demonstrate the early-latency, synergistic interplay between existing principles of multisensory interactions. Such findings change the manner in which to model multisensory interactions at neural and behavioral/perceptual levels. We also provide neurophysiologic backing for the notion that looming signals receive preferential treatment during perception.
Spinal interneurons modulating motor output are highly diverse but surprisingly arise from just a few embryonic subgroups. The principles governing their development, diversification, and integration into spinal circuits are unknown. This study focuses on the differentiation of adult Renshaw cells (RCs) and Ia inhibitory interneurons (IaINs), two subclasses that respectively mediate recurrent and reciprocal inhibition of motoneurons from embryonic V1 interneurons (V1-INs). V1-INs originate from p1 progenitors and, after they become postmitotic, specifically express the transcription factor engrailed-1, a property that permits genetic labeling of V1 lineages from embryo to adult. RCs and IaINs are V1 derived, but differ in morphology, location, calcium-binding protein expression, synaptic connectivity, and function. These differences are already present in neonates, and in this study we show that their differentiation starts in the early embryo. Using 5'-bromodeoxyuridine birth dating we established that mouse V1-INs can be divided into early (E9.5-E10.5) and late (E11.5-E12.5) groups generated from the p1 domain (where E is embryonic day). The early group upregulates calbindin expression soon after becoming postmitotic and includes RCs, which express the transcription factor MafB during early differentiation and maintain calbindin expression throughout life. The late group includes IaINs, are calbindin-negative, and express FoxP2 at the start of differentiation. Moreover, developing RCs follow a characteristic circumferential migratory route that places them in unique relationship with motor axons with whom they later synaptically interact. We conclude that the fate of these V1-IN subclasses is determined before synaptogenesis and circuit formation by a process that includes differences in neurogenesis time, transcription factor expression, and migratory pathways.
Inflammation can profoundly alter the structure and function of the nervous system. Interleukin (IL)-17 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several inflammatory diseases associated with nervous system plasticity. However, the effects of IL-17 on the nervous system remain unexplored. Cell and explant culture techniques, immunohistochemistry, electrophysiology, and Ca2+ imaging were used to examine the impact of IL-17 on adult mouse sympathetic neurons. Receptors for IL-17 were present on postganglionic neurons from superior mesenteric ganglia (SMG). Supernatant from activated splenic T lymphocytes, which was abundant in IL-17, dramatically enhanced axonal length of SMG neurons. Importantly, IL-17-neutralizing antiserum abrogated the neurotrophic effect of splenocyte supernatant, and incubation of SMG neurons in IL-17 (1 ng/ml) significantly potentiated neurite outgrowth. The neurotrophic effect of IL-17 was accompanied by inhibition of voltage-dependent Ca2+ influx and was recapitulated by incubation of neurons in a blocker of N-type Ca2+ channels (-conotoxin GVIA; 30 nM). IL-17-induced neurite outgrowth in vitro appeared to be independent of glia, as treatment with a glial toxin (AraC; 5 M) did not affect the outgrowth response to IL-17. Moreover, application of the cytokine to distal axons devoid of glial processes enhanced neurite extension. An inhibitor of the NF-B pathway (SC-514; 20 M) blocked the effects of IL-17. These data represent the first evidence that IL-17 can act on sympathetic somata and distal neurites to enhance neurite outgrowth, and identify a novel potential role for IL-17 in the neuroanatomical plasticity that accompanies inflammation.

GluK1 is a kainate receptor subunit in the ionotropic glutamate receptor family and can form functional channels when expressed, for instance, in HEK-293 cells. However, the channel-opening mechanism of GluK1 is poorly understood. One major challenge to studying the GluK1 channel is its apparent low level of surface expression, which results in a low whole-cell current response even to a saturating concentration of agonist. A low level of surface expression is thought to be contributed by an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention signal sequence. When this sequence motif is present as in the C-terminus of wild-type GluK1-2b, the receptor is significantly retained in the ER. Conversely, when this sequence is either lacking, as in wild-type GluK1-2a (i.e., a different alternatively spliced isoform at the C-terminus), or disrupted, as in a GluK1-2b mutant (i.e., R896A, R897A, R900A, and K901A), there is a higher level of surface expression and a greater whole-cell current response. Here we characterize the channel-opening kinetic mechanism for these three GluK1 receptors expressed in HEK-293 cells by using a laser-pulse photolysis technique. Our results show that wild-type GluK1-2a, wild-type GluK1-2b, and the GluK1-2b mutant have identical channel opening and channel closing rate constants. These results indicate that the amino acid sequence near or within the C-terminal ER retention signal sequence, which affects receptor trafficking and/or expression, does not affect channel gating properties. Furthermore, as compared with the GluK2 kainate receptor, the GluK1 channel is faster to open, close, and desensitize by at least 2-fold, yet the EC(50) value of GluK1 is similar to that of GluK2.
Simulated networks of excitatory and inhibitory neurons have previously been shown to reproduce critical features of experimental data regarding neural coding in V1, such as a positive relationship between thalamic input spike rate and the power of gamma frequency oscillations. This effect, referred to as modulated gamma power, could represent a neural code in V1 for stimulus characteristics that affect thalamic spike rate such as contrast or intensity. The simulated network's assumptions included homogeneous random connectivity, equal synaptic delays after spike arrival, and constant synaptic efficacies. Plausible alternative assumptions include small world connectivity, a wide distribution of axonal propagation delays, and short term synaptic plasticity, and here we assess the individual impact of each of these on the model's success in reproducing modulated gamma power. First, we developed several alternative algorithms for simulating directed networks with clustered connectivity and balanced excitation and inhibition. We found that modulated gamma power was absent in all small-world networks that had a relatively low abundance of reciprocal connectivity, which suggests that such motifs are present in V1 cortical networks at levels at least equal to those found in random networks. We also found in a different network type that the balance of excitation and inhibition could be destroyed when the network was in the small-world regime. Given all neurons had identical in-degrees, this result suggests that balance relies on motif distributions as well as mean connectivity. Second, altering the distribution of axonal delays had little effect, but increasing the mean delay led to a secondary gamma modulation at harmonics of the main peak, and since this is not observed experimentally, it suggests a mean delay in V1 networks less than 2 ms. Finally, we compared two types of excitatory synaptic plasticity, and found that modulated beta power emerged in addition to gamma power for one type, in the presence of short term depression in interneurons. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Neural Coding&quot;.
The connectivity of the cerebral cortex is diluted, with the probability of excitatory connections between even nearby pyramidal cells rarely more than 0.1, and in the hippocampus 0.04. To investigate the extent to which this diluted connectivity affects the dynamics of attractor networks in the cerebral cortex, we simulated an integrate-and-fire attractor network taking decisions between competing inputs with diluted connectivity of 0.25 or 0.1, and with the same number of synaptic connections per neuron for the recurrent collateral synapses within an attractor population as for full connectivity. The results indicated that there was less spiking-related noise with the diluted connectivity in that the stability of the network when in the spontaneous state of firing increased, and the accuracy of the correct decisions increased. The decision times were a little slower with diluted than with complete connectivity. Given that the capacity of the network is set by the number of recurrent collateral synaptic connections per neuron, on which there is a biological limit, the findings indicate that the stability of cortical networks, and the accuracy of their correct decisions or memory recall operations, can be increased by utilizing diluted connectivity and correspondingly increasing the number of neurons in the network, with little impact on the speed of processing of the cortex. Thus diluted connectivity can decrease cortical spiking-related noise. In addition, we show that the Fano factor for the trial-to-trial variability of the neuronal firing decreases from the spontaneous firing state value when the attractor network makes a decision. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Neural Coding&quot;.
Significant insights into the dynamics of neuronal populations have been gained in the olfactory system where rich spatio-temporal dynamics is observed during, and following, exposure to odours. It is now widely accepted that odour identity is represented in terms of stimulus-specific rate patterning observed in the cells of the antennal lobe (AL). Here we describe a nonlinear dynamical framework inspired by recent experimental findings which provides a compelling account of both the origin and the function of these dynamics. We start by analytically reducing a biologically plausible conductance based model of the AL to a quantitatively equivalent rate model and construct conditions such that the rate dynamics are well described by a single globally stable fixed point (FP). We then describe the AL's response to an odour stimulus as rich transient trajectories between this stable baseline state (the single FP in absence of odour stimulation) and the odour-specific position of the single FP during odour stimulation. We show how this framework can account for three phenomena that are observed experimentally. First, for an inhibitory period often observed immediately after an odour stimulus is removed. Second, for the qualitative differences between the dynamics in the presence and the absence of odour. Lastly, we show how it can account for the invariance of a representation of odour identity to both the duration and intensity of an odour stimulus. We compare and contrast this framework with the currently prevalent nonlinear dynamical framework of 'winnerless competition' which describes AL dynamics in terms of heteroclinic orbits. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Neural Coding&quot;.
Self-organizing attractor networks may comprise the building blocks for cortical dynamics, providing the basic operations of categorization, including analog-to-digital conversion, association and auto-association, which are then expressed as components of distinct cognitive functions depending on the contents of the neural codes in each region. To assess the viability of this scenario, we first review how a local cortical patch may be modeled as an attractor network, in which memory representations are not artificially stored as prescribed binary patterns of activity as in the Hopfield model, but self-organize as continuously graded patterns induced by afferent input. Recordings in macaques indicate that such cortical attractor networks may express retrieval dynamics over cognitively plausible rapid time scales, shorter than those dominated by neuronal fatigue. A cortical network encompassing many local attractor networks, and incorporating a realistic description of adaptation dynamics, may be captured by a Potts model. This network model has the capacity to engage long-range associations into sustained iterative attractor dynamics at a cortical scale, in what may be regarded as a mathematical model of spontaneous lateral thought. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neural Coding.
Minute differences between the time of arrival of a sound at the two ears are used by humans and animals to locate the source. New in vivo recordings have shed light on how auditory neurons solve the problem of resolving microsecond time differences.

Concrete examples of computation and implementation of cost/benefit decisions at the level of neuronal circuits are largely lacking. Such decisions are based on appetitive state, which is the integration of sensation, internal state, and memory. Value-based decisions are accessible in neuronal circuitry of simple systems. In one such system, the predatory sea slug Pleurobranchaea, appetite is readily quantified in behavior and related to approach/avoidance decision. Moreover, motor aspects of feeding and turning can be observed as fictive motor output in the isolated central nervous system (CNS). Here we found that the excitation state of the feeding motor network both manifested appetitive state and controlled expression of orienting versus avoidance. In isolated CNSs, spontaneous feeding network activity varied proportionally to donor feeding thresholds. CNSs from low- and high-feeding-threshold donors expressed fictive orienting or avoidance, respectively, in response to brief stimulation of sensory nerves. Artificially exciting the feeding network converted fictive avoidance to orienting. Thus, the feeding network embodied appetitive state and toggled approach/avoidance decision by configuring response symmetry of the premotor turn network. A resulting model suggests a basic cost/benefit decision module from which to consider evolutionary elaboration of the circuitry to serve more intricate valuation processes in complex animals.


Humans accurately judge their direction of heading when translating in a rigid environment, unless independently moving objects (IMOs) cross the observer's focus of expansion (FoE). Studies show that an IMO on a laterally moving path that maintains a fixed distance with respect to the observer (non-approaching; C. S. Royden &amp; E. C. Hildreth, 1996) biases human heading estimates differently from an IMO on a lateral path that gets closer to the observer (approaching; W. H. Warren &amp; J. A. Saunders, 1995). C. S. Royden (2002) argued that differential motion operators in primate brain area MT explained both data sets, concluding that differential motion was critical to human heading estimation. However, neurophysiological studies show that motion pooling cells, but not differential motion cells, in MT project to heading-sensitive cells in MST (V. K. Berezovskii &amp; R. T. Born, 2000). It is difficult to reconcile differential motion heading models with these neurophysiological data. We generate motion sequences that mimic those viewed by human subjects. Model MT pools over V1; units in model MST perform distance-weighted template matching and compete in a recurrent heading representation layer. Our model produces heading biases of the same direction and magnitude as humans through a peak shift in model MSTd without using differential motion operators, maintaining consistency with known primate neurophysiology.
Positive muscle phenomena arise owing to various forms of spontaneous muscle hyperactivity originating in motor neurons or in the muscle itself. Although they are common in a wide range of neurological and non-neurological diseases, clinical and scientific data on these phenomena are limited, and their presence is sometimes overlooked. This gap in our knowledge hampers effective diagnosis and treatment. In this article, we review the clinical characteristics and approach to diagnosis of the various positive muscle phenomena, and discuss their genetic underpinnings and pathophysiological mechanisms. Finally, we outline an algorithm to discriminate between the different positive muscle phenomena.
Ocular dominance (OD) plasticity in the visual cortex is a classic model system for understanding developmental plasticity, but the visual cortex also shows plasticity in adulthood. Whether the plasticity mechanisms are similar or different at the two ages is not clear. Several plasticity mechanisms operate during development, including homeostatic plasticity, which acts to maintain the total excitatory drive to a neuron. In agreement with this idea, we found that an often-studied substrain of C57BL/6 mice, C57BL/6JOlaHsd (6JOla), lacks both the homeostatic component of OD plasticity as assessed by intrinsic signal imaging and synaptic scaling of mEPSC amplitudes after a short period of dark exposure during the critical period, whereas another substrain, C57BL/6J (6J), exhibits both plasticity processes. However, in adult mice, OD plasticity was identical in the 6JOla and 6J substrains, suggesting that adult plasticity occurs by a different mechanism. Consistent with this interpretation, adult OD plasticity was normal in TNF knockout mice, which are known to lack juvenile synaptic scaling and the homeostatic component of OD plasticity, but was absent in adult -calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II;T286A (CaMKII(T286A)) mice, which have a point mutation that prevents autophosphorylation of CaMKII. We conclude that increased responsiveness to open-eye stimulation after monocular deprivation during the critical period is a homeostatic process that depends mechanistically on synaptic scaling during the critical period, whereas in adult mice it is mediated by a different mechanism that requires CaMKII autophosphorylation. Thus, our study reveals a transition between homeostatic and long-term potentiation-like plasticity mechanisms with increasing age.
A requisite component of nervous system development is the achievement of cellular recognition and spatial segregation through competition-based refinement mechanisms. Competition for available axon space by myelinating oligodendrocytes ensures that all relevant CNS axons are myelinated properly. To ascertain the nature of this competition, we generated a transgenic mouse with sparsely labeled oligodendrocytes and establish that individual oligodendrocytes occupying similar axon tracts can greatly vary the number and lengths of their myelin internodes. Here we show that intercellular interactions between competing oligodendroglia influence the number and length of myelin internodes, referred to as myelinogenic potential, and identify the amino-terminal region of Nogo-A, expressed by oligodendroglia, as necessary and sufficient to inhibit this process. Exuberant and expansive myelination/remyelination is detected in the absence of Nogo during development and after demyelination, suggesting that spatial segregation and myelin extent is limited by microenvironmental inhibition. We demonstrate a unique physiological role for Nogo-A in the precise myelination of the developing CNS. Maximizing the myelinogenic potential of oligodendrocytes may offer an effective strategy for repair in future therapies for demyelination.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease that is the second most common form of dementia affecting individuals under age 65. The most common pathological subtype, FTLD with transactive response DNA-binding protein with a molecular weight of 43 kDa inclusions (FTLD-TDP), is often caused by autosomal dominant mutations in the progranulin gene (GRN) encoding the progranulin protein (PGRN). GRN pathogenic mutations result in haploinsufficiency, usually by nonsense-mediated decay of the mRNA. Since the discovery of these mutations in 2006, several groups have published data and animal models that provide further insight into the genetic and functional relevance of PGRN in the context of FTLD-TDP. These studies were critical in initiating our understanding of the role of PGRN in neural development, degeneration, synaptic transmission, cell signaling, and behavior. Furthermore, recent publications have now identified the receptors for PGRN, which will hopefully lead to additional therapeutic targets. Additionally, drug screens have been conducted to identify pharmacological regulators of PGRN levels to be used as potential treatments for PGRN haploinsufficiency. Here we review recent literature describing relevant data on GRN genetics, cell culture experiments describing the potential role and regulators of PGRN in the central nervous system, animal models of PGRN deficiency, and potential PGRN-related FTLD therapies that are currently underway. The present review aims to underscore the necessity of further elucidation of PGRN biology in FTLD-related neurodegeneration.
Rather than being polygenic, complex disorders probably represent umbrella terms for collections of conditions caused by rare, recent mutations in any of a large number of different genes.

We demonstrate that Alexa Fluor 633 hydrazide (Alexa Fluor 633) selectively labels neocortical arteries and arterioles by binding to elastin fibers. We measured sensory stimulus-evoked arteriole dilation dynamics in mouse, rat and cat visual cortex using Alexa Fluor 633 together with neuronal activity using calcium indicators or blood flow using fluorescein dextran. Arteriole dilation decreased fluorescence recorded from immediately underlying neurons, representing a potential artifact during neuronal functional imaging experiments.
Enhanced metabotropic glutamate receptor subunit 5 (mGluR5) function is causally associated with the pathophysiology of fragile X syndrome, a leading inherited cause of intellectual disability and autism. Here we provide evidence that altered mGluR5-Homer scaffolds contribute to mGluR5 dysfunction and phenotypes in the fragile X syndrome mouse model, Fmr1 knockout (Fmr1(-/y)). In Fmr1(-/y) mice, mGluR5 was less associated with long Homer isoforms but more associated with the short Homer1a. Genetic deletion of Homer1a restored mGluR5-long Homer scaffolds and corrected several phenotypes in Fmr1(-/y) mice, including altered mGluR5 signaling, neocortical circuit dysfunction and behavior. Acute, peptide-mediated disruption of mGluR5-Homer scaffolds in wild-type mice mimicked many Fmr1(-/y) phenotypes. In contrast, Homer1a deletion did not rescue altered mGluR-dependent long-term synaptic depression or translational control of target mRNAs of fragile X mental retardation protein, the gene product of Fmr1. Our findings reveal new functions for mGluR5-Homer interactions in the brain and delineate distinct mechanisms of mGluR5 dysfunction in a mouse model of cognitive dysfunction and autism.
Cue-triggered recall of learned temporal sequences is an important cognitive function that has been attributed to higher brain areas. Here recordings in both anesthetized and awake rats demonstrate that after repeated stimulation with a moving spot that evoked sequential firing of an ensemble of primary visual cortex (V1) neurons, just a brief flash at the starting point of the motion path was sufficient to evoke a sequential firing pattern that reproduced the activation order evoked by the moving spot. The speed of recalled spike sequences may reflect the internal dynamics of the network rather than the motion speed. In awake rats, such recall was observed during a synchronized ('quiet wakeful') brain state having large-amplitude, low-frequency local field potential (LFP) but not in a desynchronized ('active') state having low-amplitude, high-frequency LFP. Such conditioning-enhanced, cue-evoked sequential spiking of a V1 ensemble may contribute to experience-based perceptual inference in a brain state-dependent manner.
Channelrhodopsins (ChRs) are light-gated cation channels derived from algae that have shown experimental utility in optogenetics; for example, neurons expressing ChRs can be optically controlled with high temporal precision within systems as complex as freely moving mammals. Although ChRs have been broadly applied to neuroscience research, little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which these unusual and powerful proteins operate. Here we present the crystal structure of a ChR (a C1C2 chimaera between ChR1 and ChR2 from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii) at 2.3 resolution. The structure reveals the essential molecular architecture of ChRs, including the retinal-binding pocket and cation conduction pathway. This integration of structural and electrophysiological analyses provides insight into the molecular basis for the remarkable function of ChRs, and paves the way for the precise and principled design of ChR variants with novel properties.

Accumulation of neurotoxic soluble amyloid-beta protein (A) oligomers in the brains of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) and their role in AD pathogenesis have emerged as topics of considerable interest in recent years. Soluble A oligomers impair synaptic and neuronal function, leading to neurodegeneration that is clinically manifested by memory and cognitive dysfunction. The precise mechanisms whereby A oligomers cause neurotoxicity remain unknown. Emerging insights into the mechanistic link between neuronal receptors and soluble A oligomers highlight the potential role of these receptors in A-mediated neurotoxicity in AD. The current review focuses on studies describing interactions between soluble A oligomers and neuronal receptors, and their role in AD pathogenesis. Furthermore, these studies provide insight into potential therapies for AD using compounds directed at putative target receptors for the action of A in the central nervous system. We focus on interactions of A with subtypes of acetylcholine and glutamatergic receptors. Additionally, neuronal receptors such as insulin, amylin and receptor for advanced glycation end products could be potential targets for soluble A-oligomer-mediated neurotoxicity. A interactions with other receptors such as the p75 neurotrophin receptors, which are highly expressed on cholinergic basal forebrain neurons lost in AD, are also highlighted.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles/hereditary inclusion body myopathy (DMRV/hIBM), characterized by progressive muscle atrophy, weakness, and degeneration, is due to mutations in GNE, a gene encoding a bifunctional enzyme critical in sialic acid biosynthesis. In the DMRV/hIBM mouse model, which exhibits hyposialylation in various tissues in addition to muscle atrophy, weakness, and degeneration, we recently have demonstrated that the myopathic phenotype was prevented by oral administration of N-acetylneuraminic acid, N-acetylmannosamine, and sialyllactose, underscoring the crucial role of hyposialylation in the disease pathomechanism. The choice for the preferred molecule, however, was limited probably by the complex pharmacokinetics of sialic acids and the lack of biomarkers that could clearly show dose response. To address these issues, we screened several synthetic sugar compounds that could increase sialylation more remarkably and allow demonstration of measurable effects in the DMRV/hIBM mice. In this study, we found that tetra-O-acetylated N-acetylmannosamine increased cell sialylation most efficiently, and in vivo evaluation in DMRV/hIBM mice revealed a more dramatic, measurable effect and improvement in muscle phenotype, enabling us to establish analysis of protein biomarkers that can be used for assessing response to treatment. Our results provide a proof of concept in sialic acid-related molecular therapy with synthetic monosaccharides.
Transplantation of neural stem cells (NSCs) improves functional outcomes following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Previously we demonstrated that human NSCs (hNSCs) via releasing glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), preserved cognitive function in rats following parasagittal fluid percussion. However, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. In this study, we report that NSC grafts significantly reduce TBI-induced axonal injury in the fimbria and other brain regions by blocking abnormal accumulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP). A preliminary mass spectrometry proteomics study revealed the opposite effects of TBI and NSCs on many of the cytoskeletal proteins in the CA3 region of the hippocampus, including -smooth muscle actin (-SMA), the main stress fiber component. Further, Western blot and immunostaining studies confirmed that TBI significantly increased the expression of -SMA in hippocampal neurons, whereas NSC grafts counteracted the effect of TBI. In an in vitro model, rapid stretch injury significantly shortened lengths of axons and dendrites, increased the expression of both APP and -SMA, and induced actin aggregation, effects offset by GDNF treatment. These GDNF protective effects were reversed by a GDNF-neutralizing antibody or a specific calcineurin inhibitor, and were mimicked by a specific Rho inhibitor. In summary, we demonstrate for the first time that hNSC grafts and treatment with GDNF acutely reduce traumatic axonal injury and promote neurite outgrowth. Possible mechanisms underlying GDNF-mediated neurite protection include balancing the activity of calcineurin, whereas GDNF-induced neurite outgrowth may result from the reduction of the abnormal -SMA expression and actin aggregation via blocking Rho signals. Our study also suggests the necessity of further exploring the roles of -SMA in the central nervous system (CNS), which may lead to a new avenue to facilitate recovery after TBI and other injuries.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide. Currently, there is no effective strategy to treat the functional sequelae associated with TBI. Experimental evidence shows that the intravenous administration of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) during the first week after TBI prevents neurological deficits, but no experimental studies have shown evidence of the effect of intravenous BMSC on chronic brain injury sequelae. Here we studied the effect of intravenous administration of BMSC on functional outcomes 2 months after experimental TBI in rats. Adult Wistar rats were subjected to weight-drop impact causing severe brain injury, and 2 months later BMSC in saline, or saline alone, was intravenously injected. All experimental groups were evaluated by means of the modified Neurological Severity Score (mNSS), and internal zone Permanence Time (izPT) after video-tracking box (VTB) analysis, over the following 2 months to test the efficacy of BMSC therapy. At the end of the study period the animals were sacrificed and their brains were studied to evaluate possible differences between groups. Two months after BMSC administration no significant differences were detected in the motor and sensory evaluation between animals treated with BMSC and controls, and no differences were detected after histological study of the brains. Our present results suggest that intravenous administration of BMSC after TBI, when the neurological deficits are well established, has no beneficial effect in neurological outcomes or on brain tissue.
Closed-head concussive injury is one of the most common causes of traumatic brain injury (TBI). While single concussions result in short-term neurologic dysfunction, multiple concussions can result in cumulative damage and increased risk for neurodegenerative disease. Despite the prevalence of concussion, knowledge about what occurs in the brain following this injury is limited, in part due to the limited number of appropriate animal research models. To study clinically relevant concussion we recently developed a simple, non-invasive rodent model of closed-head projectile concussive impact (PCI) TBI. For this purpose, anesthetized rats were placed on a platform positioned above a torque-sealed microcentrifuge tube packed with fixed amounts of dry ice. Upon heating, rapid sublimation of the dry ice produced a build-up of compressed CO(2) that triggered an eruptive force causing the cap to launch as an intact projectile, resulting in a targeted PCI head injury. A stainless steel helmet was implemented to protect the head from bruising, yet allowing the brain to sustain a mild PCI event. Depending on the injury location and the application of the helmet, PCI-induced injuries ranged from severe (i.e., head injury with subdural hematomas, intracranial hemorrhage, and brain tissue damage), to mild (no head injury, intracranial hemorrhage, or gross morphological pathology). Although no gross pathology was evident in mild PCI-induced injury, the following protein changes and behavioral abnormalities were detected between 1 and 24 h after PCI injury: (1) upregulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in hippocampal regions; (2) upregulation of ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL-1) in cortical tissue; and (3) significant sensorimotor abnormalities. Overall, these results indicated that this PCI model was capable of replicating salient pathologies of a clinical concussion, and could generate reproducible and quantifiable outcome measures.
Low-level laser light therapy (LLLT) exerts beneficial effects on motor and histopathological outcomes after experimental traumatic brain injury (TBI), and coherent near-infrared light has been reported to improve cognitive function in patients with chronic TBI. However, the effects of LLLT on cognitive recovery in experimental TBI are unknown. We hypothesized that LLLT administered after controlled cortical impact (CCI) would improve post-injury Morris water maze (MWM) performance. Low-level laser light (800nm) was applied directly to the contused parenchyma or transcranially in mice beginning 60-80min after CCI. Injured mice treated with 60J/cm (500mW/cm2min) either transcranially or via an open craniotomy had modestly improved latency to the hidden platform (p&lt;0.05 for group), and probe trial performance (p&lt;0.01) compared to non-treated controls. The beneficial effects of LLLT in open craniotomy mice were associated with reduced microgliosis at 48h (21.82.3 versus 39.24.2 IbA-1+ cells/200field, p&lt;0.05). Little or no effect of LLLT on post-injury cognitive function was observed using the other doses, a 4-h administration time point and 7-day administration of 60J/cm. No effect of LLLT (60J/cm open craniotomy) was observed on post-injury motor function (days 1-7), brain edema (24h), nitrosative stress (24h), or lesion volume (14 days). Although further dose optimization and mechanism studies are needed, the data suggest that LLLT might be a therapeutic option to improve cognitive recovery and limit inflammation after TBI.
Inflammatory responses mediated by activated microglia play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-associated neurocognitive disorders. Studies on identification of specific targets to control microglia activation and resultant neurotoxic activity are imperative. Increasing evidence indicate that voltage-gated K(+) (K(v)) channels are involved in the regulation of microglia functionality. In this study, we investigated K(v)1.3 channels in the regulation of neurotoxic activity mediated by HIV-1 glycoprotein 120 (gp120)-stimulated rat microglia. Our results showed treatment of microglia with gp120 increased the expression levels of K(v)1.3 mRNA and protein. In parallel, whole-cell patch-clamp studies revealed that gp120 enhanced microglia K(v)1.3 current, which was blocked by margatoxin, a K(v)1.3 blocker. The association of gp120 enhancement of K(v)1.3 current with microglia neurotoxicity was demonstrated by experimental results that blocking microglia K(v)1.3 attenuated gp120-associated microglia production of neurotoxins and neurotoxicity. Knockdown of K(v)1.3 gene by transfection of microglia with K(v)1.3-siRNA abrogated gp120-associated microglia neurotoxic activity. Further investigation unraveled an involvement of p38 MAPK in gp120 enhancement of microglia K(v)1.3 expression and resultant neurotoxic activity. These results suggest not only a role K(v)1.3 may have in gp120-associated microglia neurotoxic activity, but also a potential target for the development of therapeutic strategies.
Working memory (WM) is the ability to transiently maintain and manipulate internal representations beyond its external availability to the senses. This process is thought to support high level cognitive abilities and been shown to be strongly predictive of individual intelligence and reasoning abilities. While early models of WM have relied on a modular perspective of brain functioning, more recent evidence suggests that cognitive functions emerge from the interactions of multiple brain regions to generate large-scale networks. Here we will review the current research on functional connectivity of WM processes to highlight the critical role played by neural interactions in healthy and pathological brain states. Recent findings demonstrate that WM abilities are not determined solely by local brain activity, but also rely on the functional coupling of neocortical-hippocampal regions to support WM processes. Although the hippocampus has long been held to be important for long-term declarative memory, recent evidence suggests that the hippocampus may also be necessary to coordinate disparate cortical regions supporting the periodic reactivation of internal representations in WM. Furthermore, recent brain imaging studies using connectivity measures, have shown that changes in cortico-limbic interactions can be useful to characterize WM impairments observed in different neuropathological conditions. Recent advances in electrophysiological and neuroimaging techniques to model network activity has led to important insights into how neocortical and hippocampal regions support WM processes and how disruptions along this network can lead to the memory impairments commonly reported in many neuropathological populations.
The neuronal Ca(2+)-sensor (NCS) proteins VILIP-1 and VILIP-3 have been implicated in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) show association of genetic variants of VILIP-1 (VSNL1) and VILIP-3 (HPCAL1) with AD+P (+psychosis) and late onset AD (LOAD), respectively. In AD brains the expression of VILIP-1 and VILIP-3 protein and mRNA is down-regulated in cortical and limbic areas. In the hippocampus, for instance, reduced VILIP-1 mRNA levels correlate with the content of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) and amyloid plaques, the pathological characteristics of AD, and with the mini mental state exam (MMSE), a test for cognitive impairment. More recently, VILIP-1 was evaluated as a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker and a prognostic marker for cognitive decline in AD. In CSF increased VILIP-1 levels correlate with levels of A, tau, ApoE4, and reduced MMSE scores. These findings tie in with previous results showing that VILIP-1 is involved in pathological mechanisms of altered Ca(2+)-homeostasis leading to neuronal loss. In PC12 cells, depending on co-expression with the neuroprotective Ca(2+)-buffer calbindin D28K, VILIP-1 enhanced tau phosphorylation and cell death. On the other hand, VILIP-1 affects processes, such as cyclic nucleotide signaling and dendritic growth, as well as nicotinergic modulation of neuronal network activity, both of which regulate synaptic plasticity and cognition. Similar to VILIP-1, its interaction partner 42 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) is severely reduced in AD, causing severe cognitive deficits. Comparatively little is known about VILIP-3, but its interaction with cytochrome b5, which is part of an antioxidative system impaired in AD, hint toward a role in neuroprotection. A current hypothesis is that the reduced expression of visinin-like protein (VSNLs) in AD is caused by selective vulnerability of subpopulations of neurons, leading to the death of these VILIP-1-expressing neurons, explaining its increased CSF levels. While the Ca(2+)-sensor appears to be a good biomarker for the detrimental effects of A in AD, its early, possibly A-induced, down-regulation of expression may additionally attenuate neuronal signal pathways regulating the functions of dendrites and neuroplasticity, and as a consequence, this may contribute to cognitive decline in early AD.
A &quot;second generation&quot; -secretase, Begacestat (GSI-953), which is more selective against Notch-signaling, has shown promise in recent Phase I clinical trials. Begacestat, a novel, 2,5-disubsitituted thiophene sulfonamide from Wyeth (now Pfizer) is under evaluation for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Osthole, a coumarin compound isolated from the plant-derived herb Cnidium monnieri, has been the subject of considerable interest because of its broad spectrum of pharmacological properties. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential protective effects of osthole in adult rats in the setting of traumatic brain injury (TBI). We employed Feeney's weight-drop model to ascertain whether intraperitoneal administration of osthole (10mg/kg, 20mg/kg and 40 mg/kg) 30 min before TBI could reduce the severity of neurological deficits, cerebral edema, and hippocampal neuron loss. The levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione (GSH), the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), the expressions of Bcl-2, Bax, and active caspase-3, and the number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive apoptotic cells were also measured to characterize the antioxidative and antiapoptotic properties. A significant reduction of neurological deficits, cerebral edema and hippocampal neuron loss was observed in the osthole pretreatment groups (20mg/kg and 40 mg/kg, but not 10mg/kg) by 24h after TBI compared with the TBI group. Furthermore, pretreatment with osthole (40 mg/kg) significantly increased the activity of SOD, the level of GSH, and the ratio of Bcl-2/Bax, and also reduced the level of MDA, the expression of active caspase-3, and the number of apoptotic cells at 24h after TBI. In summary, these results suggested that osthole had a neuroprotective effect against TBI, and the protection may be associated with its antioxidative and antiapoptotic functions.


Activation of glia cells resulting in intrathecal elevation of cytokines and chemokines has been hypothesized in chronic pain syndromes such as fibromyalgia. To our knowledge, this is the first study assessing intrathecal concentrations of pro-inflammatory substances in fibromyalgia. We report elevated cerebrospinal fluid and serum concentrations of interleukin-8, but not interleukin-1beta, in FM patients. This profile is in accordance with FM symptoms being mediated by sympathetic activity rather than dependent on prostaglandin associated mechanisms and supports the hypothesis of glia cell activation in response to pain mechanisms.
Unlike mammals, adult zebrafish are able to regenerate multiple tissues including those of the CNS. In the zebrafish retina, injury stimulates Mller glia dedifferentiation into a multipotent retinal progenitor that is capable of regenerating all lost cell types. This dedifferentiation is driven by the reactivation of gene expression programs that share many characteristics with those that operate during early development. Although the mechanisms underlying the reactivation of these programs remain unknown, it is likely that changes in DNA methylation play a significant role. To begin investigating whether DNA demethylation may contribute to retina regeneration, we characterized the expression of genes associated with DNA demethylation in the uninjured and injured retina. We found that two cytidine deaminases (apobec2a and apobec2b) were expressed basally in the uninjured retina and that they were induced in proliferating, dedifferentiated Mller glia. The maximal induction of apobec2b required Ascl1a, but was independent of Lin28, and therefore defines an independent signaling pathway stemming from Ascl1a. Strikingly, when Apobec2a or Apobec2b was knocked down by antisense morpholino oligonucleotides, the proliferative response of Mller glia following injury was significantly reduced and injury-dependent induction of ascl1a and its target genes were inhibited, suggesting the presence of a regulatory feedback loop between Apobec proteins and ascl1a. Finally, Ascl1a, Apobec2a and Apobec2b were found to be essential for optic nerve regeneration. These data identify an essential role for Apobec proteins during retina and optic nerve regeneration and suggest DNA demethylation may underlie the reprogramming of cells to mount a regenerative response.
Ongoing interactions among cortical neurons often manifest as network-level synchrony. Understanding the spatiotemporal dynamics of such spontaneous synchrony is important because it may (1) influence network response to input, (2) shape activity-dependent microcircuit structure, and (3) reveal fundamental network properties, such as an imbalance of excitation (E) and inhibition (I). Here we delineate the spatiotemporal character of spontaneous synchrony in rat cortex slice cultures and a computational model over a range of different E-I conditions including disfacilitated (antagonized AMPA, NMDA receptors), unperturbed, and disinhibited (antagonized GABA(A) receptors). Local field potential was recorded with multielectrode arrays during spontaneous burst activity. Synchrony among neuronal groups was quantified based on phase-locking among recording sites. As network excitability was increased from low to high, we discovered three phenomena at an intermediate excitability level: (1) onset of synchrony, (2) maximized variability of synchrony, and (3) neuronal avalanches. Our computational model predicted that these three features occur when the network operates near a unique balanced E-I condition called &quot;criticality.&quot; These results were invariant to changes in the measurement spatial extent, spatial resolution, and frequency bands. Our findings indicate that moderate average synchrony, which is required to avoid pathology, occurs over a limited range of E-I conditions and emerges together with maximally variable synchrony. If variable synchrony is detrimental to cortical function, this is a cost paid for moderate average synchrony. However, if variable synchrony is beneficial, then by operating near criticality the cortex may doubly benefit from moderate mean and maximized variability of synchrony.
We measured temporal reproduction in human subjects with various levels of musical expertise: expert drummers, string musicians, and non-musicians. While duration reproduction of the non-percussionists showed a characteristic central tendency or regression to the mean, drummers responded veridically. Furthermore, when the stimuli were auditory tones rather than flashes, all subjects responded veridically. The behavior of all three groups in both modalities is well explained by a Bayesian model that seeks to minimize reproduction errors by incorporating a central tendency prior, a probability density function centered at the mean duration of the sample. We measured separately temporal precision thresholds with a bisection task; thresholds were twice as low in drummers as in the other two groups. These estimates of temporal precision, together with an adaptable Bayesian prior, predict well the reproduction results and the central tendency strategy under all conditions and for all subject groups. These results highlight the efficiency and flexibility of sensorimotor mechanisms estimating temporal duration.
Excitatory-to-inhibitory cortical synapses exhibit either short-term facilitation or depression, depending on the subtype identity of the postsynaptic interneuron, while the short-term plasticity (STP) of inhibitory-to-excitatory synapses depends on the presynaptic interneuron. However, the rules governing STP of inhibitory-to-inhibitory synapses have not yet been determined. We recorded 109 unitary connections made by the two major inhibitory interneuron subtypes in layer 4 of mouse somatosensory cortex, fast-spiking (FS) and somatostatin-containing (SOM) interneurons, on each other and on excitatory, regular-spiking (RS) neurons. In all pairs, we measured dynamic changes in the postsynaptic response to a 20 Hz train of presynaptic action potentials. In half of our dataset, we also measured kinetic properties of the unitary IPSC: latency, rise time, and decay time constant. We found a pronounced dependency of STP on the presynaptic, but not the postsynaptic, identity: FS interneurons made strongly depressing connections on FS, SOM, and RS targets, while in synapses made by SOM interneurons on FS and RS targets, weak early depression was followed by weak late facilitation. IPSC latency and rise time were also strongly dependent on the presynaptic interneuron subtype, being 1.5-2 slower in output synapses of SOM compared with FS interneurons. In contrast, the IPSC decay time constant depended only on the postsynaptic class, with 1.5 slower decay on excitatory compared with inhibitory targets. The properties of the inhibitory outputs of FS and SOM interneurons reciprocate the properties of their excitatory inputs and imply a dynamic spatiotemporal division of labor between these two major inhibitory subsystems.
Local inhibition by GABA-releasing neurons is important for the operation of sensory cortices, but the details of these inhibitory circuits remain unclear. We addressed this question in the olfactory system by making targeted recordings from identified classes of inhibitory and glutamatergic neurons in the piriform cortex (PC) of mice. First, we looked for feedforward synaptic inhibition provided by interneurons located in the outermost layer of the PC, layer Ia, which is the unique recipient of afferent fibers from the olfactory bulb. We found two types of feedforward inhibition: a fast-rising, spatially restricted kind that was generated by horizontal cells, and a slow-rising, more diffuse kind generated by neurogliaform cells. Both cell types targeted the distal apical dendrites of layer II principal neurons. Next, we studied feedback synaptic inhibition in isolation by making a tissue cut across layer I to selectively remove feedforward inhibitory connections. We identified a powerful type of feedback inhibition of layer II neurons, mostly generated by soma-targeting fast-spiking multipolar cells in layer III, which in turn were driven by feedforward excitation from layer II semilunar cells. Dynamic clamp simulation of feedback inhibition revealed differential effects of this inhibition on the two main types of layer II principal neurons. Thus, our results articulate the connectivity and functions of two important classes of inhibitory microcircuits in the PC. Feedforward and feedback inhibition generated by these circuits is likely to be required for the operation of this sensory paleocortex during the processing of olfactory information.
All bodily movements stimulate peripheral receptors that activate neurons in the brain and spinal cord through afferent feedback. How these reafferent signals are processed within the CNS during movement is a key question in motor control. We investigated cutaneous sensory-evoked potentials in the spinal cord, primary somatosensory and motor cortex, and premotor cortex in monkeys performing an instructed delay task. Afferent inputs from cutaneous receptors were suppressed at several levels in a task-dependent manner. We found two types of suppression. First, suppression during active limb movement was observed in the spinal cord and all three cortical areas. This suppression was induced by both bottom-up and top-down gating mechanisms. Second, during preparation for upcoming movement, evoked responses were suppressed exclusively in the motor cortical areas and the magnitude of suppression was correlated with the reaction time of the subsequent movement. This suppression could be induced by a top-down gating mechanism to facilitate the preparation and execution of upcoming movement.
Studies in rodents show that transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channels regulate glutamate release at central and peripheral synapses. In humans, a number of nonsynonymous single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been described in the TRPV1 gene, and some of them significantly alter the functionality of the channel. To address the possible role of TRPV1 channels in the regulation of synaptic transmission in humans, we studied how TRPV1 genetic polymorphisms affect cortical excitability measured with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Two SNPs of the TRPV1 gene were selected and genotyped (rs222747 and rs222749) in a sample of 77 healthy subjects. In previous cell expression studies, the &quot;G&quot; allele of rs222747 was found to enhance the activity of the channel, whereas rs222749 had no functional effect. Allelic variants in the rs222749 region were not associated with altered cortical response to single, paired, and repetitive TMS. In contrast, subjects homozygous for the G allele in rs222747 exhibited larger short-interval intracortical facilitation (a measure of glutamate transmission) explored through paired-pulse TMS of the primary motor cortex. Recruitment curves, short-interval intracortical inhibition, intracortical facilitation, and long-interval intracortical inhibition were unchanged. LTP- and LTD-like plasticity explored through intermittent or continuous theta-burst stimulation was also similar in the &quot;G&quot; and &quot;non-G&quot; subjects. To our knowledge, our results provide the first evidence that TRPV1 channels regulate cortical excitability to paired-pulse stimulation in humans.
Before vision, a transient network of recurrently connected cholinergic interneurons, called starburst amacrine cells (SACs), generates spontaneous retinal waves. Despite an absence of robust inhibition, cholinergic retinal waves initiate infrequently and propagate within finite boundaries. Here, we combine a variety of electrophysiological and imaging techniques and computational modeling to elucidate the mechanisms underlying these spatial and temporal properties of waves in developing mouse retina. Waves initiate via rare spontaneous depolarizations of SACs. Waves propagate through recurrent cholinergic connections between SACs and volume release of ACh as demonstrated using paired recordings and a cell-based ACh optical sensor. Perforated-patch recordings and two-photon calcium imaging reveal that individual SACs have slow afterhyperpolarizations that induce SACs to have variable depolarizations during sequential waves. Using a computational model in which the properties of SACs are based on these physiological measurements, we reproduce the slow frequency, speed, and finite size of recorded waves. This study represents a detailed description of the circuit that mediates cholinergic retinal waves and indicates that variability of the interneurons that generate this network activity may be critical for the robustness of waves across different species and stages of development.
Leucine Rich Repeat Kinase 2 (LRRK2) is a 2527 amino acid member of the ROCO family of proteins, possessing a complex, multidomain structure including a GTPase domain (termed ROC, for Ras of Complex proteins) and a kinase domain. The discovery in 2004 of mutations in LRRK2 that cause Parkinson's disease (PD) resulted in LRRK2 being the focus of a huge volume of research into its normal function and how the protein goes awry in the disease state. Initial investigations into the function of LRRK2 focused on its enzymatic activities. Although a clear picture has yet to emerge of a consistent alteration in these due to mutations, data from a number of groups has highlighted the importance of the kinase activity of LRRK2 in cell death linked to mutations. Recent publications have reported inhibitors targeting the kinase activity of LRRK2, providing a key experimental tool. In light of these data, it is likely that the enzymatic properties of LRRK2 afford us an important window into the biology of this protein, although whether they are potential drug targets for Parkinson's is open to debate. A number of different approaches have been used to assay the kinase activity of LRRK2. Initially, assays were carried out using epitope tagged protein overexpressed in mammalian cell lines and immunoprecipitated, with the assays carried out using this protein immobilised on agarose beads. Subsequently, purified recombinant fragments of LRRK2 in solution have also been used, for example a GST tagged fragment purified from insect cells containing residues 970 to 2527 of LRRK2. Recently, Danils et al. reported the isolation of full length LRRK2 in solution from human embryonic kidney cells, however this protein is not widely available. In contrast, the GST fusion truncated form of LRRK2 is commercially available (from Invitrogen, see table 1 for details), and provides a convenient tool for demonstrating an assay for LRRK2 kinase activity. Several different outputs for LRRK2 kinase activity have been reported. Autophosphorylation of LRRK2 itself, phosphorylation of Myelin Basic Protein (MBP) as a generic kinase substrate and phosphorylation of an artificial substrate--dubbed LRRKtide, based upon phosphorylation of threonine 558 in Moesin--have all been used, as have a series of putative physiological substrates including -synuclein, Moesin and 4-EBP. The status of these proteins as substrates for LRRK2 remains unclear, and as such the protocol described below will focus on using MBP as a generic substrate, noting the utility of this system to assay LRRK2 kinase activity directed against a range of potential substrates.
Protein-folding stress at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a salient feature of specialized secretory cells and is also involved in the pathogenesis of many human diseases. ER stress is buffered by the activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR), a homeostatic signalling network that orchestrates the recovery of ER function, and failure to adapt to ER stress results in apoptosis. Progress in the field has provided insight into the regulatory mechanisms and signalling crosstalk of the three branches of the UPR, which are initiated by the stress sensors protein kinase RNA-like ER kinase (PERK), inositol-requiring protein 1 (IRE1) and activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6). In addition, novel physiological outcomes of the UPR that are not directly related to protein-folding stress, such as innate immunity, metabolism and cell differentiation, have been revealed.
Autistic spectrum disorders (ASDs) are classified as pervasive developmental disorders characterized by abnormalities in various cognitive and behavioral functions. Although exact underlying causes are still unknown, nearly 30% of autistic patients show elevated blood levels of serotonin (5-HT) and, therefore, various genetic and environmental factors that are known to elevate 5-HT levels may play a role in the development of ASDs. In the present study, we used the socially monogamous male prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) as an animal model to examine the effects of perinatal exposure to 5-methoxytryptamine (5-MT), a non-selective serotonin agonist, on subsequent behavioral and neurochemical changes in the brain. 5-MT treated males showed a decrease in affiliation and an increase in anxiety-related behavior, as well as a decrease in the density of 5-HT immunoreactive (ir) fibers in the amygdala and oxytocin-ir and vasopressin-ir cells in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, compared to saline treated controls. These data indicate that exposure to 5-HT during early development can induce abnormalities in various neurochemical systems which, in turn, may underlie deficits in social and anxiety-related behaviors. In addition, these data will help to establish the prairie vole model to study the neurobiological underpinnings of complex neuropsychiatric disorders such as ASDs.
Male Syrian hamsters are naturally aggressive animals that reliably defend their home territory against intruding conspecifics. Hamsters that lose agonistic encounters subsequently exhibit a striking change in their agonistic behavior, however, expressing no aggression and instead becoming highly submissive, a behavioral change that we have termed conditioned defeat. We have generally employed an inescapable defeat training protocol when studying conditioned defeat. The purpose of the present study was to determine if conditioned defeat is an epiphenomenon of the inescapable defeat experience by comparing the behavior of hamsters exposed to inescapable versus escapable defeat. In the conditioned defeat model, defeated hamsters subsequently generalize their submission and social avoidance to a novel, non-aggressive opponent, suggesting that hamsters subjected to inescapable defeat may not form a specific memory of their aggressive opponent. Thus, a secondary purpose of the present study was to determine whether hamsters subjected to our defeat protocol have the ability to recognize a familiar opponent following defeat. Our results provide evidence that conditioned defeat is not solely a by-product of inescapable defeat because all experimental animals, regardless of the type of defeat, expressed conditioned defeat during testing. We also found that animals experiencing an inescapable defeat avoided a familiar aggressor significantly more than they did an unfamiliar aggressor, demonstrating that these animals have the ability to recognize their previous attacker. Thus, we maintain that a variety of social defeat models, and conditioned defeat in particular, represent generalizable and ethologically valid models with which to study the effects of social stress on physiology and behavior.
Previous winning experience increases the probability of winning a subsequent contest. However, it is not clear whether winning probability is affected only by the outcome of the contest (winning or losing) or whether fighting experience itself is also sufficient to induce this effect. We investigated this question in the East African cichlid fish Pundamilia spec. To create an unresolved conflict we allowed males to fight their own mirror image prior to a real fight against a size-matched non-mirror-stimulated control male. When males fight their own mirror image, the image's response corresponds to the action of the focal animal, creating symmetrical fighting conditions without the experience of losing or winning. We found that mirror-stimulated males were more likely to win an ensuing contest than control males. Interestingly, in this species mirror stimulation also induced an increase in circulating androgens, which is consistent with the hypothesis that stimulation of these sex steroids during aggressive encounters may prepare the animal for subsequent encounters. Our results suggest that fighting experience alone coupled with an androgen response, increases the likelihood of winning, even in the absence of a winning experience.

D-cycloserine, the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor partial agonist, has been reported to facilitate the extinction of learned fears acquired in both naturalistic and laboratory settings. The current study extended this literature by evaluating the ability of either chronic or acute administrations of DCS to modulate the extinction and spontaneous recovery of a conditioned taste aversion (CTA). Twenty-three hour fluid-deprived Sprague-Dawley rats acquired a strong CTA following 3 pairings of a conditioned stimulus (CS; 0.3% oral saccharin)+unconditioned stimulus [US; 81 mg/kg (i.p.) lithium chloride (LiCl)]. In separate groups of rats, we then employed 2 different extinction paradigms: (1) CS-only (CSO-EXT) in which saccharin was presented every-other day, or (2) Explicitly Unpaired (EU-EXT) in which both saccharin and LiCl were presented but on alternate days. Previous studies have indicated that the EU-EXT procedure speeds up the extinction process. Further, spontaneous recovery of a CTA emerges following CSO-EXT but the EU-EXT paradigm causes a suppression of spontaneous recovery. DCS (15 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered immediately after daily liquid presentations (saccharin or water, alternate days) during the extinction period. In an acute drug manipulation, DCS (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline control injections were administered for 4 days only. This was done during one of 3 different phases of extinction [i.e., static (2-5%), early dynamic (8-16%), or middle dynamic (20-40%) saccharin reacceptance]. Other animals assigned to the chronic DCS condition received daily DCS (15 mg/kg, i.p.) throughout extinction. Changes in saccharin drinking in these animals were compared to the data from rats that received no drug (saline controls). Once rats met our criterion for asymptotic extinction (90% reacceptance of the CS) they entered a 30-day latency period during which they received water for 1 h/day. The day after the completion of the latency period, a final opportunity to drink saccharin was provided (spontaneous recovery test). Saline-treated control rats that went through the EU-EXT procedure achieved asymptotic extinction more quickly than did the CSO-EXT rats and did not exhibit a spontaneous recovery of the CTA. Chronic DCS treatments did not significantly reduce the time to achieve asymptotic CTA extinction in rats exposed to either CSO or EU extinction methods. Further, animals treated with DCS throughout EU-EXT exhibited a spontaneous recovery of the CTA whereas the saline-treated, EU-EXT rats did not. Thus, chronic DCS treatment did not shorten the time to extinguish a CTA and this treatment eliminated the ability of EU-EXT to block spontaneous recovery of the CTA. Acute DCS treatments were more effective in reducing the time required to extinguish a CTA than were chronic drug treatments. Moreover, the timing of these acute DCS treatments affected spontaneous recovery of the CTA depending on the extinction method employed. Acute DCS administrations later in extinction were more effective in reducing spontaneous recovery than were early administrations if the rats went through the CSO-EXT procedure. However, late-in-extinction administrations of DCS facilitated spontaneous recovery of the CTA in rats that experienced the EU-EXT method. These data agree with other findings suggesting that DCS treatments are more effective when administered a limited number of times. Our data extend these findings to the CTA paradigm and further suggest that, depending on the extinction paradigm employed, acute exposure to DCS can speed up CTA extinction and reduce spontaneous recovery of the aversion. The timing of the acute DCS treatment during extinction is generally less important than its duration in predicting the rate of CTA extinction. However, the timing of acute DCS treatments during extinction and the method of extinction employed can interact to affect spontaneous recovery of a CTA.
Estradiol's inhibitory effect on food intake is mediated, in part, by its ability to increase the activity of meal-related signals, including serotonin (5-HT), which hastens satiation. The important role that postsynaptic 5-HT(2C) receptors play in mediating 5-HT's anorexigenic effect prompted us to investigate whether a regimen of acute estradiol treatment increases the anorexia associated with increased 5-HT(2C) receptor activation in ovariectomized (OVX) rats. We demonstrated that intraperitoneal and intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of low doses of the 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) decreased 1-h dark-phase food intake in estradiol-treated, but not oil-treated, OVX rats. During a longer feeding test, we demonstrated that i.c.v. administration of mCPP decreased 22-h food intake in oil-treated and, to a greater extent, estradiol-treated OVX rats. In a second study, we demonstrated that estradiol increased 5-HT(2C) receptor protein content in the caudal brainstem, but not hypothalamus, of OVX rats. We conclude that a physiologically-relevant regimen of acute estradiol treatment increases sensitivity to mCPP's anorexigenic effect. Our demonstration that this same regimen of estradiol treatment increases 5-HT(2C) receptor protein content in the caudal hindbrain of OVX rats provides a possible mechanism to explain our behavioral findings.
Significant sex differences have been demonstrated in clinical and preclinical studies of cocaine addiction, with some of the most consistent differences noted in regard to the role of stress and craving. The current study examined stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking in male and female rats in an animal model of relapse using corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) administration. Both male and female rats demonstrated increased cocaine seeking in response to CRF. CRF-induced reinstatement was highly variable across both male and female rats, and further analysis revealed a subpopulation that was particularly sensitive to CRF (high responders). Female high responders displayed significantly increased responding to CRF compared to males. Individual differences in stress responsivity could thus contribute to the likelihood of relapse, with females showing greater heterogeneity to stress-induced relapse.
The anorexia that results from extended periods of cellular dehydration is an important physiological adaptation that limits the intake of osmolytes from food and helps maintain the integrity of fluid compartments. The ability to experimentally control both the development and reversal of anorexia, together with the understanding of underlying hormonal and neuropeptidergic signals, makes dehydration (DE)-anorexia a powerful model for exploring the interactions of neural networks that stimulate and inhibit food intake. However, it is not known which meal parameters are affected by cellular dehydration to generate anorexia. Here we use continuous and high temporal resolution recording of food and fluid intake, together with a drinking-explicit method of meal pattern analysis to explore which meal parameters are modified during DE-anorexia. We find that the most important factor responsible for DE-anorexia is the failure to maintain feeding behavior once a meal has started, rather than the ability to initiate a meal, which remains virtually intact. This outcome is consistent with increased sensitivity to satiation signals and post-prandial satiety mechanisms. We also find that DE-anorexia significantly disrupts the temporal distribution of meals across the day so that the number of nocturnal meals gradually decreases while diurnal meal number increases. Surprisingly, once DE-anorexia is reversed this temporal redistribution is maintained for at least 4 days after normal food intake has resumed, which may allow increased daily food intake even after normal satiety mechanisms are reinstated. Therefore, DE-anorexia apparently develops from a selective targeting of those neural networks that control meal termination, whereas meal initiation mechanisms remain viable.
This experiment tested the hypothesis that habituation to repeated stressor exposures is produced by phasic inhibitory influence on the neural circuitry that normally drives the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and subsequently the adrenocortical hormone response to psychological stress. Such a process would be expected to lower the acute response to a novel stressor when experienced concurrently with a habituated stressor. Rats were exposed to restraint or no stress conditions for 14 consecutive days. On the 15th day, the rats were exposed to the control condition (no stress), acute restraint, loud noise, or restraint and loud noise concurrently. Blood was taken and assayed for ACTH and corticosterone and brains were collected to examine c-fos messenger RNA expression in several brain areas. As predicted, the rats that received the same (homotypic) stressor repeatedly and again on the test day displayed low levels of ACTH and corticosterone, similar to the control conditions (i.e., showed habituation). All rats that received a single novel stressor on the test day, regardless of prior stress history, exhibited high levels of ACTH and corticosterone. The rats that received two novel stressors also displayed high levels of ACTH and corticosterone, but little evidence of additivity was observed. Importantly, when a novel stressor was concurrently given with a habituated stressor on the test day, no reduction of HPA axis response was observed when compared to previously habituated rats given only the novel stressor on the test day. In general, c-fos mRNA induction in several stress responsive brain areas followed the same patterns as the ACTH and corticosterone data. These data suggest that habituation of the adrenocortical hormone response to psychological stressors is not mediated by phasic inhibition of the effector system.
The high level of complexity in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) metabolic spectroscopic data sets has fueled the development of experimental and mathematical techniques that enhance latent biomarker recovery and improve model interpretability. We previously showed that statistical total correlation spectroscopy (STOCSY) can be used to edit NMR spectra to remove drug metabolite signatures that obscure metabolic variation of diagnostic interest. Here, we extend this &quot;STOCSY editing&quot; concept to a generalized scaling procedure for NMR data that enhances recovery of latent biochemical information and improves biological classification and interpretation. We call this new procedure STOCSY-scaling (STOCSY(S)). STOCSY(S) exploits the fixed proportionality in a set of NMR spectra between resonances from the same molecule to suppress or enhance features correlated with a resonance of interest. We demonstrate this new approach using two exemplar data sets: (a) a streptozotocin rat model (n = 30) of type 1 diabetes and (b) a human epidemiological study utilizing plasma NMR spectra of patients with metabolic syndrome (n = 67). In both cases significant biomarker discovery improvement was observed by using STOCSY(S): the approach successfully suppressed interfering NMR signals from glucose and lactate that otherwise dominate the variation in the streptozotocin study, which then allowed recovery of biomarkers such as glycine, which were otherwise obscured. In the metabolic syndrome study, we used STOCSY(S) to enhance variation from the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol peak, improving the prediction of individuals with metabolic syndrome from controls in orthogonal projections to latent structures discriminant analysis models and facilitating the biological interpretation of the results. Thus, STOCSY(S) is a versatile technique that is applicable in any situation in which variation, either biological or otherwise, dominates a data set at the expense of more interesting or important features. This approach is generally appropriate for many types of NMR-based complex mixture analyses and hence for wider applications in bioanalytical science.
Secreted Gaussia luciferase (Gluc) has been shown to be a useful tool for ex vivo monitoring of in vivo biological processes. The Gluc level in the blood was used to detect tumor growth, metastasis and response to therapy, gene transfer, and circulating cells viability, as well as transcription factors activation, complementing in vivo bioluminescence imaging. The sensitivity of the Gluc blood assay is limited due to the absorption of blue light by pigmented molecules such as hemoglobin, resulting in quenching of the signal and therefore lower sensitivity. To overcome this problem, we designed an alternative microtiter well-based binding assay in which Gluc is captured first from blood using a specific antibody followed by the addition of coelenterazine and signal acquisition using a luminometer. This assay showed to be over 1 order of magnitude more sensitive in detecting Gluc in the blood as compared to the direct Gluc blood assay enhancing ex vivo monitoring of biological processes.

PICK1 (protein interacting with C kinase 1) contains an N-terminal protein binding PDZ domain and a C-terminal lipid binding BAR domain. PICK1 plays a key role in several physiological processes, including synaptic plasticity. However, little is known about the cellular mechanisms governing the activity of PICK1 itself. Here we show that PICK1 is a substrate in vitro both for PKC (protein kinase C), as previously shown, and for CaMKII (Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II). By mutation of predicted phosphorylation sites, we identify Ser77 in the PDZ domain as a major phosphorylation site for PKC. Mutation of Ser77 reduced the level of PKC-mediated phosphorylation ~50%, whereas no reduction was observed upon mutation of seven other predicted sites. Addition of lipid vesicles increased the level of phosphorylation of Ser77 10-fold, indicating that lipid binding is critical for optimal phosphorylation. Binding of PKC to the PICK1 PDZ domain was not required for phosphorylation, but a PDZ domain peptide ligand reduced the overall level of phosphorylation ~30%. The phosphomimic S77D reduced the extent of cytosolic clustering of eYFP-PICK1 in COS7 cells and thereby conceivably its lipid binding and/or polymerization capacity. We propose that PICK1 is phosphorylated at Ser77 by PKC preferentially when bound to membrane vesicles and that this phosphorylation in turn modulates its cellular distribution.

The hypoxia inducible transcription factors (HIFs) control many mediators of vascular response, including both angiogenic factors and small molecules such as nitric oxide (NO). In studying how endothelial HIF response itself affects metastasis, we found that loss of HIF-1 in endothelial cells reduces NO synthesis, retards tumor cell migration through endothelial layers, and restricts tumor cell metastasis, and that loss of HIF-2 has in each case the opposite effect. This results from differential regulation of NO homeostasis that in turn regulates vascular endothelial growth factor expression in an NO-dependent feedback loop. These opposing roles for the two HIF factors indicate that both they and endothelial cells regulate metastasis as malignancy progresses.
The removal of histone H3 lysine27 (H3K27) trimethylation mark is important for the robust induction of many cell type-specific genes during differentiation. Here we show that UTX, a H3K27 demethylase, acts as a critical switch to promote a cardiac-specific gene program. UTX-deficient ESCs failed to develop heart-like rhythmic contractions under a cardiac differentiation condition. UTX-deficient mice show severe defects in heart development and embryonic lethality. We found that UTX is recruited to cardiac-specific enhancers by associating with core cardiac transcription factors and demethylates H3K27 residues in cardiac genes. In addition, UTX facilitates the recruitment of Brg1 to the cardiac-specific enhancers. Together, our data reveal key roles for UTX in a timely transition from poised to active chromatin in cardiac genes during heart development and a fundamental mechanism by which a H3K27 demethylase triggers tissue-specific chromatin changes.
Methylphenidate (MPH, Ritalin) is a norepinephrine and dopamine transporter blocker that is widely used in humans for treatment of attention deficit disorder and narcolepsy. Although there is some evidence that targeted microinjections of MPH may enhance fear acquisition, little is known about the effect of MPH on fear extinction. Here, we show that MPH, administered before or immediately following extinction of contextual fear, will enhance extinction retention in C57BL/6 mice. Animals that received MPH (2.5-10 mg/kg) before an extinction session showed decreased freezing response during extinction, and the effect of the 10 mg/kg dose on freezing persisted to the next day. When MPH (2.5-40 mg/kg) was administered immediately following an extinction session, mice that received MPH showed dose-dependent decreases in freezing during subsequent tests. MPH administered immediately after a 3-min extinction session or 4 h following the first extinction session did not cause significant differences in freezing. Together, these findings demonstrate that MPH can enhance extinction of fear and that this effect is sensitive to dose, time of injection, and duration of the extinction session. Because MPH is widely used in clinical treatments, these experiments suggest that the drug could be used in combination with behavioral therapies for patients with fear disorders.


The amyloid  (A) protein is believed to be the key pathological mediator of Alzheimer's disease (AD) which is the first and most well known type of dementia. Despite a growing body of evidence indicating that A neurotoxicity induces changes in synaptic function, little effort, if any, has been made to investigate the effect of in vivo A treatment on intrinsic neuronal properties. The present study was designed to examine the effects that in vivo A treatment have on the intrinsic repetitive firing properties of CA1 pyramidal neurons, using whole cell patch clamp recording. Protective effect of cannabinoid CB1 receptor activation was also investigated against A-induced alterations in evoked electrophysiological activities. The findings from present study demonstrated that a bilateral injection of A into the prefrontal cortex causes robust changes in activity-dependent electrophysiological responses in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. The effects of A treatment alone was almost completely prevented by combined treatment with A and ACEA, a selective CB1 receptor agonist. It can be concluded A treatment reduces evoked neuronal activity and activation of CB1 cannabinoid receptors may have beneficial preventative effects on A-induced electrophysiological changes.
The medial (MHb) and lateral (LHb) habenulae are a small group of nuclei that regulate the activity of monoaminergic neurons. Disruptions to these nuclei lead to deficits in a range of cognitive and motor functions from sleep to decision making. Interestingly, the habenular nuclei are present in all vertebrates, suggesting that they provide a common neural mechanism to influence these diverse functions. To unravel conserved habenula circuitry and approach an understanding of their basic function, we investigated the organization of these nuclei in the lamprey, one of the phylogenetically oldest vertebrates. Based on connectivity and molecular expression, we show that the MHb and LHb circuitry is conserved in the lamprey. As in mammals, separate populations of neurons in the LHb homolog project directly or indirectly to dopamine and serotonin neurons through a nucleus homologous to the GABAergic rostromedial mesopontine tegmental nucleus and directly to histamine neurons. The pallidal and hypothalamic inputs to the LHb homolog are also conserved. In contrast to other species, the habenula projecting pallidal nucleus is topographically distinct from the dorsal pallidum, the homolog of the globus pallidus interna. The efferents of the MHb homolog selectively target the interpeduncular nucleus. The MHb afferents arise from sensory (medial olfactory bulb, parapineal, and pretectum) and not limbic areas, as they do in mammals; consequently, the &quot;context&quot; in which this circuitry is recruited may have changed during evolution. Our results indicate that the habenular nuclei provide a common vertebrate circuitry to adapt behavior in response to rewards, stress, and other motivating factors.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is linked to various diseases, including Parkinson's disease, cancer, and leprosy. Data from LRRK2 knockout mice has highlighted a possible role for LRRK2 in regulating signaling pathways that are linked to the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease. Here, we examine how LRRK2's role as a signaling hub in the cell could lead to diverse pathologies.

Williams syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with significant non-social fears. Consistent with this elevated non-social fear, individuals with Williams syndrome have an abnormally elevated amygdala response when viewing threatening non-social stimuli. In typically-developing individuals, amygdala activity is inhibited through dense, reciprocal white matter connections with the prefrontal cortex. Neuroimaging studies suggest a functional uncoupling of normal prefrontal-amygdala inhibition in individuals with Williams syndrome, which might underlie both the extreme amygdala activity and non-social fears. This functional uncoupling might be caused by structural deficits in underlying white matter pathways; however, prefrontal-amygdala white matter deficits have yet to be explored in Williams syndrome. We used diffusion tensor imaging to investigate prefrontal-amygdala white matter integrity differences in individuals with Williams syndrome and typically-developing controls with high levels of non-social fear. White matter pathways between the amygdala and several prefrontal regions were isolated using probabilistic tractography. Within each pathway, we tested for between-group differences in three measures of white matter integrity: fractional anisotropy (FA), radial diffusivity (RD), and parallel diffusivity ((1)). Individuals with Williams syndrome had lower FA, compared to controls, in several of the prefrontal-amygdala pathways investigated, indicating a reduction in white matter integrity. Lower FA in Williams syndrome was explained by significantly higher RD, with no differences in (1), suggestive of lower fiber density or axon myelination in prefrontal-amygdala pathways. These results suggest that deficits in the structural integrity of prefrontal-amygdala white matter pathways might underlie the increased amygdala activity and extreme non-social fears observed in Williams syndrome.
Monetary rewards are uniquely human. Because money is easy to quantify and present visually, it is the reward of choice for most fMRI studies, even though it cannot be handed over to participants inside the scanner. A typical fMRI study requires hundreds of trials and thus small amounts of monetary rewards per trial (e.g. 5p) if all trials are to be treated equally. However, small payoffs can have detrimental effects on performance due to their limited buying power. Hypothetical monetary rewards can overcome the limitations of smaller monetary rewards but it is less well known whether predictors of hypothetical rewards activate reward regions. In two experiments, visual stimuli were associated with hypothetical monetary rewards. In Experiment 1, we used stimuli predicting either visually presented or imagined hypothetical monetary rewards, together with non-rewarding control pictures. Activations to reward predictive stimuli occurred in reward regions, namely the medial orbitofrontal cortex and midbrain. In Experiment 2, we parametrically varied the amount of visually presented hypothetical monetary reward keeping constant the amount of actually received reward. Graded activation in midbrain was observed to stimuli predicting increasing hypothetical rewards. The results demonstrate the efficacy of using hypothetical monetary rewards in fMRI studies.
In a previous study of visual-spatial attention, Martinez et al. (2007) replicated the well-known finding that stimuli at attended locations elicit enlarged early components in the averaged event-related potential (ERP), which were localized to extrastriate visual cortex. The mechanisms that underlie these attention-related ERP modulations in the latency range of 80-200 ms, however, remain unclear. The main question is whether attention produces increased ERP amplitudes in time-domain averages by augmenting stimulus-triggered neural activity, or alternatively, by increasing the phase-locking of ongoing EEG oscillations to the attended stimuli. We compared these alternative mechanisms using Morlet wavelet decompositions of event-related EEG changes. By analyzing single-trial spectral amplitudes in the theta (4-8 Hz) and alpha (8-12 Hz) bands, which were the dominant frequencies of the early ERP components, it was found that stimuli at attended locations elicited enhanced neural responses in the theta band in the P1 (88-120 ms) and N1 (148-184 ms) latency ranges that were additive with the ongoing EEG. In the alpha band there was evidence for both increased additive neural activity and increased phase-synchronization of the EEG following attended stimuli, but systematic correlations between pre- and post-stimulus alpha activity were more consistent with an additive mechanism. These findings provide the strongest evidence to date in humans that short-latency neural activity elicited by stimuli within the spotlight of spatial attention is boosted or amplified at early stages of processing in extrastriate visual cortex.
This commentary addresses the recent paper entitled &quot;Dynamic correction of artifacts due to susceptibility effects and time-varying eddy currents in diffusion tensor imaging&quot; (Truong et al., 2011) and discusses their findings in relation to previous studies from the late 1990s that showed equivalent findings regarding the complex time-varying nature of eddy currents during the imaging readout. The similarities between the findings from these studies are highlighted, and their possible implications for present commonly used eddy current reduction methods are discussed.

Brain uptake of [(18)F]FDOPA, measured with PET, reflects the activity of aromatic amino acid decarboxylase, an enzyme largely expressed in monoaminergic nerve terminals. This enzyme catalyzes a number of decarboxylation reactions including conversion of l-dopa into dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptophan into serotonin. For more than 20years [(18)F]FDOPA PET has been used to assess dopaminergic nigrostriatal dysfunction in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). More recently, however, [(18)F]FDOPA PET has also been employed as a marker of serotoninergic and noradrenergic function in PD patients. In this study, we provide further evidence in support of the view that [(18)F]FDOPA PET can be used to evaluate the distribution and the function of serotoninergic systems in the brain. Eighteen patients with PD were investigated with both [(18)F]FDOPA and [(11)C]DASB PET, the latter being a marker of serotonin transport (SERT) availability. We then assessed the relationship between measurements of the two tracers within brain serotoninergic structures. [(18)F]FDOPA uptake in the median raphe nuclei complex of PD patients was significantly correlated with SERT availability in the same structure. Trends towards significant correlations between [(18)F]FDOPA Ki values and [(11)C]DASB binding values were also observed in the hypothalamus and the anterior cingulate cortex, suggesting a serotoninergic contribution to [(18)F]FDOPA uptake in these regions. Conversely, no correlations were found in brain structures with mixed dopaminergic, serotoninergic and noradrenergic innervations, or with predominant dopaminergic innervation. These findings provide evidence that [(18)F]FDOPA PET represents a valid marker of raphe serotoninergic function in PD and supports previous studies where [(18)F]FDOPA PET has been used to assess serotoninergic function in PD.
The experience of pain occurs when the level of a stimulus is sufficient to elicit a marked affective response, putatively to warn the organism of potential danger and motivate appropriate behavioral responses. Understanding the biological mechanisms of the transition from innocuous to painful levels of sensation is essential to understanding pain perception as well as clinical conditions characterized by abnormal relationships between stimulation and pain response. Thus, the primary objective of this study was to characterize the neural response associated with this transition and the correspondence between that response and subjective reports of pain. Towards this goal, this study examined BOLD response profiles across a range of temperatures spanning the pain threshold. 14 healthy adults underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while a range of thermal stimuli (44-49C) were applied. BOLD responses showed a sigmoidal profile along the range of temperatures in a network of brain regions including insula and mid-cingulate, as well as a number of regions associated with motor responses including ventral lateral nuclei of the thalamus, globus pallidus and premotor cortex. A sigmoid function fit to the BOLD responses in these regions explained up to 85% of the variance in individual pain ratings, and yielded an estimate of the temperature of steepest transition from non-painful to painful heat that was nearly identical to that generated by subjective ratings. These results demonstrate a precise characterization of the relationship between objective levels of stimulation, resulting neural activation, and subjective experience of pain and provide direct evidence for a neural mechanism supporting the nonlinear transition from innocuous to painful levels along the sensory continuum.
Response inhibition is thought to depend critically on the inferior frontal gyrus, pars opercularis (IFGoper), presupplementary motor area (preSMA) and basal ganglia, including the subthalamic nucleus (STN), but the differential contribution of structural connections within this network to response inhibition remains unclear. Using diffusion tensor imaging and probabilistic fiber tractography, we investigated the relative associations between local white matter microstructure and stop-signal response inhibition in fronto-basal ganglia tracts delineated by probabilistic tractography. In a tract-of-interest approach, we identify significant associations with fractional anisotropy (FA) in fibers connecting the right STN region to both preSMA/SMA and IFGoper and in bilateral tracts connecting preSMA/SMA to IFGoper and the striatum. In addition, significant associations with radial diffusivity (RD) were found in fibers connecting the right preSMA/SMA to striatum and in bilateral tracts between IFGoper and STN region. In our whole-brain analysis, additional significant clusters were identified in the corpus callosum, optic radiation, inferior fronto-occipital tract and white matter of the precentral gyrus. To investigate the relative importance of regional white matter characteristics to response inhibition performance, we performed a step-wise multiple regression analysis that yielded FA in tracts connecting preSMA/SMA to the STN region and striatum, respectively, and RD in fibers connecting IFGoper to the STN region as best predictors of response inhibition performance (42% explained variance). These findings point to a specific contribution of white matter pathways connecting distinct basal ganglia structures with both medial frontal and ventrolateral prefrontal regions to response inhibition.
Human ability to imitate movements is instantiated in parietal, premotor and opercular structures, often referred to as the human homologue of the macaque mirror neuron system. As most studies employed imitation of specular models (participants imitated the seen movement as their mirror reflection), it is unclear whether the structures implicated code for the anatomical compatibility between the performer and the model or the spatial compatibility between the location at which both movements occur. We used fMRI to disentangle the neural mechanisms underlying anatomical and spatial components of imitation. Participants moved one finger which was either spatially or anatomically compatible with the finger moved in a video-display. In keeping with the existent behavioral literature, we found that during the spatial task, participants' responses were faster when the seen movement was also anatomically compatible, whereas in the anatomical task, responses were faster when the seen movement was also spatially compatible. Critically, the activity of the parietal opercula bilaterally was associated with the anatomical compatibility effect. Furthermore, increased activity of the left middle frontal gyrus and right superior temporal sulcus (extending to the temporo-parietal junction) was found in those trials in which the spatial mapping between the seen and executed movements was detrimental for the anatomical task. Our findings extend current understanding of the role played by spatial and anatomical components in imitation and provide new insights about the parietal opercula.
A significant positive correlation between height and intelligence has been demonstrated in children. Additionally, intelligence has been associated with the volume of gray matter in the brains of children. Based on these correlations, we analyzed the correlation among height, full-scale intelligence quotient (IQ) and gray matter volume applying voxel-based morphometry using data from the brain magnetic resonance images of 160 healthy children aged 5-18 years of age. As a result, body height was significantly positively correlated with brain gray matter volume. Additionally, the regional gray matter volume of several regions such as the bilateral prefrontal cortices, temporoparietal region, and cerebellum was significantly positively correlated with body height and that the gray matter volume of several of these regions was also significantly positively correlated with full-scale intelligence quotient (IQ) scores after adjusting for age, sex, and socioeconomic status. Our results demonstrate that gray and white matter volume may mediate the correlation between body height and intelligence in healthy children. Additionally, the correlations among gray and white matter volume, height, and intelligence may be at least partially explained by the effect of insulin-like growth factor-1 and growth hormones. Given the importance of the effect of environmental factors, especially nutrition, on height, IQ, and gray matter volume, the present results stress the importance of nutrition during childhood for the healthy maturation of body and brain.
Interactions between the posterior parietal cortex and the early visual cortex have been proposed to play a central role in the binding of visual features into coherent objects. Here we investigated the importance of these interactions by contrasting the time windows at which the early visual cortex (V1/V2) and the angular gyrus (AG) play a causal role in visual feature binding. Transcranial magnetic stimulation was applied over these areas at different latencies during a visual task requiring binding. The contribution of V1/V2 was critical for feature detection 90-120 ms after the onset of the stimulus. When visual binding was required, an additional late time window (lasting until 240 ms after stimulus onset) was observed. The contribution of AG was found to be necessary for visual binding between 90 ms and 180 ms, overlapping with the &quot;early&quot; feature detection stage in V1/V2 and peaking around 180 ms. That the late V1/V2 time window overlaps and even extends beyond the peak time window of AG is consistent with the view that reentrant processing between higher areas and early visual cortex is necessary for visual binding.
We have previously used direct electrode recordings in two human subjects to identify neural correlates of the perception of pitch (Griffiths, Kumar, Sedley et al., Direct recordings of pitch responses from human auditory cortex, Curr. Biol. 22 (2010), pp. 1128-1132). The present study was carried out to assess virtual-electrode measures of pitch perception based on non-invasive magnetoencephalography (MEG). We recorded pitch responses in 13 healthy volunteers using a passive listening paradigm and the same pitch-evoking stimuli (regular interval noise; RIN) as in the previous study. Source activity was reconstructed using a beamformer approach, which was used to place virtual electrodes in auditory cortex. Time-frequency decomposition of these data revealed oscillatory responses to pitch in the gamma frequency band to occur, in Heschl's gyrus, from 60 Hz upwards. Direct comparison of these pitch responses to the previous depth electrode recordings shows a striking congruence in terms of spectrotemporal profile and anatomical distribution. These findings provide further support that auditory high gamma oscillations occur in association with RIN pitch stimuli, and validate the use of MEG to assess neural correlates of normal and abnormal pitch perception.
Diffusion MRI is used extensively to investigate changes in white matter microstructure related to brain development and pathology. Ageing, however, is also associated with significant white and grey matter loss which in turn can lead to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) based partial volume artefacts in diffusion MRI metrics. This is especially problematic in regions prone to CSF contamination, such as the fornix and the genu of corpus callosum, structures that pass through or close to the ventricles respectively. The aim of this study was to model the effects of CSF contamination on diffusion MRI metrics, and to evaluate different post-acquisition strategies to correct for CSF-contamination: Controlling for whole brain volume and correcting on a voxel-wise basis using the Free Water Elimination (FWE) approach. Using the fornix as an exemplar of a structure prone to CSF-contamination, corrections were applied to tract-specific and voxel-based [tract based spatial statistics (TBSS)] analyses of empirical DT-MRI data from 39 older adults (53-93 years of age). In addition to significant age-related decreases in whole brain volume and fornix tissue volume fraction, age was also associated with a reduction in mean fractional anisotropy and increase in diffusivity metrics in the fornix. The experimental data agreed with the simulations in that diffusivity metrics (mean diffusivity, axial and radial diffusivity) were more prone to partial volume CSF-contamination errors than fractional anisotropy. After FWE-based voxel-by-voxel partial volume corrections, the significant positive correlations between age and diffusivity metrics, in particular with axial diffusivity, disappeared whereas the correlation with anisotropy remained. In contrast, correcting for whole brain volume had little effect in removing these spurious correlations. Our study highlights the importance of correcting for CSF-contamination partial volume effects in the structures of interest on a voxel-by-voxel basis prior to drawing inferences about underlying changes in white matter structures and have implications for the interpretation of many recent diffusion MRI results in ageing and disease.
Region of Interest (ROI) longitudinal studies have detected progressive gray matter (GM) volume reductions in patients with first-episode schizophrenia (FESZ). However, there are only a few longitudinal voxel-based morphometry (VBM) studies, and these have been limited in ability to detect relationships between volume loss and symptoms, perhaps because of methodologic issues. Nor have previous studies compared and validated VBM results with manual Region of Interest (ROI) analysis. In the present VBM study, high-dimensional warping and individualized baseline-rescan templates were used to evaluate longitudinal volume changes within subjects and compared with longitudinal manual ROI analysis on the same subjects. VBM evaluated thirty-three FESZ and thirty-six matched healthy control subjects (HC) at baseline (cross-sectionally) and longitudinally evaluated 21 FESZ and 23 HC after an average of 1.5 years from baseline scans. Correlation analyses detected the relationship between changes in regional GM volumes in FESZ and clinical symptoms derived from the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, as well as cognitive function as assessed by the Mini-Mental State Examination. At baseline, patients with FESZ had significantly smaller GM volume compared to HC in some regions including the left superior temporal gyrus (STG). On rescan after 1.5 years, patients showed significant GM volume reductions compared with HC in the left STG including Heschl's gyrus, and in widespread brain neocortical regions of frontal, parietal, and limbic regions including the cingulate gyrus. FESZ showed an association of positive symptoms and volume loss in temporal (especially STG) and frontal regions, and negative symptoms and volume loss in STG and frontal regions. Worse cognitive function was linked to widespread volume reduction, in frontal, temporal and parietal regions. The validation VBM analyses showed results similar to our previous ROI findings for STG and cingulate gyrus. We conclude FESZ show widespread, progressive GM volume reductions in many brain regions. Importantly, these reductions are directly associated with a worse clinical course. Congruence with ROI analyses suggests the promise of this longitudinal VBM methodology.
Research on the cortical sources of nociceptive laser-evoked brain potentials (LEPs) began almost two decades ago (Tarkka and Treede, 1993). Whereas there is a large consensus on the sources of the late part of the LEP waveform (N2 and P2 waves), the relative contribution of the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) to the early part of the LEP waveform (N1 wave) is still debated. To address this issue we recorded LEPs elicited by the stimulation of four limbs in a large population (n=35). Early LEP generators were estimated both at single-subject and group level, using three different approaches: distributed source analysis, dipolar source modeling, and probabilistic independent component analysis (ICA). We show that the scalp distribution of the earliest LEP response to hand stimulation was maximal over the central-parietal electrodes contralateral to the stimulated side, while that of the earliest LEP response to foot stimulation was maximal over the central-parietal midline electrodes. Crucially, all three approaches indicated hand and foot S1 areas as generators of the earliest LEP response. Altogether, these findings indicate that the earliest part of the scalp response elicited by a selective nociceptive stimulus is largely explained by activity in the contralateral S1, with negligible contribution from the secondary somatosensory cortex (S2).
Amygdala involvement in visual emotional processing has been unequivocally established, but the amygdala's participation in auditory emotional processing is less clear. In a previous functional magnetic resonance imaging study (Klinge et al., 2010) we investigated the amygdala's role in auditory emotional processing in blind and sighted humans. We observed stronger amygdala responses to auditory emotional stimuli in the blind who were also better at discriminating emotional stimuli. Importantly, inter-individual differences in this skill correlated with amygdala activation. While these data suggested that the amygdala serves the dominant sensory modality for emotional perception, we could not rule out possible influences of use-dependent training effects. To disambiguate between plastic changes due to deprivation or training we now studied professional actors who have undergone extensive perceptual and expressive auditory emotional trainings but no sensory deprivation. Actors showed emotion discrimination skills comparable to those of blind individuals. However, in contrast to blind volunteers they lacked increased amygdala activations. Surprisingly, actors selectively rated angry stimuli as less intense than control participants, paralleled by a down-regulation of amygdala responses via the anterior cingulate cortex. Taken together, the data from our two studies suggest that enhanced amygdala responses in the blind are mainly due to deprivation-induced plasticity, as highly trained actors who possess the same excellent emotion discrimination skills as the blind did not show these responses. It is also conceivable that the actors' training requires a more professional and controlled dealing with the emotional stimuli, resulting in a down-regulation of affective experience and accompanying amygdala responses.
Emotions are complex events recruiting distributed cortical and subcortical cerebral structures, where the functional integration dynamics within the involved neural circuits in relation to the nature of the different emotions are still unknown. Using fMRI, we measured the neural responses elicited by films representing basic emotions (fear, disgust, sadness, happiness). The amygdala and the associative cortex were conjointly activated by all basic emotions. Furthermore, distinct arrays of cortical and subcortical brain regions were additionally activated by each emotion, with the exception of sadness. Such findings informed the definition of three effective connectivity models, testing for the functional integration of visual cortex and amygdala, as regions processing all emotions, with domain-specific regions, namely: i) for fear, the frontoparietal system involved in preparing adaptive motor responses; ii) for disgust, the somatosensory system, reflecting protective responses against contaminating stimuli; iii) for happiness: medial prefrontal and temporoparietal cortices involved in understanding joyful interactions. Consistently with these domain-specific models, the results of the effective connectivity analysis indicate that the amygdala is involved in distinct functional integration effects with cortical networks processing sensorimotor, somatosensory, or cognitive aspects of basic emotions. The resulting effective connectivity networks may serve to regulate motor and cognitive behavior based on the quality of the induced emotional experience.
Cortical thickness correlation across individuals has been observed. So far, it remains unclear to what extent such a correlation in thickness is a reflection of underlying fiber connection. Here we explicitly compared the patterns of cortical thickness correlation and diffusion-based fiber connection across the entire cerebral cortex, in 95 normal adults. Interregional thickness correlations were extracted by using computational neuroanatomy algorithms based on structural MRI, and diffusion connections were detected by using diffusion probabilistic tractography. Approximately 35-40% of thickness correlations showed convergent diffusion connections across the cerebral cortex. Intriguingly, the observed convergences between thickness correlation and diffusion connection are mostly focused on the positive thickness correlations, while almost all of the negative correlations (&gt;90%) did not have a matched diffusion connection, suggesting different mechanisms behind the positive and negative thickness correlations, the latter not being mediated by a direct fiber pathway. Furthermore, graph theoretic analysis reveals that the thickness correlation network has a more randomized overall topology, whereas the nodal characteristics of cortical regions in these two networks are statistically correlated. These findings indicate that thickness correlations partly reflect underlying fiber connections but they contains exclusive information, and therefore should not be simply taken as a proxy measure for fiber connections.
Researchers employing Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography (PIB-PET) imaging have consistently indentified old normal control (oNC) subjects with elevated tracer uptake, suggesting the presence of beta-amyloid deposition in these individuals. However, a consensus regarding the level at which PIB reveals a biologically meaningful signal does not exist (ie. an appropriate cutoff value for PIB positivity remains unclear). In this exploratory study, we sought to investigate the range of PIB distribution volume ratio (DVR) values present in our oNC cohort (N=75, age range=58-97). oNC subjects were classified based on global PIB index values (average DVR across prefrontal, parietal, lateral temporal and cingulate cortices) by employing two approaches: (1) an iterative outlier approach that revealed a cutoff value of 1.16 (IO-cutoff) and (2) an approach using data from a sample of young normal control subjects (N=11, age range=20-30) that yielded a cutoff value of 1.08 (yNC-cutoff). oNC subjects falling above the IO-cutoff had values similar to AD subjects (&quot;PIB+&quot;, 15%). Subjects falling between the 2 cutoffs were considered to have ambiguous PIB status (&quot;Ambig&quot;, 20%) and the remaining oNC were considered &quot;PIB-&quot; (65%). Additional measures capturing focal DVR magnitude and extent of elevated DVR values were consistent with the classification scheme using PIB index values, and revealed evidence for elevated DVR values in a subset of PIB- oNC subjects. Furthermore, there were a greater proportion of ambiguously elevated values compared to low values, and these elevated values were present in regions known to show amyloid deposition. The analyses presented in this study, in conjunction with recently published pathological data, suggest a biological relevance of slight PIB elevations in aging.
Associative emotional learning, which is important for the social emotional functioning of individuals and is often impaired in psychiatric illnesses, is in part mediated by dopamine and glutamate pathways in the brain. The protein DARPP-32 is involved in the regulation of dopaminergic and glutaminergic signaling. Consequently, it has been suggested that the haplotypic variants of the gene PPP1R1B that encodes DARPP-32 are associated with working memory and emotion processing. We hypothesized that PPP1R1B should have a significant influence on the network of brain regions involved in associative emotional learning that are rich in DARPP-32, namely the striatum, prefrontal cortex (comprising the medial frontal gyrus and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG)), amygdala and parahippocampal gyrus (PHG). Dynamic causal models were applied to functional MRI data to investigate how brain connectivity during an associative emotional learning task is affected by different single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of PPP1R1B: rs879606, rs907094 and rs3764352. Compared to heterozygotes, homozygotes with GTA alleles displayed increased intrinsic connectivity between the IFG and PHG, as well as increased excitability of the PHG for negative emotional stimuli. We have also elucidated the directionality of these genetic influences. Our data suggest that homozygotes with GTA alleles involve stronger functional connections between brain areas in order to maintain activation of these regions. Homozygotes might engage a greater degree of motivational learning and integration of information to perform the emotional learning task correctly. We conclude that PPP1R1B is associated with the neural network involved in associative emotional learning.
Polarized light imaging (PLI) enables the visualization of fiber tracts with high spatial resolution in microtome sections of postmortem brains. Vectors of the fiber orientation defined by inclination and direction angles can directly be derived from the optical signals employed by PLI analysis. The polarization state of light propagating through a rotating polarimeter is varied in such a way that the detected signal of each spatial unit describes a sinusoidal signal. Noise, light scatter and filter inhomogeneities, however, interfere with the original sinusoidal PLI signals, which in turn have direct impact on the accuracy of subsequent fiber tracking. Recently we showed that the primary sinusoidal signals can effectively be restored after noise and artifact rejection utilizing independent component analysis (ICA). In particular, regions with weak intensities are greatly enhanced after ICA based artifact rejection and signal restoration. Here, we propose a user independent way of identifying the components of interest after decomposition; i.e., components that are related to gray and white matter. Depending on the size of the postmortem brain and the section thickness, the number of independent component maps can easily be in the range of a few ten thousand components for one brain. Therefore, we developed an automatic and, more importantly, user independent way of extracting the signal of interest. The automatic identification of gray and white matter components is based on the evaluation of the statistical properties of the so-called feature vectors of each individual component map, which, in the ideal case, shows a sinusoidal waveform. Our method enables large-scale analysis (i.e., the analysis of thousands of whole brain sections) of nerve fiber orientations in the human brain using polarized light imaging.
The central question of the relationship between structure and function in the human brain is still not well understood. In order to investigate this fundamental relationship we create functional probabilistic maps from a large set of mapping experiments and compare the location of functionally localised regions across subjects using different whole-brain alignment schemes. To avoid the major problems associated with meta-analysis approaches, all subjects are scanned using the same paradigms, the same scanner and the same analysis pipeline. We show that an advanced, curvature driven cortex based alignment (CBA) scheme largely removes macro-anatomical variability across subjects. Remaining variability in the observed spatial location of functional regions, thus, reflects the &quot;true&quot; functional variability, i.e. the quantified variability is a good estimator of the underlying structural-functional correspondence. After localising 13 widely studied functional areas, we found a large variability in the degree to which functional areas respect macro-anatomical boundaries across the cortex. Some areas, such as the frontal eye fields (FEF) are strongly bound to a macro-anatomical location. Fusiform face area (FFA) on the other hand, varies in its location along the length of the fusiform gyrus even though the gyri themselves are well aligned across subjects. Language areas were found to vary greatly across subjects whilst a high degree of overlap was observed in sensory and motor areas. The observed differences in functional variability for different specialised areas suggest that a more complete estimation of the structure-function relationship across the whole cortex requires further empirical studies with an expanded test battery.
Sleep deprivation (SD) can alter extrinsic, task-related fMRI signal involved in attention, memory and executive function. However, its effects on intrinsic low-frequency connectivity within the Default Mode Network (DMN) and its related anti-correlated network (ACN) have not been well characterized. We investigated the effect of SD on functional connectivity within the DMN, and on DMN-ACN anti-correlation, both during the resting state and during performance of a visual attention task (VAT). 26 healthy participants underwent fMRI twice: once after a normal night of sleep in rested wakefulness (RW) and once following approximately 24h of total SD. A seed-based approach was used to examine pairwise correlations of low-frequency fMRI signal across different nodes in each state. SD was associated with significant selective reductions in DMN functional connectivity and DMN-ACN anti-correlation. This was congruent across resting state and VAT analyses, suggesting that SD induces a robust alteration in the intrinsic connectivity within and between these networks.
There are reasons for thinking that obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and drug dependence, although conventionally distinct diagnostic categories, might share important cognitive and neurobiological substrates. We tested this hypothesis directly by comparing brain functional connectivity measures between patients with OCD, stimulant dependent individuals (SDIs; many of whom were non-dependent users of other recreational drugs) and healthy volunteers. We measured functional connectivity between each possible pair of 506 brain regional functional MRI time series representing low frequency (0.03-0.06 Hz) spontaneous brain hemodynamics in healthy volunteers (N=18), patients with OCD (N=18) and SDIs (N=18). We used permutation tests to identify i) brain regions where strength of connectivity was significantly different in both patient groups compared to healthy volunteers; and ii) brain regions and connections which had significantly different functional connectivity between patient groups. We found that functional connectivity of right inferior and superior orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) was abnormally reduced in both disorders. Whether diagnosed as OCD or SDI, patients with higher scores on measures of compulsive symptom severity showed greater reductions of right orbitofrontal connectivity. Functional connections specifically between OFC and dorsal medial pre-motor and cingulate cortex were attenuated in both patient groups. However, patients with OCD demonstrated more severe and extensive reductions of functional connectivity compared to SDIs. OCD and stimulant dependence are not identical at the level of brain functional systems but they have some important abnormalities in common compared with healthy volunteers. Orbitofrontal connectivity may serve as a human brain systems biomarker for compulsivity across diagnostic categories.
Schippers, Renken and Keysers (NeuroImage, 2011) present a simulation of multi-subject lag-based causality estimation. We fully agree that single-subject evaluations (e.g., Smith et al., 2011) need to be revisited in the context of multi-subject studies, and Schippers' paper is a good example, including detailed multi-level simulation and cross-subject statistical modelling. The authors conclude that &quot;the average chance to find a significant Granger causality effect when no actual influence is present in the data stays well below the p-level imposed on the second level statistics&quot; and that &quot;when the analyses reveal a significant directed influence, this direction was accurate in the vast majority of the cases&quot;. Unfortunately, we believe that the general meaning that may be taken from these statements is not supported by the paper's results, as there may in reality be a systematic (group-average) difference in haemodynamic delay between two brain areas. While many statements in the paper (e.g., the final two sentences) do refer to this problem, we fear that the overriding message that many readers may take from the paper could cause misunderstanding.
Although gait disturbances are present in a substantial portion of patients with cerebral small vessel disease (SVD), their pathogenesis has not been clarified as they are not entirely explained by the white matter lesions (WMLs) and lacunar infarcts. The role of cortical thickness in these patients remains largely unknown. We aimed to assess the regions of cortical thickness associated with distinct gait parameters in patients with SVD, and whether these associations were dependent on WMLs and lacunar infarcts. MRI data were obtained from 415 subjects with SVD, aged between 50 and 85 years. We assessed cortical thickness using surface-based cortical thickness analysis, and gait performance using the GAITRite system. Cortical thickness of predominantly the orbitofrontal and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, the inferior parietal lobe, cingulate areas and visual association cortices was positively related to stride length. Thickness of the primary and supplementary motor cortices and the cingulate cortex was positively related to cadence, while thickness of the orbitofrontal and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex and especially the inferior parietal lobe and superior temporal gyrus was negatively related to stride width. The associations with stride length and width were partially explained by the subcortical WMLs and lacunar infarcts. Cortical thickness may therefore be important in gait disturbances in individuals with SVD, with different cortical patterns for specific gait parameters. We suggest that cortical atrophy is part of the disease processes in patients with SVD.
We highlight a fundamental difference between voxel-based methods that interrogate signal intensity directly and those that interrogate morphometric features; we discuss how signal intensity changes might erroneously affect morphometric measures, and we provide some guidance for selection of appropriate methods to address particular hyphotheses. Our discussion is motivated by a recent application of voxel-based morphometry methods to T2-weighted images (T2-Voxel Based Morphometry; T2-VBM). In this context we discuss alternative approaches including Voxel-Based T2-Relaxometry (VBR) and Voxel Based Iterative Sensitivity analysis of T2-Weighted Images (VBIS-T2).
Symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) are exacerbated by stress. Previously, we demonstrated that the stress hormone corticosterone applied directly to the amygdala induced visceral hypersensitivity through the actions of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptor (MR). However, the involvement of amygdaloid GR and MR in the regulation of visceral sensitivity following psychological stress is unknown; therefore, the goal of the present study was to determine the relative importance of amygdaloid GR and MR in the regulation of visceral sensitivity in a rodent model of behavioral stress. Male F-344 rats were stereotaxically implanted with micropellets bilaterally on the dorsal margin of the amygdala containing the GR antagonist mifepristone, the MR antagonist spironolactone, or cholesterol as a control. Animals were then exposed to 1 h of water-avoidance stress (WAS) or sham stress for 1 day (acute) or 7 days (repeated). Visceral sensitivity was assessed either 1 h or 24 h after the final session of WAS and quantified as the number of contractions of the external abdominal oblique, a visceromotor response, in response to colorectal distension at pressures of 0-60 mmHg. Acute stress induced transient visceral hyperalgesia, which was absent 24 h after WAS and independent of GR and MR. Conversely, repeated WAS induced sustained visceral hyperalgesia that was abolished by specifically targeting the amygdala with GR and MR antagonists. These results demonstrate that the amygdala corticosteroid system plays an essential role in mediating the effects of repeated WAS on visceral sensitivity. Furthermore, our findings suggest that amygdaloid GR and MR may be involved in IBS symptomatology.
Previous reports suggest that glucagon-like peptide (GLP-1), a peptide secreted from the distal small intestine, is an endocrine satiation signal. Nevertheless, there are conflicting reports regarding the site where circulating GLP-1 acts to reduce food intake. To test the hypothesis that vagal afferents are necessary for reduction of food intake by circulating GLP-1, we measured intake of 15% sucrose during intravenous GLP-1 infusion in intact, vagotomized, and capsaicin-treated rats. We also measured sucrose intake during intravenous infusion of cholecystokinin, a peptide known to reduce food intake via abdominal vagal afferents. We found that reduction of intake by GLP-1 was not diminished by capsaicin treatment or vagotomy. In fact, reduction of sucrose intake by our highest GLP-1 dose was enhanced in vagotomized and capsaicin-treated rats. Intravenous GLP-1 induced comparable increases of hindbrain c-Fos immunoreactivity in intact, capsaicin-treated, and vagotomized rats. Plasma concentrations of active GLP-1 in capsaicin-treated rats did not differ from those of controls during the intravenous infusions. Finally, capsaicin treatment was not associated with altered GLP-1R mRNA in the brain, but nodose ganglia GLP-1R mRNA was significantly reduced in capsaicin-treated rats. Although reduction of food intake by intraperitoneal cholecystokinin was abolished in vagotomized and capsaicin-treated rats, reduction of intake by intravenous cholecystokinin was only partially attenuated. These results indicate that vagal or capsaicin-sensitive neurons are not necessary for reduction of food intake by circulating (endocrine) GLP-1, or cholecystokinin. Vagal participation in satiation by these peptides may be limited to paracrine effects exerted near the sites of their secretion.
Redox-dysregulation represents a common pathogenic mechanism in schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BP). It may in part arise from a genetically compromised synthesis of glutathione (GSH), the major cellular antioxidant and redox-regulator. Allelic variants of the genes coding for the rate-limiting GSH synthesizing enzyme glutamate-cysteine-ligase modifier (GCLM) and/or catalytic (GCLC) subunit have been associated with SZ and BP. Using mice knockout (KO) for GCLM we have previously shown that impaired GSH synthesis is associated with morphological, functional and neurochemical anomalies similar to those in patients. Here we asked whether GSH deficit is also associated with SZ- and BP-relevant behavioral and cognitive anomalies. Accordingly, we subjected young adult GCLM-wildtype (WT), heterozygous and KO males to a battery of standard tests. Compared to WT, GCLM-KO mice displayed hyperlocomotion in the open field and forced swim test but normal activity in the home cage, suggesting that hyperlocomotion was selective to environmental novelty and mildly stressful situations. While spatial working memory and latent inhibition remained unaffected, KO mice showed a potentiated hyperlocomotor response to an acute amphetamine injection, impaired sensorymotor gating in the form of prepulse inhibition and altered social behavior compared to WT. These anomalies resemble important aspects of both SZ and the manic component of BP. As such our data support the notion that redox-dysregulation due to GSH deficit is implicated in both disorders. Moreover, our data propose the GCLM-KO mouse as a valuable model to study the behavioral and cognitive consequences of redox dysregulation in the context of psychiatric disease.
Pronounced feeding can be elicited by injections of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol into the medial shell region of the nucleus accumbens (AcbSh). This region of AcbSh has been shown to project to both the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and the medial ventral pallidum (VPm). The current study examined the effects of unilateral LH or VPm lesions on the ingestive responses induced by injections of muscimol into the AcbSh on either the same or the opposite side of the brain. We found that lesions of either of these structures drastically attenuated feeding induced from the ipsilateral, as compared to the contralateral, AcbSh. The &quot;ipsilateral/contralateral disruption design&quot; employed here virtually rules out the possibility that the suppressive effects of the lesions were nonspecific and suggests that the VPm and LH play essential roles in mediating the ingestive effects of inactivation of the AcbSh.
While numerous researches addressed the connection between physical exercise, changes in brain cortical activity and its relationship to psycho-physiological processes, most of these neuro-scientific studies were set up for healthy individuals. However, the benefits of exercise, such as well being, physical and cognitive health enhancements are also becoming increasingly important for intellectually disabled individuals. This study aimed to localize electroencephalographic activity changes in intellectually disabled individuals following a moderate running exercise for 30 min. An increase in cognitive performance and in mood was hypothesized to correlate with a decrease in fronto-temporal brain areas following exercise. Significant changes in cortical current density in frontal brain areas as well as decreases in perceived physical energy could be shown. Overall motivational states (including self-confidence and social acceptance) as well as positive mood increased significantly. However, no changes could be observed for the cognitive tasks following exercise. With respect to the data provided here there is reason to believe, that a self-selected pace running exercise, enhances self-esteem, coincided with cortical activity changes in fronto-temporal brain areas.
This study examined ontogenetic differences in anticipatory 50 kHz ultrasonic vocalization (USV) production to social interactions in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Adults increased USVs across days when tested socially but not when left alone (Experiment 1), and displayed anticipatory USVs to return to the cage-mate (Experiment 2). Adolescents did not display evidence of anticipatory USVs. To the extent that anticipatory USVs index incentive salience, this suggests an adolescent attenuation of incentive salience of social interactions.
In this study, we investigated motor and non-motor behaviour in the transgenic rat model of Huntington's disease (tgHD). In particular, we were interested in the development and changes of motor and non-motor features (anxiety, motivation and hedonia) of disease over time and their interactions. We found tgHD animals to be hyperkinetic in the open field test compared to their wild-type littermates at all ages tested, which was accompanied by reduced anxiety-like behaviour in the open field test and the elevated zero maze, but not in the home cage emergence test. No major changes were found in hedonia (sucrose intake test) and motivation for food (food intake test). Our data suggest that hyperkinetic features and reduced-anxiety in the tgHD rats are associated behaviours and are seen in the earlier stages of the disease.
Memory impairments of DBA/2J mice have been frequently reported in spatial and emotional behavior tests. However, in some memory tests involving food reward, DBA/2J mice perform equally well to C57BL/6J mice or even outperform them. Thus, it is conceivable that motivational factors differentially affect cognitive performance of different mouse strains. Therefore, spatial memory of DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice was investigated in a modified version of the Barnes maze (mBM) test with increased complexity. The modified Barnes maze test allowed using either aversive or appetitive reinforcement, but with identical spatial cues and motor requirements. Both mouse strains acquired spatial learning in mBM tests with either reinforcement. However, DBA/2J mice learned slower than C57BL/6J mice when aversive reinforcement was used. In contrast, the two strains performed equally well when appetitive reinforcement was used. The superior performance in C57BL/6J mice in the aversive version of the mBM test was accompanied by a more frequent use of the spatial strategy. In the appetitive version of the mBM test, both strains used the spatial strategy to a similar extent. The present results demonstrate that the cognitive performance of mice depends heavily on motivational factors. Our findings underscore the importance of an effective experimental design when assessing spatial memory and challenges interpretations of impaired hippocampal function in DBA/2J mice drawn on the basis of behavior tests depending on aversive reinforcement.
Diabetic retinopathy can lead to progressive loss of vision and is a leading cause of blindness. The Ins2(Akita) mouse model of diabetes develops significant retinal and systemic pathology, but how these affect visual behavior is unknown. Here, we show that Ins2(Akita) mice have progressive, quantifiable vision deficits in an optomotor behavior. This mouse line is a promising model in which to understand the contribution of retinal neuronal injury during the chronic hyperglycemia and hypoinsulinemia of diabetes to deficits in vision.


The transient receptor potential A1 (TRPA1) channel has been implicated in a number of inflammatory and nociceptive processes, and antagonists of the TRPA1 receptor could offer a potential treatment for conditions such as inflammatory or neuropathic pain, airway disorders, and itch. In a high throughput screen aimed at the identification of TRPA1 antagonists, 4-phenyl-2-thioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-indeno[1,2-d]pyrimidin-5-one (1) was identified as a potent TRPA1 receptor antagonist. A series of analogous tricyclic 3,4-dihydropyrimidine-2-thiones has been prepared via the multi-component Biginelli reaction and subsequent derivatization. This has led to TRPA1 antagonists with potencies around 10nM for both rat and human derived TRPA1 receptors. The activity was shown to reside exclusively in the 4R-enantiomers.
Cancer progression involves the seeding of malignant cells in circulation and the colonization of distant organs. However, circulating neoplastic cells can also reinfiltrate the tumor of origin. This process, called &quot;tumor-self seeding,&quot; can select more aggressive cells that may contribute to cancer progression. Here, using mouse mammary adenocarcinoma models, we observed that both tumor self-seeding and organ colonization were inhibited by chromogranin A (CgA), a protein present in variable amounts in the blood of cancer patients. Mechanism studies showed that CgA inhibited the shedding of cancer cells in circulation from primary tumors, as well as the reinfiltration of tumors and the colonization of lungs by circulating tumor cells. CgA reduced gap formation induced by tumor cell-derived factors in endothelial cells, decreased vascular leakage in tumors, and inhibited the transendothelial migration of cancer cells. Together, our findings point to a role for circulating CgA in the regulation of tumor cell trafficking from tumor-to-blood and from blood-to-tumor/normal tissues. Inhibition of the multidirectional trafficking of cancer cells in normal and neoplastic tissues may represent a novel strategy to reduce cancer progression.
Deregulated CDK activity drives cell proliferation of the majority of human tumors, making CDKs highly relevant research subjects. Cdc28 controls cell cycle progression in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, but the identity of many genes that function in conjunction with CDC28 to regulate the cell cycle and cell viability remains obscure. In a recent study, we used a chemical-genetic screen to identify the genetic network of CDC28. Through this analysis, we discovered that the Rad6-Bre1 pathway functions in this network and links ubiquitin levels to cell cycle progression by increasing transcription of cyclin genes. Thus, Rad6 boosts the activity of the cell cycle machinery.
()-3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is an illicit drug that evokes transporter-mediated release of serotonin (5-HT) in the brain. 5-HT transporter (SERT) proteins are also expressed in non-neural tissues (e.g., blood), and evidence suggests that MDMA targets platelet SERT to increase plasma 5-HT. Here we tested two hypotheses related to the effects of MDMA on circulating 5-HT. First, to determine if MDMA metabolites might contribute to actions of the drug in vivo, we used in vitro microdialysis in rat blood specimens to examine the effects of MDMA and its metabolites on plasma 5-HT. Second, to determine whether effects of MDMA on plasma 5-HT might be used as an index of central SERT activity, we carried out in vivo microdialysis in blood and brain after intravenous MDMA administration. The in vitro results show that test drugs evoke dose-related increases in plasma 5-HT ranging from two- to sevenfold above baseline, with MDMA and its metabolite, ()-3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA), producing the largest effects. The ability of MDMA and related analogs to elevate plasma 5-HT is correlated with their potency as SERT substrates in rat brain synaptosomes. The in vivo results reveal that MDMA causes concurrent increases in extracellular 5-HT in blood and brain, but there are substantial individual differences in responsiveness to the drug. Collectively, our findings indicate that MDMA and its metabolites increase plasma 5-HT by a SERT-dependent mechanism, and suggest the possibility that measures of evoked 5-HT release in blood may reflect central SERT activity.
Postoperative pain and its control remain one of the most important issues in the field of surgery and health care systems. Morphine is a potent and effective analgesic, but substance abuse patients can manifest cross-tolerance to it, making it difficult to satisfy their analgesic/anesthetic requirements. As carbamazepine has shown antinociceptive properties in a variety of experimental and clinical settings, in the present study, we evaluated its potential antiallodynic effects on postoperative pain in nave and morphine-dependent rats. Male rats were assigned to morphine-dependent and nave groups and received intraperitoneally drug vehicles as control group, 3mg/kg morphine, 5, 10 or 15 mg/kg carbamazepine or 5mg/kg carbamazepine plus 3mg/kg morphine as a combination therapy 2 and 24h after surgery. Morphine-dependency was induced with multiple doses of morphine administered i.p. and plantar incision was made on the hind paw to simulate the postoperative pain. Paw withdrawal threshold (PWT) was obtained by von Frey filaments every 30 min after drug injection for up to 180 min. Morphine at 3mg/kg exerted antiallodynic effects in nave rats and a decreased antinociception was observed in morphine-dependent rats. In contrast, 5mg/kg carbamazepine did not significantly alter PWT in naives but it was effective in dependent rats. 10 and 15 mg/kg carbamazepine attenuated allodynia following surgery in both groups. Co-administration of 5mg/kg carbamazepine with 3mg/kg morphine produced higher analgesia in morphine-dependent incised rats and prolonged antinociception as compared to morphine alone (P&lt;0.05). Thus carbamazepine may potentiate the analgesic effect of chronically administered morphine on postoperative pain model in morphine-dependent rats.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the link between mutant huntingtin (Htt) and neuronal damage in relation to mitochondria in Huntington's disease (HD). In an earlier study, we determined the relationship between mutant Htt and mitochondrial dynamics/synaptic viability in HD patients. We found mitochondrial loss, abnormal mitochondrial dynamics and mutant Htt association with mitochondria in HD patients. In the current study, we sought to expand on our previous findings and further elucidate the relationship between mutant Htt and mitochondrial and synaptic deficiencies. We hypothesized that mutant Htt, in association with mitochondria, alters mitochondrial dynamics, leading to mitochondrial fragmentation and defective axonal transport of mitochondria in HD neurons. In this study, using postmortem HD brains and primary neurons from transgenic BACHD mice, we identified mutant Htt interaction with the mitochondrial protein Drp1 and factors that cause abnormal mitochondrial dynamics, including GTPase Drp1 enzymatic activity. Further, using primary neurons from BACHD mice, for the first time, we studied axonal transport of mitochondria and synaptic degeneration. We also investigated the effect of mutant Htt aggregates and oligomers in synaptic and mitochondrial deficiencies in postmortem HD brains and primary neurons from BACHD mice. We found that mutant Htt interacts with Drp1, elevates GTPase Drp1 enzymatic activity, increases abnormal mitochondrial dynamics and results in defective anterograde mitochondrial movement and synaptic deficiencies. These observations support our hypothesis and provide data that can be utilized to develop therapeutic targets that are capable of inhibiting mutant Htt interaction with Drp1, decreasing mitochondrial fragmentation, enhancing axonal transport of mitochondria and protecting synapses from toxic insults caused by mutant Htt.
Mutations in the ARHGEF6 gene, encoding the guanine nucleotide exchange factor PIX/Cool-2 for the Rho GTPases Rac1 and Cdc42, cause X-linked intellectual disability (ID) in humans. We show here that Pix/Arhgef6 is primarily expressed in neuropil regions of the hippocampus. To study the role of Pix/Arhgef6 in neuronal development and plasticity and gain insight into the pathogenic mechanisms underlying ID, we generated Pix/Arhgef6-deficient mice. Gross brain structure in these mice appeared to be normal; however, analysis of Golgi-Cox-stained pyramidal neurons revealed an increase in both dendritic length and spine density in the hippocampus, accompanied by an overall loss in spine synapses. Early-phase long-term potentiation was reduced and long-term depression was increased in the CA1 hippocampal area of Pix/Arhgef6-deficient animals. Knockout animals exhibited impaired spatial and complex learning and less behavioral control in mildly stressful situations, suggesting that this model mimics the human ID phenotype. The structural and electrophysiological alterations in the hippocampus were accompanied by a significant reduction in active Rac1 and Cdc42, but not RhoA. In conclusion, we suggest that imbalance in activity of different Rho GTPases may underlie altered neuronal connectivity and impaired synaptic function and cognition in Pix/Arhgef6 knockout mice.



In the last two decades functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has dominated research in neuroscience. However, only recently has it taken the first steps in translation to the clinical field. In this paper we describe the advantages of fMRI and DTI and the possible benefits of implementing these methods in clinical practice. We review the current clinical usages of fMRI and DTI and discuss the challenges and difficulties of translating these methods to clinical use. The most common application today is in neurosurgery. fMRI and DTI are done preoperatively for brain tumor patients who are having tumors removed and for epilepsy patients who are candidates for temporal resection. Imaging results supply the neurosurgeon with essential information regarding possible functional damage and thereby aid both in planning and performing surgery. Scientific research suggests more promising potential implementations of fMRI and DTI in improving diagnosis and rehabilitation. These advanced imaging methods can be used for pre-symptomatic diagnosis, as a differentiating biomarker in the absence of anatomical measurements, and for identification of mental response in the absence of motor-sensory abilities. These methods can aid and direct rehabilitation by predicting the success of possible interventions and rehabilitation options and by supplying a measure for biofeedback. This review opens a window to the state of the art neuroimaging methods being implemented these days into the clinical practice and provides a glance to the future clinical possibilities of fMRI and DTI.
While brain oxygen tension (PbtO(2)) monitoring is an important parameter for evaluating injury severity and therapeutic efficiency in severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) patients, many factors affect the monitoring. The goal of this study was to identify the effects of FiO(2) (fraction of inspired oxygen) on PbtO(2) in uninjured anesthetized rats and measure the changes in PbtO(2) following penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI). Continuous PbtO(2) monitoring in uninjured anesthetized rats showed that PbtO(2) response was positively correlated with FiO(2) (0.21-0.35) but PbtO(2) remained stable when FiO(2) was maintained at 0.26. Importantly, although increasing FiO(2) from 0.21 to 0.35 improved P(a)O(2), it concomitantly reduced pH levels and elevated P(a)CO(2) values out of the normal range. However, when the FiO(2) was maintained between 0.26 and 0.30, the pH and P(a)O(2) levels remained within the normal or clinically acceptable range. In PBBI rats, PbtO(2) was significantly reduced by 40% (16.9  1.2 mm Hg) in the peri-lesional region immediately following unilateral, frontal 10% PBBI compared to sham rats (28.6  1.7 mm Hg; mean  SEM, p&lt;0.05) and the PBBI-induced reductions in PbtO(2) were sustained for at least 150 min post-PBBI. Collectively, these results demonstrate that FiO(2) affects PbtO(2) and that PBBI produces acute and sustained hypoxia in the peri-lesional region of the brain injury. This study provides important information for the management of PbtO(2) monitoring in this brain injury model and may offer insight for therapeutic strategies targeted to improve the hypoxia/ischemia state in the penetrating-type brain injury.
Drug discovery and development efforts critically rely on cell-based assays for high-throughput screening. These assay systems mostly utilize immortalized cell lines, such as human embryonic kidney cells, and can provide information on cytotoxicity and cell viability, permeability and uptake of compounds as well as receptor pharmacology. While this approach has proven extremely useful for single-target pharmacology, there is an urgent need for neuropharmacological studies to screen novel drug candidates in a cellular environment resembles neurons in vivo more closely, in order to gain insight into the involvement of multiple signaling pathways. Primary cultured neuronal cells, such as cortical neurons, have long been used for basic research and low-throughput screening and assay development, and may thus be suitable candidates for the development of neuropharmacological high-throughput screening approaches. We here developed and optimized protocols for the use of primary cortical neuronal cells in high-throughput assays for neuropharmacology and neuroprotection, including calcium mobilization, cytotoxicity and viability as well as ion channel pharmacology. Our data show low inter-experimental variability and similar reproducibility as conventional cell line assays. We conclude that primary neuronal cultures provide a viable alternative to cell lines in high-throughput assay systems by providing a cellular environment more closely resembling physiological conditions in the central nervous system.
Aberrant central nervous system zinc homeostasis has been reported in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, there are conflicting reports describing zinc concentration either increased or decreased in the brain of AD patients. Such discrepancies may be due to differences in the brain area examined, zinc detection method, and/or tissue composition. Furthermore, detection and measurement of the releasable zinc pool in autopsy tissue is difficult and usually unreliable. Obtaining an adequate assessment of this releasable zinc pool is of particular significance in AD research in that zinc can coordinate with and stabilize toxic amyloid beta oligomers, which are believed to play a key role in AD neuropathology. In addition, zinc released into the synaptic cleft can interact with the postsynaptic neurons causing altered signaling and synaptic dysfunction, which is a well established event in AD. The method presented here combines two approaches, biochemical fractionation and atomic absorption spectrophotometry, to allow, in addition to extracellular zinc concentration, the reliable and quantitative measurement of zinc specifically localized in synaptic vesicles, which contain the majority of the neuronal releasable zinc. Using this methodology, we found that synaptic vesicle zinc concentrations were increased in AD hippocampi compared to age-matched controls and that this increase in releasable zinc matched increased concentration of zinc in the extracellular space.
Inferring Granger-causal interactions between processes promises deeper insights into mechanisms underlying network phenomena, e.g. in the neurosciences where the level of connectivity in neural networks is of particular interest. Renormalized partial directed coherence has been introduced as a means to investigate Granger causality in such multivariate systems. A major challenge in estimating respective coherences is a reliable parameter estimation of vector autoregressive processes. We discuss two shortcomings typical in relevant applications, i.e. non-stationarity of the processes generating the time series and contamination with observational noise. To overcome both, we present a new approach by combining renormalized partial directed coherence with state space modeling. A numerical efficient way to perform both the estimation as well as the statistical inference will be presented.
The ability to record well-isolated action potentials from individual neurons in naturally behaving animals is crucial for understanding neural mechanisms underlying natural behaviors. Traditional neurophysiology techniques, however, require the animal to be restrained which often restricts natural behavior. An example is the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate species, used in our laboratory to study the neural correlates of vocal production and sensory feedback. When restrained by traditional neurophysiological techniques marmoset vocal behavior is severely inhibited. Tethered recording systems, while proven effective in rodents pose limitations in arboreal animals such as the marmoset that typically roam in a three-dimensional environment. To overcome these obstacles, we have developed a wireless neural recording technique that is capable of collecting single-unit data from chronically implanted multi-electrodes in freely moving marmosets. A lightweight, low power and low noise wireless transmitter (headstage) is attached to a multi-electrode array placed in the premotor cortex of the marmoset. The wireless headstage is capable of transmitting 15 channels of neural data with signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) comparable to a tethered system. To minimize radio-frequency (RF) and electro-magnetic interference (EMI), the experiments were conducted within a custom designed RF/EMI and acoustically shielded chamber. The individual electrodes of the multi-electrode array were periodically advanced to densely sample the cortical layers. We recorded single-unit data over a period of several months from the frontal cortex of two marmosets. These recordings demonstrate the feasibility of using our wireless recording method to study single neuron activity in freely roaming primates.
A novel method for the study of repetitive mild traumatic brain injury (rmTBI) that models the most common form of head injury in humans is presented. Existing animal models of TBI impart focal, severe damage unlike that seen in repeated and mild concussive injuries, and few are configured for repetitive application. Our model is a modification of the Marmarou weight drop method and allows repeated head impacts to lightly anesthetized mice. A key facet of this method is the delivery of an impact to the cranium of an unrestrained subject allowing rapid acceleration of the free-moving head and torso, an essential characteristic known to be important for concussive injury in humans, and a factor that is missing from existing animal models of TBI. Our method does not require scalp incision, emplacement of protective skull helmets or surgery and the procedure can be completed in 1-2 min. Mice spontaneously recover the righting reflex and show no evidence of seizures, paralysis or impaired behavior. Skull fractures and intracranial bleeding are very rare. Minor deficits in motor coordination and locomotor hyperactivity recover over time. Histological analyses reveal mild astrocytic reactivity (increased expression of GFAP) and increased phospho-tau but a lack of blood-brain-barrier disruption, edema and microglial activation. This new animal model is simple and cost-effective and will facilitate characterization of the neurobiological and behavioral consequences of rmTBI. It is also ideal for high throughput screening of potential new therapies for mild concussive injuries as experienced by athletes and military personnel.
Orientation and direction tuning are among the most studied features of the visual system and are routinely measured during experiments to estimate the quality of neuronal responses. However, standard approaches to report orientation selectivity are only narrowly quantitative and strongly depend on the signal quality, while the more sophisticated ones are computationally exhaustive, making them difficult to use during ongoing experiments. We propose a fast and efficient method for reporting the reliability of coding applicable to any circular parameter. Similar to standard deviation in the linear statistics, reproducibility measures trial-to-trial variability of a circular response parameter. Reproducibility is a normalized measure easily transformed to p-values, which provide explicit information about significance of the estimated orientation preference. The proposed approach is applicable to a wide range of signal types. Here, we discuss examples from optical imaging and electrophysiological recordings, and provide a more thorough examination based on tuning curves modeled in silico.
Molecular analysis of brain tissue is greatly complicated by having many different classes of neurons and glia interspersed throughout the brain. Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) has been used to purify selected cell types from brain tissue. However, its use has been limited to brain tissue from embryos or transgenic mice with promoter-driven reporter genes. To overcome these limitations, we developed a FACS procedure for dissociating intact cell bodies from adult wild-type rat brains and sorting them using commercially available antibodies against intracellular and extracellular proteins. As an example, we isolated neurons using a NeuN antibody and confirmed their identity using microarray and real time PCR of mRNA from the sorted cells. Our FACS procedure allows rapid, high-throughput, quantitative assays of molecular alterations in identified cell types with widespread applications in neuroscience.

Direct gating of mechanoelectrical transduction channels by mechanical force is a basic feature of hair cells that assures fast transduction and underpins the mechanical amplification of acoustic inputs, but the associated non-linearity - the gating compliance - inevitably distorts signals. Because reducing distortion would make the ear a better detector, we sought mechanisms with that effect. Mimickingin vivostimulation, we used stiff probes to displace individual hair bundles at physiological amplitudes and measured the coherence and phase of the relative stereociliary motions with a dual-beam differential interferometer. Although stereocilia moved coherently and in phase at the stimulus frequencies, large phase lags at the frequencies of the internally generated distortion products indicated dissipative relative motions. Tip links engaged these relative modes and decreased the coherence in both stimulated and free hair bundles. These results show that a hair bundle breaks into a highly dissipative serial arrangement of stereocilia at distortion frequencies, precluding their amplification.
In addition to lowering cholesterol, statins increase nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability, improving endothelial function. In the fetus, enhanced NO during acute hypoxia opposes the fetal peripheral vasoconstrictor response, part of the brain-sparing defence. This study tested the hypothesis that treatment with statins depresses the fetal circulatory response to acute hypoxic stress via increasing NO bioavailability. Under anaesthesia, 12 fetal sheep at 118  1 days of gestation (termca145 days) were instrumented with vascular catheters and a femoral artery Transonic flow probe for chronic recording. Five days later, all animals were subjected to 30 min of acute hypoxia (fetal arterial partial pressure of O(2) ( ) reduced byca50%) before and 24 h after fetal treatment with pravastatin (25 mg i.v.). In half of the fetuses (n= 6), responses to hypoxia post-pravastatin were evaluated during NO synthesis blockade. Fetal exposure to pravastatin did not affect fetal basal cardiovascular function. Fetal was similarly reduced in all acute hypoxia experiments fromca21 to 10 mmHg. Fetal exposure to pravastatin markedly diminished the fetal femoral vasoconstrictor (5.1  0.9vs.2.5  0.5 mmHg (ml min(-1))(-1)) and lactic acidaemic (4.4  0.5vs.3.0  0.3 mm) responses to acute hypoxia (bothP&lt; 0.05), without affecting plasma catecholamine responses. Post-pravastatin, the circulatory (5.8  1.5 mmHg (ml min(-1))(-1)) and metabolic (3.9  0.3 mm) responses could be restored to control levels during fetal treatment with NO synthase blockade. Pravastatin depresses the fetal cardiovascular and metabolic defences to acute hypoxia via increasing NO bioavailability. The use of statins during pregnancy should be viewed with extreme caution.
Recently, transgenic mice have been created with mutations affecting the components of the mammalian spinal central pattern generator (CPG) for locomotion; however, it has currently only been possible to evoke fictive locomotion in mice, using neonatalin vitropreparations. Here, we demonstrate that it is possible to evoke fictive locomotion in the adult decerebrate mousein vivousing l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester hydrochloride (l-DOPA) and 5-hydroxytryptophan (5HTP) following injection of the monoaminoxiadase inhibitor Nialamide. We investigate the effects of afferent stimulation and spinalization as well as demonstrate the possibility of simultaneous intracellular recording of rhythmically active motoneurones. Our results demonstrate that several features of the mouse locomotor CPG are similar to those that have been observed in rat, cat, rabbit and monkey suggesting a fairly conserved organisation and allowing for future results in transgenic mice to be extrapolated to existing knowledge of CPG components and circuitry obtained in larger species.
Tubulin glutamylation is a post-translational modification that occurs predominantly in the ciliary axoneme and has been suggested to be important for ciliary function. However, its relationship to disorders of the primary cilium, termed ciliopathies, has not been explored. Here we mapped a new locus for Joubert syndrome (JBTS), which we have designated as JBTS15, and identified causative mutations in CEP41, which encodes a 41-kDa centrosomal protein. We show that CEP41 is localized to the basal body and primary cilia, and regulates ciliary entry of TTLL6, an evolutionarily conserved polyglutamylase enzyme. Depletion of CEP41 causes ciliopathy-related phenotypes in zebrafish and mice and results in glutamylation defects in the ciliary axoneme. Our data identify CEP41 mutations as a cause of JBTS and implicate tubulin post-translational modification in the pathogenesis of human ciliary dysfunction.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are glutamate-gated ion channels that are present at most excitatory mammalian synapses. The four GluN2 subunits (GluN2A-D) contribute to four diheteromeric NMDAR subtypes that have divergent physiological and pathological roles. Channel properties that are fundamental to NMDAR function vary among subtypes. We investigated the amino acid residues responsible for variations in channel properties by creating and examining NMDARs containing mutant GluN2 subunits. We found that the NMDAR subtype specificity of three crucial channel properties, Mg(2+) block, selective permeability to Ca(2+) and single-channel conductance, were all controlled primarily by the residue at a single GluN2 site in the M3 transmembrane region. Mutant cycle analysis guided by molecular modeling revealed that a GluN2-GluN1 subunit interaction mediates the site's effects. We conclude that a single GluN2 subunit residue couples with the pore-forming loop of the GluN1 subunit to create naturally occurring variations in NMDAR properties that are critical to synaptic plasticity and learning.
Transforming synaptic input into action potential output is a fundamental function of neurons. The pattern of action potential output from principal cells of the mammalian hippocampus encodes spatial and nonspatial information, but the cellular and circuit mechanisms by which neurons transform their synaptic input into a given output are unknown. Using a combination of optical activation and cell type-specific pharmacogenetic silencing in vitro, we found that dendritic inhibition is the primary regulator of input-output transformations in mouse hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells, and acts by gating the dendritic electrogenesis driving burst spiking. Dendrite-targeting interneurons are themselves modulated by interneurons targeting pyramidal cell somata, providing a synaptic substrate for tuning pyramidal cell output through interactions in the local inhibitory network. These results provide evidence for a division of labor in cortical circuits, where distinct computational functions are implemented by subtypes of local inhibitory neurons.
Isolated in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparations are used extensively in respiratory neurobiology because the respiratory network in the pons and medulla is intact, monosynaptic descending inputs to spinal motoneurons can be activated, brainstem and spinal cord tissue can be bathed with different solutions, and the responses of cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spinal motoneurons to experimental perturbations can be compared. The caveats and limitations of in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparations are well-documented. However, isolated brainstem-spinal cords are still valuable experimental preparations that can be used to study neuronal connectivity within the brainstem, development of motor networks with lethal genetic mutations, deleterious effects of pathological drugs and conditions, respiratory spinal motor plasticity, and interactions with other motor behaviors. Our goal is to show how isolated brainstem-spinal cord preparations still have a lot to offer scientifically and experimentally to address questions within and outside the field of respiratory neurobiology.
Molecular processes regulating cholinergic functions play an important role in the control of respiration under hypoxia. Cholinergic alterations and its further complications in learning and memory due to hypoxic insult in neonatal rats and the effect of glucose, oxygen and epinephrine resuscitation was evaluated in the present study. Receptor binding and gene expression studies were done in the cerebral cortex to analyze the changes in total muscarinic receptors, muscarinic M1, M2, M3 receptors and the enzymes involved in acetylcholine metabolism - choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholine esterase. Neonatal hypoxia decreased total muscarinic receptors with reduced muscarinic M1, M2 and M3 receptor genes. The reduction in acetylcholine metabolism is indicated by the down regulated choline acetyltransferase and up regulated acetylcholine esterase expression. These cholinergic disturbances were reversed to near control in glucose resuscitated hypoxic neonates. The adverse effects of immediate oxygenation and epinephrine administration are also reported. This has immense clinical significance in establishing a proper resuscitation for the management of neonatal hypoxia.
The loss of genetic diversity due to premature death of valuable individuals is a significant problem in animal conservation programs, including endangered felids. Testis tissue xenografting has emerged as a system to obtain spermatozoa from dead immature animals, however protocols to store this tissue before xenografting are still lacking. This study focused on testis tissue cryopreservation and storage from the domestic cat (Felis catus) classified as &quot;pre-pubertal&quot; and &quot;pubertal&quot; according to spermatogenesis development. Grafts from testis tissue cryopreserved with DMSO 1.4M, recovered after 10 weeks xenografting, presented seminiferous tubules with no germ cells. On the contrary, testis tissue from pre-pubertal animals preserved in ice-cold medium for 2 to 5 days presented no loss of viability or spermatogenic potential, while the number of grafts of pubertal cat testis tissue with germ cells after 10 weeks of xenografting decreased with increasing storage time. Nevertheless, even grafts from pre-pubertal cat testis tissue presented lower anti-DDX4 and anti-BOULE staining (proteins necessary for the meiosis completion), when compared with adult cat testis. Finally, a strong correlation found between testis weight and xenograft outcome may help choose good candidates for xenografting.
The neuroblastoma-spinal motor neuron fusion cell line, NSC-34, in its differentiated form, NSC-34D, permits examining the effects of riluzole, a proven treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) on cell death induction by staurosporine (STS), thapsigargin (Thaps), hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) and homocysteine (HCy). These neurotoxins, applied exogenously, have mechanisms of action related to the various proposed molecular pathogenetic pathways in ALS and are differentiated from endogenous cell death that is associated with cytoplasmic aggregate formation in motor neurons. Nuclear morphology, caspase-3/7 activation and high content imaging were used to assess toxicity of these neurotoxins with and without co-treatment with riluzole, a benzothiazole compound with multiple pharmacological actions. STS was the most potent neurotoxin at killing NSC-34D cells with a toxic concentration at which 50% of maximal cell death is achieved (TC(50)=0.01M), followed by Thaps (TC(50)=0.9M) and H(2)O(2) (TC(50)=15M) with HCy requiring higher concentrations to kill at the same level (TC(50)=2200M). Riluzole provided neurorescue with a 20% absolute reduction (47.6% relative reduction) in apoptotic cell death against Thaps-induced NSC-34D cell (p0.05), but had no effect on STS-, H(2)O(2)- and HCy-induced NSC-34D cell death. This effect of riluzole on Thaps induction of cell death was independent of caspase-3/7 activation. Riluzole mitigated a toxin that can cause intracellular calcium dysregulation associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress but not toxins associated with other cell death mechanisms.
Contrast-dependent interactions between classical (CRF) and non-classical regions (nCRF) of visual neuron receptive fields are well documented in primate visual cortex. Physiological models that describe CRF and nCRF interactions in single neurons have recently been applied to psychophysical measures of spatial summation and suppression in motion perception of young adults (Tadin &amp; Lappin, 2005). We wished to determine whether such models could account for the reduction in spatial suppression that occurs in normal aging (Betts et al., 2005). We applied three models to duration thresholds obtained in a simple motion discrimination task using drifting Gabor stimuli that ranged in spatial frequency from 0.5 to 4c/deg. We found that a model in which the center CRF and surrounding nCRF are represented as spatially-overlapping excitatory and inhibitory 2D Gaussians with independent contrast response functions, which we call the Gain model, could account for the effects of aging simply by increasing the spatial extent of the CRF. Two additional models were evaluated. The Size model, which varied the size of the CRF as a function of contrast, produced CRF and nCRF size constants that departed significantly from physiological estimates of receptive field sizes. The Drive model, which yoked the activation of the suppressive nCRF to the CRF response, yielded reasonable fits to the data and suggested an age-related decline in the strength of suppression from the nCRF. However, the Drive model estimated the CRF size parameter to be equal to, or even slightly larger than, the nCRF size parameter, which is inconsistent with the physiological literature. Our findings therefore suggest that the Gain model provides the most plausible estimates of receptive field sizes. Based on this model, age-related increases in the size of central excitatory receptive fields relative to the inhibitory surrounds may contribute to behavioral measures of reduced spatial suppression found in older observers.
These studies investigated ethanol effects on upstream cellular elements and interactions which contribute to Bax-related apoptosis in neonatal rat cerebellum at ages of peak ethanol sensitivity (postnatal day 4 [P4]), compared to later ages of relative resistance (P7). Analyses were made of basal levels of the pro-apoptotic c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), Bax, and the 14-3-3 anchoring proteins, as well as the responsiveness of these substances to ethanol at P4 versus P7. Dimerization of Bax with 14-3-3 was also investigated at the two ages following ethanol treatment, a process which sequesters Bax in the cytosol, thus inhibiting its mitochondrial translocation and disruption of the mitochondrial membrane potential. Cultured cerebellar granule cells were used to examine the protective potential of JNK inhibition on ethanol-mediated cell death. Basal levels of JNK were significantly higher at P4 than P7, but no differences in the other proteins were found. Activated JNK, and cytosolic and mitochondrially-translocated Bax were increased in P4 but not P7 animals following ethanol exposure, while protective 14-3-3 proteins were increased only at P7. Ethanol treatment resulted in decreases in Bax:14-3-3 heterodimers at P4, but not at P7. Inhibition of JNK activity in vitro provided partial protection against ethanol neurotoxicity. Thus, differential temporal vulnerability to ethanol in this CNS region correlates with differences in both levels of apoptosis-related substances (e.g., JNK), and differential cellular responsiveness, favoring apoptosis at the most sensitive age and survival at the resistant age. The upstream elements contributing to this vulnerability can be targets for future therapeutic strategies.
There is high consensus that stress-related disorders like depression are shaped by naturenurture interactions. However, the complexity appears larger than envisaged and naturenurture research is progressing too slowly. An important reason is that mainstream research is focussing on the idea that a combination of genotypic stress-sensitivity and stress exposure inevitably leads to maladaptive stress-coping responses, and thereby stress-related disorders. However, stress-coping responses can also be adaptive and adhere to the expected norm. Here I elaborate the 'environment' mismatch hypothesis proposed by Mathias Schmidt (Psychoneuroendocrinology, 36, 330-338, 2011) to the stress-coping (mis)match (SCM) hypothesis postulating that stress-coping responses-as programmed by natureage-dependent nurture interactions-are adaptive when they match current stress conditions, but maladaptive when they mismatch current stress conditions. For instance, acquisition of an active stress-coping response during nurture may lead to the programmed release of active coping responses in current life. This is adaptive when current stress is escapable, but maladaptive when current stress is inescapable, leading to agitation. A model par example for naturenurture interactions is the serotonin transporter promoter polymorphism, which will be discussed in the framework of the SCM hypothesis. The potential role of the prefrontal-amygdala circuit and the therapeutic implications of the SCM hypothesis will also be discussed.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a progressive loss of dopamine (DA) neurons of the nigrostriatal system and by the presence of Lewy bodies (LB), proteinaceous inclusions mainly composed of filamentous -synuclein aggregates. Alpha-synuclein is a natively unfolded protein which plays a central role in the control of dopaminergic neuronal functions and which is thought to be critically implicated in PD pathophysiology. Indeed, besides the fact that -synuclein is the main protein component of LB, genetic studies showed that mutations and multiplications of the -synuclein gene are responsible for the onset of familial forms of PD. A large body of evidence indicates that -synuclein pathology at dopaminergic synapses may underlie the onset of neuronal cell dysfunction and degeneration in the PD brain. Thus, since the available therapeutic approaches to cure this disease are still limited, we hypothesized that the analysis of the -synuclein synaptic proteome/lipidome may represent a tool to identify novel potential therapeutic targets to cure this disorder. We thus performed a critical review of studies describing -synuclein pathophysiology at synaptic sites in experimental models of PD and in this paper we outline the most relevant findings regarding the specific modulatory effects exerted by -synuclein in the control of synaptic functions in physiological and pathological conditions. The conclusions of these studies allow to single out novel potential therapeutic targets among the -synuclein synaptic partners. These targets may be considered for the development of new pharmacological and gene-based strategies to cure PD.
Insulin modulates N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the CNS and potentiates recombinant NMDA receptor currents in Xenopus oocytes. We have previously found that insulin's potentiation of NMDA receptor currents in oocytes occurs in a subunit specific manner and via phosphorylation of specific C-terminal sites by protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) and C-type protein kinases (PKCs). Insulin-mediated current potentiation of receptors containing the NR2A subunit occurs solely through the activation of PKCs. Activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) is known to trigger many insulin-stimulated signaling pathways, and we show here that it lies at a critical step in the insulin-mediated potentiation of NMDA receptor currents. Incubation with the PI 3-kinase inhibitor wortmannin eliminates insulin potentiation of NMDA receptor currents in the oocytes. Atypical isoforms of PKC are known to be activated downstream in the insulin signaling pathway via activation of PI 3-kinase. We demonstrate that the atypical isoform PKC zeta (PKC) has a role in insulin-stimulated current potentiation of NR2A-containing NMDA receptors using an isoform-specific pseudosubstrate inhibitor of PKC.
Allelic variation in the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene is the major risk factor of sporadic Alzheimer disease. ApoE is the primary cholesterol carrier in the brain. Previously, we demonstrated that intracellular degradation of -amyloid (A) peptides by microglia is dramatically enhanced in the presence of apoE. However, the molecular mechanisms subserving this effect remain unknown. This study reports a mechanistic link between apoE-regulated cholesterol homeostasis and A degradation. We demonstrate that promoting intracellular A degradation by microglia is a common feature of HDL apolipoproteins, including apoE and apoA-I. This effect was not dependent on the direct interaction of apoE and A. Regulation of A degradation was achieved by solely manipulating cellular cholesterol levels. The expression and the activity of A degrading enzymes, however, were not regulated by cholesterol. We observed that reducing cellular cholesterol levels by apoE resulted in faster delivery of A to lysosomes and enhanced degradation. Moreover, apoE facilitated the recycling of Rab7, a small GTPase responsible for recruiting the motor complex to late endosomes/lysosomes. These data indicate that faster endocytic trafficking of A-containing vesicles in the presence of apoE resulted from efficient recycling of Rab7 from lysosomes to early endosomes. Thus, apoE-induced intracellular A degradation is mediated by the cholesterol efflux function of apoE, which lowers cellular cholesterol levels and subsequently facilitates the intracellular trafficking of A to lysosomes for degradation. These findings demonstrate a direct role of cholesterol in the intracellular A degradation.
Synaptic inputs received at dendrites are converted into digital outputs encoded by action potentials generated at the axon initial segment in most neurons. Here, we report that alternative splicing regulates polarized targeting of Kv3.1 voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels to adjust the input-output relationship. The spiking frequency of cultured hippocampal neurons correlated with the level of endogenous Kv3 channels. Expression of axonal Kv3.1b, the longer form of Kv3.1 splice variants, effectively converted slow-spiking young neurons to fast-spiking ones; this was not the case for Kv1.2 or Kv4.2 channel constructs. Despite having identical biophysical properties as Kv3.1b, dendritic Kv3.1a was significantly less effective at increasing the maximal firing frequency. This suggests a possible role of channel targeting in regulating spiking frequency. Mutagenesis studies suggest the electrostatic repulsion between the Kv3.1b N/C termini, created by its C-terminal splice domain, unmasks the Kv3.1b axonal targeting motif. Kv3.1b axonal targeting increased the maximal spiking frequency in response to prolonged depolarization. This finding was further supported by the results of local application of channel blockers and computer simulations. Taken together, our studies have demonstrated that alternative splicing controls neuronal firing rates by regulating the polarized targeting of Kv3.1 channels.
The central nervous system can experience a number of stresses and neurological insults, which can have numerous adverse effects that ultimately lead to a reduction in neuronal population and function. Damaged axons can release excitatory molecules including potassium or glutamate into the extracellular matrix, which in turn, can produce further insult and injury to the supporting glial cells including astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. If the insult persists, cells will undergo programmed cell death (apoptosis), which is regulated and activated by a number of well-established signal transduction cascades. Apoptosis and tissue necrosis can occur after traumatic brain injury, cerebral ischemia, and seizures. A classical example of apoptotic regulation is the family of cysteine-dependent aspartate-directed proteases, or caspases. Activated proteases including caspases have also been implicated in cell death in response to chronic neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's, Huntington's, and Multiple Sclerosis. In this protocol we describe the use of the NucView 488 caspase-3 substrate to measure the rate of caspase-3 mediated apoptosis in immortalized N19-oligodendrocyte (OLG) cell cultures, following exposure to different extracellular stresses such as high concentrations of potassium or glutamate. The conditionally-immortalized N19-OLG cell line (representing the O2A progenitor) was obtained from Dr. Anthony Campagnoni (UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience), and has been previously used to study molecular mechanisms of myelin gene expression and signal transduction leading to OLG differentiation. We have found this cell line to be robust with respect to transfection with exogenous myelin basic protein (MBP) constructs fused to either RFP or GFP (red or green fluorescent protein). Here, the N19-OLG cell cultures were treated with either 80 mM potassium chloride or 100 mM sodium glutamate to mimic axonal leakage into the extracellular matrix to induce apoptosis. We used a bi-functional caspase-3 substrate containing a DEVD (Asp-Glu-Val-Asp) caspase-3 recognition subunit and a DNA-binding dye. The substrate quickly enters the cytoplasm where it is cleaved by intracellular caspase-3. The dye, NucView 488 is released and enters the cell nucleus where it binds DNA and fluoresces green at 488 nm, signaling apoptosis. Use of the NucView 488 caspase-3 substrate allows for live-cell imaging in real-time. In this video, we also describe the culturing and transfection of immortalized N19-OLG cells, as well as live-cell imaging techniques.
Nuclear factor B (NF-B) is an antiapoptotic transcription factor. We show that the antiapoptotic actions of NF-B are mediated by hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) synthesized by cystathionine gamma-lyase (CSE). TNF- treatment triples H(2)S generation by stimulating binding of SP1 to the CSE promoter. H(2)S generated by CSE stimulates DNA binding and gene activation of NF-B, processes that are abolished in CSE-deleted mice. As CSE deletion leads to decreased glutathione levels, resultant oxidative stress may contribute to alterations in CSE mutant mice. H(2)S acts by sulfhydrating the p65 subunit of NF-B at cysteine-38, which promotes its binding to the coactivator ribosomal protein S3 (RPS3). Sulfhydration of p65 predominates early after TNF- treatment, then declines and is succeeded by a reciprocal enhancement of p65 nitrosylation. In CSE mutant mice, antiapoptotic influences of NF-B are markedly diminished. Thus, sulfhydration of NF-B appears to be a physiologic determinant of its antiapoptotic transcriptional activity.
This Editorial introduces the thematic series on 'Toward a New Psychiatry: Philosophical and Ethical Issues in Classification, Diagnosis and Care' http://www.biomedcentral.com/series/newpsychiatry.

OBJECTIVE: Nitric oxide is a neural messenger molecule in the central nervous system that is generated from L-arginine via the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and is involved in many important oplold-induced effects. In Iranian ancient medicine, Cuminum cyminum L (green seed) has been used for the treatment of some diseases. In the present study, the effect of intraperitoneal (ip) administration of different doses of cumin fruit essential oil (FEO) on the acquisition of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (GPP) in L-arginine-treated mice was investigated. METHODS: A total of 213 adult male albino Wistar mice were used in these experiments. The CPP paradigm was carried out in 5 continuous days, pre-conditioning, conditioning and post-conditioning. Animals were randomly assigned to one of the two groups for place conditioning. CPP was induced by subcutaneous (sc) injection of morphine (5 mg/kg) in 3 days conditioning schedule. On the test day, conditioning scores and locomotor activity were recorded by Ethovision software. RESULTS: Sole administration of different doses of cumin FEO (0.01%, 0.1%, 0.5%, 1% and 2%; lp) or L-arginine (50, 100 and 200 mg/kg; lp) during the CPP protocol could not induce CPP. Nonetheless, morphine-induced CPP was decreased by different doses of cumin FEO (0.01%-2%), whereas it was increased by L-arginine (50-200 mg/kg) when they were injected before morphine (5 rug/kg) during a 3-day conditioning phase (acquisition period). Additionally, cumin FEO could interestingly attenuate the raising effect of L-arginine on morphine-induced CPP in a dose-dependent manner. CONCLUSIONS: It is suggested that some components of the Cuminum cyminum L. seed attenuate the excessive effect of L-arginine on morphine-induced CPP through the NOS inhibitory mechanism. It seems that cumin FEO possibly acts as a NOS inhibitor.
In addition to chemical synaptic transmission, neurons that are connected by gap junctions can also communicate rapidly via electrical synaptic transmission. Increasing evidence indicates that gap junctions not only permit electrical current flow and synchronous activity between interconnected or coupled cells, but that the strength or effectiveness of electrical communication between coupled cells can be modulated to a great extent(1,2). In addition, the large internal diameter (~1.2 nm) of many gap junction channels permits not only electric current flow, but also the diffusion of intracellular signaling molecules and small metabolites between interconnected cells, so that gap junctions may also mediate metabolic and chemical communication. The strength of gap junctional communication between neurons and its modulation by neurotransmitters and other factors can be studied by simultaneously electrically recording from coupled cells and by determining the extent of diffusion of tracer molecules, which are gap junction permeable, but not membrane permeable, following iontophoretic injection into single cells. However, these procedures can be extremely difficult to perform on neurons with small somata in intact neural tissue. Numerous studies on electrical synapses and the modulation of electrical communication have been conducted in the vertebrate retina, since each of the five retinal neuron types is electrically connected by gap junctions(3,4). Increasing evidence has shown that the circadian (24-hour) clock in the retina and changes in light stimulation regulate gap junction coupling(3-8). For example, recent work has demonstrated that the retinal circadian clock decreases gap junction coupling between rod and cone photoreceptor cells during the day by increasing dopamine D2 receptor activation, and dramatically increases rod-cone coupling at night by reducing D2 receptor activation(7,8). However, not only are these studies extremely difficult to perform on neurons with small somata in intact neural retinal tissue, but it can be difficult to adequately control the illumination conditions during the electrophysiological study of single retinal neurons to avoid light-induced changes in gap junction conductance. Here, we present a straightforward method of determining the extent of gap junction tracer coupling between retinal neurons under different illumination conditions and at different times of the day and night. This cut-loading technique is a modification of scrape loading(9-12), which is based on dye loading and diffusion through open gap junction channels. Scrape loading works well in cultured cells, but not in thick slices such as intact retinas. The cut-loading technique has been used to study photoreceptor coupling in intact fish and mammalian retinas(7, 8,13), and can be used to study coupling between other retinal neurons, as described here.
The response of cortical neurons to a sensory stimulus is shaped by the network in which they are embedded. Here we establish a role of parvalbumin (PV)-expressing cells, a large class of inhibitory neurons that target the soma and perisomatic compartments of pyramidal cells, in controlling cortical responses. By bidirectionally manipulating PV cell activity in visual cortex we show that these neurons strongly modulate layer 2/3 pyramidal cell spiking responses to visual stimuli while only modestly affecting their tuning properties. PV cells' impact on pyramidal cells is captured by a linear transformation, both additive and multiplicative, with a threshold. These results indicate that PV cells are ideally suited to modulate cortical gain and establish a causal relationship between a select neuron type and specific computations performed by the cortex during sensory processing.
Recent studies suggest that synaptic vesicles (SVs) giving rise to spontaneous neurotransmission are distinct from those that carry out evoked release. However, the molecular basis of this dichotomy remains unclear. Here, we focused on two noncanonical SNARE molecules, Vps10p-tail-interactor-1a (vti1a) and VAMP7, previously shown to reside on SVs. Using simultaneous multicolor imaging at individual synapses, we could show that compared to the more abundant vesicular SNARE synaptobrevin2, both vti1a and VAMP7 were reluctantly mobilized during activity. Vti1a, but not VAMP7, showed robust trafficking under resting conditions that could be partly matched by synaptobrevin2. Furthermore, loss of vti1a function selectively reduced high-frequency spontaneous neurotransmitter release detected postsynaptically. Expression of a truncated version of vti1a augmented spontaneous release more than full-length vti1a, suggesting that an autoinhibitory process regulates vti1a function. Taken together, these results support the premise that in its native form vti1a selectively maintains spontaneous neurotransmitter release.

Language and action have been found to share a common neural basis and in particular a common 'syntax', an analogous hierarchical and compositional organization. While language structure analysis has led to the formulation of different grammatical formalisms and associated discriminative or generative computational models, the structure of action is still elusive and so are the related computational models. However, structuring action has important implications on action learning and generalization, in both human cognition research and computation. In this study, we present a biologically inspired generative grammar of action, which employs the structure-building operations and principles of Chomsky's Minimalist Programme as a reference model. In this grammar, action terminals combine hierarchically into temporal sequences of actions of increasing complexity; the actions are bound with the involved tools and affected objects and are governed by certain goals. We show, how the tool role and the affected-object role of an entity within an action drives the derivation of the action syntax in this grammar and controls recursion, merge and move, the latter being mechanisms that manifest themselves not only in human language, but in human action too.
It has been hypothesized that neurological adaptations associated with evolutionary selection for throwing may have served as a precursor for the emergence of language and speech in early hominins. Although there are reports of individual differences in aimed throwing in wild and captive apes, to date there has not been a single study that has examined the potential neuroanatomical correlates of this very unique tool-use behaviour in non-human primates. In this study, we examined whether differences in the ratio of white (WM) to grey matter (GM) were evident in the homologue to Broca's area as well as the motor-hand area of the precentral gyrus (termed the KNOB) in chimpanzees that reliably throw compared with those that do not. We found that the proportion of WM in Broca's homologue and the KNOB was significantly higher in subjects that reliably throw compared with those that do not. We further found that asymmetries in WM within both brain regions were larger in the hemisphere contralateral to the chimpanzee's preferred throwing hand. We also found that chimpanzees that reliably throw show significantly better communication abilities than chimpanzees that do not. These results suggest that chimpanzees that have learned to throw have developed greater cortical connectivity between primary motor cortex and the Broca's area homologue. It is suggested that during hominin evolution, after the split between the lines leading to chimpanzees and humans, there was intense selection on increased motor skills associated with throwing and that this potentially formed the foundation for left hemisphere specialization associated with language and speech found in modern humans.
In neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease (PD), the potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to produce neurorestoration via trans-differentiation has garnered much interest. We believe, however, that the paracrine effects of MSCs may have greater utility. MSCs release neurotrophic factors, including glial derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). The benefits conferred by MSC GDNF release could potentially apply to all degenerating monoaminergic fibre types, throughout the brains of patients with PD, rather than solely affording protection to the dopaminergic neurones of the nigro-striatal pathway alone. Using an in vitro approach, we have investigated the neuroprotective properties of unmodified human MSCs on rat catecholaminergic and serotonergic cell cultures exposed to the damaging effects of nitric oxide. We have shown that post oxidative and inflammatory stress, soluble factors produced by native human MSCs, requiring no direct cell-cell contact or genetic or other manipulation, confer protection not only of cultured monoaminergic perikarya, but also of monoamine neurotransmitter transporter function. Furthermore, we have confirmed that, in part, this MSC mediated neuroprotective effect is due to MSC GDNF release and that such protection is diminished when the action of GDNF is blocked. Trophic factor release may afford a way by which intravenously infused MSCs can offer protection to all of the dopaminergic, noradrenergic and serotonergic fibre types degenerating widely throughout the brains of patients with PD.
Studies on mouse optic nerve have led to the controversial proposal that only a small proportion of neurofilaments are transported in axons and that the majority are deposited into a persistently stationary and extensively cross-linked cytoskeletal network that remains fixed in place for months without movement. We have used computational modeling to address this issue, taking advantage of the wealth of published kinetic and morphometric data available for neurofilaments in the mouse visual system. We show that the transport kinetics and distribution of neurofilaments in mouse optic nerve can all be explained fully by a &quot;stop-and-go&quot; model of neurofilament transport, in which axons contain a single population of neurofilaments that all move stochastically in a rapid, intermittent, and bidirectional manner. Importantly, we find that the transport kinetics are not consistent with deposition of neurofilaments into a persistently stationary phase, and that deposition models cannot account for the observed distribution of neurofilaments along mouse optic nerve axons. Finally, we show that the apparent existence of a stationary neurofilament network in mouse optic nerve is most likely an experimental artifact due to contamination of the neurofilament transport kinetics with cytosolic proteins that move at faster rates. Thus, there is no evidence for the deposition of axonally transported neurofilaments into a persistently stationary neurofilament network in optic nerve axons. We conclude that all of the neurofilaments move and that they do so with a single broad and continuous distribution of average rates that is dictated by their intermittent and stochastic motile behavior.
The neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF) regulates neuronal growth, differentiation, and survival during development. However, the precursor of NGF, proNGF, is a potent apoptotic ligand for the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR))-sortilin complex. The mechanisms that regulate cleavage of proNGF, therefore, are critical determinants of whether this factor promotes neuronal survival or death. In this study, we demonstrate that, following kainic acid-induced seizures, the proNGF processing enzyme matrix metalloproteinase 7 (MMP-7) and its inhibitor TIMP-1 (tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase 1) are regulated in a manner that prevents proneurotrophin cleavage and leads to increased proNGF in the extracellular milieu. Furthermore, we demonstrate both in vitro and in vivo that exogenous MMP-7 enhances proNGF cleavage and provides neuroprotection following kainic acid treatment. These data demonstrate that increased extracellular proNGF levels following seizures are stabilized by altered MMP-7 enzymatic activity, leading to increased neuronal death via activation of p75(NTR).
AMPA receptors (AMPARs) mediate synaptic transmission and plasticity during learning, development, and disease. Mechanisms determining subsynaptic receptor position are poorly understood but are key determinants of quantal size. We used a series of live-cell, high-resolution imaging approaches to measure protein organization within single postsynaptic densities in rat hippocampal neurons. By photobleaching receptors in synapse subdomains, we found that most AMPARs do not freely diffuse within the synapse, indicating they are embedded in a matrix that determines their subsynaptic position. However, time lapse analysis revealed that synaptic AMPARs are continuously repositioned in concert with plasticity of this scaffold matrix rather than simply by free diffusion. Using a fluorescence correlation analysis, we found that across the lateral extent of single PSDs, component proteins were differentially distributed, and this distribution was continually adjusted by actin treadmilling. The C-terminal PDZ ligand of GluA1 did not regulate its mobility or distribution in the synapse. However, glutamate receptor activation promoted subsynaptic mobility. Strikingly, subsynaptic immobility of both AMPARs and scaffold molecules remained essentially intact even after loss of actin filaments. We conclude that receptors are actively repositioned at the synapse by treadmilling of the actin cytoskeleton, an influence which is transmitted only indirectly to receptors via the pliable and surprisingly dynamic internal structure of the PSD.
CNS axons differ in diameter (d) by nearly 100-fold (0.1-10 m); therefore, they differ in cross-sectional area (d(2)) and volume by nearly 10,000-fold. If, as found for optic nerve, mitochondrial volume fraction is constant with axon diameter, energy capacity would rise with axon volume, also as d(2). We asked, given constraints on space and energy, what functional requirements set an axon's diameter? Surveying 16 fiber groups spanning nearly the full range of diameters in five species (guinea pig, rat, monkey, locust, octopus), we found the following: (1) thin axons are most numerous; (2) mean firing frequencies, estimated for nine of the identified axon classes, are low for thin fibers and high for thick ones, ranging from 1 to &gt;100 Hz; (3) a tract's distribution of fiber diameters, whether narrow or broad, and whether symmetric or skewed, reflects heterogeneity of information rates conveyed by its individual fibers; and (4) mitochondrial volume/axon length rises d(2). To explain the pressure toward thin diameters, we note an established law of diminishing returns: an axon, to double its information rate, must more than double its firing rate. Since diameter is apparently linear with firing rate, doubling information rate would more than quadruple an axon's volume and energy use. Thicker axons may be needed to encode features that cannot be efficiently decoded if their information is spread over several low-rate channels. Thus, information rate may be the main variable that sets axon caliber, with axons constrained to deliver information at the lowest acceptable rate.
In immature neurons the amino acid neurotransmitter, GABA provides the dominant mode for neuronal excitation by inducing membrane depolarization due to Cl(-) efflux through GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs). The driving force for Cl(-) is outward because the Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter (NKCC1) elevates the Cl(-) concentration in these cells. GABA-induced membrane depolarization and the resulting activation of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels is fundamental to normal brain development, yet the mechanisms that regulate depolarizing GABA are not well understood. The neurosteroid estradiol potently augments depolarizing GABA action in the immature hypothalamus by enhancing the activity of the NKCC1 cotransporter. Understanding how estradiol controls NKCC1 activity will be essential for a complete understanding of brain development. We now report that estradiol treatment of newborn rat pups significantly increases protein levels of two kinases upstream of the NKCC1 cotransporter, SPAK (STE20/SPS1-related proline alanine rich kinase) and OSR1 (oxidative stress response kinase). The estradiol-induced increase is transcription dependent, and its time course parallels that of estradiol-enhanced phosphorylation of NKCC1. Antisense oligonucleotide-mediated knockdown of SPAK, and to a lesser degree of OSR1, precludes estradiol-mediated enhancement of NKCC1 phosphorylation. Functionally, knockdown of SPAK or OSR1 in embryonic hypothalamic cultures diminishes estradiol-enhanced Ca(2+) influx induced by GABA(A)R activation. Our data suggest that SPAK and OSR1 may be critical factors in the regulation of depolarizing GABA-mediated processes in the developing brain. It will be important to examine these kinases with respect to sex differences and developmental brain anomalies in future studies.
Prohibitin is an essential mitochondrial protein that has been implicated in a wide variety of functions in many cell types, but its role in neurons remains unclear. In a proteomic screen of rat brains in which ischemic tolerance was induced by electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus, we found that prohibitin is upregulated in mitochondria. This observation prompted us to investigate the role of prohibitin in neuronal death and survival. We found that prohibitin is upregulated also in the ischemic tolerance induced by transient ischemia in vivo, or oxygen-glucose deprivation in neuronal cultures. Cell fractionation and electron-microscopic immunolabeling studies demonstrated that prohibitin is localized to neuronal mitochondria. Upregulation of prohibitin in neuronal cultures or hippocampal slices was markedly neuroprotective, whereas prohibitin gene silencing increased neuronal vulnerability, an effect associated with loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and increased mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species. Prohibitin upregulation was associated with reduced production of reactive oxygen species in mitochondria exposed to the complex I inhibitor rotenone. In addition, prohibitin protected complex I activity from the inhibitory effects of rotenone. These observations, collectively, establish prohibitin as an endogenous neuroprotective protein involved in ischemic tolerance. Prohibitin exerts beneficial effects on neurons by reducing mitochondrial free radical production. The data with complex I activity suggest that prohibitin may stabilize the function of complex I. The protective effect of prohibitin has potential translational relevance in diseases of the nervous system associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress.
Functional recovery after a peripheral nerve injury (PNI) is often poor. There is a need for therapies that protect neurons against injury and enhance regeneration. -3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been shown to have therapeutic potential in a variety of neurological disorders, including acute traumatic injury. The objective of this study was to assess the neuroprotective and pro-regenerative potential of -3 PUFAs in PNI. We investigated this in mice that express the fat-1 gene encoding for -3 fatty acid desaturase, which leads to an increase in endogenous -3 PUFAs and a concomitant decrease in -6 PUFAs. Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from wild-type or fat-1 mice were subjected to a mechanical strain or hypoxic injury, and cell death was assessed using ethidium homodimer-1 labeling. The fat-1 background appears to confer robust neuroprotection against both injuries. We then examined the early functional and morphological changes in wild-type and fat-1 mice after a sciatic nerve crush. An accelerated functional recovery 7 d after injury was seen in fat-1 mice when assessed using von Frey filaments and the sciatic nerve functional index. These observations were also mapped to changes in injury-related markers. The injury-induced expression of ATF-3 was decreased in the DRG of fat-1 mice, whereas the axons detected 6 mm distal to the crush were increased. Fat-1 animals also had some protection against muscle atrophy after injury. In conclusion, both in vitro and in vivo experiments support the idea that a higher endogenous -3 PUFA could lead to beneficial effects after a PNI.
Humans and animals are exquisitely, though idiosyncratically, sensitive to risk or variance in the outcomes of their actions. Economic, psychological, and neural aspects of this are well studied when information about risk is provided explicitly. However, we must normally learn about outcomes from experience, through trial and error. Traditional models of such reinforcement learning focus on learning about the mean reward value of cues and ignore higher order moments such as variance. We used fMRI to test whether the neural correlates of human reinforcement learning are sensitive to experienced risk. Our analysis focused on anatomically delineated regions of a priori interest in the nucleus accumbens, where blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals have been suggested as correlating with quantities derived from reinforcement learning. We first provide unbiased evidence that the raw BOLD signal in these regions corresponds closely to a reward prediction error. We then derive from this signal the learned values of cues that predict rewards of equal mean but different variance and show that these values are indeed modulated by experienced risk. Moreover, a close neurometric-psychometric coupling exists between the fluctuations of the experience-based evaluations of risky options that we measured neurally and the fluctuations in behavioral risk aversion. This suggests that risk sensitivity is integral to human learning, illuminating economic models of choice, neuroscientific models of affective learning, and the workings of the underlying neural mechanisms.
Humans are able to use knowledge of previous events to estimate the probability of future actions. Consequently, an unexpected event will elicit a prediction error as the prepared action has to be replaced by an unprepared option in a process known as &quot;action reprogramming&quot; (AR). Here we show that people with Parkinson's disease (PD) have a dopamine-sensitive deficit in AR that is proportional to the size of the prediction error. Participants performed a probabilistic reaction time (RT) task in the context of either a predictable or unpredictable environment. For an overall predictable sequence, PD patients, on and off dopamine medication, and healthy controls showed similar improvements in RT. However, in the context of a generally predictable sequence, PD patients off medication were impaired in reacting to unexpected events that elicit large prediction errors and require AR. Critically, this deficit in AR was modulated by the prediction error associated with the upcoming event. The prolongation of RT was not observed during an overall unpredictable sequence, in which relatively unexpected events evoke little prediction error and the requirement for AR should be minimal, given the context. The data are compatible with recent theoretical accounts suggesting that levels of dopamine encode the reliability, i.e., precision, of sensory information. In this scheme, PD patients off medication have low dopamine levels and may therefore be less confident about incoming sensory information and more reliant on top-down predictions. Consequently, when these internal predictions are incorrect, PD patients take longer to respond appropriately to unexpected sensory information.
Several gene mutations linked to intellectual disability in humans code for synaptic molecules implicated in small GTPase signaling. This is the case of the Rac/Cdc42 effector p21-activated kinase 3 (PAK3). The mechanisms responsible for the intellectual defects and the consequences of the mutation on the development and wiring of brain networks remain unknown. Here we show that expression of PAK3 mutants, suppression of PAK3, or inhibition of PAK3 function in rat hippocampal slice cultures interfere with activity-mediated spine dynamics. Inhibition of PAK3 resulted in two main alterations: (1) an increased growth of new, unstable spines, occurring in clusters, and mediated by activity; and (2) an impairment of plasticity-mediated spine stabilization interfering with the formation of persistent spines. Additionally, we find that PAK3 is specifically recruited by activity from dendrites into spines, providing a new mechanism through which PAK3 could participate in the control of both spine stabilization and local spine growth. Together, these data identify a novel function of PAK3 in regulating activity-mediated rearrangement of synaptic connectivity associated with learning and suggest that defects in spine formation and refinement during development could account for intellectual disability.
Conceptual processing is a crucial brain function for humans. Past research using neuropsychological and task-based functional brain-imaging paradigms indicates that widely distributed brain regions are related to conceptual processing. Here, we explore the potential contribution of intrinsic or spontaneous brain activity to conceptual processing by examining whether resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) signals can account for individual differences in the conceptual processing efficiencies of healthy individuals. We acquired rs-fMRI and behavioral data on object conceptual processing tasks. We found that the regional amplitude of spontaneous low-frequency fluctuations in the blood oxygen level-dependent signal in the left (posterior) middle temporal gyrus (LMTG) was highly correlated with participants' semantic processing efficiency. Furthermore, the strength of the functional connectivity between the LMTG and a series of brain regions-the left inferior frontal gyrus, bilateral anterior temporal lobe, bilateral medial temporal lobe, posterior cingulate gyrus, and ventromedial and dorsomedial prefrontal cortices-also significantly predicted conceptual behavior. The regional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations and functionally relevant connectivity strengths of LMTG together accounted for 74% of individual variance in object conceptual performance. This semantic network, with the LMTG as its core component, largely overlaps with the regions reported in previous conceptual/semantic task-based fMRI studies. We conclude that the intrinsic or spontaneous activity of the human brain reflects the processing efficiency of the semantic system.
Animals can make saccadic eye movements to intercept a moving object at the right place and time. Such interceptive saccades indicate that, despite variable sensorimotor delays, the brain is able to estimate the current spatiotemporal (hic et nunc) coordinates of a target at saccade end. The present work further tests the robustness of this estimate in the monkey when a change in eye position and a delay are experimentally added before the onset of the saccade and in the absence of visual feedback. These perturbations are induced by brief microstimulation in the deep superior colliculus (dSC). When the microstimulation moves the eyes in the direction opposite to the target motion, a correction saccade brings gaze back on the target path or very near. When it moves the eye in the same direction, the performance is more variable and depends on the stimulated sites. Saccades fall ahead of the target with an error that increases when the stimulation is applied more caudally in the dSC. The numerous cases of compensation indicate that the brain is able to maintain an accurate and robust estimate of the location of the moving target. The inaccuracies observed when stimulating the dSC that encodes the visual field traversed by the target indicate that dSC microstimulation can interfere with signals encoding the target motion path. The results are discussed within the framework of the dual-drive and the remapping hypotheses.
Neuronal oscillations allow for temporal segmentation of neuronal spikes. Interdependent oscillators can integrate multiple layers of information. We examined phase-phase coupling of theta and gamma oscillators in the CA1 region of rat hippocampus during maze exploration and rapid eye movement sleep. Hippocampal theta waves were asymmetric, and estimation of the spatial position of the animal was improved by identifying the waveform-based phase of spiking, compared to traditional methods used for phase estimation. Using the waveform-based theta phase, three distinct gamma bands were identified: slow gamma(S) (gamma(S); 30-50 Hz), midfrequency gamma(M) (gamma(M); 50-90 Hz), and fast gamma(F) (gamma(F); 90-150 Hz or epsilon band). The amplitude of each sub-band was modulated by the theta phase. In addition, we found reliable phase-phase coupling between theta and both gamma(S) and gamma(M) but not gamma(F) oscillators. We suggest that cross-frequency phase coupling can support multiple time-scale control of neuronal spikes within and across structures.
This study used eye movement patterns to examine how high-level shape information is used during 3D object recognition. Eye movements were recorded while observers either actively memorized or passively viewed sets of novel objects, and then during a subsequent recognition memory task. Fixation data were contrasted against different algorithmically generated models of shape analysis based on: (1) regions of internal concave or (2) convex surface curvature discontinuity or (3) external bounding contour. The results showed a preference for fixation at regions of internal local features during both active memorization and passive viewing but also for regions of concave surface curvature during the recognition task. These findings provide new evidence supporting the special functional status of local concave discontinuities in recognition and show how studies of eye movement patterns can elucidate shape information processing in human vision.

Cognition results from interactions among functionally specialized but widely distributed brain regions; however, neuroscience has so far largely focused on characterizing the function of individual brain regions and neurons therein. Here we discuss recent studies that have instead investigated the interactions between brain regions during cognitive processes by assessing correlations between neuronal oscillations in different regions of the primate cerebral cortex. These studies have opened a new window onto the large-scale circuit mechanisms underlying sensorimotor decision-making and top-down attention. We propose that frequency-specific neuronal correlations in large-scale cortical networks may be 'fingerprints' of canonical neuronal computations underlying cognitive processes.
To investigate whether the non-conscious processing of fearful faces exist in unattended condition, event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in a facial expression detection task. Participants were asked to discriminate the facial expressions (fearful or neutral) at the attended location. Unattended faces were associated with a response that was either congruent or in conflict with the response to the attended face. ERP results showed that the trials with response conflict between attended and unattended faces enhanced the amplitude of the P3 component when the neutral face was presented at attended location and the fearful face was presented at the unattended location. Our findings imply that the non-conscious fearful faces can be processed in the unattended condition.
The default-mode network (DMN) of the human brain has become a central topic of cognitive neuroscience research. Although alterations in its resting state activity and in its recruitment during tasks have been reported for several mental and neurodegenerative disorders, its role in emotion processing has received relatively little attention. We investigated brain responses to different categories of emotional faces with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and found deactivation in ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC), posterior cingulate gyrus (PC) and cuneus. This deactivation was modulated by emotional category and was less prominent for happy than for sad faces. These deactivated areas along the midline conformed to areas of the DMN. We also observed emotion-dependent deactivation of the left middle frontal gyrus, which is not a classical component of the DMN. Conversely, several areas in a fronto-parietal network commonly linked with attention were differentially activated by emotion categories. Functional connectivity patterns, as obtained by correlation of activation levels, also varied between emotions. VMPFC, PC or cuneus served as hubs between the DMN-type areas and the fronto-parietal network. These data support recent suggestions that the DMN is not a unitary system but differentiates according to task and even type of stimulus. The emotion-specific differential pattern of DMN deactivation may be explored further in patients with mood disorder, where the quest for biological markers of emotional biases is still ongoing.
The musicians are seen in daily neurological practice facing various problems sometimes simple such as skeletal or tendon pain or even compression of a nerve trunk and sometimes more complicated such as focal dystonia. Dystonia often has a dramatic impact on the career of a musician given the complexity of the clinical and therapeutic approach and the results are often disappointing. The history of the German Romantic composer Robert Schumann illustrates this reality; through his story a discussion of both the different pathophysiological hypotheses responsible for focal dystonia, a disorder of brain plasticity, and of the multimodal therapeutic approaches, revisited in the light of neurophysiological findings will be described.
In 2011, new oral anticoagulants for atrial fibrillation are available and the ABCD3-I score predicting stroke after TIA updates the ABCD2 score. New McDonald criteria allow faster MS diagnosis and the first oral treatment (fingolimod) for MS can be prescribed. A new anti-antiepileptic drug (retigabine) is available and sodium valproate has long term neurological adverse effects after in utero exposure. Among Parkinson disease treatments, deep brain stimulation is extending applications and dopamine agonists with extended release are as efficient and well tolerated as standard forms at long term scale. Monoclonal antibodies and immunosuppressant agents are proposed as good alternatives in the treatment of chronic dysimmune polyneuropathies. Gene therapy for the treatment of genetic myopathies is progressing.
The news in addiction medicine for 2011 include new knowledges coming from the neurosciences, but also new clinical concepts, as the role of hospital addiction units in an integrated network of care. The issue of cocaine vaccination is discussed from an ethical point of view. Finally, the integration of mindfulness techniques is introduced as a useful approach in the treatment of the addictions.
Rats can discriminate simple shapes visually, even if they are moved around, made smaller, or partially covered up; the strategy they use may help shed light on human brain mechanisms for discriminating complex features, such as faces.
Two new studies introduce the power of Drosophila genetics to polarization vision, revealing distinct photoreceptor inputs to polarotactic behaviour mediated by dorsal and ventral eye regions.
Inferring which signals have a common underlying cause, and hence should be integrated, represents a primary challenge for a perceptual system dealing with multiple sensory inputs [1-3]. This challenge is often referred to as the correspondence problem or causal inference. Previous research has demonstrated that spatiotemporal cues, along with prior knowledge, are exploited by the human brain to solve this problem [4-9]. Here we explore the role of correlation between the fine temporal structure of auditory and visual signals in causal inference. Specifically, we investigated whether correlated signals are inferred to originate from the same distal event and hence are integrated optimally [10]. In a localization task with visual, auditory, and combined audiovisual targets, the improvement in precision for combined relative to unimodal targets was statistically optimal only when audiovisual signals were correlated. This result demonstrates that humans use the similarity in the temporal structure of multisensory signals to solve the correspondence problem, hence inferring causation from correlation.
Homicide-suicide is an event in which the murderer commits suicide after the homicide. There are at least 14 epidemiological studies on the topic, and all have found that homicide-suicide is more common among family members. The murderers are most often males and the victims females. There is no recent research on this phenomenon in Italy. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the incidence of homicide-suicide in Italy over a period of 24 yrs and to compare Italian data with published international data. We used information gathered by press agencies and from the four major Italian newspapers. Between 1985 and 2008, 662 cases of homicide-suicide were identified, with 1776 deaths. The murderer was male in 84.6% of the cases, typically using a firearm. The most common motivation was romantic jealousy, followed by socio-economic stress. The rate of homicide-suicide was 0.04%. Comparison with international studies is not always possible due to the lack of information for certain categories. The common factors identified may be helpful for prevention.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage is a rare but potentially fatal cause of headache. According to results from a recent study, CT scans enable clinicians to identify patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, with a high sensitivity. Does CT imaging rule out the need for lumbar puncture in patients who present with headache?


Layer II of the parasubiculum (PaS) receives excitatory synaptic input from the CA1 region of the hippocampus and sends a major output to layer II of the medial and lateral entorhinal cortex. The PaS also receives heavy cholinergic innervation from the medial septum, which contributes to the generation of theta-frequency (4-12 Hz) electroencephalographic (EEG) activity. Cholinergic receptor activation exerts a wide range of effects in other areas of the hippocampal formation, including membrane depolarization, changes in neuronal excitability, and suppression of excitatory synaptic responses. The present study was aimed at determining how cholinergic receptor activation modulates excitatory synaptic input to the layer II/III neurons of the PaS in acute brain slices. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in layer II/III of the PaS were evoked by stimulation of either layer I afferents, or ascending inputs from layer V. Bath-application of the cholinergic agonist carbachol (0.5-10 M) suppressed the amplitude of fEPSPs evoked by both superficial- and deep layer stimulation, and also enhanced paired-pulse facilitation. Constant bath-application of the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline (10 M) failed to eliminate the suppression, indicating that the cholinergic suppression of fEPSPs is not due to increased inhibitory tone. The muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine (1 M) blocked the suppression of fEPSPs, and the selective M(1)-preferring receptor antagonist pirenzepine (1 M), but not the M(2)-preferring antagonist methoctramine (1-5 M), also significantly attenuated the suppression. Therefore, cholinergic receptor activation suppresses excitatory synaptic input to layer II/III neurons of the PaS, and this suppression is mediated in part by M(1) receptor activation.
The serotonergic centrifugal system innervating the main olfactory bulb (MOB) plays a key role in the modulation of olfactory processing. We have previously demonstrated that this system suffers adaptive changes under conditions of a lack of olfactory input. The present work examines the response of this centrifugal system after mitral cell loss in the Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd) mutant mice. The distribution and density of serotonergic centrifugal axons were studied in the MOB of control and pcd mice, both before and after the loss of mitral cells, using serotonin (5-HT) and 5-HT transporter immunohistochemistry. Studies of the amount of 5-HT and its metabolite, 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA), were performed by means of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and the relative amounts of brain-derived neurotrophin factor, BDNF, and its major receptor, tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB), were measured by Western blot. Our study revealed that the serotonergic system develops adaptive changes after, but not before, mitral cell loss. The lack of the main bulbar projection cells causes a decrease in the serotonergic input received by the MOB, whereas the number of serotonergic cells in the raphe nuclei remains constant. In addition, one of the molecules directly involved in serotonergic sprouting, the neurotrophin BDNF and its main receptor TrkB, underwent alterations in the MOBs of the pcd animals even before the loss of mitral cells. These data indicate that serotonergic function in the MOB is closely related to olfactory activity and that mitral cell loss induces serotonergic plastic responses.
Previous results have shown a depletion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA in the degenerating motoneurons from clinically afflicted Wobbler mice, whereas progesterone treatment reverts this depletion. We now compared progesterone regulation of BDNF in motoneurons and oligodendrocytes of Wobbler mice at the progressive (EP, 1-3 months), symptomatic (SYM, 5-8 months old), and late stages (LS, 12-13 months). As controls we used NFR/NFR mice. Controls and Wobbler mice of different ages remained untreated or received a 20 mg progesterone pellet during 18 days. BDNF mRNA was determined in the ventral, intermediolateral, and dorsal gray matter by film autoradiography and in motoneurons using in situ hybridization. A depletion of BDNF mRNA already occurred at the EP stage of Wobblers, but progesterone was inactive at this period. In contrast, progesterone upregulated the low levels of BDNF mRNA in SYM Wobblers in the three gray matter regions analyzed. Progesterone also increased BDNF mRNA in LS Wobblers, according to grain counting procedures. BDNF protein analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in ventral horns or immunostaining of motoneurons was normal in steroid-naive SYM Wobblers. BDNF protein was decreased by progesterone, suggesting increased anterograde transport and/or release of neuronal BDNF. Wobbler mice also showed depletion of CC1-immunopositive oligodendrocytes, whereas progesterone treatment enhanced the density of BDNF+ and CC1+ oligodendrocytes in EP, SYM, and LS Wobblers. Our results suggest that BDNF could be involved in progesterone effects on motoneurons at the SYM and LS periods, whereas effects on oligodendrocytes occurred at all stages of the Wobbler disease. These steroid actions may be important to arrest the ongoing neurodegeneration.
The dorsal periaqueductal gray (dPAG) is the main output structure for the defensive response to proximal aversive stimulation. Panic-like responses, such as freezing and escape behaviors, often result when this structure is electrically stimulated. Freezing also ensues after termination of the dPAG stimulation (post-stimulation freezing (PSF)). GABA and 5-HT have been proposed as the main neuromediators of these defense reactions. Neurokinins (NKs) also play a role in the defense reaction; however, it is unclear how the distinct types of NK receptors are involved in the expression of these fear responses. This study investigated the role of NK-1 and NK-3 receptors in the unconditioned defensive behaviors induced by electrical stimulation of the dPAG of rats, with and without previous experience with contextual fear conditioning (CFC). Spantide (100 mol/0.2 l) and SB 222200 (50 and 100 mol/0.2 l), selective antagonists of NK-1 and NK-3 receptors, respectively, were injected into the dPAG. Injection of spantide had antiaversive effects as determined by stimulation of the dPAG in naive animals and in animals subjected previously to CFC. SB 222200 also increased these aversive thresholds but only at doses that caused a motor deficit. Moreover, neither spantide nor SB 222200 influenced the PSF. The results suggest that NK-1 receptors are mainly involved in the mediation of the defensive behaviors organized in the dPAG. Because dPAG-evoked PSF was not affected by intra-dPAG injections of either spantide or SB 222200, it is suggested that neurokinin-mediated mechanisms are not involved in the processing of ascending aversive information from the dPAG.
The superior paraolivary nucleus (SPON; alternative abbreviation: SPN for the same nucleus in certain species) is a prominent brainstem structure that provides strong inhibitory input to the auditory midbrain. Previous studies established that SPON neurons encode temporal sound features with high precision. These earlier characterizations of SPON responses were recorded under the influence of ketamine, a dissociative anesthetic agent and known antagonist of N-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate (NMDA) receptors. Because NMDA alters neural responses from the auditory brainstem, single unit extracellular recordings of SPON neurons were performed in the presence and absence of ketamine. In doing so, this study represents the first in vivo examination of the SPON of the mouse. Herein, independent data sets of SPON neurons are characterized that did or did not receive ketamine, as well as neurons that were recorded both prior to and following ketamine administration. In all conditions, SPON neurons exhibited contralaterally driven spikes triggered by the offset of pure tone stimuli. Ketamine lowered both evoked and spontaneous spiking, decreased the sharpness of frequency tuning, and increased auditory thresholds and first-spike latencies. In addition, ketamine limited the range of modulation frequencies to which neurons phase-locked to sinusoidally amplitude-modulated tones.
Hormone secretion is mediated by Ca(2+)-regulated exocytosis. The key step of this process consists of the merger of the vesicle and the plasma membranes, leading to the formation of a fusion pore. This is an aqueous channel through which molecules stored in the vesicle lumen exit into the extracellular space on stimulation. Here we studied the effect of sub-lethal dose of aluminium on prolactin secretion in isolated rat pituitary lactotrophs with an enzyme immunoassay and by monitoring electrophysiologically the interaction of a single vesicle with the plasma membrane in real time, by monitoring membrane capacitance. After 24-h exposure to sub-lethal AlCl(3) (30 M), the secretion of prolactin was reduced by 148% and 4611% under spontaneous and K(+)-stimulated conditions, respectively. The frequency of unitary exocytotic events, recorded by the high-resolution patch-clamp monitoring of membrane capacitance, a parameter linearly related to the membrane area, under spontaneous and stimulated conditions, was decreased in aluminium-treated cells. Moreover, while the fusion pore dwell-time was increased in the presence of aluminium, the fusion pore conductance, a measure of fusion pore diameter, was reduced, both under spontaneous and stimulated conditions. These results suggest that sub-lethal aluminium concentrations reduce prolactin secretion downstream of the stimulus secretion coupling by decreasing the frequency of unitary exocytotic events and by stabilizing the fusion pore diameter to a value smaller than prolactin molecule, thus preventing its discharge into the extracellular space.
Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) induces endogenous neuroprotection from a subsequent ischemic injury. IPC involves downregulation of metabolic pathways. As adenosine 5'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a critical sensor of energy balance and plays a major role in cellular metabolism, its role in IPC was investigated. A brief 3-min middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was employed to induce IPC in male mice 72 h before 90-min MCAO. Levels of AMPK and phosphorylated AMPK (pAMPK), the active form of the kinase, were assessed after IPC. A pharmacological activator or inhibitor of AMPK was used to determine the dependence of IPC on AMPK signaling. Additionally, AMPK-2 null mice were subjected to IPC, and subsequent infarct damage was assessed. IPC induced neuroprotection, enhanced heat shock protein-70 (HSP-70), and improved behavioral outcomes. These beneficial effects occurred in parallel with a significant inhibition of pAMPK protein expression. Although both pharmacological inhibition of AMPK or IPC led to neuroprotection, IPC offered no additional protective effects when co-administered with an AMPK inhibitor. Moreover, pharmacological activation of AMPK with metformin abolished the neuroprotective effects of IPC. AMPK-2 null mice that lack the catalytic isoform of AMPK failed to demonstrate a preconditioning response. Regulation of AMPK plays an important role in IPC-mediated neuroprotection. AMPK may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of cerebral ischemia.
Animal models have greatly contributed to the understanding of neuropsychiatric disorders and have provided extensive evidence for the &quot;neurodevelopmental hypothesis.&quot; In this regard, a single and prolonged episode (24 h) of early maternal deprivation early in life, on postnatal day 9, has been proposed as an animal model for the investigation of certain neuropsychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia. Since metabolic changes in hippocampus (HIP) and prefrontal cortex (PFC) have been described among schizophrenic patients by using ex vivo high-resolution magic angle spinning (HR-MAS) proton ((1)H) nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, in the present study we aimed to investigate the effects of maternal deprivation (MD) on the metabolite profiles of the developing brain by using the HR-MAS technique. MD significantly altered the hippocampal and cortical metabolic profile of neonatal rats (PND 13) in a sex-dependent manner. Glutamine and glutamate (Glx) and taurine of male and female rat pups were altered in both brain areas analyzed. Differences in hippocampal phosphorylethanolamine have also been found as a function of the MD protocol. In addition, MD induced some other region- and sex-dependent effects, including changes in N-acetyl aspartate and total choline signals in the hippocampi of male pups. Present findings indicate a different brain metabolic profile in our animal model of early life stress suggesting its potential utility in the implementation of translational neuropsychiatric research.
Hypoxia causes a regulated decrease in body temperature (Tb), a response that has been aptly called anapyrexia, but the mechanisms involved are not completely understood. The roles played by nitric oxide (NO) and other neurotransmitters have been documented during hypoxia-induced anapyrexia, but no information exists with respect to hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S), a gaseous molecule endogenously produced by cystathionine -synthase (CBS). We tested the hypothesis that H(2)S production is enhanced during hypoxia and that the gas acts in the anteroventral preoptic region (AVPO; the most important thermosensitive and thermointegrative region of the CNS) modulating hypoxia-induced anapyrexia. Thus, we assessed CBS and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activities [by means of H(2)S and nitrite/nitrate (NO(x)) production, respectively] as well as cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) levels in the anteroventral third ventricle region (AV3V; where the AVPO is located) during normoxia and hypoxia. Furthermore, we evaluated the effects of pharmacological modifiers of the H(2)S pathway given i.c.v. or intra-AVPO. I.c.v. or intra-AVPO microinjection of CBS inhibitor caused no change in Tb under normoxia but significantly attenuated hypoxia-induced anapyrexia. During hypoxia there were concurrent increases in H(2)S production, which could be prevented by CBS inhibitor, indicating the endogenous source of the gas. cAMP concentration, but not cGMP and NO(x), correlated with CBS activity. CBS inhibition increased NOS activity, whereas H(2)S donor decreased NO(x) production. In conclusion, hypoxia activates H(2)S endogenous production through the CBS-H(2)S pathway in the AVPO, having a cryogenic effect. Moreover, the present data are consistent with the notion that the two gaseous molecules, H(2)S and NO, play a key role in mediating the drop in Tb caused by hypoxia and that a fine-balanced interplay between NOS-NO and CBS-H(2)S pathways takes place in the AVPO of rats exposed to hypoxia.
Pyramidal neurons of the neocortex are produced from progenitor cells located in the neocortical ventricular zone (VZ) and subventricular zone (SVZ) during embryogenesis. RP58 is a transcriptional repressor that is strongly expressed in the developing brain and plays an essential role in corticogenesis. The expression of RP58 is strictly regulated in a time-dependent and spatially restricted manner. It is maximally expressed in E15-16 embryonic cerebral cortex, localized specifically to the cortical plate and SVZ of the neocortex, hippocampus, and parts of amygdala during brain development, and found in glutamatergic but not GABAergic neurons. Identification of the promoter activity underlying specific expression patterns provides important clues to their mechanisms of action. Here, we show that the RP58 gene promoter is activated prominently in multipolar migrating cells, the first in vivo analysis of RP58 promoter activity in the brain. The 5.3 kb 5'-flanking genomic DNA of the RP58 coding region demonstrates promoter activity in neurons both in vitro and in vivo. This promoter is highly responsive to the transcription factor neurogenin2 (Ngn2), which is a direct upstream activator of RP58 expression. Using in utero electroporation, we demonstrate that RP58 gene promoter activity is first detected in a subpopulation of pin-like VZ cells, then prominently activated in migrating multipolar cells in the multipolar cell accumulation zone (MAZ) located just above the VZ. In dissociated primary cultured cortical neurons, RP58 promoter activity mimics in vivo expression patterns from a molecular standpoint that RP58 is expressed in a fraction of Sox2-positive progenitor cells, Ngn2-positive neuronal committed cells, and Tuj1-positive young neurons, but not in Dlx2-positive GABAergic neurons. Finally, we show that Cre recombinase expression under the control of the RP58 gene promoter is a feasible tool for conditional gene switching in post-mitotic multipolar migrating young neurons in the developing cerebral cortex.
Cerebellar adaptive plasticity regulates posture and movement in response to changing conditions of sensory stimulation. Study of adaptive plasticity of cerebellar circuitry in vitro confines experimental interest to mechanisms with a time scale of minutes. However, cerebellar plasticity, measured behaviorally or electrophysiologically in vivo, occurs over a time scale of tens of minutes and hours. Here we investigate how optokinetically-evoked increases in climbing fiber activity influence expression of key subcellular signaling proteins that regulate the accumulation of GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) in the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells and their insertion into the plasma membrane. We used long-term horizontal optokinetic stimulation (HOKS) to activate climbing fibers that project to the flocculus of mice. Although long-term increases in climbing fiber activity in vivo do not alter the expression of any of the subunits of GABA(A)Rs expressed by Purkinje cells, they do influence other subcellular events such as transcription and interaction of signaling proteins. Specifically, increased climbing fiber activity evoked decreased expression of 14-3-3-, reduced serine phosphorylation of GABA(A)g(2), and reduced the interaction of 14-3-3- with protein kinase C- (PKC-). Knockdown of 14-3-3- in vivo reduced the serine phosphorylation of GABA(A)(2). Conversely, treatment of cerebellar lysates with phorbol 12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA), a PKC activator, increased serine phosphorylation of GABA(A)(2). Knockdown of 14-3-3- or PKC- in N2a cells in vitro reduced serine phosphorylation of GABA(A)(2) and reduced its cell-surface expression. We interpret these data to mean that a prolonged increase in climbing fiber activity decreases the cell-surface expression of GABA(A)Rs in Purkinje cells and thereby reduces their sensitivity to GABAergic inhibition. This provides a homeostatic mechanism by which Purkinje cells become less sensitive to stellate cell inhibition also evoked by climbing fiber activity.
Hypocretin neurons in the lateral hypothalamus, a new wakefulness-promoting center, have been recently regarded as an important target involved in endogenous adenosine-regulating sleep homeostasis. The GABAergic synaptic transmissions are the main inhibitory afferents to hypocretin neurons, which play an important role in the regulation of excitability of these neurons. The inhibitory effect of adenosine, a homeostatic sleep-promoting factor, on the excitatory glutamatergic synaptic transmissions in hypocretin neurons has been well documented, whether adenosine also modulates these inhibitory GABAergic synaptic transmissions in these neurons has not been investigated. In this study, the effect of adenosine on inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in hypocretin neurons was examined by using perforated patch-clamp recordings in the acute hypothalamic slices. The findings demonstrated that adenosine suppressed the amplitude of evoked IPSCs in a dose-dependent manner, which was completely abolished by 8-cyclopentyltheophylline (CPT), a selective antagonist of adenosine A1 receptor but not adenosine A2 receptor antagonist 3,7-dimethyl-1-(2-propynyl) xanthine. A presynaptic origin was suggested as following: adenosine increased paired-pulse ratio as well as reduced GABAergic miniature IPSC frequency without affecting the miniature IPSC amplitude. Further findings demonstrated that when the frequency of electrical stimulation was raised to 10 Hz, but not 1 Hz, a time-dependent depression of evoked IPSC amplitude was detected in hypocretin neurons, which could be partially blocked by CPT. However, under a higher frequency at 100 Hz stimulation, CPT had no action on the depressed GABAergic synaptic transmission induced by such tetanic stimulation in these hypocretin neurons. These results suggest that endogenous adenosine generated under certain stronger activities of synaptic transmissions exerts an inhibitory effect on GABAergic synaptic transmission in hypocretin neurons by activation of presynaptic adenosine A1 receptors, which may finely regulate the excitability of these neurons as well as eventually modulate the sleep-wakefulness.

Peripheral nerve injuries resulting from trauma or disease often necessitate surgical intervention. Although the gold standard for such repairs uses nerve autografts, alternatives that do not require invasive harvesting of autologous nerve tissues are currently being designed and evaluated. We previously established the use of scaffoldless engineered neural conduits (ENCs) fabricated from primary cells as one such alternative in sciatic nerve repair in rats [Baltich et al. (2010) In Vitro Cell Dev Biol Anim 46(5):438-444]. The present study establishes protocols for fabricating neural conduits from adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) differentiated to either a fibroblast or neural lineage and co-cultured into a three-dimensional (3-D) scaffoldless tissue-ENC. Addition of ascorbic acid-2-phosphate and fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-2 to the medium induced and differentiated ASCs to a fibroblast lineage in more than 90% of the cell population, as confirmed by collagen I expression. ASC-differentiated fibroblasts formed monolayers, delaminated, and formed 3-D conduits. Neurospheres were formed by culturing ASCs on non-adherent surfaces in serum-free neurobasal medium with the addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and FGF-2. The addition of 10 ng EGF and 10 ng FGF-2 produced larger and more numerous neurospheres than treatments of lower EGF and FGF-2 concentrations. Subsequent differentiation to glial-like cells was confirmed by the expression of S100. ASC-derived fibroblast monolayers and neurospheres were co-cultured to fabricate a 3-D scaffoldless tissue-ENC. Their nerve-like structure and incorporation of glial-like cells, which would associate with regenerating axons, may make these novel, stem cell-derived neural conduits an efficacious technology for repairing critical gaps following peripheral nerve injury.
We applied voltage-sensitive dye imaging to neonatal rat cortical slice preparations and analyzed developmental changes in synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation (LTP), in the corticostriatal projection. Coronal slice preparations were dissected from postnatal 1- to 21-day (P1-P21) rats, and the transmembrane voltage-related optical signals evoked by cortical stimulation were recorded using a 464ch optical recording system with the voltage-sensitive absorption dye. In the striatum, the optical signal was composed of a fast spike-like signal followed by a slow signal, which corresponded to an action potential and an excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP), respectively. The slow signal could be detected at the P1 stage, suggesting that the EPSP is already expressed in the corticostriatal projection at least at early stages after birth. On the other hand, the slow signal was potentiated with a single shot of tetanic stimulation and the potentiation lasted at least 1 h, which is considered to correspond to long-term potentiation. With ontogenetic examinations, we found that (1) the EPSP could be potentiated with tetanic stimulation from the P9 stage and that (2) after the LTP induction, the potentiation was maintained for a longer time in the postnatal 3W stage than in the 2W stage. These results suggest that characteristics of LTP change dynamically during postnatal development.
Infection during pregnancy (i.e., prenatal infection) increases the risk of psychiatric illnesses such as schizophrenia and autism in the adult offspring. The present experiments examined the effects of prenatal immune challenge on behavior in three paradigms relevant to these disorders: prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response, locomotor responses to an unfamiliar environment and the N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist MK-801, and three forms of recognition memory. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were exposed to the viral mimetic polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (PolyI:C; 4 mg/kg, i.v.) on gestational day 15. Offspring were tested for PPI and locomotor activity before puberty (postnatal days (PNDs)35 and 36) and during young adulthood (PNDs 56 and 57). Four prepulse-pulse intervals (30, 50, 80, and 140 ms) were employed in the PPI test. Recognition memory testing was performed using three different spontaneous novelty recognition tests (object, object location, and object-in-place recognition) after PND 60. Regardless of sex, offspring of PolyI:C-treated dams showed disrupted PPI at 50-, 80-, and 140-ms prepulse-pulse intervals. In the prepubescent rats, we observed prepulse facilitation for the 30-ms prepulse-pulse interval trials that was selectively retained in the adult PolyI:C-treated offspring. Locomotor responses to MK-801 were significantly reduced before puberty, whereas responses to an unfamiliar environment were increased in young adulthood. Both male and female PolyI:C-treated offspring showed intact object and object location recognition memory, whereas male PolyI:C-treated offspring displayed significantly impaired object-in-place recognition memory. Females were unable to perform the object-in-place test. The present results demonstrate that prenatal immune challenge during mid/late gestation disrupts PPI and locomotor behavior. In addition, the selective impairment of object-in-place recognition memory suggests tasks that depend on prefrontal cortex may be particularly vulnerable following prenatal immune challenge.
Circadian rhythms are recurring cycles in physiology and behaviour that repeat with periods of near 24 h and are driven by an endogenous circadian timekeeping system with a master circadian pacemaker located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Atomoxetine is a specific noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor that is used in the clinical management of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). In the current study we examined the effects of atomoxetine on circadian rhythms in mice. Atomoxetine (i.p.; 3 mg/kg) treatment of mice free-running in constant light (LL) at circadian time (CT) 6 induced large phase delays that were significantly different to saline controls. Treatment of animals with atomoxetine at CT13 or CT18 did not elicit any significant phase shifts. We also examined the effects of atomoxetine treatment of animals free-running in constant darkness (DD). Atomoxetine treatment at CT6 in these animals leads to more modest, but significant, phase advances, whereas treatment at CT18 did not elicit significant phase shifts. The effects of atomoxetine in LL were attenuated by pretreatment with the -1 adrenoreceptor antagonist prazosin and were mimicked by another noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, reboxetine. Further, atomoxetine treatment at CT6 induced a downregulation of c-Fos and CLOCK in the SCN, but did not alter the expression of PER2 and BMAL1. Atomoxetine during the night phase did not alter any of these factors. Atomoxetine treatment preceding a light pulse at CT15 enhanced the magnitude of the photic-phase shift, whereas it altered photic induction of the immediate early gene products c-Fos and ARC in the SCN. These data indicate that atomoxetine can reset the circadian clock and indicate that part of the therapeutic profile of atomoxetine may be through circadian rhythm modulation.
Love, attachment, and truth of human monogamy have become important research themes in neuroscience. After the introduction of functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET), neuroscientists have demonstrated increased interest in the neurobiology and neurochemistry of emotions, including love and affection. Neurobiologists have studied pair-bonding mechanisms in animal models of mate choice to elucidate neurochemical mechanisms underlying attachment and showed possible roles for oxytocin, vasopressin, and dopamine and their receptors in pair-bonding and monogamy. Unresolved is whether these substances are also critically involved in human attachment. The limited number of available imaging studies on love and affection is hampered by selection bias on gender, duration of a love affair, and cultural differences. Brain activity patterns associated with romantic love, shown with fMRI, overlapped with regions expressing oxytocin receptors in the animal models, but definite proof for a role of oxytocin in human attachment is still lacking. There is also evidence for a role of serotonin, cortisol, nerve growth factor, and testosterone in love and attachment. Changes in brain activity related to the various stages of a love affair, gender, and cultural differences are unresolved and will probably become important research themes in this field in the near future. In this review we give a resume of the current knowledge of the neurobiology of love and attachment and we discuss in brief the truth of human monogamy.
The Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonist imiquimod is used for topical treatment of skin cancers. We studied the consequences of injections of imiquimod into a subcutaneous (s.c.) air pouch or of intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections on the manifestation of fever, sickness behavior, and the peripheral and brain-intrinsic induction of a variety of inflammatory molecules. Rats were given imiqimod s.c. or i.p. (1 or 5 mg/kg). Body temperature, motor activity, and food and water intake were recorded by telemetric devices. Peripheral and brain-intrinsic induction of inflammatory mediators was analyzed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), bioassays, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs), and immunohistochemistry. Imiquimod is the first TLR-agonist to produce more potent effects with s.c. than i.p. administration. Peripheral induction of interferons (IFNs) and putative circulating pyrogens corresponded to the magnitude of the illness responses. In the brain, an expression of cytokines (TNF, IL-1, and IL-6) and inducible forms of enzymes for prostaglandin E2 synthesis (COX-2 and mPGES) occurred, which was accompanied by a moderate activation of the transcription factors NFB and STAT3, and a strong activation of the transcription factor NF-IL6, in cells of specific areas with an open blood-brain barrier. These inflammatory responses noted within the brain were more marked after s.c. administration, than i.p. administration of imiquimod. At a dose of 5 mg/kg, imiquimod causes rather moderate brain-inflammatory responses, which are related to peripheral IFN-expression and possibly mediated by brain-intrinsic activation of NF-IL6 and induction of a proinflammatory cocktail. The lack of a septic-like state in imiquimod-treated rats reinforces the therapeutic use of this drug.
Edaravone is a novel free radical scavenger that is clinically employed in patients with acute cerebral infarction. However, its effect on stroke-induced subventricular zone (SVZ) neurogenesis is largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the effect and underlying mechanism of edaravone administration on SVZ neurogenesis using a rat model of cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (200-250 g) were divided into sham operated (n=15), control (n=50), and edaravone-treated (n=50) groups. Rats in the control and edaravone-treated groups underwent 90 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) following reperfusion. Immediately and 12 h after MCAO, the rats received either normal saline (control group) or edaravone (edaravone-treated group) intraperitoneally. 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) was used to label proliferating cells. Six, 12, and 24 hours after ischemia, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) protein levels in ischemic ipsilateral SVZ were determined. Immunohistochemistry staining for BrdU and doublecortin (DCX) was performed at 1, 4, and 7 days after ischemia. Treatment with edaravone not only mitigated cerebral infarct size (P&lt;0.05) and neurological defects (P&lt;0.05), but also decreased cell proliferation and neural progenitor cells in the ischemic ipsilateral SVZ (P&lt;0.05). Additionally, edaravone reduced effectively ROS generation and HIF-1 as well as VEGF protein levels in the ischemic ipsilateral SVZ (P&lt;0.05). These findings indicate that administration with edaravone, via repressing HIF-1 signaling pathway, inhibits SVZ neurogenesis in rats after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Glucose-sensitive neurons have been identified in a number of CNS regions including metabolic control centers of the hypothalamus. The location of these regions behind the blood-brain barrier restricts them to sensing central, but not circulating glucose concentrations. In this study, we have used patch-clamp electrophysiology to examine whether neurons in a specialized region lacking the blood-brain barrier, the subfornical organ (SFO), are also glucose sensitive. In dissociated SFO neurons, altering the bath concentration of glucose (1 mM, 5 mM, 10 mM) influenced the excitability of 49% of neurons tested (n=67). Glucose-inhibited (GI) neurons depolarized in response to decreased glucose (n=10; mean, 4.61.0 mV) or hyperpolarized in response to increased glucose (n=8; mean,-4.40.8 mV). In contrast, glucose-excited (GE) neurons depolarized in response to increased glucose (n=9; mean, 6.40.4 mV) or hyperpolarized in response to decreased glucose (n=6; mean,-4.80.6 mV). Using voltage-clamp recordings, we also identified GI (outward current to increased glucose) and GE (inward current to increased glucose) SFO neurons. The mean glucose-induced inward current had a reversal potential of -2412 mV (n=5), while GE responses were maintained during sodium-dependent glucose transporter inhibition, supporting the conclusion that GE properties result from the activation of a nonselective cation conductance (NSCC). The glucose-induced outward current had a mean reversal potential of -781.2 mV (n=5), while GI responses were not observed in the presence of glibenclamide, suggesting that these properties result from the modulation of K(ATP) channels. These data demonstrate that SFO neurons are glucose responsive, further emphasizing the potential roles of this circumventricular organ as an important sensor and integrator of circulating signals of energy status.
In situ hybridization, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), immunohistochemistry, and Western blot analysis were applied to study the changes in expression of the major nociceptive ion channel transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor (TRPV1) after the perineural application of capsaicin or nerve transection. In control rats, quantitative morphometric and statistical analyses of TRPV1 protein and mRNA expression in L5 dorsal root ganglion cells revealed distinct populations of small (type C) and small-to-medium (type B) neurons, which showed very high and moderate levels of TRPV1, whereas larger (type A) neurons mostly did not express this receptor. After either transection or capsaicin treatment of the sciatic nerve, immunohistochemistry and Western blotting demonstrated a massive (up to 80%) decrease in the proportion of TRPV1-immunoreactive neurons and TRPV1 protein at all postoperative survival times. In situ hybridization indicated marked decreases (up to 85%) in the proportion of neurons that expressed TRPV1 mRNA after sciatic nerve transection. In contrast, although perineural treatment with capsaicin resulted in similar substantial decreases in the proportions of type B and C neurons of the L5 dorsal root ganglia 3 days postoperatively, a clear-cut tendency to recovery was observed thereafter. Hence, the proportions of both type B and C neurons expressing TRPV1 mRNA reached up to 70% of the control levels at 30 days postoperatively. In accord with these findings, quantitative RT-PCR revealed a marked and significant recovery in TRPV1 mRNA after perineural capsaicin but not after nerve transection. These observations suggest the involvement of distinct cellular mechanisms in the regulation of the TRPV1 mRNA expression of damaged neurons, specifically triggered by the nature of the injury. The present findings imply that the antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory effects of perineurally applied capsaicin involve distinct changes in neuronal TRPV1 mRNA expression and long-lasting alterations in (post)translational regulation.
The understanding of individual differences in responses to disgusting stimuli is important to gain more insight into the development of certain psychiatric disorders. The aim of this study was to investigate conditioned disgust responses, its potential overlap with conditioned fear responses (CRs) and the influence of disgust sensitivity on blood oxygen level-dependent responses. Yet even though current studies report evidence that disgust sensitivity is a vulnerability factor, the knowledge about the underlying neural mechanisms remains very limited. Two groups were exposed either to a disgust- or a fear-conditioning paradigm. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we identified a conjoint activated network including the cingulate cortex, the nucleus accumbens, the orbitofrontal cortex, and the occipital cortex within the disgust- and the fear-conditioning group. Moreover, we report evidence of increased insula activation in the disgust-conditioning group. In addition, functional connectivity analysis revealed increased interconnections, most pronounced within the insula in the high disgust sensitivity group compared with the low disgust sensitivity group. The conjunction results suggest that the conditioned responses in disgust and fear conditioning recruit the same neural network, implicating that different conditioned responses of aversive learning depend on a common neural network. Increased insula activation within the disgust-conditioning group might be attributable to heightened interoceptive processes, which might be more pronounced in disgust. Finally, the findings regarding disgust sensitivity are discussed with respect to vulnerability factors for certain psychiatric disorders.
Patients with liver cirrhosis show sleep disturbances. Insight into their relationship with hepatic encephalopathy (HE) can be obtained using animal models of HE. The aims of this work were to assess (1) whether rats with portacaval shunts (PCS), a model of HE, show alterations in sleep and if they are similar to those in patients with HE; (2) Whether hyperammonemia plays a role in these sleep alterations; and (3) the time course of sleep alterations in these animal models. Rats were subjected to PCS to induce HE. Another group of rats was fed an ammonium-containing diet to induce hyperammonemia. Polysomnographic recordings were acquired for 24 h and sleep architecture was analyzed in control, PCS, and hyperammonemic rats at 4, 7, and 11 weeks after surgery or diet, respectively. PCS rats show a significant reduction in rapid eye movement (REM) and non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep time and increased sleep fragmentation, whereas reduced sleep occurs at 4 weeks and worsens at 7 and 11 weeks, sleep fragmentation appears at 7 weeks and worsens at 11 weeks. Hyperammonemic rats show decreased REM sleep, starting at 7 weeks and worsening at 11 weeks, with no changes in NREM sleep or sleep fragmentation. Therefore, PCS rats are a good model to study sleep alterations in HE, their mechanisms, and potential treatment. Mild hyperammonemia mainly impacts mechanisms involved in REM generation and/or maintenance but does not seem to be involved in sleep fragmentation.
Aversive stimuli have a powerful impact on behavior and are considered to be the opposite valence of pleasure. Recent studies have determined some populations of ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopaminergic neurons are activated by several types of aversive stimuli, whereas other distinct populations are either inhibited or unresponsive. However, it is not clear where these aversion-responsive neurons project, and whether alterations in their activity translate into dopamine release in the terminal field. Here we show unequivocally that the neurochemical and anatomical substrates responsible for the perception and processing of pleasurable stimuli within the striatum are also activated by tail pinch, a classical painful and aversive stimulus. Dopamine release is triggered in the dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens (NAc) core by tail pinch and is time locked to the duration of the stimulus, indicating that the dorsal striatum and NAc core are neural substrates, which are involved in the perception of aversive stimuli. However, dopamine is released in the NAc shell only when tail pinch is removed, indicating that the alleviation of aversive condition could be perceived as a rewarding event.
Gene therapy holds great potential for treating neurological disorders. However, delivering gene vectors to the brain has been either invasive or inefficacious in most studies to date. The aim of this study was to develop a safe and efficacious strategy for delivering gene vectors to the brain. A tetracycline-inducible replication-defective herpes simplex virus type-1 vector, QR9TO-LacZ, was administered to rats intranasally. QR9TO-LacZ could infect primary cortical neurons and express the reporter gene without detectable replication. QR9TO-LacZ was observed in the olfactory bulb, hippocampus, striatum, cortex, medulla, cerebellum, ventricles, and nasal septum after intranasal administration. Expression of the reporter gene could be controlled effectively by tetracycline. In vitro, introduction of QR9TO-LacZ did not change the structure of transfected neurons. In vivo, QR9TO-LacZ did not increase apoptosis in neurons and did not alter levels of interleukin 6 and tumor necrosis factor  in the brain after intranasal delivery. Our data suggest that intranasally applied QR9TO-LacZ has a wide distribution and expresses the reporter gene in the brain under the control of tetracycline with less cytotoxicity than intravenous or stereotactic delivery methods.
Although some of the neuronal substrates that support memory process have been shown in optic ganglia, the brain areas activated by memory process are still unknown in crustaceans. Heat shock proteins (HSPs) are synthesized in the CNS not only in response to traumas but also after changes in metabolic activity triggered by the processing of different types of sensory information. Indeed, the expression of citosolic/nuclear forms of HSP70 (HSC/HSP70) has been repeatedly used as a marker for increases in neural metabolic activity in several processes, including psychophysiological stress, fear conditioning, and spatial learning in vertebrates. Previously, we have shown that, in the crab Chasmagnathus, two different environmental challenges, water deprivation and heat shock, trigger a rise in the number of glomeruli of the olfactory lobes (OLs) expressing HSC/HSP70. In this study, we initially performed a morphometric analysis and identified a total of 154 glomeruli in each OL of Chasmagnathus. Here, we found that crabs exposed to food odor stimuli also showed a significant rise in the number of olfactory glomeruli expressing HSC/HSP70. In the crab Chasmagnathus, a powerful memory paradigm based on a change in its defensive strategy against a visual danger stimulus (VDS) has been extensively studied. Remarkably, the iterative presentation of a VDS caused an increase as well. This increase was triggered in animals visually stimulated using protocols that either build up a long-term memory or generate only short-term habituation. Besides, memory reactivation was sufficient to trigger the increase in HSC/HSP70 expression in the OL. Present and previous results strongly suggest that, directly or indirectly, an increase in arousal is a sufficient condition to bring about an increase in HSC/HSP70 expression in the OL of Chasmagnathus.
Amygdaloid dopamine D(2) receptors play an important role in the modulation of fear/anxiety. Their topographical distribution within the amygdala is however unclear, and their role in unconditioned fear/anxiety remains largely unknown. The aim of this paper was to study the intra-amygdaloid distribution of D(2) receptors and to ascertain their role in unconditioned anxiety. Chemical anatomical studies in the rat, using D(2) and D(3)in situ hybridization, quantitative receptor autoradiography with either [(3)H]raclopride or [(125)I]sulpiride, and D(2)-like immunocytochemistry showed that the highest density of dopamine D(2) receptors is present in the central amygdaloid nucleus, particularly within its latero-capsular division, in which a D(2) but not a D(3) mRNA signal was observed. However, although at considerably reduced densities dopamine D(2) receptors were also found in other locations within the amygdala, including the basolateral nucleus. Behaviorally, the infusion of raclopride (0.75-4 g/side) in the area of the central amygdaloid nucleus resulted at low doses in the appearance of anxiogenic-like effects in the Shock-Probe Burying test, whereas no effects of raclopride treatment were found at any dose in the Elevated Plus-Maze and the Open-Field test. Our results indicate that amygdaloid dopamine D(2)-like receptors have a topographically differentiated distribution within the rat amygdala, the major location being in the central amygdaloid nucleus. D(2)-like receptors play a role in the modulation of anxiety responses involving a potential differential function of D(2)-like receptors in the central amygdaloid nucleus versus the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus.
In hippocampal Cornu Ammonis 1 (CA1) neurons, a prolonged depolarization evokes a train of action potentials followed by a prominent afterhyperpolarizing potential (AHP), which critically dampens neuronal excitability. Because it is not known whether epileptiform activity alters the AHP and whether any alteration of the AHP is independent of inhibition, we acutely induced epileptiform activity by bath application of the GABA(A) receptor blocker gabazine (5 M) in the rat hippocampal slice preparation and studied its impact on the AHP using intracellular recordings. Following 10 min of gabazine wash-in, slices started to develop spontaneous epileptiform discharges. This disinhibition was accompanied by a significant shift of the resting membrane potential of CA1 neurons to more depolarized values. Prolonged depolarizations (600 ms) elicited a train of action potentials, the number of which was not different between baseline and gabazine treatment. However, the AHP following the train of action potentials was significantly reduced after 20 min of gabazine treatment. When the induction of epileptiform activity was prevented by co-application of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione disodium (CNQX, 10 M) and D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5, 50 M) to block -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazolepropionate (AMPA) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, respectively, the AHP was preserved despite of GABA(A) receptor inhibition suggesting that the epileptiform activity was required to suppress the AHP. Moreover, the AHP was also preserved when the slices were treated with the protein kinase blockers H-9 (100 M) and H-89 (1 M). These results demonstrate that the AHP following a train of action potentials is rapidly suppressed by acutely induced epileptiform activity due to a phosphorylation process-presumably involving protein kinase A.
GABAergic interneurons are local circuit cells that control the excitatory balance in most regions of the nervous system, particularly the cerebral cortex. Because they are integrated in every cortical module, we posed the question whether interneuronal precursors would display some topographic specificity between their origin at the ventral telencephalon and their cortical location after migration. If this was true, GABAergic cells would have to be provided with intrinsic features that would make them able to perform specific functional roles in each specific module. On the other hand, if no topography was found, one would conclude that inhibitory precursors would be functionally naive, being able to integrate anywhere in the cortex, with equal capacity of performing their functions. This issue was approached by use of organotypic cultures of wild mice embryonic slices, into which fragments of the ganglionic eminence taken from enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) mice were implanted, observing the topographic location of both the implant and its destination. Despite the existence of different genetic domains in the ventricular zone of the medial ganglionic eminences (MGE), we found that cells originating in different regions spread in vitro all over the mediolateral axis of the developing cortical wall, independently of their sites of origin. Results favor the hypothesis that GABAergic precursors are functionally naive, integrating into modules irrespective of which cortical area they belong to.
The rupture of intracranial aneurysms (IAs) is one of the most devastating neurological conditions known to date. Although treatment has changed dramatically throughout the last decades, the outcome of patients still has a poor prognosis. Besides environmental factors, genomics seem to be a very important factor in the genesis of this disease. Different approaches to decrypt genomic causes were pursued throughout the last years. Microarray gene expression studies comparing aneurysmal and healthy tissue seem to be one of the most promising approaches. However, large amounts of data created with each study, make a comparison or interpretation of results difficult. We analyzed microarray gene expression studies on IAs (vs. control tissue) and compared lists of genes with altered expression provided by the authors. Additionally functional pathway analysis was performed. We identified five microarray gene expression studies analyzing a total of 60 samples of IA tissue (30 ruptured IA, 30 unruptured IA). A total of 507 genes with altered expression were listed, of which 57 showed differences in more than two studies and seven in more than three studies (BCL2, COL1A2, COL3A1, COL5A2, CXCL12, TIMP4, TNC). The meta-analysis of five microarray gene expression studies on IAs revealed seven genes that are very likely to be involved in the genesis of IAs. Further analysis of these genes might provide valuable information on mechanisms causing this disease.
The R-enantiomer of isovaline, an analgesic amino acid, has a chemical structure similar to glycine and GABA. Although its actions on thalamic neurons are strychnine-resistant and independent of the Cl(-) gradient, R-isovaline increases membrane conductance for K(+). The purpose of this study was to determine if R-isovaline activated metabotropic GABA(B) receptors. We used whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings to characterize the effects of R-isovaline applied by bath perfusion and local ejection from a micropipette to thalamic neurons in 250 m thick slices of rat brain. The immunocytochemical methods that we employed to visualize GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) receptor subunits showed extensive staining for both subunits in ventrobasal nuclei, which were the recording sites. Bath or local application of R-isovaline caused a slowly developing increase in conductance and outward rectification in 70% (54/77) of neurons, both effects reversing near the K(+) Nernst potential. As with the GABA(B) agonist baclofen, G proteins likely mediated the R-isovaline effects because they were susceptible to blockade by non-hydrolyzable substrates of guanosine triphosphate. The GABA(B) antagonists CGP35348 and CGP52432 prevented the conductance increase induced by R-isovaline, applied by bath or local ejection. The GABA(B) allosteric modulator CGP7930 enhanced the R-isovaline induced increase in conductance. At high doses, antagonists of GABA(A), GABA(C), glycine(A), -opioid, and nicotinic receptors did not block R-isovaline responses. The observations establish that R-isovaline increases the conductance of K(+) channels coupled to metabotropic GABA(B) receptors. Remarkably, not all neurons that were responsive to baclofen responded to R-isovaline. The R-isovaline-induced currents outlasted the fast baclofen responses and persisted for a 1-2-h period. Despite some similar actions, R-isovaline and baclofen do not act at identical GABA(B) receptor sites. The binding of R-isovaline and baclofen to the GABA(B) receptor may not induce the same conformational changes in receptor proteins or components of the intracellular signaling pathways.

The clinical efficacy of aripiprazole in the treatment of psychosis relies on a partial agonism at D2 receptors. As the expression of this receptor differs physiologically between pre- and post-synaptic sites and is affected by pathological conditions or pharmacological treatments, it appears difficult to predict the clinical response to partial agonists. In addition, the response to this novel antipsychotic was shown to depend on the cell-line and the pathway analyzed, suggesting a functional selective profile at the D2 receptor. This study aims at examining the influence of receptor density and ionic environment on the pharmacological properties of aripiprazole. A cell line was developed in which the expression of the recombinant D2 receptor can be tightly manipulated using doxycycline and sodium butyrate. The potency and efficacy of aripiprazole and other reference D2 receptor ligands were examined in [35S]GTPS binding assays, in buffers containing either NaCl or N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMDG) which is proposed to enhance G protein coupling. Increasing the density of D2 receptors considerably enhanced the [35S]GTPS binding induced by dopamine and the full agonist NPA. In maximally induced cells, the agonist properties of the partial agonist (-)-3-PPP was revealed in a buffer containing NaCl, whereas the response to aripiprazole was not evidenced. Substituting NMDG for NaCl promoted the response to dopamine and (-)3-PPP and was proven efficient to reveal the partial agonist profile of aripiprazole. While NMDG substitution for NaCl strongly enhanced receptor-G protein coupling, these ionic manipulations are likely to influence receptor conformations, thereby modulating the activation of signaling pathways. Our data obtained with partial agonists acting at the D2 receptor suggest that these changes in the experimental conditions could contribute to reveal the functional selective profile of GPCR ligands. They also emphasize that the properties of functional selective ligands do not only depend on receptor density but also on the surrounding environment which likely differs between brain structures.
Wnt5a gradients guide callosal axons by repulsion through Ryk receptors in vivo. We recently found that Wnt5a repels cortical axons and promotes axon outgrowth through calcium signaling in vitro. Here, using cortical slices, we show that Wnt5a signals through Ryk to guide and promote outgrowth of callosal axons after they cross the midline. Calcium transient frequencies in callosal growth cones positively correlate with axon outgrowth rates in vitro. In cortical slices, calcium release through inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptors and calcium entry through transient receptor potential channels modulate axon growth and guidance. Knocking down Ryk inhibits calcium signaling in cortical axons, reduces rates of axon outgrowth subsequent to midline crossing, and causes axon guidance defects. Calcium- and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is required downstream of Wnt-induced calcium signaling for postcrossing callosal axon growth and guidance. Taken together, these results suggest that growth and guidance of postcrossing callosal axons by Wnt-Ryk-calcium signaling involves axon repulsion through CaMKII.
Impairment in long-term memory is one of the most salient alterations in cognitive aging. Findings of age-related deficits in source monitoring and recollection have revealed a selective decline in memory for detailed information. The underlying mechanism of this phenomenon is not well understood. We hypothesized that the influence of task-irrelevant visual stimuli present in our environment interferes with retrieval of detailed memories more for older than younger adults. We compared memory performance on a recall test for visual details when older adult participants' eyes were closed versus performance when their eyes were open and irrelevant visual stimuli were presented. The results showed that the presence of irrelevant visual information diminished long-term memory performance based on an objective measure of recollection for visual details. Comparison of the current results to findings from our earlier study using the same experimental paradigm with younger adults revealed that visual distraction disrupted recollection of relevant details to a greater degree in older than younger adults. This result suggests that visual distraction overwhelms older adults' declining cognitive control resources that are instrumental in the retrieval and selection of mnemonic details. More generally, these findings explicate a mechanistic basis for selective impairment of recollection in normal aging.
Smoking during pregnancy exposes the fetus to nicotine, resulting in nicotine-stimulated neurotransmitter release. Recent evidence suggests that the hippocampus develops differently in males and females with delayed maturation in males. We show that chronic nicotine exposure during the first postnatal week has sex-specific long-term effects. Neonatal rat pups were chronically treated with nicotine (6mg/kg/day) (CNN) from postnatal day 1 to 7 or milk only (Controls), and hippocampal slices were prepared from Control- and CNN-treated young adults. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) or population spikes (PSs) were recorded from the CA1 hippocampus following CA1 s. radiatum stimulation. Input/Output curves constructed from fEPSP data indicated that CNN-males, but not females, had significantly increased excitatory responses compared to Controls (p&lt;0.05, n=10 Con, n=11 CNN). Long-term potentiation (LTP) was not significantly changed by CNN. In the presence of bicuculline, which blocks inhibitory GABA(A) receptors, an epileptiform burst consisting of a series of PSs was evoked. The amplitude of the first PS was significantly larger in CNN-males and females compared to Controls (males: p&lt;0.01, n=8 Con, n=8 CNN; females: p&lt;0.05, n=9 Con, n=7 CNN). Only CNN-males also had significantly larger second PSs (p&lt;0.05, n=8 con, n=8 CNN). Epileptiform activity evoked by zero Mg(2+) incubation did not differ in amplitude or duration of bursts in CNN-males or females compared to Controls. These data indicate that neonatal nicotine exposure has long lasting effects and results in increased excitation within the CA1 hippocampus in adulthood, with males showing increased sensitivity to nicotine's effects.
In the present experiment we investigated the impact of cognitive load on feedback evaluation by a learning system within medial-frontal cortex. Participants completed a task in which they had to use feedback to learn to accurately estimate the duration of one second. In two experimental conditions, we manipulated the cognitive load of the feedback stimuli (low load versus high load). Our results revealed that the amplitude of the feedback error-related negatvity (fERN), a component of the event-related brain potential (ERP) thought to index a learning system within medial-frontal, was reduced in the high load condition. Further, an analysis of the behavioural data revealed that in the high load condition participants made less effective adjustments to their estimates following error feedback. Taken together, our data suggest that the functional efficacy of the medial-frontal learning system is reduced as the cognitive load of feeback signals increase. Moreover, our data indicate that the effect of increased cognitive load is to increase the trial-to-trial temporal variability of feedback stimulus evaluation.
PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome TEN) is the major negative regulator of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling and has cell-specific functions including tumor suppression. Nuclear localization of PTEN is vital for tumor suppression; however, outside of cancer, the molecular and physiological events driving PTEN nuclear entry are unknown. In this paper, we demonstrate that cytoplasmic Pten was translocated into the nuclei of neurons after cerebral ischemia in mice. Critically, this transport event was dependent on a surge in the Nedd4 family-interacting protein 1 (Ndfip1), as neurons in Ndfip1-deficient mice failed to import Pten. Ndfip1 binds to Pten, resulting in enhanced ubiquitination by Nedd4 E3 ubiquitin ligases. In vitro, Ndfip1 overexpression increased the rate of Pten nuclear import detected by photobleaching experiments, whereas Ndfip1(-/-) fibroblasts showed negligible transport rates. In vivo, Ndfip1 mutant mice suffered larger infarct sizes associated with suppressed phosphorylated Akt activation. Our findings provide the first physiological example of when and why transient shuttling of nuclear Pten occurs and how this process is critical for neuron survival.

Cognitive impairment, a core feature of schizophrenia, has been suggested to arise from a disturbance of gamma oscillations that is due to decreased neurotransmission from the parvalbumin (PV) subtype of interneurons. Indeed, PV interneurons have uniquely fast membrane and synaptic properties that are crucially important for network functions such as feedforward inhibition or gamma oscillations. The causes leading to impairment of PV neurotransmission in schizophrenia are still under investigation. Interestingly, NMDA receptors (NMDARs) antagonism results in schizophrenia-like symptoms in healthy adults. Additionally, systemic NMDAR antagonist administration increases prefrontal cortex pyramidal cell firing, apparently by producing disinhibition, and repeated exposure to NMDA antagonists leads to changes in the GABAergic markers that mimic the impairments found in schizophrenia. Based on these findings, PV neuron deficits in schizophrenia have been proposed to be secondary to (NMDAR) hypofunction at glutamatergic synapses onto these cells. However, NMDARs generate long-lasting postsynaptic currents that result in prolonged depolarization of the postsynaptic cells, a property inconsistent with the role of PV cells in network dynamics. Here, we review evidence leading to the conclusion that cortical disinhibition and GABAergic impairment produced by NMDAR antagonists are unlikely to be mediated via NMDARs at glutamatergic synapses onto mature cortical PV neurons.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) regulate neuronal activity in the dorso-lateral striatum (DLS), a brain region that is involved in habitual behaviors. How synaptic eCB signaling contributes to habitual behaviors under physiological and pathological conditions remains unclear. Using a mouse model of cannabinoid tolerance, we found that persistent activation of the eCB pathway impaired eCB-mediated long-term depression (LTD) and synaptic depotentiation in the DLS. The loss of eCB LTD, occurring preferentially at cortical connections to striatopallidal neurons, was associated with a shift in behavioral control from goal-directed action to habitual responding. eCB LTD and behavioral alterations were rescued by in vivo modulation of small-conductance calcium activated potassium channel (SK channel) activity in the DLS, which potentiates eCB signaling. Our results reveal a direct relationship between drug tolerance and changes in control of instrumental performance by establishing a central role for eCB LTD in habit expression. In addition, SK channels emerge as molecular targets to fine tune the eCB pathway under pathological conditions.
Malformations of the midbrain (MB) and hindbrain (HB) have become topics of considerable interest in the neurology and neuroscience literature in recent years. The combined advances of imaging and molecular biology have improved analyses of structures in these areas of the central nervous system, while advances in genetics have made it clear that malformations of these structures are often associated with dysfunction or malformation of other organ systems. This review focuses upon the importance of communication between clinical researchers and basic scientists in the advancement of knowledge of this group of disorders. Disorders of anteroposterior (AP) patterning, cerebellar hypoplasias, disorders associated with defects of the pial limiting membrane (cobblestone cortex), disorders of the Reelin pathway, and disorders of the primary cilium/basal body organelle (molar tooth malformations) are the main focus of the review.
The unique endoplasmic reticulum (ER) subdomain termed the mitochondria-associated ER membrane (MAM) engages the physical connection between the ER and the mitochondrial outer membrane and plays a role in regulating IP(3) receptor-mediated Ca(2+) influx and the phospholipid transport between the two organelles. The MAM contains certain signaling and membrane-tethering proteins but also lipids including cholesterol. The biophysical role of lipids at the MAM, specifically in the physical interaction between the MAM of the ER and mitochondria, remains not totally clarified. Here we employed the in vitro membrane association assay to investigate the role of cholesterol in the association between MAMs and mitochondria. The purified MAMs and mitochondria were mixed in vitro in a test tube and then the physical association of the two subcellular organelles was quantified indirectly by measuring the presence of the MAM-specific protein sigma-1 receptors in the mitochondria fraction. Purified MAMs contained free cholesterol approximately 7 times higher than that in microsomes. We found that depletion of cholesterol in MAMs with methyl--cyclodextrin (MC) significantly increases the association between MAMs and mitochondria, whereas MC saturated with cholesterol does not change the association. (14)C-Serine pulse-labeling demonstrated that the treatment of living cells with MC decreases the level of de novo synthesized (14)C-phosphatidylserine (PtSer) and concomitantly increases greatly the synthesis of (14)C-phosphatidylethanolamine (PtEt). Apparently, cholesterol depletion increased the PtSer transport from MAMs to mitochondria. Our findings suggest that cholesterol is an important substrate in regulating the association between MAMs of the ER and mitochondria.
While previous behavioural research suggests that attitudes, for example towards elderly people, may be activated automatically, this type of research does not provide information about the detailed time-course of such processing in the brain. We investigated the impact of age related attitude information in a Go/NoGo association task that paired photographs of elderly or young faces with positive or negative words. Event related brain potentials showed an N200 (NoGo) component, which appeared earlier in runs which required similar responses for congruent stimulus pairings (e.g. respond to pictures of elderly faces or negative words) than for incongruent pairings (e.g. respond to elderly faces or positive words). As information processing leading to a certain attitude must precede differential brain activity according to the congruence of the paired words and faces, we show that this type of information is activated almost immediately following the structural encoding of the face, between 170 and 230 ms after onset of the face.
Here we used a within-subject design to evaluate hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity following replacement of low and high physiological levels of testosterone (T) to adult, gonadally-suppressed, male rhesus macaques, and replacement with sex-specific low and high physiological doses of dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in the same adult males as well as in adult, gonadally-suppressed, female rhesus macaques. As indexes of HPA axis activation following T and DHT replacement, serum levels of cortisol (CORT) were measured before and following dexamethasone (DEX) inhibition, and corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) induced activation. Female monkeys were assessed for differences in response associated with dominant (DOM) and subordinate (SUB) social status. Data show that the high physiological dose of DHT significantly decreased basal CORT in both male and female monkeys irrespective of social status, but reduced CRF-stimulated CORT only in males. SUB female monkeys showed a trend towards increased CRF-stimulated CORT release under high-dose DHT replacement compared to DOM females or males given the same treatment, indicating that androgens likely have no influence on reducing HPA activation under chronic psychosocial stress in females. The normal circadian rhythm of CORT release was absent in placebo-replaced SUB and DOM females and was restored with low-dose DHT replacement. These results indicate that DHT significantly reduces CRF-stimulated CORT release only in male monkeys, and plays a role in maintaining circadian changes in CORT release in female monkeys.
Intraperitoneal administration of hypertonic saline to the rat supraoptic nucleus (SON) increases the expression of several immediate early genes (IEG) and the vasopressin gene. These increases have usually been attributed to action of the cyclic-AMP Response Element Binding Protein (CREB). In this paper, we study the role of CREB in these events in vivo by delivering a potent dominant-negative form of CREB, known as A-CREB, to the rat SON through the use of an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector. Preliminary experiments on HEK 293 cells in vitro showed that the A-CREB vector that we used completely eliminated CREB-induced c-fos expression. We stereotaxically injected this AAV-A-CREB into one SON and a control AAV into the contralateral SON of the same rat. Two weeks following these injections we injected hypertonic saline intraperitoneally into the rat. Using this paradigm, we could measure the relative effects of inhibiting CREB on the induced expression of c-fos, ngfi-a, ngfi-b, and vasopressin genes in the A-CREB AAV injected SON versus the control AAV injected SON in the same rat. We found only a small (20%) decrease of c-fos expression and a 30% decrease of ngfi-b expression in the presence of the A-CREB. There were no significant changes in expression found in the other IEGs nor in vasopressin that were produced by the A-CREB. This suggests that CREB may play only a minor role in the expression of IEGs and vasopressin in the osmotically activated SON in vivo.
Granisetron, a serotonin 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, widely used as an antiemetic drug following chemotherapy, has been found to improve learning and memory. In this study, effects of granisetron on spatial recognition memory and fear memory and the involvement of nitric oxide (NO) have been determined in a Y-maze and passive avoidance test. Granisetron (3, 10mg/kg, intraperitoneally) was administered to scopolamine-induced memory-impaired mice prior to acquisition, consolidation and retrieval phases, either in the presence or in the absence of a non-specific NO synthase inhibitor, l-NAME (3, 10mg/kg, intraperitoneally); a specific inducible NO synthase (iNOS) inhibitor, aminoguanidine (100mg/kg); and a NO precursor, l-arginine (750 mg/kg). It is demonstrated that granisetron improved memory acquisition in a dose-dependent manner, but it was ineffective on consolidation and retrieval phases of memory. The beneficial effect of granisetron (10mg/kg) on memory acquisition was significantly reversed by l-NAME (10mg/kg) and aminoguanidine (100mg/kg); however, l-arginine (750 mg/kg) did not potentiate the effect of sub-effective dose of granisetron (3mg/kg) in memory acquisition phase. It is concluded that nitric oxide is probably involved in improvement of memory acquisition by granisetron in both spatial recognition memory and fear memory. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled The Cognitive Neuroscience.
Mechanisms to reduce the cellular levels of mutant huntingtin (mHtt) provide promising strategies for treating Huntington disease (HD). To identify compounds enhancing the degradation of mHtt, we performed a high throughput screen using a hippocampal HN10 cell line expressing a 573-amino acid mHtt fragment. Several hit structures were identified as heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) inhibitors. Cell treatment with these compounds reduced levels of mHtt without overt toxic effects as measured by time-resolved Frster resonance energy transfer assays and Western blots. To characterize the mechanism of mHtt degradation, we used the potent and selective Hsp90 inhibitor NVP-AUY922. In HdhQ150 embryonic stem (ES) cells and in ES cell-derived neurons, NVP-AUY922 treatment substantially reduced soluble full-length mHtt levels. In HN10 cells, Hsp90 inhibition by NVP-AUY922 enhanced mHtt clearance in the absence of any detectable Hsp70 induction. Furthermore, inhibition of protein synthesis with cycloheximide or overexpression of dominant negative heat shock factor 1 (Hsf1) in HdhQ150 ES cells attenuated Hsp70 induction but did not affect NVP-AUY922-mediated mHtt clearance. Together, these data provided evidence that direct inhibition of Hsp90 chaperone function was crucial for mHtt degradation rather than heat shock response induction and Hsp70 up-regulation. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed a physical interaction of mutant and wild-type Htt with the Hsp90 chaperone. Hsp90 inhibition disrupted the interaction and induced clearance of Htt through the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Our data suggest that Htt is an Hsp90 client protein and that Hsp90 inhibition may provide a means to reduce mHtt in HD.
The type III intermediate filaments (IFs) are essential cytoskeletal elements of mechanosignal transduction and serve critical roles in tissue repair. Mice genetically deficient for the IF protein vimentin (Vim(-/-)) have impaired wound healing from deficits in myofibroblast development. We report a surprising finding made in Vim(-/-) mice that corneas are protected from fibrosis and instead promote regenerative healing after traumatic alkali injury. This reparative phenotype in Vim(-/-) corneas is strikingly recapitulated by the pharmacological agent withaferin A (WFA), a small molecule that binds to vimentin and down-regulates its injury-induced expression. Attenuation of corneal fibrosis by WFA is mediated by down-regulation of ubiquitin-conjugating E3 ligase Skp2 and up-regulation of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p27(Kip1) and p21(Cip1). In cell culture models, WFA exerts G(2)/M cell cycle arrest in a p27(Kip1)- and Skp2-dependent manner. Finally, by developing a highly sensitive imaging method to measure corneal opacity, we identify a novel role for desmin overexpression in corneal haze. We demonstrate that desmin down-regulation by WFA via targeting the conserved WFA-ligand binding site shared among type III IFs promotes further improvement of corneal transparency without affecting cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor levels in Vim(-/-) mice. This dissociates a direct role for desmin in corneal cell proliferation. Taken together, our findings illuminate a previously unappreciated pathogenic role for type III IF overexpression in corneal fibrotic conditions and also validate WFA as a powerful drug lead toward anti-fibrosis therapeutic development.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) which catalyzes the hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine has been recognized as one of the major regulators of stress responses after traumatic brain injury (TBI). Repeated blast exposure induces TBI (blast TBI) with a variable neuropathology at different brain regions. Since AChE inhibitors are being used as a line of treatment for TBI, we sought to determine the time course of AChE activity in the blood and different brain regions after repeated blast exposures using modified Ellman assay. Our data showed that repeated blast exposures significantly reduced AChE activity in the whole-blood and erythrocytes by 3-6h, while plasma AChE activity was significantly increased by 3h post-blast. In the brain, significant increase in AChE activity was observed at 6h in the frontal cortex, while hind cortex and hippocampus showed a significant decrease at 6h post-blast, which returned to normal levels by 7 days. AChE activity in the cerebellum and mid brain showed a decrease at 6h, followed by significant increase at 3 days and that was decreased significantly at 14 days post-blast. Medulla region showed decreased AChE activity at 24h post-blast, which was significantly increased at 14 days. These results suggest that there are brain regional and time-related changes in AChE activity after tightly coupled repeated blast exposures in mice. In summary, acute and chronic regional specific changes in the AChE activity after repeated blast exposures warrant systematic evaluation of the possibility of AChE inhibitor therapeutics against blast TBI.
Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) may involve many target organs with relevant variability among affected individuals. We performed a multi-organ assessment tapping nervous system, skeletal muscle and cardiovascular system in thirty-nine individuals belonging to 16 families from Central Italy sharing the same R1006C CADASIL mutation. Stroke prevalence was larger in female patients (66.7%) than in males (23.8%); high levels of CKemia were quite frequent (21.6%) and were related to a myopathy without mitochondrial alterations; several individuals had atrial septal aneurysm (10.3%). No specific relationships between common cardiovascular risk factors and clinical manifestations were found. The present systematic study thus identified several gender-related, myopathic and cardiovascular peculiarities of R1006C mutation. This kind of comprehensive approach is necessary to define clinical course, prognosis and treatment options for a multi-organ disease such as CADASIL.
Ceramides are lipids that are abundant in brain tissue where they have an important structural role in cellular membranes. Ceramides are also powerful intracellular signalling molecules controlling cell death, growth and differentiation. So far, the ceramide transfer protein (CERT), a shorter splice variant of the Goodpasture antigen-binding protein (GPBP), is the only known protein with the ability to shuttle ceramide from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus. GPBP/CERT are widely distributed in the central nervous system where they act as key factors for normal brain development and homeostasis. Ceramide accumulates in neurons during acute neurodegeneration. The objective of this study was to define whether levels of the ceramide transfer protein GPBP/CERT are altered in the acute neurodegenerative process. We used design-based stereology to quantify the number of GPBP/CERT immunoreactive cells in the striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned rats as an animal model of Parkinson's disease (PD). In addition, gray value measurement was performed to quantify GPBP/CERT immunoreactivity-levels within individual cells. No difference in the striatal expression levels of GPBP/CERT proteins was found between diseased and control animals, suggesting that the expression pattern of GPBP/CERT in the striatum is not affected in the 6-OHDA rat model of PD.


While goal-directed thinking has received the lion's share of neuroscientific attention, its counterpart--the undirected thought flow that comes to mind unbidden and without effort--has remained largely on the sidelines of scientific research. Such undirected thought, however, forms a large part of our mental experience. The last decade of neuroscientific investigations marked a resurgence of interest and work into the neural basis of undirected thought. This article reviews the current status of the field and examines the research on the three most frequently discussed categories of undirected thought: spontaneous thought, stimulus-independent thought, and mind wandering. The terminology and paradigms for investigating undirected thought are still being developed, while research is gradually moving beyond strictly task- and rest-based paradigms and towards incorporating introspective first-person reports in order to better understand this phenomenon. It is impossible to say at this point that undirected thinking is preferentially linked to any one particular brain system. Although its connection to the default network has been disproportionately emphasized in the literature, other brain networks such as the executive system and the temporal lobe memory network appear to be equally involved. In addition to reviewing the literature, this article also presents novel findings regarding the functional connectivity between large-scale brain networks during mind wandering. These findings reveal the presence of positive functional connectivity between regions of the default and executive networks and negative functional connectivity between the default network and primary sensory cortices. Thus, the default and executive networks can closely cooperate in supporting undirected thought processes, and seem to do so at times when the primary sensory cortices are not busy with the processing of perceptual information from the external environment. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled The Cognitive Neuroscience of Thought.
It is proposed that thinking is simulated interaction with the environment. Three assumptions underlie this 'simulation' theory of cognitive function. Firstly, behaviour can be simulated in the sense that we can activate motor structures, as during a normal overt action, but suppress its execution. Secondly, perception can be simulated by internal activation of sensory cortex in a way that resembles its normal activation during perception of external stimuli. The third assumption ('anticipation') is that both overt and simulated actions can elicit perceptual simulation of their most probable consequences. A large body of evidence, mainly from neuroimaging studies, that supports these assumptions, is reviewed briefly. The theory is ontologically parsimonious and does not rely on standard cognitivist constructs such as internal models or representations. It is argued that the simulation approach can explain the relations between motor, sensory and cognitive functions and the appearance of an inner world. It also unifies and explains important features of a wide variety of cognitive phenomena such as memory and cognitive maps. Novel findings from recent developments in memory research on the similarity of imaging and memory and on the role of both prefrontal cortex and sensory cortex in declarative memory and working memory are predicted by the theory and provide striking support for it. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;The Cognitive Neuroscience&quot;.
What is the role of language in human cognition? Within the domain of deductive reasoning, the issue has been the focus of numerous investigations without the emergence of a consensus view. Here we consider some of the reasons why neuroimaging studies of deductive reasoning have generated mixed results. We then review recent evidence suggesting that the role of language in deductive reasoning is confined to an initial stage in which verbally presented information is encoded as non-verbal representations. These representations are then manipulated by mental operations that are not based on the neural mechanisms of natural language. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;The Cognitive Neuroscience&quot;.
Right lateral prefrontal cortex (rlPFC) has previously been implicated in logical reasoning under conditions of conflict. A functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study was conducted to explore its role in conflict more precisely. Specifically, we distinguished between belief-logic conflict and belief-content conflict, and examined the role of rlPFC under each condition. The results demonstrated that a specific region of rlPFC is consistently activated under both types of conflict. Moreover, the results of a parametric analysis demonstrated that the same region was modulated by the level of conflict contained in reasoning arguments. This supports the idea that this specific region is engaged to resolve conflict, including during deductive reasoning. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;The Cognitive Neuroscience of Thought&quot;.
Humans exhibit a remarkable capacity for flexible thought and action. Despite changing internal needs and external context, individuals maintain stable goals and pursue purposeful action. Functional neuroimaging research examining the neural underpinnings of such behavioral flexibility has progressed within several distinct traditions, as evident in the largely separate literatures on &quot;cognitive control&quot; and on &quot;decision making.&quot; Both topics investigate the formulation of desires and intentions, the integration of knowledge and context, and the resolution of conflict and uncertainty. Additionally, each recognizes the fundamental role of the prefrontal cortex in supporting flexible selection of behavior. But despite this notable overlap, neuroimaging studies in cognitive control and decision making have exerted only limited influence on each other, in part due to differences in their theoretical and experimental groundings. Additionally, the precise organization of control processing within prefrontal cortex has remained unclear, fostering an acceptance of vague descriptions of decision making in terms of canonical cognitive control functions such as &quot;inhibition&quot; or &quot;self-control.&quot; We suggest a unifying role for models of the hierarchical organization of action selection within prefrontal cortex. These models provide an important conceptual link between decision-making phenomena and cognitive-control processes, potentially facilitating cross-fertilization between these topics.
The ability to generate and sustain an internal train of thought unrelated to external reality frees an agent from the constraints of only acting on immediate, environmentally triggered events. The current paper proposes that such thought is produced through cooperation between autobiographical information provided by the default mode network and a frontal-parietal control network which helps sustain and buffer internal trains of thought against disruption by the external world. This hypothesis explains at least two features of the literature on internally guided thought. First, access to the top-down control system is a generally accepted prerequisite of conscious experience; this explains why activation of this system and default mode activity is often observed together during periods of internally guided thought. Second, because the top-down attentional control system has a limited capacity, internally and externally driven streams can come into conflict, with the result that perceptual information must be denied attentional amplification if the internal stream is to be maintained. This explains why internal thought is routinely associated with a state of perceptual decoupling, reflected in both measured anticorrelations between the default mode network and sensory areas and the manner in which task unrelated thoughts compromise task performance. This paper offers a hypothesis that should help to constrain and guide interpretations, investigations, and analyses of the neural processes involved in internally driven cognition. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Special Issue The Cognitive Neuroscience.
Remembering events from the personal past (autobiographical memory) and inferring the thoughts and feelings of other people (mentalizing) share a neural substrate. The shared functional neuroanatomy of these processes has been demonstrated in a meta-analysis of independent task domains (Spreng, Mar &amp; Kim, 2009) and within subjects performing both tasks (Rabin, Gilboa, Stuss, Mar, &amp; Rosenbaum, 2010; Spreng &amp; Grady, 2010). Here, we examine spontaneous low-frequency fluctuations in fMRI BOLD signal during rest from two separate regions key to memory and mentalizing, the left hippocampus and right temporal parietal junction, respectively. Activity in these two regions was then correlated with the entire brain in a resting-state functional connectivity analysis. Although the left hippocampus and right temporal parietal junction were not correlated with each other, both were correlated with a distributed network of brain regions. These regions were consistent with the previously observed overlap between autobiographical memory and mentalizing evoked brain activity found in past studies. Reliable patterns of overlap included the superior temporal sulcus, anterior temporal lobe, lateral inferior parietal cortex (angular gyrus), posterior cingulate cortex, dorsomedial and ventral prefrontal cortex, inferior frontal gyrus, and the amygdala. We propose that the functional overlap facilitates the integration of personal and interpersonal information and provides a means for personal experiences to become social conceptual knowledge. This knowledge, in turn, informs strategic social behavior in support of personal goals. In closing, we argue for a new perspective within social cognitive neuroscience, emphasizing the importance of memory in social cognition.
There has been a growing interest in understanding the complex cognitive processes that give rise to human reasoning. This review focuses on the cognitive and neural characteristics of relational reasoning and analogy performance. Initially relational reasoning studies that have investigated the neural basis of abstract reasoning with an emphasis on the prefrontal cortex are described. Next studies of analogical reasoning are reviewed with insights from neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies. Additionally, studies of cognitive components in analogical reasoning are described. This review draws together insights from numerous studies and concludes that prefrontal areas exhibit domain independence in relational reasoning, while posterior areas within the temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes show evidence of domain dependence in reasoning. Lastly, future directions in the study of relational reasoning are discussed.
Mitochondria have a number of essential roles in neuronal function. Their complex mobility patterns within neurons are characterized by frequent changes in direction. Mobile mitochondria can become stationary or pause in regions that have a high metabolic demand and can move again rapidly in response to physiological changes. Defects in mitochondrial transport are implicated in the pathogenesis of several major neurological disorders. Research into the mechanisms that regulate mitochondrial transport is thus an important emerging frontier.
Speech production has been studied predominantly from within two traditions, psycholinguistics and motor control. These traditions have rarely interacted, and the resulting chasm between these approaches seems to reflect a level of analysis difference: whereas motor control is concerned with lower-level articulatory control, psycholinguistics focuses on higher-level linguistic processing. However, closer examination of both approaches reveals a substantial convergence of ideas. The goal of this article is to integrate psycholinguistic and motor control approaches to speech production. The result of this synthesis is a neuroanatomically grounded, hierarchical state feedback control model of speech production.



Cell replacement therapies in Parkinson's disease (PD) aim to provide long-lasting relief of patients' symptoms. Previous clinical trials using transplantation of human fetal ventral mesencephalic (hfVM) tissue in the striata of PD patients have provided proof-of-principle that such grafts can restore striatal dopaminergic (DA-ergic) function. The transplants survive, reinnervate the striatum, and generate adequate symptomatic relief in some patients for more than a decade following operation. However, the initial clinical trials lacked homogeneity of outcomes and were hindered by the development of troublesome graft-induced dyskinesias in a subgroup of patients. Although recent knowledge has provided insights for overcoming these obstacles, it is unlikely that transplantation of hfVM tissue will become routine treatment for PD owing to problems with tissue availability and standardization of the grafts. The main focus now is on producing DA-ergic neuroblasts for transplantation from stem cells (SCs). There is a range of emerging sources of SCs for generating a DA-ergic fate in vitro. However, the translation of these efforts in vivo currently lacks efficacy and sustainability. A successful, clinically competitive SC therapy in PD needs to produce long-lasting symptomatic relief without side effects while counteracting PD progression.
The saccadic paradigm has been used to investigate specific cortical networks involving visuospatial attention. We examined whether asymmetry in theta and beta band differentiates the role of the hemispheres during the execution of two different prosacadic conditions: a fixed condition, where the stimulus was presented at the same location; and a random condition, where the stimulus was unpredictable. Twelve healthy volunteers (3 male; mean age: 26.25) performed the task while their brain activity pattern was recorded using quantitative electroencephalography. We did not find any significant difference for beta, slow- and fast-alpha frequencies for the pairs of electrodes analyzed. The results for theta band showed a superiority of the left hemisphere in the frontal region when responding to the random condition on the right, which is related to the planning and selection of responses, and also a greater activation of the right hemisphere during the random condition, in the occipital region, related to the identification and recognition of patterns. These results indicate that asymmetries in the premotor area and the occipital cortex differentiate memory- and stimulus-driven tasks.
Microglia are activated in response to a number of different pathological states within the CNS including injury, ischemia, and infection. Microglial activation results in their production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1, IL-6, and TNF-. While release of these factors is typically intended to prevent further damage to CNS tissue, they may also be toxic to neurons and other glial cells. Mounting evidence indicates that chronic microglial activation may also contribute to the development and progression of neurodegenerative disorders. Unfortunately, determining the role of pro-inflammatory cytokines in these disorders has been complicated by their dual roles in neuroprotection and neurodegeneration. The purpose of this review is to summarize current understanding of the involvement of cytokines in neurodegenerative disorders and their potential signaling mechanisms in this context. Taken together, recent findings suggest that microglial activation and pro-inflammatory cytokines merit interest as targets in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
The energetics of CNS white matter are poorly understood. We derive a signaling energy budget for the white matter (based on data from the rodent optic nerve and corpus callosum) which can be compared with previous energy budgets for the gray matter regions of the brain, perform a cost-benefit analysis of the energetics of myelination, and assess mechanisms for energy production and glucose supply in myelinated axons. We show that white matter synapses consume 0.5% of the energy of gray matter synapses and that this, rather than more energy-efficient action potentials, is the main reason why CNS white matter uses less energy than gray matter. Surprisingly, while the energetic cost of building myelin could be repaid within months by the reduced ATP cost of neuronal action potentials, the energetic cost of maintaining the oligodendrocyte resting potential usually outweighs the saving on action potentials. Thus, although it dramatically speeds action potential propagation, myelination need not save energy. Finally, we show that mitochondria in optic nerve axons could sustain measured firing rates with a plausible density of glucose transporters in the nodal membrane, without the need for energy transfer from oligodendrocytes.
The development of a functioning neural network relies on responses of axonal growth cones to molecular guidance cues that are encountered en route to their target tissue. Nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 serve as attractive cues for chick embryo sensory growth cones in vitro and in vivo, but little is known about the actin-binding proteins necessary to mediate this response. The evolutionarily conserved ezrin/radixin/moesin (ERM) family of proteins can tether actin filaments to the cell membrane when phosphorylated at a conserved threonine residue. Here we show that acute neurotrophin stimulation rapidly increases active phospho-ERM levels in chick sensory neuron growth cone filopodia, coincident with an increase in filopodial L1 and -integrin. Disrupting ERM function with a dominant-negative construct (DN-ERM) results in smaller and less motile growth cones with disorganized actin filaments. Previously, we found that NGF treatment increases actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF)/cofilin activity and growth cone F-actin (Marsick et al., 2010). Here, we show this F-actin increase, as well as attractive turning to NGF, is blocked when ERM function is disrupted despite normal activation of ADF/cofilin. We further show that DN-ERM expression disrupts leading edge localization of active ADF/cofilin and free F-actin barbed ends. Moreover, filopodial phospho-ERM levels are increased by incorporation of active ADF/cofilin and reduced by knockdown of L1CAM.Together, these data suggest that ERM proteins organize actin filaments in sensory neuron growth cones and are crucial for neurotrophin-induced remodeling of F-actin and redistribution of adhesion receptors.
Mutations in Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS), a rapidly fatal motor neuron disease. Mutant SOD1 has pleiotropic toxic effects on motor neurons, among which mitochondrial dysfunction has been proposed as one of the contributing factors in motor neuron demise. Mitochondria are highly dynamic in neurons; they are constantly reshaped by fusion and move along neurites to localize at sites of high-energy utilization, such as synapses. The finding of abnormal mitochondria accumulation in neuromuscular junctions, where the SOD1-FALS degenerative process is though to initiate, suggests that impaired mitochondrial dynamics in motor neurons may be involved in pathogenesis. We addressed this hypothesis by live imaging microscopy of photo-switchable fluorescent mitoDendra in transgenic rat motor neurons expressing mutant or wild-type human SOD1. We demonstrate that mutant SOD1 motor neurons have impaired mitochondrial fusion in axons and cell bodies. Mitochondria also display selective impairment of retrograde axonal transport, with reduced frequency and velocity of movements. Fusion and transport defects are associated with smaller mitochondrial size, decreased mitochondrial density, and defective mitochondrial membrane potential. Furthermore, mislocalization of mitochondria at synapses among motor neurons, in vitro, correlates with abnormal synaptic number, structure, and function. Dynamics abnormalities are specific to mutant SOD1 motor neuron mitochondria, since they are absent in wild-type SOD1 motor neurons, they do not involve other organelles, and they are not found in cortical neurons. Together, these results suggest that impaired mitochondrial dynamics may contribute to the selective degeneration of motor neurons in SOD1-FALS.
When neurons exit the cell cycle after their terminal mitosis, they detach from the apical surface of the neuroepithelium. Despite the fact that this detachment is crucial for further neurogenesis and neuronal migration, the underlying mechanisms are still not understood. Here, taking advantage of the genetics and imaging possibilities of the zebrafish retina as a model system, we show by knockdown experiments that the guidance molecule Slit1b and its receptor Robo3 are required for apical retraction of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). In contrast, N-cadherin seems to be responsible for maintenance of apical attachment, as expression of dominant-negative N-cadherin causes RGCs to lose apical attachments prematurely and rescues retraction in slit1b morphants. These results suggest that Slit-Robo signaling downregulates N-cadherin activity to allow apical retraction in newly generated RGCs.
There is considerable uncertainty about the function of the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC). The PCC is a major node within the default mode network (DMN) and has high metabolic activity and dense structural connectivity to widespread brain regions, which suggests it has a role as a cortical hub. The region appears to be involved in internally directed thought, for example, memory recollection. However, recent nonhuman primate work provides evidence for a more active role in the control of cognition, through signaling an environmental change and the need to alter behavior. For an organism to flexibly react to a changing environment, information processed in functionally distinct brain networks needs to be integrated by such a cortical hub. If the PCC is involved in this process, its brain activity should show a complex and dynamic pattern that partially reflects activity in other brain networks. Using fMRI in humans and a multivariate analysis, we demonstrate that the PCC shows this type of complex functional architecture, where echoes of multiple other brain networks are seen in separable yet overlapping subregions. For example, a predominantly ventral region shows strong functional connectivity to the rest of the DMN, whereas two subregions within the dorsal PCC show high connectivity to frontoparietal networks involved in cognitive control. PCC subregions showed distinct patterns of activity modulation during the performance of an attentionally demanding task, suggesting that parts of the dorsal PCC interact with frontoparietal networks to regulate the balance between internally and externally directed cognition.
The mammalian cerebral cortex is characterized in vivo by irregular spontaneous activity, but how this ongoing dynamics affects signal processing and learning remains unknown. The associative plasticity rules demonstrated in vitro, mostly in silent networks, are based on the detection of correlations between presynaptic and postsynaptic activity and hence are sensitive to spontaneous activity and spurious correlations. Therefore, they cannot operate in realistic network states. Here, we present a new class of spike-timing-dependent plasticity learning rules with local floating plasticity thresholds, the slow dynamics of which account for metaplasticity. This novel algorithm is shown to both correctly predict homeostasis in synaptic weights and solve the problem of asymptotic stable learning in noisy states. It is shown to naturally encompass many other known types of learning rule, unifying them into a single coherent framework. The mixed presynaptic and postsynaptic dependency of the floating plasticity threshold is justified by a cascade of known molecular pathways, which leads to experimentally testable predictions.
The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-specific protein trans-activator of transcription (Tat) can contribute to the dysfunction of brain endothelial cells and HIV trafficking into the brain by disrupting tight junction (TJ) integrity at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) level. Specific TJ proteins, such as zonula occludens (ZO) proteins, localize not only at the cell-cell borders but are also present in the nuclei. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the mechanisms and significance of Tat-induced nuclear localization of ZO-1. Treatment of a brain endothelial cell line (hCMEC/D3 cells) with Tat resulted in a decrease in total levels of ZO-1 but significantly upregulated ZO-1 protein expression in the nuclei. In addition, exposure to Tat stimulated Rho signaling and induced phosphorylation and activity of transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), binding sites that have been identified in the proximal region of the ZO-1 promoter. Interestingly, inhibition of the Rho cascade protected against Tat-induced upregulation of ZO-1 in the nuclei and activation of CREB. Depletion of CREB by infection of cells with specific shRNA lentiviral particles attenuated both Tat-induced Rho signaling and nuclear targeting of ZO-1. A decrease in CREB levels also attenuated Tat-induced endothelial and BBB hyperpermeability as well as transendothelial migration of monocytic cells. The role of CREB in Tat-mediated alterations of ZO-1 was confirmed in brain microvessels in mice with CREB shRNA lentiviral particles injected into the cerebral circulation. The present results indicate the crucial role of Rho signaling and CREB in modulation of nuclear localization of ZO-1 and maintaining the integrity of endothelial monolayers.
GABAergic signaling in hippocampal pyramidal neurons undergoes a switch from depolarizing to hyperpolarizing during early neuronal development. Whether such a transformation of GABAergic action occurs in dentate granule cells (DGCs), located at the first stage of the hippocampal trisynaptic circuit, is unclear. Here, we use noninvasive extracellular recording to monitor the effect of synaptically released GABA on the DGC population. We find that GABAergic responses in adolescent and adult rat DGCs are still depolarizing from rest. Using a morphologically realistic DGC model, we show that GABAergic action, depending on its precise timing and location, can have either an excitatory or inhibitory role in signal processing in the dentate gyrus.
Cell therapies for neurological disorders require an extensive knowledge of disease-associated neuropathology and procedures for generating neurons for transplantation. In many patients with severe acquired temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), the dentate gyrus exhibits sclerosis and GABAergic interneuron degeneration. Mounting evidence suggests that therapeutic benefits can be obtained by transplanting fetal GABAergic progenitors into the dentate gyrus in rodents with TLE, but the scarcity of human fetal cells limits applicability in patient populations. In contrast, virtually limitless quantities of neural progenitors can be obtained from embryonic stem (ES) cells. ES cell-based therapies for neurological repair in TLE require evidence that the transplanted neurons integrate functionally and replace cell types that degenerate. To address these issues, we transplanted mouse ES cell-derived neural progenitors (ESNPs) with ventral forebrain identities into the hilus of the dentate gyrus of mice with TLE and evaluated graft differentiation, mossy fiber sprouting, cellular morphology, and electrophysiological properties of the transplanted neurons. In addition, we compared electrophysiological properties of the transplanted neurons with endogenous hilar interneurons in mice without TLE. The majority of transplanted ESNPs differentiated into GABAergic interneuron subtypes expressing calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin, calbindin, or calretinin. Global suppression of mossy fiber sprouting was not observed; however, ESNP-derived neurons formed dense axonal arborizations in the inner molecular layer and throughout the hilus. Whole-cell hippocampal slice electrophysiological recordings and morphological analyses of the transplanted neurons identified five basic types; most with strong after-hyperpolarizations and smooth or sparsely spiny dendritic morphologies resembling endogenous hippocampal interneurons. Moreover, intracellular recordings of spontaneous EPSCs indicated that the new cells functionally integrate into epileptic hippocampal circuitry.
Successful use of rodents as models for studying object vision crucially depends on the ability of their visual system to construct representations of visual objects that tolerate (i.e., remain relatively unchanged with respect to) the tremendous changes in object appearance produced, for instance, by size and viewpoint variation. Whether this is the case is still controversial, despite some recent demonstration of transformation-tolerant object recognition in rats. In fact, it remains unknown to what extent such a tolerant recognition has a spontaneous, perceptual basis, or, alternatively, mainly reflects learning of arbitrary associative relations among trained object appearances. In this study, we addressed this question by training rats to categorize a continuum of morph objects resulting from blending two object prototypes. The resulting psychometric curve (reporting the proportion of responses to one prototype along the morph line) served as a reference when, in a second phase of the experiment, either prototype was briefly presented as a prime, immediately before a test morph object. The resulting shift of the psychometric curve showed that recognition became biased toward the identity of the prime. Critically, this bias was observed also when the primes were transformed along a variety of dimensions (i.e., size, position, viewpoint, and their combination) that the animals had never experienced before. These results indicate that rats spontaneously perceive different views/appearances of an object as similar (i.e., as instances of the same object) and argue for the existence of neuronal substrates underlying formation of transformation-tolerant object representations in rats.
The neural correlates for retention of visual information in visual short-term memory are considered separate from those of sensory encoding. However, recent findings suggest that sensory areas may play a role also in short-term memory. We investigated the functional relevance, spatial specificity, and temporal characteristics of human early visual cortex in the consolidation of capacity-limited topographic visual memory using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Topographically specific TMS pulses were delivered over lateralized occipital cortex at 100, 200, or 400 ms into the retention phase of a modified change detection task with low or high memory loads. For the high but not the low memory load, we found decreased memory performance for memory trials in the visual field contralateral, but not ipsilateral to the side of TMS, when pulses were delivered at 200 ms into the retention interval. A behavioral version of the TMS experiment, in which a distractor stimulus (memory mask) replaced the TMS pulses, further corroborated these findings. Our findings suggest that retinotopic visual cortex contributes to the short-term consolidation of topographic visual memory during early stages of the retention of visual information. Further, TMS-induced interference decreased the strength (amplitude) of the memory representation, which most strongly affected the high memory load trials.

Impaired perception of consonants by poor readers is reflected in poor subcortical encoding of speech timing and harmonics. We assessed auditory brainstem representation of higher harmonics within a consonant-vowel formant transition to identify relationships between speech fine structure and reading. Responses were analyzed in three ways: a single stimulus polarity, adding responses to inverted polarities (emphasizing low harmonics), and subtracting responses to inverted polarities (emphasizing high harmonics). Poor readers had a reduced representation of higher speech harmonics for subtracted polarities and a single polarity. No group differences were found for the fundamental frequency. These findings strengthen the evidence of subcortical encoding deficits in poor readers for speech fine structure and delineate effective strategies for capturing these neural impairments in humans.
In order to clarify whether neurophysiological profiles affect the performance of brain machine interfaces (BMI), we examined the relationships between amplitudes of movement-related cortical fields (MRCFs) and decoding performances during movement. Neuromagnetic activities were recorded in nine healthy participants during three types of unilateral upper limb movements. The movement types were inferred by a support vector machine. The amplitude of MRCF components, motor field (MF), movement-evoked field I (MEFI), and movement-evoked field II (MEFII) were compared with the decoding accuracies in all participants. Decoding accuracies at the latencies of MF, MEFI, and MEFII surpassed the chance level in all participants. In particular, accuracies at MEFI and MEFII were significantly higher in comparison with that of MF. The amplitudes and decoding accuracies were strongly correlated (MF, r(s)=0.90; MEFI, r(s)=0.90; and MEFII, r(s)=0.87). Our results show that the variation of MRCF components among participants reflects decoding performance. Neurophysiological profiles may serve as a predictor of individual BMI performance and assist in the improvement of general BMI performance.
In vivo neurochemical monitoring using microdialysis sampling is important in neuroscience because it allows correlation of neurotransmission with behavior, disease state, and drug concentrations in the intact brain. A significant limitation of current practice is that different assays are utilized for measuring each class of neurotransmitter. We present a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-tandem mass spectrometry method that utilizes benzoyl chloride for determination of the most common low molecular weight neurotransmitters and metabolites. In this method, 17 analytes were separated in 8 min. The limit of detection was 0.03-0.2 nM for monoamine neurotransmitters, 0.05-11 nM for monoamine metabolites, 2-250 nM for amino acids, 0.5 nM for acetylcholine, 2 nM for histamine, and 25 nM for adenosine at sample volume of 5 L. Relative standard deviation for repeated analysis at concentrations expected in vivo averaged 7% (n = 3). Commercially available (13)C benzoyl chloride was used to generate isotope-labeled internal standards for improved quantification. To demonstrate utility of the method for study of small brain regions, the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (50 M) was infused into a rat ventral tegmental area while recording neurotransmitter concentration locally and in nucleus accumbens, revealing complex GABAergic control over mesolimbic processes. To demonstrate high temporal resolution monitoring, samples were collected every 60 s while neostigmine, an acetylcholine esterase inhibitor, was infused into the medial prefrontal cortex. This experiment revealed selective positive control of acetylcholine over cortical glutamate.


It has been known that retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) with distinct morphologies have different physiological properties. It was hypothesized that different functions of RGCs may in part result from various expressions of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), -amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propinoic acid (AMPA), and kainic acid (KA) receptors on their dendrites. In the present study, we aimed to characterize the functional expression of AMPA and NMDA receptors of morphologically identified RGCs in the wholemount rabbit retina. The agmatine (AGB) activation assay was used to reveal functional expression of ionotropic glutamate receptors after the RGCs were targeted by injecting Neurobiotin. To examine the excitability of these glutamate receptors in an agonist specific manner, the lower concentrations of AMPA (2 M) and NMDA (100 M) were chosen to examine G7 (ON-OFF direction selective ganglion cells) and G11 (alpha ganglion cells) types of RGCs. We found that less than 40% of G7 type RGCs had salient AGB activation when incubated with 2 M AMPA or 100 M NMDA. The G11 type RGCs also showed similar activation frequencies, except that all of the OFF subtype examined had no AGB permeation under the same AMPA concentration. These results suggest that RGCs with large somata (G7 and G11 types) may express various heterogeneous functional ionotropic glutamate receptors, thus in part rendering their functional diversity.
The role of satellite glial cells (SGCs) of sensory ganglia in chronic pain begins to receive interest. The present study aims to investigate the contribution of SGC activation to the development of neuropathic pain. A neuropathic pain model was established by lumbar 5 spinal nerve ligation (SNL), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was used as a marker of SGC activation. It was found that SGCs were activated in the ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia (DRG) increased significantly as early as 4h following SNL, gradually increased to a peak level at day 7, and then stayed at a high level to the end of the experiment at day 56. SGC activation in the SNL group was significantly higher than that in the sham group at days 1, 3 and 7 after operation. Immunofluorescent double labeling showed that the activated SGCs encircled large, medium-sized and small neurons. The SGCs surrounded the small and medium-sized neurons were preferentially activated in the early phase, but shifted to large diameter neurons as time went on. Continuous infusion of fluorocitrate, a glial metabolism inhibitor, to the affected DRG via mini-osmotic pump for 7d significantly alleviated mechanical allodynia at day 7. These results suggest that SGCs in the DRG were activated after SNL. SGC activation contributed to the early maintenance of neuropathic pain.
Present knowledge about the serotonergic system in birdbrains is very limited, although the pigeon was used as an animal model in various studies focused on the behavioral effects of serotonergic transmission. In the mammalian brain the 5-HT(1A) receptor is the most widespread serotonin receptor type, and is involved in various functions. Less is known about the distribution of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the avian species. Therefore, we analyzed serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptor binding sites in the pigeon brain using quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography with the selective radioligand [H]-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin ([H]-8-OH-DPAT). The receptor is differentially distributed throughout the pigeon brain. High levels of 5-HT(1A) receptors are found in the nucleus pretectalis (PT). Moderate densities were detected in the tectum, as well as in the telencephalic nidopallium and hyperpallium. Very low levels were found in the hippocampal formation, the amygdaloid complex, the basal ganglia, and several thalamic nuclei. Furthermore, local variations in 5-HT(1A) receptor densities support the concept of further subdivisions of the entopallium. The regional distribution patterns of 5-HT(1A) receptors mostly display a similar distribution as found in homologue brain structures of mammals.
Rats can generate a rich array of forepaw and forelimb movements that are similar, although not as complex, to those produced by human and non-human primates. When reaching for food for instance, rats display skilled movements of the forelimb and the paw, therefore, making them attractive models to validate strategies aimed at the recovery of fine motor control. Surprisingly however, few anatomical studies have been performed on the central control of forelimb movements in the rat. The current series of experiments examined the details of the segmental arrangement of motor neurons that supply the rat forelimb. The distribution of motor end plates across the rat forelimb was first visualized by means of acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, and this information was used to create a motor end plate map of the forelimb muscles. This map was subsequently used as a guide for multiple injections of retrograde tracers along the motor end plate regions of 11 forelimb muscles. The entire cervical region of the spinal cord was subsequently analyzed under epifluorescence. This tract-tracing analysis confirmed that motor neurons innervating the rat forelimb are arranged in columns within the cervical segments of the spinal cord. This anatomical investigation also supports the previous observation that, although discrete, some of the motor neuron columns lying in the cervical aspect of the rat spinal cord are inter-mingled. The length of these columns, and hence the overlap between them, appears to be greater than previously reported, particularly within the uppermost segments of the brachial plexus.
Oxytocin (OT) levels in plasma increase during sexual response and are significantly lower in patients with depression. A drug for the treatment of sexual dysfunction, sildenafil, enhances the electrically evoked release of OT from the posterior pituitary. In this study, we showed that sildenafil had an antidepressant-like effect through activation of an OT signaling pathway. Application of sildenafil reduced depression-related behavior in male mice. The antidepressant-like effect was blocked by an OT receptor (OTR) antagonist and was absent in OTR knockout (KO) mice. Sildenafil increased the phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) in the hippocampus. The OTR antagonist inhibited sildenafil-induced CREB phosphorylation and sildenafil had no effect on CREB phosphorylation in OTR KO mice. These results suggest sildenafil to have an antidepressant-like effect through the activation of OT signaling and to be a promising drug for the treatment of depression.
Although opiate drugs of abuse have been shown to decrease adult hippocampal neurogenesis, the impact of opiate analgesics has not been tested. North American regulatory boards governing the ethical treatment of experimental animals require the administration of analgesics, such as buprenorphine, following minor surgical interventions. Here, we show that two commonly used post-operative buprenorphine dosing regimes significantly inhibit the proliferation of doublecortin-positive neuroblasts but not other hippocampal stem and progenitor cell populations in adult mice. Buprenorphine, administered in schedules of three 0.05 mg/kg subcutaneous injections over a single day or seven 0.05 mg/kg injections over a 3-day period decreased the number of actively proliferating 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine-labeled doublecortin-positive cells for up to 6 days after opiate withdrawal. The minimal (three injection), but not standard (seven injection), analgesic paradigm also reduced basal indices of hippocampal progenitor cell apoptosis and enhanced survival of newly born cells for up to 28 days. Taken together, these data provide the first evidence that the routine administration of opiate analgesics has transient but long-lasting effects on neurogenesis and further emphasize that analgesic dosage and schedule should be reported and considered when interpreting the magnitude of neural stem and progenitor cell activation in response to in vivo intervention.
Firing rates of dopamine (DA) neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) control DA release in target structures such as striatum and prefrontal cortex. DA neuron firing in the soma and release probability at axon terminals are tightly regulated by cholinergic transmission and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). To understand the role of 6* nAChRs in DA transmission, we studied several strains of mice expressing differing levels of mutant, hypersensitive (leucine 9' to serine [L9'S]) 6 subunits. 6 L9'S mice harboring six or more copies of the hypersensitive 6 gene exhibited spontaneous home-cage hyperactivity and novelty-induced locomotor activity, whereas mice with an equal number of WT and L9'S 6 genes had locomotor activity resembling that of control mice. 6-dependent, nicotine-stimulated locomotor activation was also more robust in high-copy 6 L9'S mice versus low-copy mice. In wheel-running experiments, results were also bi-modal; high-copy 6 L9'S animals exhibited blunted total wheel rotations during each day of a 9-day experiment, but low-copy 6 L9'S mice ran normally on the wheel. Reduced wheel running in hyperactive strains of 6 L9'S mice was attributable to a reduction in both overall running time and velocity. ACh and nicotine-stimulated DA release from striatal synaptosomes in 6 L9'S mice was well-correlated with behavioral phenotypes, supporting the hypothesis that augmented DA release mediates the altered behavior of 6 L9'S mice. This study highlights the precise control that the nicotinic cholinergic system exerts on DA transmission and provides further insights into the mechanisms and consequences of enhanced DA release.
-synuclein is a key protein in Lewy body diseases (LBDs) and a major component of Lewy bodies and related aberrant cytoplasmic and neuritic inclusions. Regional differences in -synuclein have been associated with selective neuronal vulnerability to Lewy pathology. Furthermore, phosphorylation at serine 129 (Ser129) and -synuclein truncation have been considered crucial in the pathogenesis of Lewy inclusions. The present study shows consistent reduction in -synuclein protein expression levels in the human substantia nigra and nucleus basalis of Meynert compared with other brain regions independently of age and pathology. Phosphorylated -synuclein at Ser129 is naturally increased in these same regions, thus inversely related with the total amount of -synuclein. In contrast, truncated -synuclein is naturally observed in control and diseased brains and correlating with the total amount of -synuclein. Several truncated variants have been identified where some of these variants are truncated at the C-terminal domain, whereas others are truncated at the N-terminal domain, and all are present in cases with and without Lewy pathology. Although accumulation of truncated -synuclein variants and phosphorylated -synuclein occurs in Lewy bodies, -synuclein phosphorylation and truncation can be considered constitutive in control and diseased brains.
Making a trust decision in interpersonal relationship involves forming positive expectation toward the decision outcome. Previous studies have suggested that trust and distrust are qualitatively distinct and have differential neurocognitive substrates. In this study, we investigated how trust choice would modulate brain responses to decision outcome in a modified coin-toss game. Participants received statements from partners concerning the results of coin-toss and decided whether to believe the truthfulness of the statements. In two experiments, event-related potentials (ERPs) to the real results revealed after the trust choice demonstrated differential patterns following trust and distrust choices. Both the feedback-related negativity (FRN) and the P300 showed effects of outcome valence following trust choices, but the FRN effect was reduced following distrust choices. Thus, trust choice creates different contexts in which aspects of decision outcome can be encoded simultaneously by the FRN. The FRN may reflect the subjective evaluation of decision outcome in a specific context rather than a general expectancy towards the outcome.
Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a globin protein that is highly and specifically expressed in brain neurons. A large volume of evidence has proven that Ngb is a neuroprotective molecule against hypoxic/ischemic brain injury and other related neurological disorder; however, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Aiming to provide more clues in understanding the molecular mechanisms of Ngb's neuroprotection, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening to search for proteins that interact with Ngb. From a mouse brain cDNA library, we found totally 36 proteins that potentially interact with Ngb, and 10 of them were each identified in multiple positive clones. The shared sequences within these multiple clones are more likely to be Ngb-interacting domains. In primary cultured mouse cortical neurons, immuno-precipitation was performed to confirm the interactions of selected proteins with Ngb. The discovered Ngb-interacting proteins in this study include those involved in energy metabolism, mitochondria function, and signaling pathways for cell survival and proliferation. Our findings provide molecular targets for investigating protein interaction-based biological functions and neuroprotective mechanisms of Ngb.
Few studies have addressed the ultrastructure and morphology of neurons in primary pure culture. We therefore use immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy to investigate the ultrastructure of cultured neurons during extended incubation in vitro. Rat cerebral cortex neurons were cultured in Neurobasal medium. Adherent cells developed as networks of single neurons or clusters depending on the plating density. Almost all surviving cells were neurons as demonstrated by neurofilament immunolabeling. The number of cultured neurons increased substantially to 14-21 days in vitro (DIV) and then plateaued and subsequently declined. From DIV 1-10 neurons extended large neurites, followed by the development of fine and dense neurites, and neurones survived until DIV 30-50. Notably, numerous mitochondria were observed along fibrous elements within neurites, suggestive of active intracellular trafficking. Electron microscopy also revealed that multiple types of synapses were formed between neurons. These ultrastructural results confirm previous reports of electrophysiological activity in cultured neurons. However many neurons contained distorted mitochondria and abnormal organelles including multilamellar vesicles and multivesicular myeloid bodies. The proportion of neurons containing abnormal organelles increased significantly in culture medium supplemented with antibiotics. On long-term culture neuronal death and apoptotic nuclei were observed. Despite the presence of abnormal organelles, the ultrastructure of cultured neurons was very similar to that of in vivo neurons; in vitro culture therefore provides a useful tool for studies on neuronal development, aging, and neurotransmission.
The primary somatosensory cortex (S1) projects to the thalamus and brainstem somatosensory nuclei and modulates somatosensory information ascending to the S1 itself. However, the projections from the S1 to the brainstem second-order somatosensory neuron pools have not been fully studied. To address this in rats, we first revealed the somatotopic representation of orofacial areas in the S1 by recording cortical surface potentials evoked by stimulation of the lingual, mental, infraorbital, and frontal nerves. We then examined the morphology of descending projections from the electrophysiologically defined orofacial S1 areas to the pons and medulla after injections of an anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextranamine (BDA), into the orofacial S1 areas. BDA-labeled axon terminals were seen mostly in the trigeminal sensory nuclear complex (TSNC) and had a strong contralateral predominance. They also showed a somatotopic arrangement in dorsoventral and superficial-deep directions within almost all rostrocaudal TSNC levels, and in a rostrocaudal direction within the trigeminal caudal subnucleus. In the principal nucleus (Vp) or oral subnucleus (Vo) of TSNC, the BDA-labeled axon terminals showed a somatotopic arrangement closely matched to that of the electrophysiologically defined projection sites of orofacial primary afferents; these projection sites were marked by injections of a retrograde tracer, Fluorogold (FG), into the Vp or Vo. The FG injections labeled a large number of S1 neurons, with a strong contralateral predominance, in a somatotopic manner, which corresponded to that presented in the electrophysiologically defined orofacial S1 areas. The present results suggest that the orofacial S1 projections to somatotopically matched regions of trigeminal second-order somatosensory neuron pools may allow the orofacial S1 to accurately modulate orofacial somatosensory transmission to higher brain centers including the orofacial S1 itself.
Iron accumulation in the brain has been associated to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. We have previously demonstrated that iron overload in the neonatal period results in severe and persistent memory deficits in adult rats. Alterations in histone acetylation have been associated with memory deficits in models of neurological disorders. Here we examine histone acetylation in the brain and the effects of the histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) sodium butyrate (NaB) on memory in the neonatal iron overload model in rats. Rats received vehicle or 30.0-mg/kg Fe orally at postnatal days 12-14. When animals reached adulthood, they were given training in either novel object recognition or inhibitory avoidance. Histone acetylation in the dorsal hippocampus and the effects of NaB were examined in separate sets of rats. Iron overload led to a reduction in H3 lysine 9 acetylation in the hippocampus, without affecting the acetylation of other H3 and H4 lysine residues. A single systemic injection of NaB (1.2 g/kg) immediately after training ameliorated iron-induced memory impairments. The results suggest that a reduction in H3K9 acetylation might play a role in iron-induced memory impairment and support the view that HDACis can rescue memory dysfunction in models of brain disorders.
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) plays regulatory functions both in immune and nervous system. However, in the visual system, little is known about the cellular types which respond to IL-2 and its effects. Herein, we investigated the influence of IL-2 in the development of central visual pathways. Lister Hooded rats were submitted to multiple (at postnatal days [PND]7/10/13) or single (at PND10) intravitreous injections of phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) (vehicle), zymosan, or IL-2. IL-2 receptor  subunit was detected in the whole postnatal retina. Chronic treatment with either PBS or IL-2 increases retinal glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression, induces intravitreous inflammation revealed by the presence of macrophages, and results in a slight rearrangement of retinotectal axons. Acute zymosan treatment disrupts retinotectal axons distribution, confirming the influence of inflammation on retinotectal pathway reordering. Furthermore, acute IL-2 treatment increases GFAP expression in the retina without inflammation and produces a robust sprouting of the intact uncrossed retinotectal pathway. No difference was observed in glial cells activity in superior colliculus. Taken together, these data suggest that inflammation and interleukin-2 modulate retinal ganglion cells development and the distribution of their axons within central targets.
Orthograde Wallerian degeneration normally brings about fragmentation of peripheral nerve axons and their sensory or motor endings within 24-48 h in mice. However, neuronal expression of the chimaeric, Wld(S) gene mutation extends survival of functioning axons and their distal endings for up to 3 weeks after nerve section. Here we studied the pattern and rate of degeneration of sensory axons and their annulospiral endings in deep lumbrical muscles of Wld(S) mice, and compared these with motor axons and their terminals, using neurone-specific transgenic expression of the fluorescent proteins yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) or cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) as morphological reporters. Surprisingly, sensory endings were preserved for up to 20 days, at least twice as long as the most resilient motor nerve terminals. Protection of sensory endings and axons was also much less sensitive to Wld(S) gene-copy number or age than motor axons and their endings. Protection of -motor axons and their terminals innervating the juxtaequatorial and polar regions of the spindles was less than sensory axons but greater than -motor axons. The differences between sensory and motor axon protection persisted in electrically silent, organotypic nerve-explant cultures suggesting that residual axonal activity does not contribute to the sensory-motor axon differences in vivo. Quantitative, Wld(S)-specific immunostaining of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones and motor neurones in homozygous Wld(S) mice suggested that the nuclei of large DRG neurones contain about 2.4 times as much Wld(S) protein as motor neurones. By contrast, nuclear fluorescence of DRG neurones in homozygotes was only 1.5 times brighter than in heterozygotes stained under identical conditions. Thus, differences in axonal or synaptic protection within the same Wld(S) mouse may most simply be explained by differences in expression level of Wld(S) protein between neurones. Mimicry of Wld(S)-induced protection may also have applications in treatment of neurotoxicity or peripheral neuropathies in which the integrity of sensory endings may be especially implicated.
Opioids are the most potent analgesics known today, but their prolonged administration produces severe adverse effects such as constipation, bradycardia, besides addiction, a concept not fully understood at present, which represents one of the most important challenges of modern bioscience. Wnts constitute an important family of vertebrate genes that encode secreted signaling proteins implicated in various developmental processes (patterning of the neural tube, neuronal differentiation), and are extensively conserved through evolution. In this study we have focused on Wnt1, an essential signal in axis polarity, as well as in proliferation and the development and differentiation of the CNS, roles shared by opioid receptors. Our previous studies in zebrafish show that morphine, the most potent analgesic known today, increases cell proliferation and induces neuronal protection and dopaminergic differentiation by activating the opioid receptors. The aim of the present study is to determine whether these effects are a consequence of an interaction between Wnt1 and the endogenous opioid system, which may act as a transcription regulator of Wnt1. Hence, we have exposed embryos to morphine, the endogenous delta opioid agonist Met-Enkephalin-Glu-Tyr (MEGY) (it binds with high affinity to both zebrafish delta opioid receptors, ZfDORs), and SNC80, a highly specific delta agonist, which displays low affinity towards the ZfDORs. Although at earlier stages, all opioids reduced the expression level of Wnt1, further on development, mainly during the differentiation of the CNS (24-48 h post fertilization (hpf)), morphine and MEGY increased Wnt1 expression. Our results point to the possibility that opioid signaling controls the transcription of Wnt1 and that through Wnt1, the opioid system regulates cell proliferation and neuronal differentiation. The present work opens a door to the discovery of new mechanisms that regulate opioid activity and its adverse effects, and hence, it might provide a good target to design new drugs that prevent or avoid these effects.
Fasudil hydrochloride (FH), a Rho kinase inhibitor, is used to treat neurological diseases. This study aims to elucidate the anti-dementia role of FH in Alzheimer's disease. Twenty-four Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into four groups: (1) sham-operated group (control), (2) sham-operated followed by FH administration group (sham+FH), (3) streptozotocin (STZ)-treated group (STZ), and (4) STZ treatment followed by FH administration group (STZ+FH). Rats in the STZ and STZ+FH groups received two divided doses of STZ (1.5 mg/kg) intracerebroventricularly on days 1 and 3, whereas control and sham+FH group rats were given citric acid/sodium citrate buffer. Rats in the sham+FH and STZ+FH groups were then treated intraperitoneally with FH (10 mg/kg) for 4 weeks, and rats in the STZ and control groups were treated with saline. Learning and memory were measured using the Morris water maze test. The synaptic ultrastructure in the CA1 region of the hippocampus was observed using electronic microscopy. The expression of synaptophysin (SYP) was measured using real-time polymerase chain reaction and western blot analyses; the expression of p-LIMK2 and p-cofilin were also detected using western blot analysis. The results indicate that STZ induced deficit in learning/memory, decrease in SYP expression, degeneration in synaptic structures, and increase in the expressions of p-LIMK2 and p-cofilin. These changes were reversed by the administration of FH, suggesting that FH has anti-dementia properties that protect synaptic structure and function. FH induced dephosphorylation (inactivation) of LIMK2 and subsequent dephosphorylation (activation) of cofilin, which may be responsible for the amelioration of neuronal synaptic structure and function.
Microglial activation is a key event in the progression and infiltration of tumors. We have previously demonstrated that the co-chaperone stress inducible protein 1 (STI1), a cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) ligand, promotes glioblastoma (GBM) proliferation. In the present study, we examined the influence of microglial STI1 in the growth and invasion of the human glioblastoma cell line GBM95. We demonstrated that soluble factors secreted by microglia into the culture medium (microglia conditioned medium; MG CM) caused a two-fold increase in the proliferation of GBM95 cells. This effect was reversed when STI1 was removed from the MG CM. In this context, we have shown that microglial cells synthesize and secrete STI1. Interestingly, no difference was observed in proliferation rates when GBM cells were maintained in MG CM or MG CM containing an anti-PrP(C) neutralizing antibody. Moreover, rec STI1 and rec STI1(230-245), which lack the PrP(C) binding site, both promoted similar levels of GBM95 proliferation. In the migration assays, MG CM favored the migration of GBM95 cells, but migration failed when STI1 was removed from the MG CM. We detected metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) activity in the MG CM, and when cultured microglia were treated with an anti-STI1 antibody, MMP-9 activity decreased. Our results suggest that STI1 is secreted by microglia and favors tumor growth and invasion through the participation of MMP-9 in a PrP(C)-independent manner.
Dyspnea, hunger for air, and urge to flee are the cardinal symptoms of panic attacks. Patients also show baseline respiratory abnormalities and a higher rate of comorbid and antecedent respiratory diseases. Panic attacks are also precipitated by infusion of sodium lactate and inhalation of 5% CO in predisposed patients but not in healthy volunteers or patients without panic disorder. Accordingly, Klein [Klein (1993) Arch Gen Psychiatry 50:306-317] suggested that clinical panic is the misfiring of an as-yet-unidentified suffocation alarm system. In rats, selective anoxia of chemoreceptor cells by potassium cyanide (KCN) and electrical and chemical stimulations of periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) produce defensive behaviors, which resemble panic attacks. Thus, here we examined the effects of single or combined administrations of CO (8% and 13%) and KCN (10-80 g, i.v.) on spontaneous and PAG-evoked behaviors of rats either intact or bearing electrolytic lesions of PAG. Exposure to CO alone reduced grooming while increased exophthalmus, suggesting an arousal response to non-visual cues of environment. Unexpectedly, however, CO attenuated PAG-evoked immobility, trotting, and galloping while facilitated defecation and micturition. Conversely, KCN produced all defensive behaviors of the rat and facilitated PAG-evoked trotting, galloping, and defecation. There were also facilitatory trends in PAG-evoked exophthalmus, immobility, and jumping. Moreover, whereas the KCN-evoked defensive behaviors were attenuated or even suppressed by discrete lesions of PAG, they were markedly facilitated by CO. Authors suggest that the PAG harbors an anoxia-sensitive suffocation alarm system which activation precipitates panic attacks and potentiates the subject responses to hypercapnia.
Some types of peripheral neuropathic pain are associated with damage to myelin rather than to axons of primary sensory neurons. It is extremely important to develop selective demyelination animal models for understanding neuropathic pain caused by demyelination. We induced a rapid-onset and reversible demyelination of peripheral A-fibers and neuropathic pain behaviors in adult rats by a single injection of cobra venom into the sciatic nerve. The relation between A-fiber demyelination and the abnormal pain behaviors was investigated using this model. Microfilament recordings revealed that cobra venom selectively blocked A-fibers, but not C-fibers. Selective blockade of A-fibers may result from A-fiber demyelination at the site of venom injection as demonstrated by microscope examination. The axons of the demyelinated A-fibers appeared to be otherwise normal. Neuropathic pain behaviors appeared almost immediately after venom injection and lasted about 3 weeks. Electrophysiological studies indicated that venom injection induced loss of conduction in A-fibers, increased sensitivity of C-polymodal nociceptors to innocuous stimuli, and triggered spontaneous activity from both peripheral and central terminals of C-fiber nociceptors. Neurogenic inflammatory responses were also observed in the affected skin via Evan's Blue extravasation experiments. Both antidromic C-fiber spontaneous activity and neurogenic inflammation were substantially decreased by continuous A-fiber threshold electric stimuli applied proximally to the venom injection site. The data suggest that normal activity of peripheral A-fibers may produce inhibitory modulation of C-fiber polymodal nociceptors. Removal of inhibition to C-fiber polymodal nociceptors following demyelination of A-fibers may result in pain and neurogenic inflammation in the affected receptive field.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been implicated in the modulation of synaptic plasticity, glial activation, and long-term potentiation in the CNS. Here we demonstrate for the first time a mechanism for the regulation of nociceptive processing by spinal MMP-3 during peripheral inflammation. We first determined by western blotting that the catalytic (active) form of MMP-3 (cMMP-3) is increased in lumbar spinal cord following peripheral inflammation in rats. The peripheral inflammation-induced thermal hyperalgesia and tactile hypersensitivity was transiently (2-3 h) attenuated by intrathecal (IT) pretreatment with either an MMP-3 inhibitor (NNGH), or a broad spectrum MMP inhibitor (GM6001). In addition, IT delivery of cMMP-3 evoked hypersensitivity, whereas the pro (enzymatically inactive) form of MMP-3 did not. This suggests a pro-algesic effect of spinal MMP-3 mediated by an enzymatic mechanism. This cMMP-3-induced hypersensitivity is concurrent with increased tumor necrosis factor (TNF) in the spinal cord. The hypersensitivity behavior is prevented by intrathecal etanercept (TNF blockade). Treatment with cMMP-3 resulted in an increase in TNF release from spinal primary microglial, but not astrocyte cultures. These findings thus present direct evidence implicating MMP-3 in the coordination of spinal nociceptive processing via a spinal TNF-dependent mechanism.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been characterized as a potent modulator of neural plasticity in both the brain and spinal cord. The present experiments use an in vivo model system to demonstrate that training with controllable stimulation increases spinal BDNF expression and engages a BDNF-dependent process that promotes adaptive plasticity. Spinally transected rats administered legshock whenever one hind limb is extended (controllable stimulation) exhibit a progressive increase in flexion duration. This simple form of response-outcome (instrumental) learning is not observed when shock is given independent of leg position (uncontrollable stimulation). Uncontrollable electrical stimulation also induces a lasting effect that impairs learning for up to 48 h. Training with controllable shock can counter the adverse consequences of uncontrollable stimulation, to both prevent and reverse the learning deficit. Here it is shown that the protective and restorative effect of instrumental training depends on BDNF. Cellular assays showed that controllable stimulation increased BDNF mRNA expression and protein within the lumbar spinal cord. These changes were associated with an increase in the BDNF receptor TrkB protein within the dorsal horn. Evidence is then presented that these changes play a functional role in vivo. Application of a BDNF inhibitor (TrkB-IgG) blocked the protective effect of instrumental training. Direct (intrathecal) application of BDNF substituted for instrumental training to block both the induction and expression of the learning deficit. Uncontrollable stimulation also induced an increase in mechanical reactivity (allodynia), and this too was prevented by BDNF. TrkB-IgG blocked the restorative effect of instrumental training and intrathecal BDNF substituted for training to reverse the deficit. Taken together, these findings outline a critical role for BDNF in mediating the beneficial effects of controllable stimulation on spinal plasticity.
Adolescents are more likely to experiment with and become addicted to drugs of abuse. A number of studies indicate that the developmental forebrain may be responsible for making adolescents vulnerable to the addictive properties of such drugs. The aim of this study was to first compare behavioral responses to novelty and cocaine between juvenile and adult rats and then compare levels of the immediate-early gene zif268 activation in several forebrain areas via in situ hybridization. We found that juveniles demonstrated higher locomotion scores and required a higher dose of cocaine than adults to establish a conditioned place preference. Additionally, at this higher dose, juvenile rats exhibited higher levels of zif268 mRNA in the prefrontal cortex compared with adults. A developmental effect for increased zif268 mRNA was also observed in the striatum and nucleus accumbens, but there was no interaction with the cocaine dose. These findings hold interesting implications for the study of the molecular mechanisms underlying juvenile drug addiction.
Facilitating fear extinction is clinically important to improve the efficacy of current exposure therapies for the treatment of anxiety disorders, such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The aim of this study was to determine if repeated transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) facilitates fear extinction in rats, especially when paired with exposure to a conditioned stimulus (CS). Thirty-five rats were conditioned to a tone CS by pairing the tone with an electric foot shock as an aversive unconditioned stimulus (US). We assessed the effects of 10 Hz rTMS before fear extinction (experiment 1) and rTMS paired with CS during extinction (experiment 2) on the following day. Fear responses of the rats were estimated using the level of freezing upon tone stimulus and were compared between the rTMS and corresponding sham groups. The rats treated with rTMS before fear extinction showed no difference in freezing time when compared with the sham group. However, the rats treated with rTMS paired with CS during extinction showed significantly less freezing behavior than the sham group, and this enhancement of fear extinction remained after 24 h without further stimulation. This finding suggests that high-frequency rTMS paired with trauma-reminding stimuli enhances fear extinction and that rTMS in conjunction with exposure therapy is potentially useful for facilitating extinction memory in the treatment of PTSD.
According to various influential formal models of cognition, perceptual categorization and old-new recognition recruit the same memory system. By contrast, the prevailing view in the cognitive neuroscience literature is that separate neural systems mediate perceptual categorization and recognition. A direct form of evidence is that separate brain regions are activated when observers engage in categorization and recognition tasks involving the same types of stimuli. However, even if the same memory-based comparison processes underlie categorization and recognition, one would not expect to see identical patterns of brain activity across the tasks; the reason is that observers would adjust parameter settings (e.g., vary criterion settings) across the tasks to satisfy the different task goals. In this fMRI study, we conducted categorization and recognition tasks in which stimulus conditions were held constant, and in which observers were induced to vary hypothesized parameter settings across conditions. A formal exemplar model was fitted to the data to track the changes in parameters to help interpret the fMRI results. We observed systematic effects of changes in parameters on patterns of brain activity, which were interpretable in terms of differing forms of evidence accumulation that resulted from the changed parameter settings. After controlling for stimulus and parameter-related differences, we found little evidence that categorization and recognition recruit separate memory systems.
Several neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by the accumulation of proteinaceous inclusions in the central nervous system. These inclusions are frequently composed of a mixture of aggregation-prone proteins. Here, we used a bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay to study the initial steps of the co-aggregation of huntingtin (Htt) and -synuclein (-syn), two aggregation-prone proteins involved in Huntington's disease (HD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), respectively. We found that Htt (exon 1) oligomerized with -syn and sequestered it in the cytosol. In turn, -syn increased the number of cells displaying aggregates, decreased the number of aggregates per cell and increased the average size of the aggregates. Our results support the idea that co-aggregation of aggregation-prone proteins can contribute to the histopathology of neurodegenerative disorders.
Endocytosis positively and negatively regulates cell surface receptor signaling by temporally and spatially controlling interactions with downstream effectors. This process controls receptor-effector communication. However, the relationship between receptor endocytic trafficking and cell physiology is unclear. In MDA-MB-468 cells, cell surface EGF receptors (EGFRs) promote cell growth, whereas intracellular EGFRs induce apoptosis, making these cells an excellent model for studying the endocytic regulation of EGFR signaling. In addition, MDA-MB-468 cells have limited EGFR degradation following stimulation. Here, we report that in MDA-MB-468 cells the phosphorylated EGFR accumulates on the limiting membrane of the endosome with its carboxyl terminus oriented to the cytoplasm. To determine whether perturbation of EGFR trafficking is sufficient to cause apoptosis, we used pharmacological and biochemical strategies to disrupt EGFR endocytic trafficking in HeLa cells, which do not undergo EGF-dependent apoptosis. Manipulation of HeLa cells so that active EGFEGFRs accumulate on the limiting membrane of endosomes reveals that receptor phosphorylation is sustained and leads to apoptosis. When EGFEGFR complexes accumulated in the intraluminal vesicles of the late endosome, phosphorylation of the receptor was not sustained, nor did the cells undergo apoptosis. These data demonstrate that EGFR-mediated apoptosis is initiated by the activated EGFR from the limiting membrane of the endosome.

Bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express bTREK-1 K(+) channels that are inhibited by ACTH through cAMP-dependent pathways. In whole cell patch clamp recordings from AZF cells, we found that ACTH may also inhibit bTREK-1 by a cAMP-independent mechanism. When the potent adenylyl cyclase (AC) antagonist 2,5-dideoxyadenosine-3'-triphosphate (2,5-dd-3'-ATP) was applied intracellularly through the patch pipette, bTREK-1 inhibition by the AC activator forskolin was blocked. In contrast, bTREK-1 inhibition by ACTH was unaltered. The selective G(S) antagonist NF449 also failed to blunt bTREK-1 inhibition by ACTH. At concentrations that produce little measurable increase in cAMP in bovine AZF cells, the O-nitrophenyl, sulfenyl-derivative of ACTH (NPS-ACTH) also inhibited bTREK-1 almost completely. Accordingly, 2,5-dd-3'-ATP at concentrations more than 1000 its reported IC(50) did not block bTREK-1 inhibition by NPS-ACTH. These results indicate that ACTH and NPS-ACTH can inhibit native bTREK-1 K(+) channels in AZF cells by a mechanism that does not involve activation of AC.
This paper proposes a shift in the way researchers currently view and use transcranial brain stimulation technologies. From a neuroscience perspective, the standard application of both transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has been mainly to explore the function of various brain regions. These tools allow for noninvasive and painless modulation of cortical tissue. In the course of studying the function of an area, many studies often report enhanced performance of a task during or following the stimulation. However, little follow-up research is typically done to further explore these effects. Approaching this growing pool of cognitive neuroscience literature with a neuroergonomics mindset (i.e., studying the brain at work), the possibilities of using these stimulation techniques for more than simply investigating the function of cortical areas become evident. In this paper, we discuss how cognitive neuroscience brain stimulation studies may complement neuroergonomics research on human performance optimization. And, through this discussion, we hope to shift the mindset of viewing transcranial stimulation techniques as solely investigatory basic science tools or possible clinical therapeutic devices to viewing transcranial stimulation techniques as interventional tools to be incorporated in applied science research and systems for the augmentation and enhancement of human operator performance.
The cingulo-opercular network (CON) is a newly defined control network responsible for various cognitive processes that have been consistently found to be impaired in schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to use functional connectivity magnetic resonance imaging (fcMRI) to test the hypothesis that schizophrenia is associated with functional disconnection within the CON. Thirty subjects with schizophrenia and thirty healthy controls were enrolled in the study. Each subject received resting fMRI scanning, clinical evaluations and cognitive examinations. The CON of each subject was derived by calculating the functional connectivity map of a seed in the dorsal anterior cingulate (dACC). A between-group comparison was performed using a random effect analysis. Further network analyses with multiple regions of interest (ROIs) were performed to characterize the pattern of functional disconnection within the entire CON. Using the dACC seed in healthy controls, we derived the CON, which includes the following anatomical structures: the dACC; the bilateral anterior prefrontal, inferior parietal and anterior insular cortices; the putamen; the thalamus; and the cerebellum. Compared with healthy controls, schizophrenic patients showed significantly reduced functional connectivity in the bilateral putamens. Further network analysis demonstrated widespread cortico-striatal disconnection within the CON of schizophrenic patients. The disconnections correlated with negative symptom severity. Behavioral regression revealed that cortico-striatal functional connectivity predicted 2-back working memory performance in healthy controls, but not in schizophrenic patients. Our findings suggest that schizophrenia is associated with cortical-striatal disconnection within the CON. The result provides a network basis for the cortico-striatal disconnection hypothesis of schizophrenia.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has established the functional relevance of early visual cortex (EVC) for visual awareness with great temporal specificity non-invasively in conscious human volunteers. Many studies have found a suppressive effect when TMS was applied over EVC 80-100 ms after the onset of the visual stimulus (post-stimulus TMS time window). Yet, few studies found task performance to also suffer when TMS was applied even before visual stimulus presentation (pre-stimulus TMS time window). This pre-stimulus TMS effect, however, remains controversially debated and its origin had mainly been ascribed to TMS-induced eye-blinking artifacts. Here, we applied chronometric TMS over EVC during the execution of a visual discrimination task, covering an exhaustive range of visual stimulus-locked TMS time windows ranging from -80 pre-stimulus to 300 ms post-stimulus onset. Electrooculographical (EoG) recordings, sham TMS stimulation, and vertex TMS stimulation controlled for different types of non-neural TMS effects. Our findings clearly reveal TMS-induced masking effects for both pre- and post-stimulus time windows, and for both objective visual discrimination performance and subjective visibility. Importantly, all effects proved to be still present after post hoc removal of eye blink trials, suggesting a neural origin for the pre-stimulus TMS suppression effect on visual awareness. We speculate based on our data that TMS exerts its pre-stimulus effect via generation of a neural state which interacts with subsequent visual input.
The application of pattern classification techniques to physiological data has undergone rapid expansion. Tasks as varied as the diagnosis of disease from magnetic resonance images, brain-computer interfaces for the disabled, and the decoding of brain functioning based on electrical activity have been accomplished quite successfully with pattern classification. These classifiers have been further applied in complex cognitive tasks to improve performance, in one example as an input to adaptive automation. In order to produce generalizable results and facilitate the development of practical systems, these techniques should be stable across repeated sessions. This paper describes the application of three popular pattern classification techniques to EEG data obtained from asymptotically trained subjects performing a complex multitask across five days in one month. All three classifiers performed well above chance levels. The performance of all three was significantly negatively impacted by classifying across days; however two modifications are presented that substantially reduce misclassifications. The results demonstrate that with proper methods, pattern classification is stable enough across days and weeks to be a valid, useful approach.
Several brain regions involved in visual perception have been shown to also participate in non-sensory cognitive processes of visual representations. Here we studied the role of ventral visual pathway areas in visual imagery and working memory. We analyzed intracerebral EEG recordings from the left inferior temporal lobe of an epileptic patient during working memory tasks and mental imagery. We found that high frequency gamma-band activity (50-150 Hz) in the inferior temporal gyrus (ITG) increased with memory load only during visuo-spatial, but not verbal, working memory. Using a real-time set-up to measure and visualize gamma-band activity online--BrainTV--we found a systematic activity increase in ITG when the patient was visualizing a letter (visual imagery), but not during perception of letters. In contrast, only 7 mm more medially, neurons located in the fusiform gyrus exhibited a complete opposite pattern, responding during verbal working memory retention and letter presentation, but not during imagery or visuo-spatial working memory maintenance. Talairach coordinates indicate that the fusiform contact site corresponds to the word form area, suggesting that this region has a role not only in processing letter-strings, but also in working memory retention of verbal information. We conclude that neural networks supporting imagination of a visual element are not necessarily the same as those underlying perception of that element. Additionally, we present evidence that gamma-band activity in the inferior temporal lobe, can be used as a direct measure of the efficiency of top-down attentional control over visual areas with implications for the development of novel brain-computer interfaces. Finally, by just reading gamma-band activity in these two recording sites, it is possible to determine, accurately and in real-time, whether a given memory content is verbal or visuo-spatial.
Animal and human studies have shown that the parietal and the ventral premotor cortices constitute the neural substrate of the so-called mirror system. The word &quot;mirror&quot; originally referred to the discovery of neurons in non-human primates whose visual response echoes their motor response. This account proposes that action understanding and imitation depend on a mechanism which activates directly our own motor system as we observe the actions of other agents (Rizzolatti and Sinigaglia, 2010). Single unit recording experiments have also demonstrated that parietal neurons have predictive activity and discharge well ahead of a planned movement. Interestingly, patients with parietal damage can show impairments in their ability to imitate or understand an observed action, but they have also difficulties in monitoring early phases of their own movement planning, be it simple reaching movements or more complex object-directed actions. The fact that both deficits may co-occur after a parietal lesion raises the question whether this reflects the impairment of a common mechanism. To address this question we examined EEG activity in patients with selective lesions in the inferior parietal lobe (N=6) who were requested to watch passively a video showing an actor grasping a colored object. The object's color cued the subject that the actor was about to move. We recorded the Readiness Potential (RP), a marker of motor preparation which also arises when preparing to observe an action (Kilner et al., 2004). Parietal patients' performance was compared to that of neurologically normal subjects (n=9) and patients with a ventral premotor cortex lesion (N=4). We show that neurologically normal subjects and premotor patients exhibit a significant RP prior to the observed action, whereas no such RP is observed in parietal patients. Our results indicate that parietal cortex injury alters the ability to monitor the early planning phases not only of one's own actions but those of other agents as well. We speculate that parietal activity during action observation does not only or essentially reflect a mirroring process, as recently proposed by mirror neurons' account, but involve instead an anticipatory process which arises through prior learning and predictive mechanisms.
Neuronal responses exhibit two stimulus or task-related components: evoked and induced. The functional role of induced responses has been ascribed to 'top-down' modulation through backward connections and lateral interactions; as opposed to the bottom-up driving processes that may predominate in evoked components. The implication is that evoked and induced components may reflect different neuronal processes. The conventional way of separating evoked and induced responses assumes that they can be decomposed linearly; in that induced responses are the average of the power minus the power of the average (the evoked component). However, this decomposition may not hold if both components are generated by nonlinear processes. In this work, we propose a Dynamic Causal Model that models evoked and induced responses at the same time. This allows us to explain both components in terms of shared mechanisms (coupling) and changes in coupling that are necessary to explain any induced components. To establish the face validity of our approach, we used Bayesian Model Selection to show that the scheme can disambiguate between models of synthetic data that did and did not contain induced components. We then repeated the analysis using MEG data during a hand grip task to ask whether induced responses in motor control circuits are mediated by 'top-down' or backward connections. Our result provides empirical evidence that induced responses are more likely to reflect backward message passing in the brain, while evoked and induced components share certain characteristics and mechanisms.
Recent genetic and proteomic studies demonstrate that clusterin/apolipoprotein-J is associated with risk, pathology, and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our main aim was to examine associations between plasma clusterin concentration and longitudinal changes in brain volume in normal aging and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). A secondary objective was to examine associations between peripheral concentration of clusterin and its concentration in the brain within regions that undergo neuropathological changes in AD. Non-demented individuals (N=139; mean baseline age 70.5 years) received annual volumetric MRI (912 MRI scans in total) over a mean six-year interval. Sixteen participants (92 MRI scans in total) were diagnosed during the course of the study with amnestic MCI. Clusterin concentration was assayed by ELISA in plasma samples collected within a year of the baseline MRI. Mixed effects regression models investigated whether plasma clusterin concentration was associated with rates of brain atrophy for control and MCI groups and whether these associations differed between groups. In a separate autopsy sample of individuals with AD (N=17) and healthy controls (N=4), we examined the association between antemortem clusterin concentration in plasma and postmortem levels in the superior temporal gyrus, hippocampus and cerebellum. The associations of plasma clusterin concentration with rates of change in brain volume were significantly different between MCI and control groups in several volumes including whole brain, ventricular CSF, temporal gray matter as well as parahippocampal, superior temporal and cingulate gyri. Within the MCI but not control group, higher baseline concentration of plasma clusterin was associated with slower rates of brain atrophy in these regions. In the combined autopsy sample of AD and control cases, representing a range of severity in AD pathology, we observed a significant association between clusterin concentration in the plasma and that in the superior temporal gyrus. Our findings suggest that clusterin, a plasma protein with roles in amyloid clearance, complement inhibition and apoptosis, is associated with rate of brain atrophy in MCI. Furthermore, peripheral concentration of clusterin also appears to reflect its concentration within brain regions vulnerable to AD pathology. These findings in combination suggest an influence of this multi-functional protein on early stages of progression in AD pathology.
Crossmodal binding usually relies on bottom-up stimulus characteristics such as spatial and temporal correspondence. However, in case of ambiguity the brain has to decide whether to combine or segregate sensory inputs. We hypothesise that widespread, subtle forms of synesthesia provide crossmodal mapping patterns which underlie and influence multisensory perception. Our aim was to investigate if such a mechanism plays a role in the case of pitch-size stimulus combinations. Using a combination of psychophysics and ERPs, we could show that despite violations of spatial correspondence, the brain specifically integrates certain stimulus combinations which are congruent with respect to our hypothesis of pitch-size synesthesia, thereby impairing performance on an auditory spatial localisation task (Ventriloquist effect). Subsequently, we perturbed this process by functionally disrupting a brain area known for its role in multisensory processes, the right intraparietal sulcus, and observed how the Ventriloquist effect was abolished, thereby increasing behavioural performance. Correlating behavioural, TMS and ERP results, we could retrace the origin of the synesthestic pitch-size mappings to a right intraparietal involvement around 250 ms. The results of this combined psychophysics, TMS and ERP study provide evidence for shifting the current viewpoint on synesthesia more towards synesthesia being at the extremity of a spectrum of normal, adaptive perceptual processes, entailing close interplay between the different sensory systems. Our results support this spectrum view of synesthesia by demonstrating that its neural basis crucially depends on normal multisensory processes.
Repetition has been shown to activate the so-called 'dorsal stream', a network of temporo-parieto-frontal areas subserving the mapping of acoustic speech input onto articulatory-motor representations. Among these areas, a region in the posterior Sylvian fissure at the temporo-parietal boundary (also called 'area Spt') has been suggested to play a central role particularly with increasing computational demands on phonological processing. Most of the relevant evidence stems from tasks requiring metalinguistic processing. To date, the relevance of area Spt in natural phonological operations based on implicit linguistic knowledge has not yet been investigated. We examined two types of phonological processes assumed to be lateralized differently, i.e., the processing of syllabic stress versus subsyllabic segmental processing. In two ways, subjects modified an auditorily presented pseudoword before reproducing it overtly: (a) by a prosodic manipulation involving a stress shift across syllable boundaries, (b) by a segmental manipulation involving a vowel substitution. Manipulation per se was expected to engage area Spt. Segmental compared to prosodic processing was expected to reveal predominantly left lateralized activation, while prosodic compared to segmental processing was expected to result in bilateral or right-lateralized activation. Contrary to expectation, activation in area Spt did not vary with increased phonological processing demand. Instead, area Spt was engaged regardless of whether subjects simply repeated a pseudoword or performed a phonological manipulation before reproduction. However, for both segmental and prosodic stimuli, reproduction after manipulation (compared to repetition) activated the left intraparietal sulcus and left inferior frontal cortex. We propose that these parieto-frontal regions are recruited when the task requires phonological manipulation over and above the more automated transfer of auditory into articulatory verbal codes, which appears to involve area Spt. When directly contrasted with prosodic manipulation, segmental manipulation resulted in increased activation predominantly in left inferior frontal areas. This may be due to an increased demand on phonological sequencing operations at the subsyllabic phoneme level. Contrasted with segmental manipulations, prosodic manipulation did not result in increased activation, which may be due to a lower degree of morphosyntactic and to syllable-level processing.
Cortical gamma band synchronization is associated with attention. Accordingly, directing attention to certain visual stimuli modulates gamma band activity in visual cortical areas. However, gradual effects of attention and behavior on gamma band activity in early visual areas have not yet been reported. In the present study, the degree of selective visual attention was gradually varied in a cued bimodal reaction time paradigm using audio-visual stimuli. Brain activity was recorded with magnetoencephalography (MEG) and analyzed with respect to time, frequency, and location of strongest response. Reaction times to visual and auditory stimuli reflected three presumed graded levels of visual attention (high, medium, and low). MEG data showed sustained gamma band synchronization in all three conditions in early visual areas (V1 and V2), while the intensity of gamma band synchronization increased with the level of visual attention (from low to high). Differences between conditions were seen for up to 1600 ms. The current results show that in early visual areas the level of gamma band synchronization is related to the level of attention directed to a visual stimulus. These gradual and long-lasting effects highlight the key role of gamma band synchronization in early visual areas for selective attention.
This study was designed to investigate the spatio-temporal characteristic of face selection in the context of the Biased Competition (BC) model using electroencephalography (EEG). Pairs of similar (SIM) or dissimilar (DISS) faces were presented simultaneously. Subjects had to attend to one face (ATT) or ignore both faces (IGN). According to the BC account, simultaneously presented faces compete for representation. Spatial attention biases these competitive interactions towards neural processing of the attended face alone. A preceding functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study confirmed the validity of BC as selection principle in the occipital face area (OFA) and in the fusiform face area (FFA) (IGN SIM&lt;IGN DISS; ATT SIM=ATT DISS) (Gentile and Jansma, 2010). The directionality of the similarity modulation within the IGN condition was interpreted in line with the assumption that within FFA similar faces are more likely to be encoded by largely overlapping population of neurons, hence leading to a stronger competition. In the present EEG experiment we investigated when neural competition and the bias effect take place. Using independent component analysis (ICA), we focused on face-processing-related components N170 and N250. Whereas we could not find any context-dependent modulation of the N170, we observed a context x task interaction within the N250 time-window. Together, the fMRI and EEG results suggested that faces competed for representation (IGN SIM&lt;IGN DISS) in the N250 time-window within FFA. In addition, at the same latency (250 ms post-stimulus onset) and region of interest (FFA) the data supported the idea that attention solved neural competition in favor of the relevant face (ATT SIM=ATT DISS). We also observed a main effect of attention frontally within the N2b time-window, i.e. about 50 ms later than the attentional bias that solved competitive interactions. Based on these findings, it is plausible to conclude that this frontal activity was not directly involved in the bias control during selection in FFA.
The recently proposed track-density imaging (TDI) technique was introduced as a means to achieve super-resolution using diffusion MRI. This technique is able to increase the spatial resolution of the reconstructed images beyond the acquired MRI resolution by incorporating information from whole-brain fibre-tracking results. It not only achieves super-resolution, but also provides very high anatomical contrast with a new MRI contrast mechanism. However, the anatomical information-content of this novel contrast mechanism has not yet been assessed. In this work, we perform such a study using diffusion MRI of ex vivo mouse brains acquired at 16.4 T, to compare the results of the super-resolution TDI technique with histological staining (myelin and Nissl stains) in the same brains. Furthermore, a modified version of the directionally-encoded colour TDI map using short-tracks is introduced, which reduces the TDI intensity dynamic range, and therefore enhances the directionality colour-contrast. Good agreement was observed between structures visualised in the super-resolution TDI maps and in the histological sections, supporting the anatomical information-content of the images generated using the TDI technique. The results therefore show that the TDI methodology does provide meaningful and rich anatomical contrast, in addition to achieving super-resolution. Furthermore, this study is the first to show the application of TDI to mouse brain imaging: the high-resolution, high-quality images demonstrate the useful complementary information that can be achieved using super-resolution TDI.
Naturalistic paradigms such as movie watching or simulated driving that mimic closely real-world complex activities are becoming more widely used in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies both because of their ability to robustly stimulate brain connectivity and the availability of analysis methods which are able to capitalize on connectivity within and among intrinsic brain networks identified both during a task and in resting fMRI data. In this paper we review over a decade of work from our group and others on the use of simulated driving paradigms to study both the healthy brain as well as the effects of acute alcohol administration on functional connectivity during such paradigms. We briefly review our initial work focused on the configuration of the driving simulator and the analysis strategies. We then describe in more detail several recent studies from our group including a hybrid study examining distracted driving and compare resulting data with those from a separate visual oddball task (Fig. 6). The analysis of these data was performed primarily using a combination of group independent component analysis (ICA) and the general linear model (GLM) and in the various studies we highlight novel findings which result from an analysis of either 1) within-network connectivity, 2) inter-network connectivity, also called functional network connectivity, or 3) the degree to which the modulation of the various intrinsic networks were associated with the alcohol administration and the task context. Despite the fact that the behavioral effects of alcohol intoxication are relatively well known, there is still much to discover on how acute alcohol exposure modulates brain function in a selective manner, associated with behavioral alterations. Through the above studies, we have learned more regarding the impact of acute alcohol intoxication on organization of the brain's intrinsic connectivity networks during performance of a complex, real-world cognitive operation. Lessons learned from the above studies have broader applicability to designing ecologically valid, complex, functional MRI cognitive paradigms and incorporating pharmacologic challenges into such studies. Overall, the use of hybrid driving studies is a particularly promising area of neuroscience investigation.
Neuroergonomics merges neuroscience and ergonomics for the study of brain and behavior in natural and naturalistic settings. Together with the rapid development of neuroergonomics concepts, technologies, and related data, there is an urgent need to develop computational models of neuroergonomics that can help integrate and interpret empirical findings and make predictions for scientific research and practical application. This article discusses the relationship between computational neuroscience and computational neuroergonomics, and describes a queuing network based computational neuroergonomic architecture and its applications. These discussions illustrate the mission and challenges of computational neuroergonomics and future research needs.
Neurotrophins (NTs) are growth factors that are critical in regulating structural, synaptic, and morphological plasticity and in modulating the strength and number of synaptic connections and neurotransmission (Thoenen, 2000). In addition, the role of NTs in the adult central nervous system is important because they participate in the maintenance of neuronal functions, the structural integrity of neurons, and neurogenesis (Cooper et al., 1996), suggesting their biological role during the entire life span. NTs are homodimeric proteins and are categorized into four different classes: nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), NT-3, and NT-4/5. Most functions of NTs are mediated by the tropomycin receptor kinase (Trk) family of tyrosine kinase receptors. The interaction of NTs with the Trk receptors is specific: nerve growth factor binds with TrkA, BDNF and NT-4 both bind to TrkB, and NT-3 binds to TrkC with the highest affinity but can also bind and mediate its actions via TrkA and TrkB receptors. All NTs can bind to the pan75 NT receptor (p75(NTR)), which plays a role in NT transport, ligand-binding specificity, and Trk functioning (Barbacid, 1994, 1995; Lewin and Barde, 1996; Schweigreiter, 2006). In addition to the full-length TrkB receptor, several noncatalytic truncated TrkB isoforms have also been identified; these isoforms lack the signaling domain, preventing the induction of a signal transduction mechanism. Binding of an NT to the appropriate Trk receptor leads to the dimerization and transphosphorylation of tyrosine residues in the intracellular domain of the Trk receptors and subsequent activation of signaling pathways (Chao et al., 2006; Reichardt, 2006), leading to altered transcription of critical genes. The most widely distributed member of NT family is BDNF (Huang and Reichardt, 2001). The BDNF gene lies on chromosome 11p13 and encodes pro-BDNF, a precursor peptide of mature BDNF (Seidah et al., 1996). BDNF is translated as 3035 kDa preproproteins consisting of a preprodomain, a prodomain, and a C-terminal mature NT domain. BDNF levels and its intracellular localization in neurons are regulated via several different mechanisms, including BDNF transcripts, messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein transport, and regulated cleavage of pro-BDNF to mature BDNF. The pro-BDNF is produced in the endoplasmic reticulum, which is accumulated in the trans-Golgi network via the Golgi apparatus. Pro-BDNF can be cleaved in the endoplasmic reticulum by furin or in the regulated secretary vesicles by proconvertase enzymes. Pro-BDNF binds to sortilin, an intracellular chaperone that binds to the prodomain of BDNF to traffic it to the regulated secretory pathway, in the Golgi apparatus. This facilitates the correct folding of the mature BDNF domain. The mature domain of BDNF binds to carboxypeptidase E, thereby sorting BDNF to the regulated secretary pathway (Lu et al., 2005). Pro-BDNF can also be processed by serine protease plasmin when pro-BDNF is in the extracellular milieu (Pang et al., 2004). A substitution of valine (Val) to methionine (Met) at codon 66 in the prodomain impairs this sorting of BDNF (Egan et al., 2003). The impact of a BDNF Val66Met polymorphism has been widely studied in relation to the clinical characteristics of suicidal behavior (Zai et al., 2011).
Findings that link hypothalamicpituitaryadrenal (HPA) axis hyperactivity to risks for later suicide date to 1965 when Bunney and Fawcett( 1 ) described 36 depressed patients who had supplied serial 24 h urine samples for 17-hydroxycorticosteroid (17-OHCS) determinations during extended stays on a research ward. Three committed suicide on pass or shortly after discharge, two made serious attempts, and all five were among the 18 who had had consistently or intermittently high 17-OHCS values (Fishers exact test, p = 0.023). In a subsequent series of 145 patients assessed in similar fashion, the five who committed suicide all had had mean 17-OHCS values that fell in the top 10% of the values for the overall group.( 2 ) At least two more reports also associated high urinary corticosteroid measures with later suicide.( 3,4 ) Subsequent lines of evidence likewise showed HPA axis hyperactivity to be a risk factor for a completed suicide. In postmortem studies, suicide victims had, in comparison to control subjects, greater adrenal weights,( 57 ) greater adrenal cholesterol concentrations,( 8 ) and greater adrenal volumes.( 9 ) Others showed suicide victims to have higher cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH),( 10,11 ) higher amounts of CRH immunoreactivity in specific brain regions,( 12,13 ) and lower numbers of CRF binding sites.( 14 ) Some, though, found no differences in CRF receptor number( 15 ) or in levels of immunoreactivity( 16 ) between individuals dead by suicide and control subjects dead from other causes. While most postmortem findings have indicated that HPA axis hyperactivity is a risk factor for suicide, a major caveat to these findings is the fact that all comparison groups were comprised of psychiatrically well individuals. The higher levels of HPA axis activity that apparently preceded the suicide deaths may have simply reflected the presence of severe depressive disorder, itself a well-established risk factor for suicide. The use of 24 h urinary free cortisol (UFC) values to, instead, compare depressed patients who later suicide to those who do not therefore speaks more directly to the clinical need to estimate risk for suicide among patients who present with depressive illness and, particularly, among those who also present with suicidal preoccupation or behaviors.
Suicide in late life merits special attention for many reasons. Epidemiologically, one of the groups most at-risk for suicide is older adults. It has long been recognized that in the United States, elderly white males have the highest suicide rates. In a review published by Hawton and van Heeringen, it was noted that suicide rates are also highest in the elderly in most countries around the world [1]. The elderly are not only a vulnerable population, but suicide has a more severe impact in this demographic group. For example, one study showed that suicide in late life tends to be associated with less warning and more lethality compared to attempts in younger populations [2]. This has also been shown in a study demonstrating that elderly suicide victims are more likely to have more serious intent with less warning [3]. These epidemiological studies highlight the importance of understanding suicide in late life. Thus, a small but prolific number of researchers have examined why the prevalence of suicide is higher in the elderly. Crucial to this understanding of suicidality in the elderly is the identification of risk factors for proper evaluation and intervention.
Suicide occurs in the presence of any psychiatric diagnosis, but studies repeatedly show that suicide is most common in the mood disorders, major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder [4]. Many other disorders have elevated rates of suicide, such as mixed drug abuse, alcohol and opioid abuse, eating disorders, schizophrenia and personality disorders, and even acute stress disorders [4,5]. It may be that suicide is related to the occurrence of mood depression, severe anxiety, and increased trait impulsivity that occur in the course of the entire range of psychiatric disorders [6]. The increased risk of suicide has particularly been emphasized in bipolar disorder [7]. More recently, the role of early child abuse in suicide has been recognized as a factor in elevated suicide risk [8]. Child abuse has been considered to be associated with both early onset mood disorders and the trait of impulsivity [8].
Stress in relation to suicidal behavior has largely been considered as the recent stress in the weeks and months before the attempt or completed suicide. Thus, initial research efforts were directed toward examining adverse life events proximal to the suicidal behavior. For example, Paykel et al. (1975) first demonstrated that suicide attempters reported four times as many life events in 6 months before the attempt than controls. Their conclusion that there is strong and immediate relationship between suicide attempts and recent life stress has now been replicated in different countries and age groups as well as in completed suicides (Beatrais et al., 1997; Crane et al., 2007; Heikkinen et al., 2007; Osvath et al., 2004). However, it is noteworthy that the great majority of individuals who experience current stress or adverse life events do not attempt or commit suicide.
GABA and GABAA receptors are ubiquitous within the central nervous systems, playing a fundamental role in controlling neural inhibition and timing of neural networks (i.e., gating pyramidal cell synchrony) (Traub et al., 1999; Whitington and Traub, 2003; Whittington et al., 1995). GABAA receptors are pentameric protein complexes constructed from protein subunits named , , , , , and  that are derived from a repertoire (cassette) of 21 different proteins/genes (Olsen and Sieghart, 2008). Often these subunits exist as subtypes:  has six,  has three, and  has three. The functionality of GABAA receptors is determined by specific subunit configurations. The stoichiometry of GABAA receptors is thought to be 2;2 and one of the other subunits (, , , ) is chosen to complete the pentamer. Although there are many possible subunit combinations that could potentially make up a GABAA receptor, there are two primary classes that have been broadly defined. One class comprises receptors that have a  subunit and the other class is one that has a  subunit. For insertion into a synaptic site, a GABAA receptor must contain a  subunit (which most often is the 2 subtype in the adult CNS). Synaptic receptors mediate what is usually termed phasic inhibition, but those having the  subunit are not usually located in postsynaptic densities and are important for providing tonic (extrasynaptic) inhibition. Importantly, the variability of GABAA receptor structure as defined by other subunits ( and ) seems to control the timing of phasic inhibition. The timing is primarily manifested by the variability of the rate of decay of the synaptic currents. It seems that once GABA is released from the synaptic vesicle it saturates the synaptic receptors, activating them within a millisecond (although there are exceptions to this generalization). Although the GABA concentration declines very quickly (within 2 or 3 ms), the synaptic current does not, as GABA tends to unbind relatively slowly from its receptors (Hutcheon et al., 2000; Maconochie et al., 1994). The rate at which it unbinds is controlled by structure (subunit expression) (Burgard et al., 1999; Hutcheon et al., 2000; Verdoorn, 1994). So, depending on the subunits comprising a given receptor, synaptic currents can last from 5 to 10 ms to hundreds of milliseconds. This variability in duration seems to be important in determining neuronal network synchronization. For example, fast phasic inhibition tends to create fast brain rhythms (gamma oscillations in hippocampus and cortex; Klausberger et al., 2002, 2004), whereas slow inhibition produces slow brain rhythms (delta in renticular nucleus; Bentivoglio et al., 1990; Zhang et al., 1997). Finally, to some extent, extrasynaptic/tonic inhibition (which is essentially active continuously) also seems important for controlling brain rhythms. In this regard, a recent report implicated tonic inhibition in controlling hippocampal gamma rhythms (Mann and Mody, 2010). Given the heterogeneous expression of GABAA receptor subunits regionally and even at the subcellular level, the understanding of the potential complexity of how all these factors control normal and abnormal brain function is daunting. Nevertheless, the implications are relatively easy to appreciate; perturbations in the structure of GABAA receptors have the potential to alter neural network activity and thus alter behavior.
With recent studies using genetic, epigenetic, and other molecular and neurochemical approaches, a new era has begun in understanding the pathophysiology of suicide. Emerging evidence suggests that neurobiological factors are not only critical in providing potential risk factors but also provide a promising approach to develop more effective treatment and prevention strategies. The Neurobiological Basis of Suicide discusses the most recent findings in suicide neurobiology. Psychological, psychosocial, and cultural factors are important in determining the risk factors for suicide; however, they offer weak prediction and can be of little clinical use. Interestingly, cognitive characteristics are different among depressed suicidal and depressed nonsuicidal subjects, and could be involved in the development of suicidal behavior. The characterization of the neurobiological basis of suicide is in delineating the risk factors associated with suicide. The Neurobiological Basis of Suicide focuses on how and why these neurobiological factors are crucial in the pathogenic mechanisms of suicidal behavior and how these findings can be transformed into potential therapeutic applications.
Studies investigating neurological and biological factors associated with suicidal behaviors have been ongoing for decades. Initial molecular genetic studies largely focused on candidate genes and pathways, and while specific neurobiological alterations have been associated with suicide, we are far from reaching a comprehensive understanding of the underlying pathological processes associated with this complex phenotype. In order to expand its focus, suicide research moved toward high-throughput gene expression microarrays in an effort to identify novel biological pathways and molecular mechanisms associated with suicide. By analyzing tissues obtained from suicide completers and examining the expression of a vast number of genes in parallel, these technologies allow researchers to obtain a functional profile of gene expression, thus providing valuable insight into the overall biological processes underlying suicide. This chapter will first discuss the methodologies that have been used to profile gene expression alterations in suicide, and then will examine several of the neurobiological mechanisms that have been implicated. Following this, future uses of gene expression profiling technologies in suicide research will be discussed.
Suicide, the act of deliberately taking ones own life, is the fourth leading cause of death among children between ages 10 and 14 and third leading cause of death among young adults aged 1524, with an annual loss of life due to suicide at 2000 per year (Degmeci and Filakovi, 2008). Nearly 2 million U.S. adolescents attempt suicide and 700,000 receive medical attention as a result of their attempt. According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) youth behavior survey for 2007, 14.5% of high school students reported that they wanted to end their life in the past year (Eaton et al., 2008). Suicidal ideation is often reported in pediatric bipolar disorder (BD), but the number progressing to attempt is around 20% (Klimes-Dougan et al., 1999). Patients with BD who have a past history of suicide attempt are over four times (odds ratio = 4.52, p &lt; 0.0001) more prone to repeat the attempt or complete suicide, and 50% of the events (repeat attempt or completed suicide) occurred by 6 months of the first attempt (Marangell et al., 2006). In 2001, after accidents (46%) and homicide (15%), suicide was the third leading cause of death among children aged 1019 years (CDC, 2004), accounting for 13% of total deaths in this age group. The three most common methods of suicide, firearms, hanging, and poisoning, account for 92.3% of all completed suicides in the United States, with firearms being the most common method for completed suicide at 55%. Hanging (or suffocation) was reported in one out of five completed suicides, using electric cords, belts, or bed sheets. Overdose, especially along with alcohol, is the most commonly used method in females (Doshi et al., 2005). Pediatric BD has the highest mortality risk (Simpson and Jamison, 1999).
NE is produced primarily by neurons in the locus coeruleus (LC), which is located at the pontomesencephalic junction at the floor of the fourth ventricle in the pontine region of the brain. (1) Other nuclei with noradrenergic neurons include the lateral tegmentum and the nucleus of the solitary tract. Retrograde and ultrastructural examinations reveal that the core of the LC and its surrounding regions receive afferent projections from the insular cortex, the central amygdala, preoptic area, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, hypothalamus, nucleus paragigantocellularis, prepositus hypoglossi, paraventricular nucleus, nucleus of solitary tract, lateral habenula, and cerebral cortex.( 25 ) These afferent projections provide multiple neurochemical inputs to the LC with changes in LC neuronal firing being a highly coordinated event. Neurochemical interactions within the LC have been documented for numerous neurotransmitters including glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glycine, serotonin, dopamine, orexin, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), enkephalin, acetylcholine, and substance P.( 615 ) Noradrenergic neurons of the LC express multiple receptor types for these various neurochemical inputs to the LC.( 16,17 ) Some of the neurochemical inputs to the LC have received a great deal of attention in the recent literature with regard to depression and these are considered in greater detail later. NE containing fibers from the LC innervate nearly the entire brain. These fibers leave the LC largely by five distinct efferent tracts. The central tegmental tract, central gray dorsal longitudinal fasciculus, and the ventral tegmental medial forebrain tract leave the LC to innervate the hypothalamus, limbic regions, thalamus, cortex, and olfactory bulb. A fourth pathway travels through the cerebellar peduncle to terminate in the cerebellum. A fifth tract descends into the spinal cord and mesencephalon. (18) NE release can occur at individual synaptic boutons in terminal fields or through en passant connections along the noradrenergic axons, thus allowing NE to be released throughout innervated regions of the brain.
The serotonergic system has been shown to be affected in a number of psychiatric illnesses in the last 50 years. A large body of work has focused on serotonin (5-HT) deficits in major depressive disorder (MDD) and suicide. A great deal has been learned about the anatomy, development, and functional organization of the 5-HT system and the alterations in this system that are present within the suicide brain. Historically, evidence for the involvement of 5-HT in suicide stemmed from findings of low cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in depressed suicide attempters and in the brain stems of completed suicides (sberg 1976; sberg et al. 1976; Banki et al. 1984; Carlsson et al. 1980; Mann and Malone 1997; Placidi et al. 2001; Roy et al. 1986; Trskman et al. 1981). Suicide attempters also exhibit a blunted release of prolactin in response to administration of fenfluramine, a measure of 5-HT activity (Dulchin et al. 2001; Duval et al. 2001; Malone et al. 1996; Mann et al. 1995; Pandey 1997; Weiss and Coccaro 1997). These studies provided evidence for deficits in serotonergic neurotransmission in the brain stem or serotonergic targets in the forebrain of suicidal individuals. 5-HT is produced by neurons embedded in the midline raphe nuclei in the brain stem with widespread targets that appear to be topographically organized. In this chapter, we will discuss data that shed light into the contribution of these serotonergic neurons to brain diseases such as MDD and suicide.
Suicide and attempted suicide are complex behaviors, and a large number of proximal and distal risk factors have been identified (Hawton and van Heeringen, 2009). These risk factors can be categorized in explanatory models, which may help to understand suicidal individuals and facilitate the assessment of suicide risk. Early models have identified key determinants operating during the development of disorders or behavioral problems. For example, psychologists have developed schema models that focused on cognitive characteristics of, for example, depression, anxiety, and personality disorders. This conceptual approach and the empirical research motivated by such models have led to significant insights into these disorders (Ingram and Luxton, 2005). Stress has also been identified as a key determinant of psychopathology, so that a variety of models have featured stress as a primary determinant. Such models suggest that severe enough negative events can precipitate disorders even without reference to individual biological or psychological characteristics. The stress model of suicidal behavior is an example of such models. It is based on the observation that stressful life events are commonly recognized as triggers of suicidal behavior. A variety of explanatory models, including those applied by lay people, have indeed featured stress as a primary determinant of suicidal behavior. Such models indicate that negative life events if severe enough can precipitate suicidal behavior even without the existence of individual predisposing psychological or biological characteristics. Until recently, most studies of suicidal behavior were based on such early models and thus restricted to one domain of possible risk factors, for example, social, psychiatric, or psychological. As pointed out by Mann et al. (1999), such studies are too narrowly focused to estimate the relative importance of different types as risk factors or their interrelationship. A model of suicidal behavior has to take into account proximal and distal risk factors and their potential interaction (Hawton and van Heeringen, 2009). Stress models of suicidal behavior can indeed not explain the observations that even extreme stress does not lead to suicidal behaviors in all exposed individuals. Such observations have led to the recognition that the development of suicidal behavior involves a vulnerability or diathesis as a distal risk factor, which predisposes individuals to such behavior when stress is encountered. This chapter will review the scientific literature on the stressdiathesis model of suicidal behavior. Preceding this review, general issues regarding the origins, definitions, and components of stressdiathesis models will be addressed. The concluding discussion will point at the advantages of using stressdiathesis models for treating and preventing suicide risk and address issues with regard to future research.
Every year over 1 million people commit and over 10 million people attempt suicide. This is one suicide every 40s and one suicide attempt every 3s worldwide. Suicide accounts for almost 2% of the worlds death and it has emerged as one of the leading causes of death among individuals aged 1534 years in most of the countries (Bertolote, 2001; Cantor, 2000; WHO, 2011). Attempted suicide is currently regarded as the most important predictor of a future death from suicide (Gunnell and Lewis, 2005). Almost one-quarter of suicides are preceded by nonfatal suicidal behaviors in the previous year (Owens and House, 1994) and ~2% of suicide attempters end their own life during the 12 months subsequent to the index event (Owens et al., 2002). In the years following an initial suicide attempt, studies indicate a suicide risk ranging from 3.2% (Suokas and Lonnqvist, 1991) to 11.6% (Nielsen et al., 1995) within 5 years, 4.8% (Beck and Steer, 1989) to 12.1% (Nielsen et al., 1995) within 10 years, 6.7% within 18 years (De Moore and Robertson, 1996), and 10%15% within lifetime (Suominen et al., 2004). Suicidal behavior is complex and frequently classified by differentiating between suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and completed suicide. It is not attributable only to one single cause but is a consequence of complex interactions of several risk factors like, for example, medical (e.g., mental disorders and chronic pain), psychological (e.g., hopelessness and aggressiveness), psychosocial (e.g., social isolation), social (e.g., lack of social support), cultural (e.g., religion), socioeconomic (e.g., unemployment), and biological (e.g. genetics and disorders in brain functioning). Early work especially focusing on demographic, psychiatric, and psychological factors found, among others, that being younger, unmarried, unemployed, having a psychiatric illness, feeling hopeless, and having recently experienced a stressful life event were directly correlated with an increased risk of suicide and suicidal behaviors, whereas religiousness, spirituality, and social support were found to have a protective effect. Furthermore, it was reported that being female was associated with a higher risk of suicidal attempt whereas being male was related to a greater risk of death associated to suicide (Nock et al., 2008). Beside all other risk factors, especially personality seems to have a high impact on suicidal behavior (Brezo et al., 2006).
Suicide is a major public health concern. Almost 30,000 people die of suicide each year in the United States, and 1 million people die worldwide. In the teenage population, it is the second leading cause of death. Early identification of suicidal behavior is crucial for its treatment and the prevention of completed suicide. Chemical, behavioral, and psychological risk factors are important in identifying these patients; however, many times they produce a false positive or a false negative diagnosis. Several studies suggest that abnormal biology may be a risk factor for suicidal behavior. Therefore, a combination of biological factors with psychosocial factors might more accurately predict suicidal behavior and identify suicidal patients. It is thus important to develop biomarkers for suicidal behavior. A useful biomarker should not only reflect the psychopathology, in this case suicidal behavior, but it should also be measured in a noninvasive manner. Because of the inaccessibility of the human brain, initial studies of the biology of suicidal behavior and development of biomarkers focused on peripheral tissues such as cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), urine, platelets, serum, etc. In this chapter, we discuss studies pertaining to the use of peripheral tissues for the studies of pathophysiology of suicidal behavior and their potential role as biomarkers. Initial studies of peripheral tissues focused on the levels of neurotransmitters and their metabolites in suicidal behavior. Most recent studies have found functional abnormalities of these neurotransmittersfor example, in the receptors and receptor-linked signaling systems for the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5HT]) and norepinephrine (NE) neurotransmitters. The intent of this chapter is not to exhaustively review all the studies pertaining to these two monoamines (5HT and NE), their metabolites, their receptors, and the related signal transduction mechanisms in all peripheral tissues. Instead, this chapter focuses on those studies of peripheral tissues that examined and found potential peripheral markers primarily for suicidal behavior.
In the past decade, remarkable advances have been made in cannabinoid (CB) research. The brain endocannabinoid (eCB) system modulates several neurobiological processes and its dysfunction is suggested to be involved in the pathophysiology of mood and drug use disorders. The CB1 receptormediated signaling, in particular, has been shown to play a critical role in the neural circuitry that mediates mood, motivation, and emotional behaviors. This chapter presents the data pertaining to the involvement of the eCB system in depression, suicide, and alcohol addiction.
Neuroimaging methods provide a great opportunity to improve our understanding of the pathway between adverse environmental conditions and suicide (see Figure 9.1). Since neuroimaging is completed in vivo, it is tailored to investigate the intermediary links between neuropathology and the symptoms or traits associated with suicide since such symptoms and traits may be measured at the time of brain scanning. As well, links between environmental conditions and neuropathology associated with suicide may be investigated since neuroimaging may be conducted during different environmental conditions. In this chapter, the neurobiological targets related to suicide presented include serotonin 5-HT2A receptors, serotonin transporters (5-HTT), monoamine oxidase A, D2 receptor binding, and -opioid receptors. Recent discoveries in the area of 5-HT2A receptor, serotonin transporter, and MAO-A imaging have led to a pathophysiological understanding for the mechanism of pessimism in major depressive disorder (MDD). Neuroimaging of MAO-A, D2 and -opioid imaging are leading toward better understanding of mechanisms of impulsivity. An important ongoing direction is determining how environmental conditions lead to alterations in brain neurochemistry that can increase the risk for suicide and this will be illustrated in an example of neuroimaging MAO-A in early postpartum.
Suicide is the third leading cause of death in adolescence in the United States. In addition, nonfatal forms of suicidal behavior are the most common reasons for the psychiatric hospitalization of adolescents in many countries (Center for Disease Control 1994). About 1600 youngsters, age 1519, committed suicide in the United States in 2001; 3.4 million youngsters in this age group seriously considered suicide; 1.7 million made a suicide attempt; and 590,000 made a suicide attempt sufficiently serious to require medical attention (Grunbaum et al. 2004). It is of note that not all suicidal ideation or behavior in pediatric population is directly attributable to depression (Zalsman et al. 2006c). One major survey, the biennial Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) data for adolescents (Grunbaum et al. 2004), found that during the preceding 12 months, 28.6% of high school students nationwide had felt so sad or hopeless almost every day for 2 weeks in a row that they stopped doing some usual activities; 16.9% of students had seriously considered attempting suicide; 16.5% of students nationwide had made a plan to attempt suicide; 8.5% of students had actually attempted suicide one or more times; and 2.9% of students nationwide had made a suicide attempt that had to be treated by a doctor or nurse. Understanding the precursors of suicidal behavior in youths is important for the treatment and prevention of suicidal behavior in this population (Grunbaum et al. 2004). Despite suicidal behavior being a major public health problem in the youth, relevant genetic studies are still sparse. Adoption studies suggest that there is a genetic susceptibility to suicide that is partially independent of the presence of a psychiatric disorder (Roy 1983). Roy et al. (1983) found suicide rates for monozygotic and dizygotic twins as 11.3% and 1.8%, respectively. When considered together with results from earlier twin studies, even greater differences were noted: 13.2% in monozygotic pairs versus 0.7% in dizygotic pairs. These findings are supported by the study of Brent et al. (1996) who screened 58 adolescent suicide probands and concluded that suicidal behavior may be transmitted as a familial trait, regardless of the presence of Axis I or II diagnosis. Suicidal behavior in adolescents has been found to have biochemical, genetic, and psychological correlates (Apter et al. 1990; Brent et al. 2003; Mann 2003). Suicidal behavior refers to the occurrence of suicide attempts and ranges from fatal acts (completed suicide) and high-lethality and failed suicide attempts (where serious intention and careful planning are evident, and survival is fortuitous) to low-lethality attempts. Usually impulsive attempts that are triggered by social crisis seem to be ambivalent and contain a strong element of appeal for help (Beck et al. 1976; Stengel 1973). Intent and lethality are positively correlated and related to biological abnormalities that mostly involve the serotonergic system. The clinical and neurobiological study of failed suicides can provide information about completed suicide because the two populations are clinically and demographically similar (Mann 2003). Among adolescents, the annual rate of suicide attempts that require medical attention is 2.6%, while suicide is much less prevalent. Among 1519 year olds, the rates in 1998 were 14.6 per 100,000 in boys and 2.9 per 100,000 in girls (Brent 2002). There is a strong relationship between attempted suicide in adolescent psychiatric patients and eventual death from suicide (Garrison et al. 1991). Predisposition to suicidal behavior might be genetically transmitted as a trait independent of Axis I or II diagnosis (Brent et al. 1996). Suicide and suicidal behavior of adolescents are linked to a wide variety of psychiatric disorders, including affective illness, alcohol and substance abuse, conduct disorder, and schizophrenia (Shaffer 1998). Over 90% of adolescent and adult suicide victims appear to have at least one Axis I disorder (Brent 1995). Several neurobiological systems were linked to suicide and suicidal behavior; mainly from neuroendocrine studies of the hypothalamic axes and studies of the serotonergic system (5-HT). Data were collected utilizing several methodologies such as hormonal suppression tests, sleep studies, postmortem studies, and genetic factor analysis. Currently, it is believed that the most plausible biological system related to suicidality, impulsive violence, and anxiety is the serotonergic system (Apter et al. 1990, 1993b; Mann 2003; Zalsman et al. 2006c).
Each year suicide leads to the tragic and premature deaths of over 1 million individuals around the world with an estimated annual mortality of 14.5 per 100,000 people. This translates to one death occurring every 40 s. Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death, making up 11.5% of all deaths (Hawton and van Heeringen 2009), though this burden is probably underestimated considering many third world countries appear to underreport suicide 910 times the actual amount (Hawton and van Heeringen 2009). While suicide rates have remained constant for the last decade, the three greatest causes of death (heart disease, cancer, and cerebrovascular disease) have all seen a decrease in death rates in this time period. Two of the most important risk factors for suicide are history of past suicide attempt (Harris and Barraclough 1997; Mann 2003) and a history of mood disorder. Every suicide is preceded by an estimated 825 suicide attempts, and 4% of depressed individuals die from suicide (Hawton and van Heeringen 2009). Additionally, more than half of individuals who attempt suicide had a major depressive episode at the time of the attempt. For the past 7 years, our team at the University of Maryland School of Medicine Mood and Anxiety Program has been focused on studying triggers and vulnerabilities for suicide originating in the natural environment, that is, physical, chemical, and biological. In particular, we have been interested in the highly consistent peaks of suicide (Postolache et al. 2010) during certain seasons and their possible triggers. Specifically, we have identified (1) a relationship between atmospheric peaks of aeroallergens and suicide attempts in women (Postolache et al. 2005), confirmed in Denmark (Qin et al. 2011), (2) a relationship between suicide and allergy (Qin et al. 2011), and (3) an increased expression of allergy-related cytokines in the prefrontal cortex of suicide victims (Tonelli et al. 2008b). We have also reported that intranasal administration of allergens induces animal behaviors that are analogous to certain suicide risk factors such as aggression (Tonelli et al. 2008a) and anxiety (Tonelli et al. 2009). Our intermediate conclusion is that molecular and cellular mechanisms involved in the allergic immune response might attenuate functional capabilities of areas of the prefrontal cortex to act as behavioral breaks via multisynaptic inhibition of infralimbic centers. Following this line of thought, if allergy (a misdirected immune response against innocuous substances that were misperceived by the immune system as invasive pathogens) is associated with suicidal behavior, one would expect real neurotropic parasites to also be associated with suicide behavior. This led us to investigate Toxoplasma gondii and the anti-T. gondii immune response. A possible connection between T. gondii and suicidal behavior was suggested by the relatively high seroprevalence, its neurotropism (Flegr 2007), the immune activation involved in the defense against the parasite leading to elevation of cytokines previously found related to suicidal behavior (see Section 19.3.2), the occurrence of induced self-destructive behavior in rodent models (Lamberton et al. 2008; Vyas et al. 2007; Webster 2007), behavioral changes in humans (Flegr et al. 2002), and the parasites association with mental illness (Niebuhr et al. 2008; Torrey et al. 2007). We will first briefly review the immune system and the evidence connecting immune activation with suicidal behavior, and then we will describe the immune response to T. gondii, followed by a description of the parasite and the evidence associating T. gondii infection with suicidal behavior.
Much has been learned and written about other neurobiological mechanisms that play a role in suicidal behavior and whether pharmacological agents that act on those systems can contribute to reducing the risk for suicide and suicide attempt. Antiepileptic drugs were also found by the FDA in a meta-analysis to be associated with greater risk for ideation [161] but others found the opposite [162]. Antiepileptic drugs act mostly to enhance GABAergic inhibitory function in the cortex and that raises a question about the impact of GABA on suicide risk as an area for future research. PUFA profile can predict suicide attempt risk and perhaps omega-3 supplements may help reduce risk. Ketamine is very rapidly acting antidepressant and is reported to also have a profound therapeutic benefit for suicidal ideation. It is an AMPA receptor antagonist and raises GABA levels and perhaps those properties contribute to its rapid and profound reduction in suicidal ideation. Other new agents targeting other neurobiological mechanisms related to suicidal behavior beyond the major neurotransmitters that are currently being examined, including the corticotrophin-releasing factor 1 receptor, neuropeptide Y, vasopressin V1b, N-methyl-daspartate, nicotinic acetylcholine, dopamine D1, glucocorticoid system, -opioid, cannabinoid and cytokine receptors, -amino butyric acid (GABA), intracellular messenger systems, transcription, and neuroprotective and neurogenic factors [163]. Moreover, emerging data from pharmacogenetic studies showing gene effects on treatment response will provide additional tools for developing more personalized pharmacotherapies for suicidal behavior [164].
With prevalence estimates ranging between 6.4% and 10.1% [15], major depression ranks first among the most significant causes of disability and premature death, thus imposing a continual economic burden on society. For instance, in the United States, the direct and indirect costs are estimated at U.S.$44 billion/year [6]. The greatest loss to our society, however, is the associated mortality by suicide related to major depression. Indeed, it has been estimated that between 50% and 70% of suicide completers will die during an episode of major depression [7,8] and prospective follow-up studies of major depression suggest that between 7% and 15% of these patients will die by suicide [912]. Suicide is a complex problem, which is believed to result from the interaction of several different factors [13,14]. Indeed, psychological factors and personality traits such as impulsivity and negative affect [14,15], social factors [16,17], environmental factors such as early-life adversity [1820], genetic factors [21], and neurobiological factors [22] have been proposed to induce behavioral alterations, which in turn may predispose certain individuals to develop depressive and suicidal behaviors. However, since these factors alone are unlikely to explain suicide and suicide risk, it may be more readily explained when considering the interaction between these different sources of variation [23,24]. Among these risk factors, early-life adversity, particularly childhood sexual abuse (CSA) and childhood physical abuse (CPA), is one of the strongest predictors of mental disorders [25,26] and suicide [18,19]. For example, studies have shown that CSA is associated with early onset of depression, chronic course, and more severe depressive outcome [2729] but, more importantly, with 12 times higher odds of suicidal behaviors [26,30]. Although less consistently, CPA and neglect have also been associated with suicidal behaviors [19,31]. CSA and CPA have been associated with higher odds of self-harm [20,28,3234], suicidal ideation [35,36], and suicide attempts [26,3539]. Moreover, the prevalence of suicidal ideation and suicide attempts has been shown to increase with the severity and intensity of the abuse [35,36,38].
About 30,000 persons die by suicide each year in the United States alone (Botsis et al., 1997). It is the second or third (depending on the age group and sex) most frequent cause of death for teenagers in the United States (CDC, 2011; Lowy et al., 1984; Moscicki et al., 1988). In 2006, the age-adjusted suicide rate among youth aged 1019 years in the United States was 4.16 per 100,000. Among this population, the rate of suicide increases with age, and the suicide rate is substantially higher in boys than in girlsin boys between ages 18 and 19 years, the suicide rate is 1520 per 100,000, and in girls, the rate is 34 per 100,000 (Bridge et al., 2006; CDC, 2011). In adults, suicidal behavior is a major symptom of depression and other psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia, alcoholism, and personality disorders. Besides psychiatric illnesses, other risk factors include a family history of suicide and a family history of psychiatric disorders and alcoholism, psychosocial stressors, impulsivity, and aggression (Joiner et al., 2005). Abnormalities in neurobiological mechanisms may also be a predisposing or risk factor (Mann et al., 1999; Underwood et al., 2004). Studies conducted on patients with suicidal behavior (Pandey et al., 1995) and on postmortem brain samples from suicide victims (Pandey et al., 2002a) strongly suggest that suicide is associated with neurobiological abnormalities. Although some progress has been made in elucidating the role of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5HT) and other neurobiological mechanisms in adult suicide, the neurobiology of adolescent suicide is understudied. There is evidence to suggest that some factors associated with adolescent suicide may be different from adult suicide (Brent et al., 1999; Zalsman et al., 2008). Although the impulsiveaggressive behavior is a common risk factor for both adult and teenage suicide, aggression and impulsivity are traits highly related to suicidal behavior in adolescents (Apter et al., 1995). Higher levels of impulsive aggressiveness play a greater role in suicide among younger individuals with decreasing importance with increasing age (Brent et al., 1993). Brent et al. have also shown that adolescents with aggression and conduct disorders may be suicidal even in the absence of depression. Psychosocial factors associated with adolescent suicide, such as stress and contagion, bullying, and peer victimization (Brunstein et al., 2008; Bursztein and Apter, 2009; Klomek et al., 2008), may also be different. Alcohol and drug abuse contribute significantly to the risk of suicide in teenagers (Apter et al., 1990, 1995). Additional potential contributors to suicidal behavior in depressed adolescents are other early defined traits, such as temperament and emotional regulation. One study (Tamas et al., 2007) suggests that suicidal youths are characterized by high maladaptive regulatory responses and low adaptive emotional regulation responses to dysphoria. Since there are both similarities and differences in the risk factors for teenage and adult suicides, it is quite likely that the neurobiology of teenage suicide may be similar in some respects to adult suicide and different in others. The neurobiology of teenage suicide has been primarily studied by the group of Pandey and colleagues. In this chapter, we summarize these studies and have also discussed the similarities and differences in the findings between teenage and adult suicide victims. Since we also study the neurobiology of adult suicide, we compare these neurobiological findings with particular reference to our own findings and briefly to those reported in the literature.
Approximately 1 million people worldwide die by suicide each year. With a prevalence rate of 0.0145% and suicide accounting for 1.5% of death by all causes, it is the 10th leading cause of mortality worldwide (Hawton and van Heeringen 2009). Suicide is complex, multifactorial behavioral phenotype. Suicide is also familial: a family history of suicide increases risk of suicide attempts and completed suicide. In this chapter, we will examine the family, twin, and adoption studies that establish the existence of both genetic and environmental bases of suicidal behavior. We will then review the major candidate gene findings. Lastly, we will discuss recent developments in genetic studies of suicide and comment on future experiments that may help resolve the challenges that are hindering genetic research into the pathophysiology of suicide.
Animals are widely used in neuroscience research to explore normal and abnormal biological mechanisms of nervous system function, to identify the genetic basis of disease states, and to provide models of human disorders and diseases for the development of new treatments. Numerous laws, policies, and regulations are in place governing the use of animals in research. These measures are intended to ensure the humane care and use of animals, including the implementation of practical steps to use the smallest number of animals necessary to achieve significant results while minimizing pain and distress. Many animal care and use issues are generic to all types of biomedical research; however, animal regulations have implications specific to neuroscience research. To consider these issues from a global perspective, the Institute of Medicine Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders, in collaboration with the National Research Council Committee on Science, Technology, and Law and the Institute for Laboratory Animal Research, convened the workshop U.S. and European Animal Research Regulations: Impact on Neuroscience Research. Held at the Kavli Royal Society International Centre in Buckinghamshire, UK, on July 2627, 2011, the workshop brought together neuroscientists, legal scholars, administrators, and other key stakeholders to discuss current and emerging trends in animal regulations as they apply to the neurosciences.
Herbert H. Jasper devoted his life to neuroscience and, in particular, to the pathophysiogenesis of epilepsy. He pioneered the EEG as a tool for studying brain activity in relation to states of consciousness, learning, and epileptic discharge. He also used microelectrodes to record the activity of single neurons, and combined electrophysiology with the analysis of the underlying neurochemical mechanisms. For over thirty years Jasper was a driving force in the scientific programs at the Montreal Neurological Institute of McGill University, and for another two decades he contributed vigorously as a leader in neuroscience research at the Universit de Montral. In addition to his research accomplishments, Jasper trained many neuroscientists and was the founding editor of the EEG Journal and a founding member and first President of the American EEG Society. Jasper took part in establishing the International Brain Research Organization (IBRO) to promote collaboration and interchange of scientific information on brain research throughout the world. In the 1960s he was appointed the first Executive Secretary of IBRO. During this period Jasper, along with AA Ward, A Pope and the Public Health Service Advisory Committee on the Epilepsies of the National Institutes of Health, organized the first conference on Basic Mechanisms of the Epilepsies (BME). In 1969 the first BME book was published. Since then, basic and clinical research scientists in epilepsy meet approximately each decade to appraise their accomplishments and to establish future directions.
This chapter reviews current computational models and proposes future directions for computer modeling in the field of epilepsy. We consider the potential therapeutic applications of modeling in the both the treatment and prevention of epilepsy. Additionally, we discuss the benefits of computer modeling for research. The models discussed include single cells with mutated ion channels, mean-field network and detailed network models. We conclude by suggesting some excellent resources for those interested in learning more about computer modeling in neuroscience and epilepsy.
Hearing the blare of an ambulance siren often impels us to trace the location of the emergency vehicle with our gaze so we can quickly decide which way to pull the car over. In doing so, we must combine motion information from the somehow imprecise but omnidirectional auditory system with the far more precise, albeit spatially bounded, visual system. This type of multisensory interplay, so pervasive in everyday life perception of moving objects, has been largely ignored in the scientific study of motion perception until recently. Here, we provide an overview of recent research about behavioral and neural mechanisms that support the binding of different sensory modalities during the perception of motion, and discuss some potential extensions of this research into the applied context of audiovisual media.
For multisensory processing, the requisite, defining step is the convergence of inputs from different sensory modalities onto individual neurons. This arrangement allows postsynaptic currents evoked by different modalities access to the same membrane, to collide and integrate there on the common ground of an excitable bilayer. Naturally, one would expect a host of biophysical and architectural features to play a role in shaping those postsynaptic events as they spread across the membrane, but much more can be written about what is unknown of the structural basis for multisensory integration than of what is known. Historically, however, what has primarily been the focus of anatomical investigations of multisensory processing has been the identification of sources of inputs that converge in multisensory regions. Although a few recent studies have begun to assess the features of convergence (see below), most of what is known about the structural basis of multisensory processing lies in the sources and pathways essentially before convergence.
The binding of visual information available outside the body with tactile information arising, by definition, on the body, allows the representation of the space lying in between, which is often the theater of our interactions with objects. The representation of this intermediate space has become known as peripersonal space (Rizzolatti et al. 1981b, 1981c). The definition of peripersonal space (PpS hereafter) originates from single-unit electrophysiological studies in macaque monkeys, based on a class of multisensory, predominantly visualtactile neurons. Over the years, such neurons have been identified in several regions of the monkey brain, including premotor area 6, parietal areas (Broadmann's area 7b and the ventral intraparietal area, VIP), and the putamen (Fogassi et al. 1999; Graziano 2001; Rizzolatti et al. 1997). The most relevant characteristic of these neurons, for present purposes, is that, in addition to responding both to visual and tactile stimulation (referred to here as visuo-tactile), their visually evoked responses are modulated by the distance between the visual object and the tactile receptive field (RF). This allows for the coding of visual information that is dependent, or centered, on the body part that contains the tactile RF.
The purpose of this review is twofold: (1) to refute the view that the cross-modal (multisensory, hereafter) associations are mediated solely through association areas and (2) to debunk the view that human communication is uniquely multisensory. To achieve these two goals, I will focus on the multisensory nature of nonhuman primate vocal communication and the many possible roles that one, nonassociation area plays: the auditory cortex.
The perception of flavor occurs when a food or drink enters the mouth. Although the resulting perception depends on inputs from multiple sensory modalities, it is experienced as a unitary percept of a food or beverage. In this chapter the psychophysical characteristics and neural substrates of flavor perception are reviewed within the context of a proposed model of a flavor modality in which the diverse sensory inputs from the mouth and nose become integrated. More specifically, it is argued that a binding mechanism in the somatomotor mouth area of the cortex brings taste, touch, and smell together into a common spatial register and facilitates their perception as a coherent flavor object. We propose that the neural representation of the flavor object is a distributed pattern of activity across the insula, overlying operculum (including the somatomotor mouth region), orbitofrontal, piriform, and anterior cingulate cortex.
Although it has been generally assumed that bimodal neurons are essentially the same, an insightful study of multisensory integration in bimodal SC neurons demonstrated that bimodal neurons exhibit different functional ranges (Perrault et al. 2005). Some bimodal neurons were highly integrative and exhibited integrated, superadditive (combined response &gt; sum of unisensory responses) responses to a variety of stimulus combinations, whereas others never produced superadditive levels despite the full range of stimuli presented. In this highly integrative structure, approximately 28% of the bimodal neurons showed multisensory integration in the superadditive range. Thus, within the SC, there was a distribution of bimodal neurons with different functional ranges. Hypothetically, if this distribution were altered, for example, in favor of low-integrating bimodal neurons, then it would be expected that the overall SC would exhibit lower levels of multisensory processing. Because many studies of cortical multisensory processing reveal few examples of superadditive levels of integration (e.g., Meredith et al. 2006; Clemo et al. 2007; Allman and Meredith 2007; Meredith and Allman 2009), it seems possible that bimodal cortical neurons also exhibit functional ranges like those observed in the SC, but do so in different proportions. Therefore, the present investigation reviewed single-unit recording data derived from several different cortical areas and the SC (as depicted in Figure 4.1) to address the possibility that bimodal neurons in different parts of the brain might exhibit different integrative properties that occur in area-specific proportions.
Our sensory organs continuously receive a large amount of input from the external world; some of these are important for a successful interaction with the environment, whereas others can be ignored. The operation of selecting relevant signals and filtering out irrelevant information is a key task of the attentional system (Desimone and Duncan 1995; Kastner and Ungerleider 2001). Attentional selection can occur on the basis of many different criteria, with a main distinction between endogenous control (i.e., selection based on voluntary attention, current aims, and knowledge) and stimulus-driven control (i.e., selection based on the intrinsic features of the sensory input). Accordingly, we can decide to pay attention to the face of one person in a crowded room (i.e., attending to subtle details in a rich and complex environment), or attention can be captured by a loud sound in a quiet room (i.e., attention captured by a salient stimulus). Many different constraints can guide endogenous and stimulus-driven attention. We can voluntarily decide to attend to a specific visual feature, such as color or motion, but the very same features can guide stimulus-driven attention if they stand out from the surrounding environment (pop-out item, e.g., a single red stimulus presented among many green stimuli). Here, I will focus on processes related to attentional selection based on spatial location. The investigation of mechanisms of spatial attention control is appealing for many reasons. Spatial selectivity is one of the most important characteristics of single neurons (i.e., the neurons receptive field) and well-organized maps of space can be found throughout the brain (Gross and Graziano 1995). These include sensory areas (e.g., striate and extrastriate occipital regions, for retinotopic representations of the visual world; Tootell et al. 1982), subcortical regions [e.g., the superior colliculus (SC); Wallace et al. 1997], and higher-level associative areas in frontal and parietal cortex (e.g., Ben Hamed et al. 2001; Sommer and Wurtz 2000). This widespread selectivity for spatial locations opens the question about how/ whether these anatomically segregated representations contribute to the formation of an integrated representation of external space. Indeed, from a subjective point of view, signals about different visual features (e.g., shape/color) as well as motor commands seem to all merge effortlessly, giving rise to a coherent and unified perceptionaction system that allows us to interact spatially with the external environment.
Despite the apparent unitary, global character of bodily self-consciousness, experimental manipulations have mainly focused on subglobal aspects, such as the sense of ownership and agency for ones hand and its movements (Botvinick and Cohen 1998; Ehrsson et al. 2004; Jeannerod 2006, 2007; Knoblich 2002; Pavani et al. 2000; Tsakiris and Haggard 2005; Tsakiris et al. 2007). These latter studies on body-part representation are important (and will be discussed below in detail), yet we have argued (e.g., see Blanke and Metzinger 2009) that they fail to account for a key feature of bodily self-consciousness: its global character. This is because a fundamental aspect of bodily self-consciousness is its association with a single, whole body, not with multiple body parts (Blanke and Metzinger 2009; Carruthers 2008; Lenggenhager et al. 2007; Metzinger et al. 2007). A number of recent studies (Aspell et al. 2009; Ehrsson 2007; Lenggenhager et al. 2007, 2009; Mizumoto and Ishikawa 2005; Petkova and Ehrsson 2008) have demonstrated that more global aspects of body perception can also be experimentally manipulated using multisensory conflicts. These experimental studies on healthy subjects were inspired by an unusual and revealing set of neurological phenomenaautoscopic phenomenain which the sense of the body as a whole is disrupted in different ways, and which are likely to be caused by an underlying abnormality in the multisensory integration of global bodily inputs (Blanke and Mohr 2005). In this chapter, we first examine how the scientific understanding of bodily self-consciousness and its multisensory mechanisms can be informed by the study of autoscopic phenomena. We then present a review of investigations of multisensory processing relating to body-part perception (rubber hand illusion studies: Botvinick and Cohen 1998; Ehrsson et al. 2004; Tsakiris and Haggard 2005) and go on to discuss more recent full body illusion studies that were inspired by autoscopic phenomena and have shown that it is also possible to dissociate certain components of bodily self-consciousnessnamely, self-location, self-identification, and the first-person perspectivein healthy subjects by inducing multisensory conflicts.
In this article, we focus on the organization and putative functions of visual inputs to the auditory cortex. Although anatomical and physiological studies have revealed multisensory interactions in visual and somatosensory areas, it is arguably the auditory cortex where most attention has been paid and where we may be closest to answering these questions.
Numerous studies in both monkey and human provided evidence for multisensory integration at high-level and low-level cortical areas. This chapter focuses on the anatomical pathways contributing to multisensory integration. We first describe the anatomical connections existing between different sensory cortical areas, briefly concerning the well-known connections between associative cortical areas and the more recently described connections targeting low-level sensory cortical areas. Then we focus on the description of the connections of the thalamus with different sensory and motor areas and their potential role in multisensory and sensorimotor integration. Finally, we discuss the several possibilities for the brain to integrate the environmental world with the different senses.
After more than 30 years of systematic research conducted mainly on the visual abilities of profoundly deaf individuals, it is apparent that the long-standing debate as to whether perceptual and cognitive functions of deaf individuals are deficient or supranormal is far from being settled. Several reviews of this literature (e.g., Parasnis 1983; Bavelier et al. 2006; Mitchell and Maslin 2007) clearly indicate that deaf and hearing individuals perform comparably on a number of perceptual tasks. As we shall see later (see Section 22.2.1), this conclusion is strongly supported by tasks involving basic perceptual thresholds. Instead, other studies have revealed a differential performance in the two groups, either in the direction of deficient abilities in deaf than hearing participants (e.g., Quittner et al. 2004; Parasnis et al. 2003), or in the direction of supranormal abilities for the deaf population (e.g., Bottari et al. 2010; Loke and Song 1991; Neville and Lawson 1987). In this context, it should perhaps be emphasized that in the absence of clear behavioral differences between deaf and hearing participants, even the most striking differences between the two groups observed at the neural level cannot disentangle between the perceptual deficit hypothesis and the sensory compensation hypotheses. For instance, much of the renewed interest in the study of visual abilities in deaf individuals has been motivated by the seminal work of Neville et al. (1983). In that study, visual evoked potentials (VEPs) recorded from the scalp of eight congenitally deaf adults were significantly larger over both auditory and visual cortices, with respect to those of eight hearing controls, specifically for visual stimuli occurring in the periphery of the visual field (8.3). Although this pioneering work implies that the lack of auditory experience from an early age can influence the organization of the human brain for visual processing [a finding that was later confirmed and extended by many other studies using different methodologies for the recording of brain responses; e.g., electroencephalogram (EEG): Neville and Lawson 1987; magnetoencephalography: Finney et al. 2003; functional magnetic resonance imaging: Bavelier et al. 2000, 2001], in the absence of a behavioral difference between the two groups it remains potentially ambiguous whether modifications at the neural level are an index of deficiency or compensation. In other words, even if one assumes that larger visual evoked components (e.g., Neville et al. 1983; Neville and Lawson 1987) or stronger bold responses (e.g., Bavelier et al. 2000;2001) indicate enhanced processing of the incoming input, if this is not accompanied by behavioral enhancement it is difficult to conclude that it really serves some adaptive functional role. Unfortunately, the current evidence in the literature lacks this explicative power. With the only exception of the work by Neville and Lawson (1987), all other neuroimaging studies focused on measures of brain response alone, instead of combined measures of brain response and behavior. Furthermore, conclusive evidence that cortical reorganization serves a functional role can only originate from the observation that interfering with the reorganized brain response [e.g., using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)] impairs the supranormal behavioral performance in the sensory-deprived participants (e.g., see Cohen et al. 1997 for an example of abolished supranormal tactile discrimination in the blind, following disruption of occipital lobe function using TMS).
Recent studies suggest that human infants can transfer information gleaned from one sense to another (e.g., Streri 2003; Streri et al. 2004). For example, 1-month-old infants can visually recognize an object they have previously explored orally (Gibson and Walker 1984; Meltzoff and Borton 1979) and 2-month-old infants can visually recognize an object they have previously felt (Rose 1981; Streri et al. 2008). However, many of these studies show an asymmetry in the transfer (Sann and Streri 2007; Streri 2003; Streri et al. 2008) or a partial dominance of one modality over another (Lewkowicz 1988a, 1988b), supporting the idea that, even when multimodal skills are present, they are not necessarily fully mature. Recent results (Bremner et al. 2008a, 2008b) on the representation of peripersonal space support the presence of two distinct mechanisms in sensory integration with different developmental trends: the first, relying principally on visual information, is present during the first 6 months; the second, incorporating information of hand and body posture with visual, develops only after 6.5 months of age. Over the past years, the majority of multisensory studies in infants and children have investigated the development of multisensory matching, transfer, and facilitation abilities, whereas few of those have investigated the development of multisensory integration. Those few that did investigate multisensory integration in school-age children point to unimodal dominance rather than integration abilities (Hatwell 1987; Klein 1966; McGurk and Power 1980; Misceo et al. 1999).
In this chapter, we review studies that have extended the RT-based chronometric investigation of cross-modal spatial attention by utilizing psychophysical measures that better isolate perceptual-level processes. In addition, neurophysiological and neuroimaging methods have been combined with these psychophysical approaches to identify changes in neural activity that might underlie the cross-modal consequences of spatial attention on perception. These methods have also examined neural activity within the cuetarget interval that might reflect supramodal (or modality specific) control of spatial attention and subsequent anticipatory biasing of activity within sensory regions of the cortex.
Humans can associate a sound with its visual source, where it comes from, how it is produced, and what it means. This association, or audiovisual (AV) integration, also occurs in many nonhuman primate species, and may be used in kin recognition, localization, and social interaction, among other things (Cheney and Seyfarth 1990; Ghazanfar and Santos 2004). These abilities suggest that nonhuman primates integrate sight and sound as humans do: through recognition of AV vocalizations and enhanced perception of audiovisual stimuli.
Multisensory research within experimental psychology has led to the emergence of a number of lawful relations between response speed and various empirical conditions of the experimental setup (spatiotemporal stimulus configuration, intensity, number of modalities involved, type of instruction, and so forth). This chapter presents a conceptual framework to account for the effects of cross-modal stimulation on response speed. Although our framework applies to measures of cross-modal response speed in general, here we focus on modeling saccadic reaction time as a measure of orientation performance toward cross-modal stimuli. The central postulate is the existence of a critical time-window-of-integration (TWIN) controlling the combination of information from different modalities. It is demonstrated that a few basic assumptions about this timing mechanism imply a remarkable number of empirically testable predictions. After introducing a general version of the TWIN model framework, we present various specifications and extensions of the original model that are geared toward more specific experimental paradigms. Our emphasis will be on predictions and empirical testability of these model versions, but for experimental data, we refer the reader to the original literature.
A great deal of attention has been paid to the physiological processes through which the brain integrates information from different senses. This reflects the substantial impact of this process on perception, cognitive decisions, and overt behavior. Yet, less attention has been given to the postnatal development, organization, and plasticity associated with this process. In the present chapter we examine what is known about the normal development of multisensory integration and how early alterations in postnatal experience disrupt, change, and dramatically alter the fundamental properties of multisensory integration. The focus here is on the multisensory layers of the cat superior colliculus (SC), a system that has served as an excellent model for understanding multisensory integration at the level of the single neuron and at the level of overt orientation behavior. Before discussing this structures normal development and its capacity to change, it is important to examine what has been learned about multisensory integration and the functional role of the SC in this process.
Although scientists have only recently had the tools available to noninvasively study the neural mechanisms of multisensory perceptual processes in humans (Calvert et al. 1999), the study of multisensory perception has had a long history in science (James 1890; Molyneux 1688). Before the advent of neuroimaging techniques, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and high-density electrical recording, the study of neural mechanisms, using single-unit recording, was restricted to nonhuman animals such as monkeys and cats. These groundbreaking neurophysiological studies established many principles for understanding multisensory processing at the level of single neurons (Meredith and Stein 1983), and continue to improve our understanding of multisensory mechanisms at that level (Stein and Stanford 2008). It is tempting to consider that neuroimaging measurements, like blood oxygenation leveldependent (BOLD) activation measured with fMRI, are directly comparable with findings from single-unit recordings. Although several studies have established clear links between BOLD activation and neural activity (Attwell and Iadecola 2002; Logothetis and Wandell 2004; Thompson et al. 2003), there remains a fundamental difference between BOLD activation and single-unit activity: BOLD activation is measured from the vasculature supplying a heterogeneous population of neurons, whereas single-unit measures are taken from individual neurons (Scannell and Young 1999). The ramifications of this difference are not inconsequential because the principles of multisensory phenomena established using single-unit recording may not apply to population-based neuroimaging data (Calvert et al. 2000). The established principles must be tested theoretically and empirically, and where they fail, they must be replaced with new principles that are specific to the new technique.
Whereas the ubiquity and fundamental relevance of multisensory processing have become increasingly clear, the neural mechanisms underlying multisensory interaction are much less well understood. In this chapter, we review recent studies that may cast new light on this issue. Although classical studies have postulated a feedforward convergence of unimodal signals as the primary mechanism for multisensory integration (Stein and Meredith 1993; Meredith 2002), there is now evidence that both feedback and lateral interaction may also be relevant (Driver and Spence 2000; Foxe and Schroeder 2005; Ghazanfar and Schroeder 2006; Kayser and Logothetis 2007). Beyond this changing view on the anatomical substrate, there is increasing awareness that complex dynamic interactions of cell populations, leading to coherent oscillatory firing patterns, may be crucial for mediating cross-systems integration in the brain (von der Malsburg and Schneider 1986; Singer and Gray 1995; Singer 1999; Engel et al. 1992, 2001; Varela et al. 2001; Herrmann et al. 2004a; Fries 2005). Here, we will consider the hypothesis that synchronized oscillations may also provide a potential mechanism for cross-modal integration and for the selection of information that is coherent across different sensory channels. We will (1) contrast the two different views on cross-modal integration that imply different mechanisms (feedforward convergence vs. neural coherence), (2) review recent studies on oscillatory responses and cross-modal processing, and (3) discuss functional aspects and scenarios for the involvement of neural coherence in cross-modal interaction.
The other chapters in this volume discuss the structural and functional characteristics of multisensory processing and integration mechanisms in adults. Here, I address the developmental question by asking (1) when do multisensory response mechanisms begin to emerge in development, and (2) what specific processes underlie their emergence? To answer these questions, I discuss our work on the development of multisensory processing of temporal information and focus primarily on human infants. I show that processing of multisensory temporal information, as well as the processing of other types of multisensory information, emerges gradually during the first year of life, argue that the rudimentary multisensory processing abilities found at the beginning of life reflect neural/behavioral immaturities and the relative lack of perceptual and sensorimotor experience, and provide evidence that the gradual improvement in multisensory processing ability reflects the interaction between behavioral and (implied) neural maturation and perceptual experience.
This chapter begins by a brief description of some of the different types of simulation tools and techniques that are being used to study self-motion perception, along with some of the advantages and disadvantages of the different interfaces. Subsequently, some of the current empirical work investigating multisensory self-motion perception using these technologies will be summarized, focusing mainly on visual, proprioceptive, and vestibular influences during full-body self-motion through space. Finally, the implications of this research for several applied areas will be briefly described.
Our perception of the objects and events that fill the world in which we live depends on the integration of the sensory inputs that simultaneously reach our various sensory systems (e.g., vision, audition, touch, taste, and smell). Perhaps the best-known examples of genuinely multisensory experiences come from our perception and evaluation of food and drink. The average person would say that the flavor of food derives primarily from its taste in the mouth. They are often surprised to discover that there is a strong nasal role in the perception of flavor. In fact, it has been argued that the majority of the flavor of food actually comes from its smell (e.g., Cain 1977; Murphy and Cain 1980; Rozin 1982). Our perception of food and drink, however, is not simply a matter of combining gustatory and olfactory food cues (although this is undoubtedly very important; Dalton et al. 2000). For instance, our evaluation of the pleasantness of a particular foodstuff can be influenced not only by what it looks, smells, and tastes like, but also what it sounds like in the mouth (think, for example, of the auditory sensations associated with biting into a potato chip or a stick of celery; see Spence and Zampini 2006, for a review). The feel of a foodstuff (i.e., its oralsomatosensory attributes) is also very important; the texture, temperature, viscosity, and even the painful sensations we experience when eating hot foods (e.g., chilli peppers) all contribute to our overall multisensory experience of foodstuffs (e.g., Bourne 1982; Lawless et al. 1985; Tyle 1993). Flavor perception is also influenced by the interactions taking place between oral texture and both olfactory and gustatory cues (see also Bult et al. 2007; Christensen 1980a, 1980b; Hollowood et al. 2002). Given the multisensory nature of our perception of food, it should come as little surprise that many studies have been conducted in order to try and understand the relative contribution of each sense to our overall evaluation of food (e.g., see Delwiche 2004; Spence 2002; Stevenson 2009; Stillman 2002). In this chapter, we review the contribution of visual and auditory cues to the multisensory perception of food. Moreover, any possible influence of visual and auditory aspects of foods and drinks might take place at different stages of the food experience. Visual cues are perceived when foodstuffs are outside of the mouth. Auditory cues are typically primarily perceived when we are actually consuming food.
In this article, we will focus mainly (although not exclusively) on the Colavita effect present in the error data (in line with the majority of published research on this phenomenon). We start by summarizing the basic findings to have emerged from studies of the Colavita visual dominance effect conducted over the past 35 years or so. By now, many different factors have been investigated in order to determine whether they influence the Colavita effect: Here, they are grouped into stimulus-related factors (such as stimulus intensity, stimulus modality, stimulus type, stimulus position, and bimodal stimulus probability) and task/participant-related factors (such as attention, arousal, task/ response demands, and practice). A range of potential explanations for the Colavita effect are evaluated, and all are shown to be lacking. A new account of the Colavita visual dominance effect is therefore proposed, one that is based on the biased competition model put forward by Desimone and Duncan (1995; see also Duncan 1996; Peers et al. 2005). Although this model was initially developed in order to provide an explanation for the intramodal competition taking place between multiple visual object representations in both normal participants and clinical patients (suffering from extinction), here we propose that it can be extended to provide a helpful framework in which to understand what may be going on the Colavita visual dominance effect. In particular, we argue that a form of cross-modal biased competition can help to explain why participants respond to the visual stimulus while sometimes failing to respond to the nonvisual stimulus on the bimodal target trials in the Colavita paradigm. More generally, it is our hope that explaining the Colavita visual dominance effect may provide an important step toward understanding the mechanisms underlying multisensory interactions. First, though, we review the various factors that have been hypothesized to influence the Colavita visual dominance effect.
The idea that the brain processes sensory inputs in parallel modality-specific streams has given way to the concept of a metamodal brain with a multisensory task-based organization (Pascual-Leone and Hamilton 2001). For example, recent research shows that many cerebral cortical regions previously considered to be specialized for processing various aspects of visual input are also activated during analogous tactile or haptic tasks (reviewed by Sathian and Lacey 2007). In this article, which concentrates on shape processing in humans, we review the current state of knowledge about the mental representation of object form in vision and touch. We begin by describing the cortical regions showing multisensory responses to object form. Next, we consider the extent to which the underlying representation of object form is explained by cross-modal visual imagery or multisensory convergence. We then review recent work on the view-dependence of visuo-haptic shape representations and the resulting model of a multisensory, view-independent representation. Finally, we discuss a recently presented conceptual framework of visuo-haptic shape processing as a basis for future investigations.
Writing in the early nineteenth century, the gastronomic pioneer, Brillat-Savarin was tempted to believe that smell and taste are in fact but a single sense, whose laboratory is the mouth and whose chimney is the nose (Brillat-Savarin 1825). Much of the subsequent history of perception research in the chemical senses has, in contrast, been characterized by a focus on discrete sensory channels, and their underlying anatomy and physiology. However, there has recently been renewed interest in examining flavor as a functional perceptual system. This has been borne to some extent out of a realization that in our everyday food experiences, we respond, perceptually and hedonically, not to discrete tastes, odors, and tactile sensations, but to flavors constructed from a synthesis of these sensory signals (Prescott 2004b). This refocus regarding flavor is very much in line with the ecological approach to perception that had been advocated by Gibson (1966). Gibson argued that the primary purpose of perception is to seek out objects in our environment, particularly those that are biologically important. As such, the physiological origin of sensory information is less salient than that the information can be used in object identification. Effectively, then, the key to successful perception is that sensory information is interpreted as qualities that belong to the object itself. Within this context, flavor can be seen as a functionally distinct sense that is cognitively constructed from the integration of distinct physiologically defined sensory systems (such as olfaction and gustation) that are functionally united when anatomically separated (Gibson 1966, p. 137) in order to identify and respond to objects that are important to our survival, namely, foods.
It has become accepted in the neuroscience community that perception and performance are quintessentially multisensory by nature. Using the full palette of modern brain imaging and neuroscience methods, The Neural Bases of Multisensory Processes details current understanding in the neural bases for these phenomena as studied across species, stages of development, and clinical statuses. Organized thematically into nine subsections, the book is a collection of contributions by leading scientists in the field. Chapters build generally from basic to applied, allowing readers to ascertain how fundamental science informs the clinical and applied sciences. Topics discussed include Anatomy, essential for understanding the neural substrates of multisensory processing. Neurophysiological bases and how multisensory stimuli can dramatically change the encoding processes for sensory information. Combinatorial principles and modeling, focusing on efforts to gain a better mechanistic handle on multisensory operations and their network dynamics. Development and plasticity. Clinical manifestations and how perception and action are affected by altered sensory experience. Attention and spatial representations. The last sections of the book focus on naturalistic multisensory processes in three separate contexts: motion signals, multisensory contributions to the perception and generation of communication signals, and how the perception of flavor is generated. The text provides a solid introduction for newcomers and a strong overview of the current state of the field for experts.
Brain function in general, and perception in particular, has been viewed as highly modular for more than a century. Although phrenology is considered obsolete, its general notion of the brain being composed of compartments each devoted to a single function and independent of other functions has been the dominant paradigm, especially in the context of perception (Pascual-Leone and Hamilton 2001). In the cerebral cortex, it is believed that the different sensory modalities are organized into separate pathways that are independent of each other, and process information almost completely in a self-contained manner until the well digested processed signals converge at some higher-order level of processing in the polysensory association cortical areas, wherein the unified perception of the environment is achieved. The notion of modularity of sensory modalities has been particularly strong as related to visual perception. Vision has been considered to be highly self-contained and independent of extramodal influences. This view owes to many sources. Humans are considered to be visual animals, and this notion has been underscored in contemporary society with the everincreasingly important role of text and images in our lives along with the advent of electricity (and light at night). The notion of visual dominance has been supported by the classic and well-known studies of cross-modal interactions in which a conflict was artificially imposed between vision and another modality and found that vision overrides the conflicting sensory modality. For example, in the ventriloquist illusion, vision captures the location of discrepant auditory stimulus (Howard and Templeton 1966). Similarly, in the visual capture effect, vision captures the spatial location of a tactile or proprioceptive stimulus (Rock and Victor 1964). In the McGurk effect, vision strongly and qualitatively alters the perceived syllable (McGurk and McDonald 1976). As a result, the influence of vision on other modalities has been acknowledged for some time. However, the influence of other modalities on vision has not been appreciated until very recently. There have been several reports of vision being influenced by another modality; however, most of these have involved quantitative effects (Gebhard and Mowbray 1959; Scheier et al. 1999; Walker and Scott 1981; McDonald et al. 2000; Spence and Driver 1997; Spence et al. 1998; Stein et al. 1996). Over the past few years, two studies have reported radical alterations of visual perception by auditory modality. In one case, the motion trajectory of two visual targets is sometimes changed from a streaming motion to a bouncing motion by a brief sound occurring at the time of visual coincidence (Sekuler et al. 1997). In this case, the motion of the visual stimuli is, in principle, ambiguous in the absence of sound, and one could argue that sound disambiguates this ambiguity. In another study, we found that the perceived number of pulsations of a visual flash (for which there is no obvious ambiguity) is often increased when paired with multiple beeps (Shams et al. 2000, 2002). This phenomenon demonstrates, in an unequivocal fashion, that visual perception can be altered by a nonvisual signal. The effect is also very robust and resistant to changes in the shape, pattern, intensity, and timing of the visual and auditory stimuli (Shams et al. 2001, 2002; Watkins et al. 2006). For this reason, this illusion known as sound-induced flash illusion appears to reflect a mainstream mechanism of auditoryvisual interaction in the brain as opposed to some aberration in neural processing. Thus, we used the sound-induced flash illusion as an experimental paradigm for investigating auditoryvisual interactions in the human brain.
We spend a large amount of our time communicating with other people. Much of this communication occurs face to face, where the availability of sensory input from several modalities (e.g., auditory, visual, tactile, olfactory) ensures a robust perception of information (e.g., Sumby and Pollack 1954; Gick and Derrick 2009). Robustness, in this case, means that the perception of a communication signal is veridical even when parts of the signal are noisy or occluded (Ay et al. 2007). For example, if the auditory speech signal is noisy, then the concurrent availability of visual speech signals (e.g., lip movements and gestures) improves the perception of the speech information (Sumby and Pollack 1954; Ross et al. 2007). The robustness in face-to-face communication does not only pertain to speech recognition (Sumby and Pollack 1954; Ross et al. 2007), but also to other information relevant for successful human interaction, for example, recognition of gender (Smith et al. 2007), emotion (de Gelder and Vroomen 1995; Massaro and Egan 1996), or identity (Schweinberger et al. 2007). Nevertheless, in our daily life there are also often situations when only a single modality is available, for example, when talking on the phone, listening to the radio, or when seeing another person from a distance. Current models assume that perception in these unimodal tasks is based on and constrained to the unimodal sensory system. For example, in this view, solely the auditory system is involved in the initial sensory analysis of the auditory speech signal during a telephone conversation (see, e.g., Belin et al. 2004; Scott 2005; Hickok and Poeppel 2007). Similarly, it is assumed that solely the visual system is involved in the initial sensory analysis of faces (Bruce and Young 1986; Haxby et al. 2000). In this chapter, I will review evidence that these models might need to be extended; perception in human communication may always involve multisensory processing even when our brains are processing only unimodal input (see, e.g., Hall et al. 2005; Pitcher et al. 2008; von Kriegstein et al. 2008b). This involvement of multisensory processing might contribute to the robustness of perception. I will start with a brief overview on mechanisms and models for auditory speech and visual face processing from a modality-specific perspective. This will be followed by a summary and discussion of recent behavioral and functional neuroimaging experiments in human auditory communication that challenge the modality-specific view. They show that an interaction between auditory and visual sensory processing can increase robustness and high performance in auditory-only communication. I conclude with a view how one can explain these findings with a model that unifies unimodal and multimodal recognition.
Temporal congruity between auditory and visual stimuli has frequently been shown to be an important factor in audiovisual integration, but information about temporal congruity is blurred by the different speeds of transmission in the two sensory modalities. Compensating for the differences in transmission times is challenging for the brain because at each step of transmission, from the production of the signal to its arrival at higher cortical areas, the speed of transmission can be affected in various ways. One way to deal with this complexity could be that the compensation mechanisms remain plastic throughout its lifetime so that they can flexibly adapt to the typical transmission delays of new types of stimuli. Temporal recalibration to new values of stimulus asynchronies has been demonstrated in several behavioral studies. This study seeks to explore the potential mechanisms underlying such recalibration at the cortical level. Toward this aim, tone and light stimuli were presented repeatedly to awake, passively listening, Mongolian gerbils at the same constant lag. During stimulation, the local field potential was recorded from electrodes implanted into the auditory and visual cortices. The interaction dynamics between the auditory and visual cortices were examined using the directed transfer function (DTF; Kaminski and Blinowska 1991). With an increasing number of stimulus repetitions, the amplitude of the DTF showed characteristic changes at specific time points between and after the stimuli. Our findings support the view that repeated presentation of audiovisual stimuli at a constant delay alters the interactions between the auditory and visual cortices.
In this review, we discuss some of the results of early multisensory influences on auditory processing, and provide evidence that sensory integration occurs distributed and across several processing stages. In particular, we discuss some of the methodological aspects relevant for studies seeking to localize and characterize multisensory influences, and emphasize some of the recent results pertaining to speech and voice integration.
Effective processing of multisensory stimuli relies on both the peripheral sensory organs and central processing in subcortical and cortical structures. As we age, there are significant changes in all sensory systems and a variety of cognitive functions. Visual acuity tends to decrease and hearing thresholds generally increase (Kalina 1997; Liu and Yan 2007), whereas performance levels on tasks of motor speed, executive function, and memory typically decline (Rapp and Heindel 1994; Birren and Fisher 1995; Rhodes 2004). There are also widespread changes in the aging brain, including reductions in gray and white matter volume (Good et al. 2001; Salat et al. 2009), alterations in neurotransmitter systems (Muir 1997; Backman et al. 2006), regional hypoperfusion (Martin et al. 1991; Bertsch et al. 2009), and altered patterns of functional activity during cognitive tasks (Cabeza et al. 2004; Grady 2008). Given the extent of age-related alterations in sensation, perception, and cognition, as well as in the anatomy and physiology of the brain, it is not surprising that multisensory integration also changes with age. Several early studies provided mixed results on the differences between multisensory processing in older and younger adults (Stine et al. 1990; Helfer 1998; Strupp et al. 1999; Cienkowski and Carney 2002; Sommers et al. 2005). For example, Stine and colleagues (1990) reported that although younger adults memory for news events was better after audiovisual presentation than after auditory information alone, older adults did not show improvement during the multisensory conditions. In contrast, Cienkowski and Carney (2002) demonstrated that audiovisual integration on the McGurk illusion was similar for older and younger adults, and that in some conditions, older adults were even more likely to report the fusion of visual and auditory information than their young counterparts. Similarly, in a study examining the contribution of somatosensory input to participants perception of visuospatial orientation, Strupp et al. (1999) reported an age-related increase in the integration of somatosensory information into the multisensory representation of body orientation. Despite providing a good indication that multisensory processing is somehow altered in aging, the results of these studies are somewhat difficult to interpret due to their use of complex cognitive tasks and illusions, and to the variability in analysis methods. Several newer studies that have attempted to address these factors more clearly demonstrate that multisensory integration is enhanced in older adults (Laurienti et al. 2006; Peiffer et al. 2007; Diederich et al. 2008). On a two-choice audiovisual discrimination task, Laurienti and colleagues (2006) showed that response time (RT) benefits for multisensory versus unisensory targets were larger for older adults than for younger adults (Figure 20.1). That is, older adults responses during audiovisual conditions were speeded more than younger adults, when compared with their respective responses during unisensory conditions. Multisensory gains in older adults remained significantly larger than those observed in younger adults, even after controlling for the presence of two targets in the multisensory condition (redundant target effect; Miller 1982, 1986; Laurienti et al. 2006). Using similar analysis methods, Peiffer et al. (2007) also reported increased multisensory gains in older adults. On a simple RT task, where average unisensory RTs were equivalent in younger and older adults, older adults actually responded faster than younger adults on multisensory trials because of their enhanced multisensory integration (Peiffer et al. 2007). Diederich and colleagues (2008) have also shown that older adults exhibit greater speeding of responses to multisensory targets than younger adults on a saccadic RT task. The analysis methods used in this experiment indicate a slowing of peripheral sensory processing, as well as a wider time window over which integration of auditory and visual stimuli can occur (Diederich et al. 2008). These experiments highlight several possible explanations that could help answer a critical question about multisensory processing in aging: Why do older adults exhibit greater integration of multisensory stimuli than younger adults? Potential sources of enhanced integration in older adults include age-related cognitive slowing not specific to multisensory processing, inverse effectiveness associated with sensory deficits, alterations in the temporal parameters of integration, and inefficient topdown modulation of sensory processing. In the following sections we will investigate each of these possible explanations in greater detail and offer some alternative hypotheses for the basis of enhanced multisensory integration in older adults.
How do we perceive our direction of self-motion through space? To navigate effectively through a complex three-dimensional (3-D) environment, we must accurately estimate our own motion relative to objects around us. Self-motion perception is a demanding problem in sensory integration, requiring the neural combination of visual signals (e.g., optic flow), vestibular signals regarding head motion, and perhaps also somatosensory and proprioceptive cues (Hlavacka et al. 1992, 1996; Dichgans and Brandt 1974). Consider a soccer player running downfield to intercept a pass and head the ball toward the goal. This athlete must be able to accurately judge the trajectory of the ball relative to the trajectory of his/her self-motion, in order to precisely time his/her head thrust to meet the ball. Optic flow and vestibular signals are likely the two most sensitive cues for judging self-motion (Gu et al. 2007, 2008; Fetsch et al. 2009). To understand the need for multisensory integration of these cues, it is useful to consider the strengths and weaknesses of each cue. Although self-motion generally involves both translations and rotations of the observer, we shall limit the scope of this review to translational movements, such that we focus on visual and vestibular cues that determine our perceived direction of heading.
Our ability to recognize and integrate auditory and visual stimuli is the basis for many cognitive processes but is especially essential in meaningful communication. Although many brain regions contribute to recognition and integration of sensory signals, the frontal lobes both receive a multitude of afferents from sensory association areas and have influence over a wide region of the nervous system to govern behavior. Furthermore, the frontal lobes are special in that they have been associated with language processes, working memory, planning, and reasoning, which all depend on the recognition and integration of a vast network of signals. Research has also shown that somatosensory afferents reach the frontal lobe and that in specific regions single cells encode somatosensory signals. In this chapter we will focus on the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC), also known as the inferior convexity in some studies, and describe the connectivity of VLPFC with auditory, visual, and somatosensory cortical areas. This connectivity provides the circuitry for prefrontal responses to these stimuli, which will also be described from previous research. The potential function of combined auditory, visual, and somatosensory inputs will be described with regard to communication and object recognition.
In recent years, a substantial amount of research has been devoted to understanding how the brain handles these timing differences (Calvert et al. 2004; King 2005; Levitin et al. 2000; Spence and Driver 2004; Spence and Squire 2003). Here, we review several key issues about intersensory timing. We start with a short overview of how intersensory timing is generally measured, and then discuss several factors that affect the point of subjective simultaneity and sensitivity. In the sections that follow, we address several ways in which the brain might deal with naturally occurring lags between the senses.
In 2003, we (Bertelson et al. 2003) reported that phonetic recalibration induced by McGurk-like stimuli can indeed be observed. We termed the phenomenon recalibration in analogy with the much better known spatial recalibration, as we considered it a readjustment or a fine-tuning of an already existing phonetic representation. In the same year, and in complete independence, Norris (2003) reported a very similar phenomenon they named perceptual learning in speech. The basic procedure in both studies was very similar: Listeners were presented with a phonetically ambiguous speech sound and another source of contextual information that disambiguated that sound. In our study, we presented listeners a sound halfway between /b/ and /d/ with as context the video of a synchronized face that articulated /b/ or /d/ (in short, lip-read information), whereas in the study of Norris (2003), an ambiguous /s/-/f/ sound was heard embedded in the context of an f- or s-biasing word (e.g., witlo-s/f was an f-biasing context because witlof is a word in Dutch meaning chicory, but witlos is not a Dutch word). Recalibration (or perceptual learning) was subsequently measured in an auditory-only identification test in which participants identified members of a speech continuum. Recalibration manifested itself as a shift in phonetic categorization toward the contextually defined speech environment. Listeners thus increased their report of sounds consistent with the context they had received before, so more /b/ responses after exposure to lip-read /b/ rather than lip-read /d/, and more /f/ responses after exposure to f-biasing words rather than /s/-biasing words. Presumably, this shift reflected an adjustment of the phoneme boundary that had helped listeners to understand speech better in the prevailing input environment. After these seminal reports, there have been a number of studies that examined phonetic recalibration in more detail (Baart and Vroomen 2010a, 2010b; Cutler et al. 2008; Eisner and McQueen 2005, 2006; Jesse and McQueen 2007; Kraljic et al. 2008a, 2008b; Kraljic and Samuel 2005, 2006, 2007; McQueen et al. 2006a, 2006b; Sjerps and McQueen 2010; Stevens 2007; van Linden and Vroomen et al. 2007, 2008; Vroomen and Baart 2009a, 2009b; Vroomen et al. 2004, 2007). In what follows, we will provide an overview of this literature and, given the topic of this book, we will focus on the audiovisual case.
In order to capture the magic of these rehabilitation approaches and illustrate how surprisingly efficient they might be if proper training is applied, we will begin this chapter by presenting some of these exciting new solutions and briefly discuss the rehabilitation outcomes currently associated with them. To better understand the mechanisms mediating such outcomes and appreciate the remaining challenges that need to be overcome, in the second part of the chapter we provide a more theoretical illustration of neuroplastic changes associated with the use of these devices. In particular, we show that these changes are not magic nor in any way restricted to the use of the presented rehabilitation techniques. On the contrary, these techniques are designed in order to exploit and channel the brains natural potential for change. This potential is present in all individuals, but may become somewhat more accentuated in the brains of the sensory-impaired, as the lack of one sensory modality leaves vast cortical regions free of their typical input and triggers a reorganization of such cortices and their integration into other brain networks. This reorganization is constrained and channeled by the individuals own activity, information available from the environment, as well as intrinsic properties of the neural system promoting or limiting such changes during different periods in life. Importantly, such restructuring is crucial for enabling the cognitive changes that also occur after sensory loss, allowing the sensory-impaired individuals to efficiently function in their environment. Specifically, successfully dealing with sensory impairment often results in collateral benefits, which include better differentiation and higher efficiency of nonvisual sensory or other cognitive functions. Many of the neural and cognitive changes triggered by sensory loss will be reviewed in the second part of the chapter, illustrating how they rely on the same mechanisms as those underlying the successful outcomes of novel rehabilitation techniques, which will now be presented.
The focus of this chapter will be on the importance of multisensory processing for representing the body, as well as on the role of body representations for multisensory processing. On one hand, one can investigate how the body schema is constructed and represented in the brain, and Section 28.2 will illustrate that the body schema emerges from the interaction of multiple sensory modalities. For this very reason, one can, on the other hand, ask how multisensory interactions between the senses are influenced by the fact that the brain commands a body. Section 28.3, therefore, will present research on how the body schema is important in multisensory interactions, especially for spatial processing.
This chapter reviews the potential and limitations of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in characterizing the neural processes underlying multisensory integration. The neural basis of multisensory integration can be characterized from two distinct perspectives. From the perspective of functional specialization, we aim to identify regions where information from different senses converges and/or is integrated. From the perspective of functional integration, we investigate how information from multiple sensory regions is integrated via interactions among brain regions. Combining these two perspectives, this chapter discusses experimental design, analysis approaches, and interpretational limitations of fMRI results. The first section describes univariate statistical analyses of fMRI data and emphasizes the interpretational ambiguities of various statistical criteria that are commonly used for the identification of multisensory integration sites. The second section explores the potential and limitations of multivariate and pattern classifier approaches in multisensory integration. The third section introduces effective connectivity analyses that investigate how multisensory integration emerges from distinct interactions among brain regions. The complementary strengths of data-driven and hypothesis-driven effective connectivity analyses will be discussed. We conclude by emphasizing that the combined potentials of these various analysis approaches may help us to overcome or at least ameliorate the interpretational ambiguities associated with each analysis when applied in isolation.
Along with these behavioral examples, there are myriad perceptual illustrations of the power of multisensory interactions. For example, the intensity of a light is perceived as greater when presented with a sound (Stein et al. 1996) and judgments of stimulus features such as speed and orientation are often more accurate when combined with information available from another sense (Soto-Faraco et al. 2003; Manabe and Riquimaroux 2000; Clark and Graybiel 1966; Wade and Day 1968). One of the most compelling examples of multisensory-mediated perceptual gains can be seen in the speech realm, where the intelligibility of a spoken signal can be greatly enhanced when the listener can see the speakers face (Sumby and Pollack 1954). In fact, this bimodal gain may be a principal factor in the improvements in speech comprehension seen in those with significant hearing loss after visual training (Schorr et al. 2005; Rouger et al. 2007). Regardless of whether the benefits are seen in the behavioral or perceptual domains, they typically exceed those that are predicted on the basis of responses to each of the component unisensory stimuli (Hughes et al. 1994, 1998; Corneil and Munoz 1996; Harrington and Peck 1998). Such deviations from simple additive models provide important insights into the neural bases for these multisensory interactions in that they strongly argue for a convergence and active integration of the different sensory inputs within the brain.
At the request of the Alzheimer's Association, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders planned and hosted a 2-hour public workshop at the 2011 Alzheimer's Association International Conference (AAIC). Held in Paris, France, on July 18, 2011, the session brought together key stakeholders to discuss next steps in the validation of the new diagnostic guidelines for Alzheimer's disease (AD), specifically, the revised guidelines recently proposed in papers by the International Working Group for New Research Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease, and three working groups under the auspices of the National Institute on Aging (NIA) and the Alzheimer's Association.
Medical education practice is more often the result of tradition, ritual, culture, and history than of any easily expressed theoretical or conceptual framework. The authors explain the importance and nature of the role of theory in the design and conduct of graduate medical education. They outline three groups of theories relevant to graduate medical education: bioscience theories, learning theories, and sociocultural theories. Bioscience theories are familiar to many medical educators but are often misperceived as truths rather than theories. Theories from such disciplines as neuroscience, kinesiology, and cognitive psychology offer insights into areas such as memory formation, motor skills acquisition, diagnostic decision making, and instructional design. Learning theories, primarily emerging from psychology and education, are also popular within medical education. Although widely employed, not all learning theories have robust evidence bases. Nonetheless, many important notions within medical education are derived from learning theories, including self-monitoring, legitimate peripheral participation, and simulation design enabling sustained deliberate practice. Sociocultural theories, which are common in the wider education literature but have been largely overlooked within medical education, are inherently concerned with contexts and systems and provide lenses that selectively highlight different aspects of medical education. They challenge educators to reconceptualize the goals of medical education, to illuminate maladaptive processes, and to untangle problems such as career choice, interprofessional communication, and the hidden curriculum.Theories make visible existing problems and enable educators to ask new and important questions. The authors encourage medical educators to gain greater understanding of theories that guide their educational practices.
Social neuroscience and its potential implications create an interesting case study for examining human research ethics policies on the topic of public communication of research. We reviewed mainstream national and international human research ethics guidelines and policies on issues of public communication of research. Our analysis relied on five thematic nets to capture the interactions between research and the public: public understanding, knowledge translation, public participation, social outcomes, and dual use. Coverage of these topics is sparse and inconsistent in mainstream policies and guidelines. We identify three options to address these gaps and analyze their strengths and weaknesses.
The origin of complex centralized brains is one of the major evolutionary transitions in the history of animals. Monophyly (i.e. presence of a centralized nervous system in urbilateria) vs polyphyly (i.e. multiple origins by parallel centralization of nervous systems within several lineages) are two historically conflicting scenarios to explain such transitions. However, recent phylogenomic and cladistic analysis suggests that complex brains may have independently evolved at least 9 times within different animal lineages. Indeed, even within the phylum Mollusca cephalization might have occurred at least 5 times. Emerging molecular data further suggest that at the genomic level such transitions might have been achieved by changes in expression of just a few transcriptional factors - not surprising since such events might happen multiple times over 700 million years of animal evolution. Both cladistic and genomic analyses also imply that neurons themselves evolved more than once. Ancestral polarized secretory cells were likely involved in coordination of ciliated locomotion in early animals, and these cells can be considered as evolutionary precursors of neurons within different lineages. Under this scenario, the origins of neurons can be linked to adaptations to stress/injury factors in the form of integrated regeneration-type cellular response with secretory signaling peptides as early neurotransmitters. To further reconstruct the parallel evolution of nervous systems genomic approaches are essential to probe enigmatic neurons of basal metazoans, selected lophotrochozoans (e.g. phoronids, brachiopods) and deuterostomes.


It is thought that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) subserves cognitive control processes by coordinating the flow of information in the cerebral cortex. In the network of cortical areas the central position of the PFC makes difficult to dissociate processing and the cognitive function mapped to this region, especially when using whole brain imaging techniques, which can detect frequently activated regions. Accordingly, the present study showed particularly high rate of increase of published studies citing the PFC and imaging as compared to other fields of the neurosciences on the PubMed. Network measures used to characterize the role of the areas in signal flow indicated specialization of the different regions of the PFC in cortical processing. Notably, areas of the dorsolateral PFC and the anterior cingulate cortex, which received the highest number of citations, were identified as global convergence points in the network. These prefrontal regions also had central position in the dominant cluster consisted exclusively by the associational areas of the cortex. We also present findings relevant to models suggesting that control processes of the PFC are depended on serial processing, which results in bottleneck effects. The findings suggest that PFC is best understood via its role in cortical information processing.


Chronic lead exposure has been shown to produce behavioral disturbances in human and animal models. These disturbances are associated with alterations in monoaminergic neurotransmission in the central nervous system (CNS), some of which have been attributed to serotonin (5-HT). This study was undertaken to investigate the chronic effects of lead exposure on the serotoninergic system in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and the consequences of its toxicity on rat behavior. Adult male Wistar rats were chronically exposed for 3 months to 0.5% lead acetate in drinking water. The serotoninergic system was evaluated using immunohistochemistry and the anxiety behavior was assessed by the light/dark box test. The results show that chronic lead exposure induces a significant increase of blood and brain lead levels in treated rats compared with controls. The density of the immunoreactive serotoninergic cell bodies was significantly higher in treated rats in all parts of the DRN. Assessment of animal behavior using the light/dark box test showed that lead-treated rats spent significantly more time in the light chamber compared with controls (P=0.001). These findings suggest that lead exposure may possibly induce increased anxiety as a consequence of changes in neuronal 5-HT content in the DRN.
None of the approved immunomodulatory drugs in adults Multiple Sclerosis (MS) patients have been officially approved for the pediatric patients and are currently used off-label in this population. In this study, we evaluated the effectiveness and tolerability of intramuscular interferon beta1-a (Avonex()) and subcutaneously injected interferon beta1-b (Betaferon()) in children with definite relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). Thirteen patients aged younger than 16, who were recently diagnosed with definite RRMS according to the McDonald's criteria, were enrolled in this study. Six patients were treated with Avonex() 30 g, intramuscularly every week, and seven patients were treated with Betaferon() 250 g, subcutaneously every other day. All patients were treated with adult doses; initially interferon-beta was prescribed with half dose, and it was increased to full adult dose steadily. Eleven girls and two boys, mean (SD) age of 14.7 (1.9) years, were studied. Following nine months of using interferon-beta, nine patients (69.2%) had no relapses and the remaining four, experienced only one relapse. The mean EDSS score was decreased significantly after the study period. The present study provides reasonable data for the use of interferon-beta in Pediatric MS due to lack of short-term complications and safety. Studies with larger sample size and longer follow up duration are required to shed light on the long term impact of the interferon-beta therapy in children.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is an inherited neuronal disorder, and is induced by mutations of various genes associated with intracellular membrane traffic and cytoskeleton. A large GTPase, dynamin, which is known as a fission protein for endocytic vesicles, was identified as a gene responsible for dominant-intermediate CMT type 2B (DI-CMT2B). Of these mutants, the PH domain, which is required for interaction with phosphoinositides, was mutated in several families. Interestingly, the expression of a deletion mutant, 5513, did not impair endocytosis, but induced abnormal accumulation of microtubules. Recent evidence has shown that dynamin 2 regulates the dynamic instability of microtubules, and 5513 lacks this function. We propose a model for the regulation of the dynamic instability of microtubules by dynamin 2 and discuss the relationship between dynamin 2 and CMT.

Thyroid hormones are essential for normal brain development and very important in the normal functioning of the brain. Thyroid hormones action in the adult brain has not been widely studied. The effects of adult hyperthyroidism are not as well understood as adult hypothyroidism, mainly in hippocampal granular cells. The purpose of the present study is to assess the consequences of adult hormone dysthyroidism (excess/deficiency of TH) on the morphology of dentate granule cells in the hippocampus by performing a quantitative study of dendritic arborizations and dendritic spines using Golgi impregnated material. Hypo-and hyperthyroidism were induced in rats by adding 0.02 percent methimazole and 1 percent L-thyroxine, respectively, to drinking water from 40 days of age. At 89 days, the animals' brains were removed and stained by a modified Golgi method and blood samples were collected in order to measure T4 serum levels. Neurons were selected and drawn using a camera lucida. Our results show that both methimazole and thyroxine treatment affect granule cell morphology. Treatments provoke alterations in the same direction, namely, reduction of certain dendritic-branching parameters that are more evident in the methimazole than in the thyroxine group. We also observe a decrease in spine density in both the methimazole and thyroxine groups.



Pupillary abnormalities are commonly seen in patients presenting with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). The objectives of this study were to determine the underlying condition responsible, the natural history of recovery of third nerve palsy and the ultimate clinical outcome in 60 patients admitted to a regional neurosurgical centre with a diagnosis of TBI and unilateral or bilateral fixed, dilated pupils (FDP). In approximately three-quarters of cases, some form of road traffic incident was the mechanism of injury. In patients presenting with a unilateral FDP, the CT-defined condition was most commonly diffuse brain injury (49%) with no obvious lateralising condition. In 34% of cases CT demonstrated a lateralising condition ipsilateral to the side of the FDP and in 9% cases the FDP was contralateral to the side of the CT abnormality. Of those patients who survived an FDP, 72% were left with some form of ophthalmological deficit. Most patients with bilateral FDP did not survive (88%); however, of those who did survive, none was left in a persistent vegetative state or with any ophthalmological sequelae. A FDP is a grave prognostic sign following TBI commonly resulting in long term ophthalmological sequelae; however, a favourable outcome is still attainable.


ICM+ software was introduced into the Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Dynamics Laboratory, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK, in 2003. Since then 1,447 constant rate infusion tests and 123 overnight ICP monitoring sessions (using intraparenchymal bolt) were performed. Various configurations were used: ICP only (identification of CSF dynamics model and overnight ICP monitoring with analysis of compensatory reserve and B waves); ICP and arterial pressure (ABP; analysis of the pressure reactivity index); ICP, ABP and transcranial Doppler blood flow velocity (for assessment of cerebral autoregulation); ICP, ABP and near-infrared spectroscopy (for analysis of the fluctuation of cerebral blood volume); ICP, sagittal sinus pressure and jugular vein pressure (in patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension to assess the hydrodynamic consequences of cerebral venous sinus stenosis). To assess vascular factors of hydrocephalus a combination of CSF infusion study with PET-CBF studies was performed. The software contains a database of the shunts tested in the Cambridge Shunt Evaluation Laboratory, aiding shunt assessment in vivo in the case of possible underdrainage or overdrainage. The software also enables the digital recording of data, ready for post-hoc manual or batch analysis, the creation of virtual signals (such as critical closing pressure, cerebral compliance etc.) and analysis of their dependency on primary modalities. A collected database of cases and signals forms a powerful reference tool in the investigation and understanding of the complex pathophysiology of hydrocephalus.


The mathematical model of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure volume compensation, introduced by Anthony Marmarou in 1973 and modified in later studies, provides a theoretical basis for differential diagnosis in hydrocephalus. The Servo-Controlled Constant Pressure Test (Umea, Sweden) and Computerised Infusion Test (Cambridge, UK) are based on this model and are designed to compensate for inadequate accuracy of estimation of both the resistance to CSF outflow and elasticity of CSF pressure volume compensation.Dr. Marmarou's further works introduced the pressure volume index (PVI), a parameter used to describe CSF compensation in hydrocephalic children and adults. A similar technique has been also utilized in traumatic brain injury (TBI).The presence of a vascular component of intracranial pressure (ICP) was a concept proposed in the 1980s. Marmarou demonstrated that only around 30% of cases of elevated ICP in patients with TBI could be explained by changes in CSF circulation. The remaining 70% of cases should be attributable to vascular components, which have been proposed as equivalent to raised brain venous pressure.Professor Marmarou's work has had a direct impact in the field of contemporary clinical neurosciences, and many of his ideas are still being investigated actively today.


Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of unknown etiology that can involve all parts of the central nervous system and is unique to humans. Therefore, analysis of human tissue is critical for generating hypotheses for testing in animal or in vitro models and for validating research findings from these experimental models. This article reviews data on demyelination and remyelination in the cerebral cortex. We show that research on cerebral cortical demyelination and remyelination in appropriately processed postmortem MS tissues provides innovative approaches for developing hypotheses for studies on the pathogenesis MS lesions including identification of targets for therapy at early stages of the disease.
An overview of prevalence and incidence studies performed in Swedish centres is provided, showing improving coverage and methodology, notably the development in Gothenburg of the representative incidence cohort design. A common database for major Swedish centres was established in 1995, implementing the terminology of predictors from the Gothenburg cohort. By 2001, these databases were merged into the web-based national multiple sclerosis (MS) registry, which has had an ever-increasing coverage, although with still moderate data density. The registry now contains records on 13,000 Swedish patients with MS. It has the status of a national quality registry and exerts nation-wide pharmacological surveillance. In addition, it has been, and is being, used in nearly 100 scientific studies, including large epidemiological and genetic projects.


Three experiments used the intragastric alcohol consumption (IGAC) procedure to examine the effects of variations in passive ethanol exposure on withdrawal and voluntary ethanol intake in two inbred mouse strains, C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2). Experimental treatments were selected to induce quantitative differences in ethanol dependence and withdrawal severity by: (1) varying the periodicity of passive ethanol exposure (three, six or nine infusions/day); (2) varying the dose per infusion (low, medium or high); and (3) varying the duration of passive exposure (3, 5 or 10 days). All experiments included control groups passively exposed to water. B6 mice generally self-infused more ethanol than D2 mice, but passive ethanol exposure increased IGAC in both strains, with D2 mice showing larger relative increases during the first few days of ethanol access. Bout data supported the characterization of B6 mice as sippers and D2 mice as gulpers. Three larger infusions per day produced a stronger effect on IGAC than six or nine smaller infusions, especially in D2 mice. Increased IGAC was strongly predicted by cumulative ethanol dose and intoxication during passive exposure in both strains. Withdrawal during the passive exposure phase was also a strong predictor of increased IGAC in D2 mice. However, B6 mice showed little withdrawal, precluding analysis of its potential role. Overall, these data support the hypothesis that dependence-induced increases in IGAC are jointly determined by two processes that might vary across genotypes: (1) tolerance to aversive postabsorptive ethanol effects and (2) negative reinforcement (i.e. alleviation of withdrawal by self-administered ethanol).
The decision to eat is strongly influenced by non-homeostatic factors such as food palatability. Indeed, the rewarding and motivational value of food can override homeostatic signals, leading to increased consumption and hence, obesity. Ghrelin, a gut-derived orexigenic hormone, has a prominent role in homeostatic feeding. Recently, however, it has emerged as a potent modulator of the mesolimbic dopaminergic reward pathway, suggesting a role for ghrelin in food reward. Here, we sought to determine whether ghrelin and its receptors are important for reinforcing motivation for natural sugar reward by examining the role of ghrelin receptor (GHS-R1A) stimulation and blockade for sucrose progressive ratio operant conditioning, a procedure used to measure motivational drive to obtain a reward. Peripherally and centrally administered ghrelin significantly increased operant responding and therefore, incentive motivation for sucrose. Utilizing the GHS-R1A antagonist JMV2959, we demonstrated that blockade of GHS-R1A signaling significantly decreased operant responding for sucrose. We further investigated ghrelin's effects on key mesolimbic reward nodes, the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens (NAcc), by evaluating the effects of chronic central ghrelin treatment on the expression of genes encoding major reward neurotransmitter receptors, namely dopamine and acetylcholine. Ghrelin treatment was associated with an increased dopamine receptor D5 and acetylcholine receptor nAChR2 gene expression in the VTA and decreased expression of D1, D3, D5 and nAChR3 in the NAcc. Our data indicate that ghrelin plays an important role in motivation and reinforcement for sucrose and impacts on the expression of dopamine and acetylcholine encoding genes in the mesolimbic reward circuitry. These findings suggest that ghrelin antagonists have therapeutic potential for the treatment of obesity and to suppress the overconsumption of sweet food.






The main aim of this study was to replicate and extend previous results on subtypes of adolescents with substance use disorders (SUD), according to their Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory for adolescents (MMPI-A) profiles. Sixty patients with SUD and psychiatric comorbidity (41.7% male, mean age = 15.9 years old) completed the MMPI-A, the Teen Addiction Severity Index (T-ASI), the Child Behaviour Checklist (CBCL), and were interviewed in order to determine DSMIV diagnoses and level of substance use. Mean MMPI-A personality profile showed moderate peaks in Psychopathic Deviate, Depression and Hysteria scales. Hierarchical cluster analysis revealed four profiles (acting-out, 35% of the sample; disorganized-conflictive, 15%; normative-impulsive, 15%; and deceptive-concealed, 35%). External correlates were found between cluster 1, CBCL externalizing symptoms at a clinical level and conduct disorders, and between cluster 2 and mixed CBCL internalized/externalized symptoms at a clinical level. Discriminant analysis showed that Depression, Psychopathic Deviate and Psychasthenia MMPI-A scales correctly classified 90% of the patients into the clusters obtained.

Loneliness is a sad, even painful emotional experience that is thought to result from deficiencies in the quantity or quality of one's social relationships. Assessments of loneliness have evolved to typically include diverse item content that assesses the causes of loneliness as well as the emotional experience of loneliness itself. This embedding of hypothesized causes in the assessment of loneliness creates pervasive problems in drawing valid conclusions from empirical research on loneliness. In this chapter, we review major historical and contemporary perspectives on loneliness and then describe how widely used assessments have led to the development of a literature in which key questions about the causes of loneliness, the influence of gender on the experience of loneliness, and the developmental course of loneliness remain unanswered. We argue for the use of loneliness assessments that focus purely on the emotional experience of loneliness without including hypothesized causes.
Injury to the spinal cord disrupts ascending and descending axonal pathways and causes tissue damage with a subsequent limited cellular regeneration. Successful treatment would encompass the restoration of the cytoarchitecture, homeostasis and function all in dear need. Transplantation-based treatments using exogenous cells are the most favoured approach. Yet, with the advent of the stem cell concept and continuous progress in the field it became clear that the endogenous potential for repair is greater than previously thought. As an alternative to neural grafting, we and other researchers have aimed at understanding what are the elements needed for a successful repair with self progenitors that would give rise to the cell types needed to restore function of the central nervous system. Some studies involve both scaffolds and cell grafts. Here we describe studies on spinal cord repair using what we call &quot;endogenous tissue engineering for regenerative medicine&quot;. The approach involves a hydrogel that mimics the natural milieu where endogenous pre-existing and newly formed cells populate the gel progressively allowing for the integration of CNS self populations leading to a successful recovery of function. Highlight aspects learned from this type of studies are that: Endogenous reconstruction of the injured spinal cord is possible by using the adequate support. The contribution of nestin-expressing progenitors to spinal cord regeneration is continuous and substantial both, in the reconstructed segment as well as, along the distal and caudal segments of the reconstructed spinal cord. Most of these cells appear to have been in a quiescent state until the injury occurred and only a small fraction of these neural progenitors was produced via cell proliferation. The hydrogel combined with exercise was necessary and sufficient to restore locomotor function in cats that underwent spinal transaction followed by reconstructive surgery. This recovery of function was first seen 28 days after surgery and continued to improve for at least 21 months. Therefore, endogenous pre-existing and newly formed cells populated the gel scaffold established contact with the non injured tissue and lead to recovery of function.
Regeneration of injured CNS neurons was once thought to be an unachievable goal. Most patients with significant damage to the spinal cord suffer from permanently impaired neurological function. A century of research, however, has led to an understanding of multiple factors that limit CNS regeneration and from this knowledge experimental strategies have emerged for enhancing CNS repair. Some of these approaches have undergone human translation. Nevertheless, translating experimental findings to human trials has been more challenging than anticipated. In this chapter, we will review the current state of knowledge regarding central axonal growth failure after injury, and approaches taken to enhance recovery after SCI.
Hypoxia inducible factor 1(HIF-1) is the regulator of oxygen homeostasis in tissue correlated with neuroglobin (NGB) a member of the family of globins in vertebrates. The present study investigates, the expression and the location of NGB, HIF-1 in human carotid bodies, sampled at autopsy from children (mean age: 2 year ), young (mean age: 27.5) and 4 old subjects (mean age: 73.5). The percentage of NGB positive area was higher in the old subjects (4.4 2.8%), as compared with the young ones (2.4 1.8%) and children (1.0 1.8%). Positive HIF-1 nuclei were detected in young and old subjects (1.0 0.14% vs 3.0 0.28%, respectively), whereas CB tissues from children did not show any HIF-1 reaction. The increase of NGB and HIF-1 expression suggests a possible role of the two oxygen sensors in the aging processes. Even though the physiological role of NGB is not well understood, it could be suggested that is act as a respiratory protein connected with HIF.

The zebrafish (Danio rerio) has emerged as a new model system during the last three decades. The fact that the zebrafish larva is transparent enables sophisticated in vivo imaging. While being the vertebrate, the reduced complexity of its nervous system and small size make it possible to follow large-scale activity in the whole brain. Its genome is sequenced and many genetic and molecular tools have been developed that simplify the study of gene function. Since the mid 1990s, the embryonic development and neuronal function of the larval, and later, adult zebrafish have been studied using calcium imaging methods. The choice of calcium indicator depends on the desired number of cells to study and cell accessibility. Dextran indicators have been used to label cells in the developing embryo from dye injection into the one-cell stage. Dextrans have also been useful for retrograde labeling of spinal cord neurons and cells in the olfactory system. Acetoxymethyl (AM) esters permit labeling of larger areas of tissue such as the tectum, a region responsible for visual processing. Genetically encoded calcium indicators have been expressed in various tissues by the use of cell-specific promoters. These studies have contributed greatly to our understanding of basic biological principles during development and adulthood, and of the function of disease-related genes in a vertebrate system.
The spatiotemporal distribution of cytosolic Ca(2+) ions is a key determinant of neuronal behavior and survival. Distinct sources of Ca(2+) ions including ligand- and voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels contribute to intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis. Many normal physiological and therapeutic neuronal functions are Ca(2+)-dependent, however an excess of cytosolic Ca(2+) or a lack of the appropriate balance between Ca(2+) entry and clearance may destroy cellular integrity and cause cellular death. Therefore, the existence of optimal spatiotemporal patterns of cytosolic Ca(2+) elevations and thus, optimal activation of ligand- and voltage-gated Ca(2+) ion channels are postulated to benefit neuronal function and survival. Alpha7 nicotinic -acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are highly permeable to Ca(2+) ions and play an important role in modulation of neurotransmitter release, gene expression and neuroprotection in a variety of neuronal and non-neuronal cells. In this review, the focus is placed on 7 nAChR-mediated currents and Ca(2+) influx and how this source of Ca(2+) entry compares to NMDA receptors in supporting cytosolic Ca(2+) homeostasis, neuronal function and survival.
The calcium ion is a fundamental second messenger that plays crucial roles in the pathophysiology of brain cells. In this chapter, we will focus on the measurement of calcium fluctuations as a reporter of cellular excitability of both neurons and glial cells in the intact central nervous system. We will first describe the methodological aspects of in vivo two-photon fluorescence calcium imaging and then review recent data highlighting the ways in which this technique is revolutionizing our understanding of brain circuits at the cellular level. Finally, we will discuss recent technical advancements that promise to open new horizons in the optical investigation of brain function in awake, behaving animals.
Spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a highly heterogeneous group of inherited neurological disorders, based on clinical characterization alone with variable degrees of cerebellar ataxia often accompanied by additional cerebellar and noncerebellar symptoms which in most cases defy differentiation. Molecular causative deficits in at least 31 genes underlie the clinical symptoms in the SCAs by triggering cerebellar and, very frequently, brain stem dysfunction. The identification of the causative molecular deficits enables the molecular diagnosis of the different SCA subtypes and facilitates genetic counselling. Recent scientific advances are shedding light into developing therapeutic strategies. The scope of this chapter is to provide updated details of the spinocerebellar ataxias with particular emphasis on those aspects aimed at facilitating the clinical and genetic diagnoses.
In order to examine the involvement of oxidative stress in developmental brain disorders, we have performed immunohistochemistry in autopsy brains and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in the cerebrospinal fluid and urines of patients. Here, we review our data on the hereditary DNA repair disorders, congenital metabolic errors and childhood-onset neurodegenerative disorders. First, in our studies on hereditary DNA repair disorders, increased oxidative DNA damage and lipid peroxidation were carried out in the degeneration of basal ganglia, intracerebral calcification and cerebellar degeneration in patients with xeroderma pigmentosum, Cockayne syndrome and ataxia-telangiectasia-like disorder, respectively. Next, congenital metabolic errors, apoptosis due to lipid peroxidation seemed to cause neuronal damage in neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinosis. Oxidative stress of DNA combined with reduced expression of antioxidant enzymes occurred in the lesion of the cerebral cortex in mucopolysaccharidoses and mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes. In childhood-onset neurodegenerative disorders, increased oxidative DNA damage and lipid peroxidation may lead to motor neuron death in spinal muscular atrophy like in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In patients with dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy, a triplet repeat disease, deposition of oxidative products of nucleosides and reduced expression of antioxidant enzymes were found in the lenticular nucleus. In contrast, the involvement of oxidative stress is not definite in patients with Lafora disease. Rett syndrome patients showed changes of oxidative stress markers and antioxidant power in urines, although the changes may be related to systemic complications.
Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1 (DM1) is the most common worldwide autosomal dominant muscular dystrophy due to polynucleotide [CTG]( n ) triplet expansion located on the 3'UTR of chromosome 19q13.3. A toxic gain-of-function of abnormally stored RNA in the nuclei of affected cells is assumed to be responsible for several clinical features of the disease. It plays a basic role in deregulating RNA binding protein levels and in several mRNA splicing processes of several genes, thus leading to the multisystemic features typical of DM1. In DM1, the musculoskeletal apparatus, heart, brain, eye, endocrine, respiratory and gastroenteric systems are involved with variable levels of severity. DM1 onset can be congenital, juvenile, adult or late. DM1 can be diagnosed on the grounds of clinical presentation (distal muscular atrophy and weakness, grip and percussion myotonia, ptosis, hatchet face, slurred speech, rhinolalia), EMG myotonic pattern, EKG (such as AV-blocks) or routine blood test abnormalities (such as increased CK values or hypogamma-globulinemia) and history of cataract. Its confirmation can come by DNA analysis. At present, only symptomatic therapy is possible and is addressed at correcting hormonal and glycemic balance, removing cataract, preventing respiratory failure and, above all, major cardiac disturbances. Efficacious therapies targeted at the pathogenic mechanism of DM1 are not yet available, while studies that seek to block toxic RNA intranuclear storage with specific molecules are still ongoing.
Mitochondria have been long known as &quot;gatekeepers of life and death&quot;. Indeed, these dynamic organelles are the master coordinators of energy metabolism, being responsible for the generation of the majority of cellular ATP. Notably, mitochondria are also one of the primary producers of intracellular reactive oxygen species which are the main inducer of oxidative damage. Neurons, as metabolically active cells with high energy demands, are predominantly dependent on mitochondrial function, as reflected by the observation that mitochondrial defects are key features of chronic neurodegenerative diseases. Indeed, morphologic, biochemical and molecular genetic studies posit that mitochondria constitute a convergence point for neurodegeneration. Moreover, recent findings convey that neurons are particularly reliant on the dynamic properties of mitochondria, further emphasizing the critical role of mitochondria in neuronal functions. This chapter highlights how mitochondrial pathobiology might contribute to neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases.
The spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a group of neurodegenerative diseases characterised by progressive lack of motor coordination leading to major disability. SCAs show high clinical, genetic, molecular and epidemiological variability. In the last one decade, the intensive scientific research devoted to the SCAs is resulting in clear advances and a better understanding on the genetic and nongenetic factors contributing to their pathogenesis which are facilitating the diagnosis, prognosis and development of new therapies. The scope of this chapter is to provide an updated information on Machado-Joseph disease (MJD), the most frequent SCA subtype worldwide and other rare spinocerebellar ataxias including dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA), the X-linked fragile X tremor and ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) and the nonprogressive episodic forms of inherited ataxias (EAs). Furthermore, the different therapeutic strategies that are currently being investigated to treat the ataxia and non-ataxia symptoms in SCAs are also described.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in the developed world. Despite recent advances in treatment, AMD causes considerable morbidity. For the non-ophthalmologist, a brief background on retinal structure is provided, followed by a description of the characteristic changes seen in AMD. Subsequently the typical clinical features of AMD are discussed with an outline of present management, followed by the current theories of AMD pathogenesis. The similarities between AMD and another neurodegenerative disease are then highlighted. Finally, we review the on-going clinical trials of potential treatments for the future. Since it is clear that multiple risk factors are involved in the pathogenesis of AMD, a multi-faceted approach will most likely be required in order to prevent further patients progressing to blindness as a result of this devastating condition.
Consciousness, ranging from the primary, or perceptual, level to high levels that include a sense of self, can be identified in various organisms by a set of hallmarks that include behavioral, neural and phenomenal and/or informational. Behavioral hallmarks include those that indicate high cognitive abilities, such behavioral flexibility, verbal abilities, episodic memories, theory of mind, object constancy, transitive inference and multistability, all of which have been demonstrated in birds as well as in primates. Neural hallmarks include the thalamocortical model for mammals and similar circuitry in some nonmammalian taxa. Informational hallmarks include sensorimotor awareness, as provided by somatosensory and/or lateral line systems, which may form the basis for the sense of self and distinguishing self from nonself, as well as other sensory information, such as the richness and quantity of color and form information obtained by the visual system. The comparative method reveals a correlation of these different types of hallmarks with each other in their degree of development, which thus may be indicative of the level of consciousness present in a particular species.
Sociability consists of behaviors that bring animals together and those that keep animals apart. Remarkably, while the neural circuitry that regulates these two &quot;faces&quot; of sociability differ from one another, two neurohormones, oxytocin (Oxt) and vasopressin (Avp), have been consistently implicated in the regulation of both. In this chapter the the structure and function of the Oxt and Avp systems, the ways in which affiliative and aggressive behavior are studied and the roles of Oxt and Avp in the regulation of sociability will be briefly reviewed. Finally, work implicating Oxt and Avp in sociability in humans, with a focus on neuropsychiatric disorders will be highlighted.
Evolutionally, chemosensation is an ancient but yet enigmatic sense. All organisms ranging from the simplest unicellular form to the most advanced multicellular creature possess the capability to detect chemicals in the surroundings. Conversely, all living things emit some forms of smells, either as communicating signals or as by-products of metabolism. Many species (from worms, insects to mammals) rely on the olfactory systems which express a large number of chemoreceptors to locate food and mates and to avoid danger. Most chemoreceptors expressed in olfactory organs are G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and can be classified into two major categories: odorant receptors (ORs) and pheromone receptors, which principally detect general odors and pheromones, respectively. In vertebrates, these two types of receptors are often expressed in two distinct apparatuses: The main olfactory epithelium (MOE) and the vomeronasal organ (VNO), respectively. Each olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) in the MOE typically expresses one type of OR from a large repertoire. General odors activate ORs and their host OSNs (ranging from narrowly- to broadly-tuned) in a combinatorial manner and the information is sent to the brain via the main olfactory system leading to perception of smells. In contrast, pheromones stimulate relatively narrowly-tuned receptors and their host VNO neurons and the information is sent to the brain via the accessory olfactory system leading to behavioral and endocrinological changes. Recent studies indicate that the functional separation between these two systems is blurred in some cases and there are more subsystems serving chemosensory roles. This chapter focuses on the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying odor and pheromone sensing in rodents, the best characterized vertebrate models.
Large DNA-containing viruses encode a plethora of gene products that are homologous to cellular proteins and key for their success in nature. During the millions of years of co-evolution with their respective hosts, viruses have extensively captured cellular genes, frequently duplicated them and insidiously shaped them to yield optimized specific molecules capable of either mimicking or interfering with the original host function and/or of executing novel tasks. A vast number of these gene products have become an integral part of the elaborated counteracting immune evasion strategies developed by viruses to withstand with the selective evolutionary pressure imposed by the host immune system. Cytomegaloviruses (CMVs) constitute an outstanding example of the many and varied encoded proteins directed to modulate both innate and adaptive immune responses, which determine their ability to establish life-long latency with sporadic shedding in their hosts. This chapter focuses on the current understanding of those genes encoded by human CMV (HCMV) with a known homology to cell proteins of the immune system. A systematic study of these genes, in addition to unraveling specific virus-host interactions, may supply valuable tools to dissect the molecular basis of immune responses.
A hallmark of drug addiction is the uncontrollable desire to consume drugs at the expense of severe negative consequences. Moreover, addicts that successfully refrain from drug use have a high vulnerability to relapse even after months or years of abstinence. In this chapter, we will discuss the current understanding of drug-induced neuroplasticity within the mesocorticolimbic brain system that contributes to the development of addiction and the persistence of relapse to drug seeking. I particular, we will focus at animal models that can be translated to human addiction. Although dopaminergic transmission is important for the acute effects of drug intake, the long-lived behavioral abnormalities associated with addiction are thought to arise from pathological plasticity in glutamatergic neurotransmission. The nature of changes in excitatory synaptic plasticity depends on several factors, including the type of drug, the brain area, and the time-point studied in the transition of drug exposure to withdrawal and relapse to drug seeking. Identification of drug-induced neuroplasticity is crucial to understand how molecular and cellular adaptations contribute to the end stage of addiction, which from a clinical perspective, is a time-point where pharmacotherapy may be most effectively employed.
Intellectual disability (ID) is a common and highly heterogeneous paediatric disorder with a very severe social impact. Intellectual disability can be caused by environmental and/or genetic factors. Although in the last two decades a number of genes have been discovered whose mutations cause mental retardation, we are still far from identifying the impact of these mutations on brain functions. Many of the genes mutated in ID code for several proteins with a variety of functions: chromatin remodelling, pre-/post-synaptic activity, and intracellular trafficking. The prevailing hypothesis suggests that the ID phenotype could emerge from abnormal cellular processing leading to pre- and/or post-synaptic dysfunction. In this chapter, we focus on the role of small GTPases and adhesion molecules, and we discuss the mechanisms through which they lead to synaptic network dysfunction.
Calcium is the major intracellular messenger linking synaptic activity in neurons to gene expression to control diverse functions including adaptive responses to synaptic activity as well as survival and death (Bading et al. 1993; Hardingham et al. 1997; Chawla and Bading 2001; West et al. 2001; Zhang et al. 2007; Flavell and Greenberg 2008; Mellstrom et al. 2008; Redmond 2008; Wayman et al. 2008; Bootman et al. 2009; Zhang et al. 2009; Hardingham and Bading 2010). Calcium entry at the synapse acts locally to activate signaling cascades which regulate posttranslational modifications essential for synaptic plasticity, such as the insertion of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs) into the postsynaptic membrane (Soderling 2000; Malinow and Malenka 2002; Ehrlich and Malinow 2004). Synaptic activity can also evoke calcium signals in the nucleus which regulate gene pools largely through the phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and its coactivator, CREB-binding protein (CBP) (Bading et al. 1993; Hardingham et al. 1997; Hardingham et al. 1999; Hu et al. 1999; Hardingham et al. 2001b; Impey et al. 2002; Zhang et al. 2009). Distinct mechanisms have been proposed to mediate synaptically generated calcium signals in subcompartments of pyramidal neurons; N-methyl-D -aspartate receptors (NMDARs) and ryanodine receptors have been implicated in the spine, inositol 3,4,5 triphosphate (IP3) receptors in the dendrites, and L-type voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) at the soma and nucleus, although both NMDARs and IP3 receptors can also contribute to somatic and nuclear calcium signals under certain stimulation conditions (Nakamura et al. 1999; Bardo et al. 2006; Raymond and Redman 2006; Watanabe et al. 2006; Hong and Ross 2007; Hagenston et al. 2008; Bengtson et al. 2010). We review here the calcium signaling pathways underlying synaptically activated gene transcription leading to long-lasting changes in synaptic efficacy and memory as well as the physiological mechanisms by which synaptic activity evokes nuclear calcium signals.
Scaffold proteins are abundant and essential components of the postsynaptic density (PSD). They play a major role in many synaptic functions including the trafficking, anchoring, and clustering of glutamate receptors and adhesion molecules. Moreover, they link postsynaptic receptors with their downstream signaling proteins and regulate the dynamics of cytoskeletal structures. By definition, PSD scaffold proteins do not have intrinsic enzymatic activities but are formed by modular and specific domains deputed to form large protein networks. Here, we will discuss the latest findings regarding the structure and functions of major PSD scaffold proteins. Given that scaffold proteins are central components of PSD architecture, it is not surprising that deletion or mutations in their human genes cause severe neuropsychiatric disorders including autism, mental retardation, and schizophrenia. Thus, their dynamic organization and regulation are directly correlated with the essential structure of the PSD and the normal physiology of neuronal synapses.
Tandem repetitive DNA elements (tandem repeats), including microsatellites and simple sequence repeats, are extremely common throughout the genomes of a wide range of species. Tandem repeat expansions have been found to cause a range of monogenic diseases, such as Huntington's disease, various ataxias and other neurological diseases. The human genome contains hundreds ofthousands of distinct tandem repeats, many of which appear to have evolved to regulate specific aspects of gene expression, RNA function and protein function. Tandem repeat polymorphisms (TRPs) provide a unique source of genetic variability that has an extended digital distribution, as opposed to the usual binary nature of single nucleotide polymorphisms. In this chapter I will review studies in which tandem repeats have been implicated in a multitude of molecular and cellular processes associated with the development, behavior and evolution of a variety of animal species, including mammals. Recent data suggesting that these repetitive sequences can increase the 'evolvability' of genomes provides further evidence that TRPs not only have functional consequences but also provide a rich source of genetic diversity that can facilitate evolutionary processes. I propose that a readily mutable subclass of tandem repeats may provide an important template for stochastic genetic variation, which could in turn generate diversity in epigenetics, development and organismal function, thus impacting upon evolution. Furthermore, the distinctive characteristics ofTRPs also uniquely position them as contributors to complex polygenic disorders. Ultimately, there is much to be gained from systematic analysis of the 'repeatome', defined as the entire set of tandem repeats and other repetitive DNA in a genome, as well as their transcribed and translated expression products. Applying such approaches not only to the human genome but to other species will yield new insights into the genetic regulation of a wide range of biological processes in healthy and diseased states.


How does bacterial thermotaxis compare to a simple wall thermostat? Elements with similar function can be found in the two, including a temperature-sensing element, an output switch, and an external control. But they differ in their origins. A thermostat is designed and made by humans and embodies their understanding of seasonal fluctuations in temperature and how these affect room comfort. By contrast, the bacterial system is self-contained and assembles according to information in its genome acquired by evolution. This information is far richer than anything carried by a thermostat and closer to the 'knowledge' that higher animals have about the world.
Integrative analysis of the neuronal synapse proteome has uncovered an evolutionarily conserved signalling complex that underpins the cognitive capabilities of the brain. Highly dynamic, cell type specific and intricately regulated, the synaptic proteome presents many challenges to systems biology approaches, yet this is likely to be the best route to unlock a new generation of neuroscience research and CNS drug development that society so urgently demands. Most systems biology approaches today have focussed on exploiting protein-protein interaction data to their fullest extent within static interaction models. These have revealed structure-function relationships within the protein network, uncovered new candidate genes for genetic studies and drug research and development and finally provided a means to study the evolution of the system. The rapid maturation of medium and high-throughput biochemical technologies means that dissecting the synapse proteome's dynamic complexity is fast becoming a reality. Here we look at these new challenges and explore rule-based modelling as a basis for a new generation of synaptic models.
Fly and vertebrate nervous systems share many organizational features, such as layers, columns and glomeruli, and utilize similar synaptic components, such as ion channels and receptors. Both also exhibit similar network features. Recent technological advances, especially in electron microscopy, now allow us to determine synaptic circuits and identify pathways cell-by-cell, as part of the fly's connectome. Genetic tools provide the means to identify synaptic components, as well as to record and manipulate neuronal activity, adding function to the connectome. This review discusses technical advances in these emerging areas of functional connectomics, offering prognoses in each and identifying the challenges in bridging structural connectomics to molecular biology and synaptic physiology, thereby determining fundamental mechanisms of neural computation that underlie behavior.
Purpose: The aim of this investigation was to study the factors responsible for drug addiction amongst the inmates of Tabriz and Qom prisons, to further understand the reasons for drug abuse particularly in the young and find improved methods for combating these widespread problems. Methods: A multi-choice questionnaire was provided to inmates to potentially assess the reasons for their drug addiction psychiatric, personal, social, economical, and political factors were thought to be implicated. Two hundred drug addicted prisoners were individually interviewed randomly in both Tabriz and Qom prisons. A questionnaire including questions about the inmates' demographic characteristics and 49 multiple answers questions, was provided to identify the effects of different reasons for drug addiction for instance: psychiatric, personal, social, economical, and political factors. The collected data were analyzed by Student t-test and chi-squared test using SPSS software. Results: The results showed that the following factors could lead to drug addiction e.g. company with addicted friends and offenders, curiosity, imitation, illiteracy, family problems, crowded family, poverty, unemployment, and lack of self confidence. There were significant differences between Tabriz and Qom prisoners in relation to age, starting age of addiction, job, income, education, class of addiction, marital status, and hobbies. Mean age, mean starting age of addiction, poverty, alcohol drinking before addiction, marital status, heroin addiction, codeine and benzodiazepines abuse were significantly greater for Tabriz prisoners than those of Qom. Conclusion: It is clear that the governmental programs for reducing unemployment, creation of safe hobbies, proper control on drug dispensing in the pharmacies, proper birth control programs, and encouragement to higher education could alleviate addiction problem in Iran.
Memories are much more easily impaired than improved. Dementias, a lasting impairment of memory function, occur in a variety of cognitive disorders and become more clinically dominant as the population ages. Protein kinase C is one of the &quot;cognitive kinases,&quot; and plays an essential role in both memory acquisition and maintenance. Deficits in protein kinase C (PKC) signal cascades in neurons represent one of the earliest changes in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other types of memory impairment, including those related to cerebral ischemia and ischemic stroke. Inhibition or impairment of PKC activity results in compromised learning and memory, whereas an appropriate activation of certain PKC isozymes leads to an enhancement of learning and memory and/or antidementic effects. In preclinical studies, PKC activators have been shown to increase the expression and activity of PKC isozymes, thereby restoring PKC signaling and downstream activity, including stimulation of neurotrophic activity, synaptic/structural remodeling, and synaptogenesis in the hippocampus and related cortical areas. PKC activators also reduce the accumulation of neurotoxic amyloid and tau protein hyperphosphorylation and support anti-apoptotic processes in the brain. These observations strongly suggest that PKC pharmacology may represent an attractive area for the development of effective cognition-enhancing therapeutics for the treatment of dementias.
In the present study, the effect of aqueous extracts of saffron on morphine-induced memory impairment was investigated. On the training trial, the mice received an electric shock when the animals were entered into the dark compartment. Twenty-four and forty-eight hours later, the time latency for entering the dark compartment was recorded and defined as the retention trial. The mice were divided into (1) control, (2) morphine which received morphine before the training in the passive avoidance test, (3-5) three groups treated by 50, 150 and 450mg/kg of saffron extract before the training trial, and (6 and 7) the two other groups received 150 and 450mg/kg of saffron extract before the retention trial. The time latency in morphine-treated group was lower than control (P &lt; 0.01). Treatment of the animals by 150 and 450mg/kg of saffron extract before the training trial increased the time latency at 24 and 48 hours after the training trial (P &lt; 0.05 and P &lt; 0.01). Administration of both 150 and 450mg/kg doses of the extract before retention trials also increased the time latency (P &lt; 0.01). The results revealed that the saffron extract attenuated morphine-induced memory impairment.
Despite decades of basic and clinical research, our understanding of how benzodiazepines tend to lose their efficacy over time (tolerance) is at least incomplete. In appears that tolerance develops relatively quickly for the sedative and anticonvulsant actions of benzodiazepines, whereas tolerance to anxiolytic and amnesic effects probably does not develop at all. In light of this evidence, we review the current evidence for the neuroadaptive mechanisms underlying benzodiazepine tolerance, including changes of (i) the GABA(A) receptor (subunit expression and receptor coupling), (ii) intracellular changes stemming from transcriptional and neurotrophic factors, (iii) ionotropic glutamate receptors, (iv) other neurotransmitters (serotonin, dopamine, and acetylcholine systems), and (v) the neurosteroid system. From the large variance in the studies, it appears that either different (simultaneous) tolerance mechanisms occur depending on the benzodiazepine effect, or that the tolerance-inducing mechanism depends on the activated GABA(A) receptor subtypes. Importantly, there is no convincing evidence that tolerance occurs with  subunit subtype-selective compounds acting at the benzodiazepine site.
Gene discovery has been one of the most important advances in our understanding of human disorders. Early linkage and positional cloning strategies have now given way to next generation sequencing (NGS) with age-old help from biostatistical and bioinformatical input. In this chapter, we present the importance of getting the basics right, namely, how the best phenotyping in the clinical domain will provide a higher chance of a successful NGS experiment. In addition, we show getting the correct submission of DNA samples to NGS providers is dependent on the type of inheritance pattern that may or may not be apparent. We discuss one of the most crucial decisions for investigators when designing a study, namely choosing a trio, quad or cohort for analysis. Following on from this, we compare and contrast the underlying technology adopted by provider companies as they vie for customers and submissions. Each platform has advantages and disadvantages based on false calls, coverage, and read depth; however, some of these issues may be solved with the third wave of sequencing technology development in early commercial roll-out. Lastly, we provide a bioinformatic filtering overview of a &quot;quad&quot;-based submission and show how 3 million SNPs and indels can be reduced to a biologically plausible and experimentally manageable n50 gene variants.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease that is characterized by the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Inflammatory responses manifested by glial reactions, T cell infiltration, and increased expression of inflammatory cytokines, as well as other toxic mediators derived from activated glial cells, are currently recognized as prominent features of PD. The consistent findings obtained by various animal models of PD suggest that neuroinflammation is an important contributor to the pathogenesis of the disease and may further propel the progressive loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons. Furthermore, although it may not be the primary cause of PD, additional epidemiological, genetic, pharmacological, and imaging evidence support the proposal that inflammatory processes in this specific brain region are crucial for disease progression. Recent in vitro studies, however, have suggested that activation of microglia and subsequently astrocytes via mediators released by injured dopaminergic neurons is involved. However, additional in vivo experiments are needed for a deeper understanding of the mechanisms involved in PD pathogenesis. Further insight on the mechanisms of inflammation in PD will help to further develop alternative therapeutic strategies that will specifically and temporally target inflammatory processes without abrogating the potential benefits derived by neuroinflammation, such as tissue restoration.
Good sexual functioning is a part of overall well-being. Assessment of sexual functioning should be part of any complete psychosomatic assessment. The cornerstone of this assessment is a comprehensive clinical interview of the patient, with, if possible, collateral information obtained from the partner or another clinician. In addition, comprehensive assessment of sexual function should include a physical examination with a special focus on sexual function, laboratory testing and possibly other specialized testing and, in some cases, psychometric assessment. The results of a thorough assessment may serve as a basis for considering possible etiology(ies) of sexual dysfunction, coexisting comorbidities and as a starting point of managing sexual dysfunction.
With improvements in neurocritical care advanced measures of treating raised intracranial pressure (ICP) are more frequently utilised. Decompressive craniectomy is an effective ICP-lowering procedure; however its benefits are maximised with optimal surgical technique and perioperative care, as well as by paying attention to possible complications. This article focuses on the current indications and rationale for decompressive craniectomy, and the surgical technique of bifrontal and unilateral decompression. The key surgical points include a large craniectomy window and opening of the dura, leaving it unsutured or performing a wide non-constricting duroplasty. Perioperative care and possible complications are also discussed.
Preservation and even improvement of the quality of life is currently a priority in surgery for gliomas, in addition to the optimization of the extent of resection with significant increase of the overall survival. In this setting, the goal of the present review is to revisit technical aspects of glioma surgery in the lights of new concepts both in the fields of neurooncology and cognitive neurosciences, which recently emerged from translational researches - with special emphasis on diffuse low grade gliomas.Firstly, the vascularisation (arteries and veins) has to be more systematically spared, by performing subpial dissection and by limiting the use of coagulation within the brain. Secondly, individual cortical as well as subcortical mapping must be more regularly considered, with the aim of better understanding and preserving the white matter pathways underlying the functional connectivity - even in presumed &quot;non-eloquent areas&quot;, to perform &quot;supra-complete&quot; resection.Therefore, brain surgeons should change their state of mind, in order to operate the nervous system involved by a chronic tumoral disease (and no more by operating a tumor mass within the brain). In other words, the neurosurgeon should see first the brain, and not the glioma, to adapt his surgical procedure to the three-dimensional anatomo-functional organization of each patient. It implies that brain surgeon must change his technique within the central nervous system, which has to be different from the surgical technique outside the brain. This perspective seems to represent the best way to build a modern and personalized &quot;functional surgical neurooncology&quot;.
Several herpes- and poxviruses have captured chemokine receptors from their hosts and modified these to their own benefit. The human and viral chemokine receptors belong to class A 7 transmembrane (TM) receptors which are characterized by several structural motifs like the DRY-motif in TM3 and the C-terminal tail. In the DRY-motif, the arginine residue serves important purposes by being directly involved in G protein coupling. Interestingly, among the viral receptors there is a greater diversity in the DRY-motif compared to their endogenous receptor homologous. The C-terminal receptor tail constitutes another regulatory region that through a number of phosphorylation sites is involved in signaling, desensitization, and internalization. Also this region is more variable among virus-encoded 7TM receptors compared to human class A receptors. In this review we will focus on these two structural motifs and discuss their role in viral 7TM receptor signaling compared to their endogenous counterparts.
Extracellular vesicles (microvesicles), such as exosomes and shed microvesicles, contain a variety of molecules including proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids. Microvesicles appear mostly to originate from multivesicular bodies or to bud from the plasma membrane. Here, we review the convergence of microvesicle biogenesis and aspects of viral assembly and release pathways. Herpesviruses and retroviruses, amongst others, recruit several elements from the microvesicle biogenesis pathways for functional virus release. In addition, noninfectious pleiotropic virus-like vesicles can be released, containing viral and cellular components. We highlight the heterogeneity of microvesicle function during viral infection, addressing microvesicles that can either block or enhance infection, or cause immune dysregulation through bystander action in the immune system. Finally, endogenous retrovirus and retrotransposon elements deposited in our genomes millions of years ago can be released from cells within microvesicles, suggestive of a viral origin of the microvesicle system or perhaps of an evolutionary conserved system of virus-vesicle codependence. More research is needed to further elucidate the complex function of the various microvesicles produced during viral infection, possibly revealing new therapeutic intervention strategies.
In order to cope with normal cognitive aging we must understand the patterns and neurofunctional underpinnings of cognitive and behavioral changes throughout adulthood. In this review, we summarize recent advances in our understanding of age-related behavioral differences and changes in brain structure throughout the spatial domain. Although spatial cognition is critically important to everyday life, few studies have examined the relationship between this cognitive function and neural changes in the aged brain. Thus, spatial cognition is considered a key area in which the cognitive neuroscience of aging may expand in the near future. The first section of this review examines the methodologies and studies used to assess differences in spatial cognition during normal cognitive aging in animals and humans. We then relate how each domain of spatial cognition (e.g., visuospatial perception, mental imagery, memory and navigation) is affected by the aging process, and discuss possible links with changes in neural mechanisms. Lastly, we address putative links among the age-related deterioration patterns of the various spatial domains and make suggestions for future research.
The current study examined the main effects of hostile attributional bias (HAB) and negative emotional responding on a variety of aggressive behaviors in adults, including general aggression, physical aggression, relational aggression, and verbal aggression. Effects of both externalizing (anger) and internalizing (embarrassment/upset) negative emotions were considered. In addition, the moderating roles of gender and impulsivity on the effects of HAB and negative emotional responding were explored. Multilevel models were fitted to data from 2,749 adult twins aged 20-55 from the PennTwins cohort. HAB was positively associated with all four forms of aggression. There was also a significant interaction between impulsivity and HAB for general aggression. Specifically, the relationship between HAB and general aggression was only significant for individuals with average or above-average levels of impulsivity. Negative emotional responding was also found to predict all measures of aggression, although in different ways. Anger was positively associated with all forms of aggression, whereas embarrassment/upset predicted decreased levels of general, physical, and verbal aggression but increased levels of relational aggression. The associations between negative emotional responding and aggression were generally stronger for males than females. The current study provides evidence for the utility of HAB and negative emotional responding as predictors of adult aggression and further suggests that gender and impulsivity may moderate their links with aggression. Aggr. Behav. 38:47-63, 2012.  2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Poor sleep quality and orthostatic hypotension are common complaints in an older population, and both are related to factors such as polypharmacy and depression. However, it is not known whether there is a direct association between the two. Our objective is to investigate a potential association between orthostatic blood pressure response and subjective sleep quality in older people. A within-subjects, cross-sectional design embedded in a larger longitudinal study design. Participants were recruited from the community to visit the TRIL clinic at St James's Hospital, where they underwent a structured medical and psychosocial assessment. A total of 505 community dwelling adults aged 60+ (321 females, mean age 72.44) were participated in this study. Orthostatic blood pressure responses were recorded during an active stand using Finometer equipment, and health-related factors such as pain ratings, co-morbidities, polypharmacy, timed up and go, Mini-Mental State Examination score, body mass index, as well as depression, anxiety, age and gender, were also recorded. Self-reported sleep quality was also assessed using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. The results showed that timed up and go, polypharmacy, depression, anxiety, gender and delayed recovery of blood pressure at orthostasis were associated with subjective poor sleep quality. There is an association between subjective sleep quality and delayed recovery of blood pressure at orthostasis, independent of mental health or polypharmacy effects, in older adults. This link may have implications for the management of sleep disorders in older people.

This study aims to investigate health care providers' empathy levels and its association with avoidance in providing service to patients living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in China. A total of 1760 health service providers were randomly sampled from 40 county hospitals in two provinces of China. Using a self-administered questionnaire, participants' demographic characteristics, work history, empathy level, and avoidance attitudes toward PLWHA were collected in a cross-sectional survey. Empathy was higher among participants aged 31-40 years, those who had an associated medical degree, and those who had served in the medical profession for less than 20 years. Nurses, younger providers, and providers with lower education tended to avoid contact with PLWHA. Multiple linear regression model showed that a higher level of empathic attitude toward patients was significantly negatively associated with avoidance attitude toward PLWHA. Service providers' empathy level plays an important role in providing quality care to HIV-infected patients. Future stigma reduction interventions should cultivate empathy as a platform for understanding, effective communication, and trusting provider-patient relationships. PLWHA could potentially benefit from attitudinal change in medical settings.
To determine the level of antiretroviral treatment adherence and explore the correlated factors of perceived burden of taking antiretroviral medications among people living with HIV (PLH) in a rural area of China. Data were collected from 66 PLH who were currently receiving antiretroviral treatment. Face-to-face interviews were conducted during August to October, 2009. Approximately 18.2% of participants failed to adhere to antiretroviral treatment in the previous 30 days. A majority of PLH reported that taking antiretroviral medications posed a burden to them. Those who perceived a higher level of burden were more likely to be women, to have lower annual income, and to report a high level of depressive symptoms, poor physical health, and strained family interactions. Findings suggest that future programs in promoting adherence to antiretroviral treatment should address issues related to psychosocial well-being and PLH's interactions with their family members.



Genetics play an important role in the development and course of alcohol abuse, and understanding genetic contributions to this disorder may lead to improved preventative and therapeutic strategies in the future. Studies both in humans and in animal models are necessary to fully understand the neurobiology of alcoholism from the molecular to the cognitive level. By dissecting the complex facets of alcoholism into discrete, well-defined phenotypes that are measurable in both human populations and animal models of the disease, researchers will be better able to translate findings across species and integrate the knowledge obtained from various disciplines. Some of the key areas of alcoholism research where consilience between human and animal studies is possible are alcohol withdrawal severity, sensitivity to rewards, impulsivity, and dysregulated alcohol consumption.
Over the last 50 years, researchers have made substantial progress in identifying genetic variations that underlie the complex phenotype of alcoholism. Not much is known, however, about how this genetic variation translates into altered biological function. Genetic animal models recapitulating specific characteristics of the human condition have helped elucidate gene function and the genetic basis of disease. In particular, major advances have come from the ability to manipulate genes through a variety of genetic technologies that provide an unprecedented capacity to determine gene function in the living organism and in alcohol-related behaviors. Even newer genetic-engineering technologies have given researchers the ability to control when and where a specific gene or mutation is activated or deleted, allowing investigators to narrow the role of the gene's function to circumscribed neural pathways and across development. These technologies are important for all areas of neuroscience, and several public and private initiatives are making a new generation of genetic-engineering tools available to the scientific community at large. Finally, high-throughput &quot;next-generation sequencing&quot; technologies are set to rapidly increase knowledge of the genome, epigenome, and transcriptome, which, combined with genetically engineered mouse mutants, will enhance insight into biological function. All of these resources will provide deeper insight into the genetic basis of alcoholism.
Stress is a critical component in the development, maintenance, and reinstatement of addictive behaviors, including alcohol use. This article reviews the current state of the literature on the brain's stress response, focusing on the hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal (HPA) axis. Stress responses can occur as a reaction to physiological (or systemic) challenge or threat; signals from multiple parts of the brain send input to the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) within the hypothalamus. However, responses also occur to stressors that predict potential threats (psychogenic stressors). Psychogenic responses are mediated by a series of nerve cell connections in the limbic-PVN pathway, with amygdalar and infralimbic cortex circuits signaling excitation and prelimbic cortex and hippocampal neurons signaling stress inhibition. Limbic-PVN connections are relayed by predominantly GABAergic neurons in regions such as the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and preoptic area. Chronic stress affects the structure and function of limbic stress circuitry and results in enhanced PVN excitability, although the exact mechanism is unknown. Of importance, acute and chronic alcohol exposure are known to affect both systemic and psychogenic stress pathways and may be linked to stress dysregulation by precipitating chronic stress-like changes in amygdalar and prefrontal components of the limbic stress control network.
Recent neuroimaging evidence highlights cerebellar atrophy as one feature of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) with C9ORF72 mutation. Interestingly, C9ORF72 patients do not present with classic cerebellar symptoms, such as ataxia, but have instead a higher incidence of psychiatric changes compared to sporadic FTD. To date there exists no objective tool to assess such psychiatric changes due to cerebellar dysfunction. In the previous edition of Alzheimer's Research &amp; Therapy, Downey and colleagues present a novel task, including a new apparatus, that targets such psychiatric disturbances. In the task participants are required to make self-other attributions, which have been shown to be dependent on the cerebellum in functional neuroimaging in healthy subjects. The data Downey and colleagues present on a case of C9ORF72 compared to four age-matched controls reveal that the patient shows impaired judgement only for other induced actions. These findings highlight the sensitivity of such a simple task to tap into potential cerebellar dysfunction in C9ORF72. Future studies are needed to now to determine whether this task is mediated solely via the cerebellum and is disease specific to C9ORF72. Nevertheless, this study is an important first step in the development of cerebellar-specific tasks tapping into psychiatric dysfunction, which will inform future diagnosis and disease management of patients with cerebellar dysfunction, and in particular C9ORF72.


Mutation in chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9orf72) is a major genetic cause of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), referred to as C9FTD/ALS. The function of the protein is currently unknown, and the pathomechanism of C9FTD/ALS remains to be elucidated. The study by Satoh and colleagues in the previous issue of Alzheimer's Research &amp; Therapy presents important new findings on C9orf72 protein expression in neurodegenerative disorders along with characterization of C9orf72 antibodies.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that accounts for most cases of dementia. Besides progressive cognitive decline, circadian dysfunction is a prominent feature of AD. Circadian disruption is traditionally regarded as a downstream symptom of AD, but recent evidence suggests that circadian dysregulation may act to exacerbate AD pathology. A reciprocal link among sleep, circadian rhythms, and amyloid deposition has long been suspected, and data from both human and animal studies support this hypothesis. The sleep-wake cycle regulates amyloid-beta (A) levels in both mice and humans. Sleep deprivation increases A levels in mice, and sleep apnea and insomnia may be related to AD in humans. Furthermore, melatonin, the principal hormonal output of the circadian system, is dysregulated in AD, and this may be important because melatonin is protective in cells exposed to toxic A. Initial evidence supports a reciprocal link among sleep, circadian rhythmicity, and AD. More investigation is necessary to replicate these studies and determine the extent to which the circadian system contributes to the pathogenesis of AD.
Familial and twin studies suggest the implication of a genetic factor in pathological gambling, but mainly assess probands through treatment settings or advertisements. The question raised here is: are parents of casino pathological gamblers using slot machines more affected with pathological gambling than nonpathological gamblers, all interviewed on site at the same casino? Three hundred and fifty-five casino gamblers on slot machines, which included 96 pathological gamblers, 116 problem gamblers, and 143 nonproblem gamblers, were recruited in situ at the largest casino in the Paris suburbs. We evaluated pathological gambling and two addictive disorders (alcohol dependence and tobacco consumption) in the gamblers and their 690 parents (through the proband). Familial aggregation of pathological gambling was confirmed, with a risk of 3.3 for being a pathological gambler when at least one of the parents has problematic gambling. No familial co-aggregation of pathological gambling with alcohol or tobacco dependence was observed. Pathological gambling is found in excess in the parents of pathological casino gamblers, in accordance with previous aggregation studies devoted to other types of gambling, and with studies recruiting gamblers in different settings.



The implications of the well known sex differences in the prevalence of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are not well understood. The aim of this paper was to investigate whether these differences might be associated with differences in genetic liability. Individuals with ASD (970 families, 2,028 individuals) were recruited as part of the Autism Genome Project (AGP). The families were differentiated into families containing a female (either female-female or male-female) and those with only males. If the sex with the lower prevalence is associated with a greater genetic liability necessary to cross sex-specific thresholds, the males from female containing families should be more severely affected than males from male only families. Affected subjects from the different types of families with ASD were sampled and compared on the social reciprocity and repetitive behavior scores from the Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R). In general, females had lower repetitive behavior scores than males. More importantly, males from female containing families had higher repetitive behavior scores than males from male-male families. No such differences were apparent on the social reciprocity scores. These results support the hypothesis of a multiple threshold model of genetic liability of ASD with females having a higher liability for affectation status, at least on the repetitive behavior dimension of the disorder. These data also support the dissociation of the different phenotypic dimensions of ASD in terms of its genetic architecture. The implications of these results for linkage and association studies are discussed.
Alzheimer disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are two frequent forms of primary neurodegenerative dementias with overlapping clinical symptoms. Pathogenic mutations of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilins 1 and 2 (PSEN1, PSEN2) genes have been linked to familial early-onset forms of AD; however, more recently mutations in the common FTD genes encoding the microtubule associated protein tau (MAPT), progranulin (GRN) and C9ORF72, have also been reported in clinically diagnosed AD patients. To access the contribution of mutations in a well-characterized series of patients, we systematically performed genetic analyses of these EOAD and FTD genes in a novel cohort of 227 unrelated probands clinically diagnosed as probable AD which were ascertained at Mayo Clinic Florida between 1997 and 2011. All patients showed first symptoms of dementia before 70 years. We identified 9 different pathogenic mutations in the EOAD genes in a total of 11 patients explaining 4.8% of the patient population. Two mutations were novel: PSEN1 p.Pro218Leu and PSEN2 p.Phe183Ser. Importantly, mutations were also identified in all FTD genes: one patient carried a MAPT p.R406W mutation, one patient carried the p.Arg198Glyfs19X loss-of-function mutation in GRN and two patients were found to carry expanded GGGGCC repeats in the non-coding region of C9ORF72. Together the FTD genes explained the disease in 1.8% of our probable AD population. The identification of mutations in all major FTD genes in this novel cohort of clinically diagnosed AD patients underlines the challenges associated with the differential diagnosis of AD and FTD resulting from overlapping symptomatology and has important implications for molecular diagnostic testing and genetic counseling of clinically diagnosed AD patients. Our findings suggest that in clinically diagnosed AD patients, genetic analyses should include not only the well-established EOAD genes APP, PSEN1 and PSEN2 but also genes that are usually associated with FTD. Finally, the overall low frequency of mutation carriers observed in our study (6.6%) suggests the involvement of other as yet unknown genetic factors associated with AD.

Tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) are pleiotropic extracellular proteins. TIMPs are recognized as endogenous regulators of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), a large family of extracellular enzymes with proteolytic activities that participate in cellular homeostasis, adaptation, and tissue remodeling. In addition to their roles as endogenous potent MMP inhibitors, accumulating evidence indicates important physiological roles for TIMPs that are independent of their ability to block MMP activities. For instance, MMP-independent actions of TIMP-1 in the central nervous system have been implicated in synaptic plasticity, neuroprotection, oncogenesis, and oligodendrocyte differentiation. Expression of TIMP-1 is dramatically increased in response to a variety of injurious and inflammatory insults. In the context of disease pathogenesis, MMP and TIMP expression are interpreted with respect to the proteolytic consequences of increased MMP/TIMP ratios. Here, we provide an alternative perspective on the homeostatic balance of TIMP and MMP proteins, whereby consideration is given to the possible role of MMPs as cognate inhibitors of the signaling functions of TIMPs. Thus, MMPs may regulate the receptor-mediated actions of TIMPs, inasmuch as TIMPs are themselves inhibitors of MMP-mediated proteolytic activities. This broader view reflects our emerging understanding that TIMP signaling and MMP inhibition represent two important functions of TIMPs that have the potential to affect tissue pathology.
Phosphodiesterases are key enzymes in the cAMP signaling cascade. They convert cAMP in its inactive form 5'-AMP and critically regulate the intensity and the duration of cAMP-mediated signals. Multiple isoforms exist that possess different intracellular distributions, different affinities for cAMP, and different catalytic and regulatory properties. This complex repertoire of enzymes provides a multiplicity of ways to modulate cAMP levels, to integrate more signaling pathways, and to respond to the specific needs of the cell within distinct subcellular domains. In this review we summarize key findings on phosphodiesterase compartmentalization in the cardiovascular system.
Rodent models for sleep restriction have good face validity when examining food intake and related regulatory metabolic hormones. However, in contrast to epidemiological studies in which sleep restriction is associated with body weight gain, sleep-restricted rats show a decrease in body weight. This difference with the human situation might be caused by the alternation between periods of sleep restriction and sleep allowance that often occur in real life. Therefore, we assessed the metabolic consequences of a chronic sleep restriction protocol that modeled working weeks with restricted sleep time alternated by weekends with sleep allowance. We hypothesized that this protocol could lead to body weight gain. Male Wistar rats were divided into three groups: sleep restriction (SR), forced activity control (FA), and home cage control (HC). SR rats were subjected to chronic sleep restriction by keeping them awake for 20 h per day in slowly rotating drums. To model the human condition, rats were subjected to a 4-wk protocol, with each week consisting of a 5-day period of sleep restriction followed by a 2-day period of sleep allowance. During the first experimental week, SR caused a clear attenuation of growth. In subsequent weeks, two important processes occurred: 1) a remarkable increase in food intake during SR days, 2) an increase in weight gain during the weekends of sleep allowance, even though food intake during those days was comparable to controls. In conclusion, our data revealed that the alternation between periods of sleep restriction and sleep allowance leads to complex changes in food intake and body weight, that prevent the weight loss normally seen in continuous sleep-restricted rats. Therefore, this &quot;week-weekend&quot; protocol may be a better model to study the metabolic consequences of restricted sleep.
Glutamate is stored in synaptic vesicles in presynaptic neurons. It is released into the synaptic cleft to provide signalling to postsynaptic neurons. Normally, the astroglial glutamate transporters GLT-1 and GLAST take up glutamate to mediate a high signal-to-noise ratio in the synaptic signalling, and also to prevent excitotoxic effects by glutamate. In astrocytes, glutamate is transformed into glutamine, which is safely transported back to neurons. However, in pathological conditions, such as an ischemia or virus infection, astroglial transporters are down-regulated which could lead to excitotoxicity. Lately, it was shown that even microglia can express glutamate transporters during pathological events. Microglia have two systems for glutamate transport: GLT-1 for transport into the cells and the x (c) (-) system for transport out of the cells. We here review results from our work and others, which demonstrate that microglia in culture express GLT-1, but not GLAST, and transport glutamate from the extracellular space. We also show that TNF- can induce increased microglial GLT-1 expression, possibly associating the expression with inflammatory systems. Furthermore, glutamate taken up through GLT-1 may be used for direct incorporation into glutathione and to fuel the intracellular glutamate pool to allow cystine uptake through the x (c) (-) system. This can lead to a defence against oxidative stress and have an antiviral function.
Our objective was to compare the cognitive and behavioural profile of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD), and to explore the continuum between these disorders according to neuropsychological and behavioural performance using novel methods of testing and analysis. Twenty patients with ALS, 20 bvFTD patients and 20 healthy controls completed a neuropsychiatric and neuropsychological assessment including cognitive screening, working memory, inhibitory control, decision making and emotion recognition. The resulting neuropsychological and behavioural data were analysed by Rasch analysis. ALS patients showed a similar profile to bvFTD patients on tests of working memory, inhibitory control and behavioural measures. Nine ALS patients (45%) had cognitive impairment and five (25%) met criteria for bvFTD. Even in a subset of MND patients with no impairment on the ACE-R, subtle impairment of inhibitory control together with moderate to severe apathy, were found. The Rasch analysis confirmed that all patients could be ranked on the same continuum, based on their neuropsychological performance and behaviour. Thus, the cognitive and behavioural profiles of ALS mirror those seen in bvFTD. Impaired inhibitory control and behavioural changes suggest subtle orbitofrontal dysfunction in ALS. The Rasch analysis revealed a clear overlap between bvFTD and ALS.
The purpose if this study was to investigate the positive predictive value and sensitivity of the ICD-10 code G12.2, which is used to identify patients who have possibly died from ALS. All patients with a motor neuron disease diagnosis code during the study period (2001-2005) were identified using administrative data. South Carolina death certificate data were used to assess the positive predictive value and sensitivity of the ICD-10 code G12.2. Two hundred and seventy known cases of ALS linked to the death certificate data file. G12.2 was coded as either the underlying or contributing cause of death for 229 cases, sensitivity = 85%. There were 318 deaths due to ALS identified by the G12.2 code where a medical record was available for review. Of those, 205 contained information supporting the diagnosis of ALS, positive predictive value = 65%. This evaluation raises questions concerning the validity of using mortality data in forming epidemiological conclusions in this patient population. However, it does appear that mortality data can be used in the development of case-finding algorithms to identify ALS patients through the use of administrative data sets.
A potential role for macroautophagy dysfunction in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was hypothesized after the demonstration that selected markers are up-regulated in post mortem samples obtained from both patients and animal models of disease. We hypothesized that a putative dysfunction of this catabolic pathway could be operative also in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained from ALS patients, since these cells represent an accessible model for studying molecular pathogenesis events in neuropsychiatric disorders. Beclin-1 and LC3II immunoreactivity were assessed in PBMC from 15 ALS patients and 15 controls by Western blot analysis. The expression of Atg12 mRNA was also assessed by real-time PCR. No significant difference was observed for all these parameters between patients and controls, although PBMC displayed a clear macroautophagy induction following exposure to rapamycin and lithium. Finally, we excluded a putative interference of riluzole demonstrating that LC3II immunoreactivity did not change in riluzole-treated SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. In conclusion, the results of our pilot study do not support the idea of a systemic macroautophagic dysfunction in ALS, although they confirm that PBMC are a suitable peripheral marker for monitoring the effects of drugs interfering with this catabolic pathway.
Service providers and service users often have different perspectives on health and social care services. We have undertaken a systematic review of empirical data between 1988 and March 2011 relating to ALS service users' perspectives on health and social care services. Forty-seven texts were extracted and a narrative synthesis conducted. Few studies have explored ALS patients' experiences in relation to their satisfaction with services. Our review showed that ALS patients expect dignified care but they are often dissatisfied with health care services and have unmet expectations of their care. Most studies of decision-making and preferences for care have focused on end-of-life intervention. Various factors influence preferences for care from the service user perspective and people with ALS may adjust their use of services as they negotiate change. In conclusion, further research on the timeliness of services to meet changing needs of service users is required. The service user experience of allied health care services prior to end-of-life care also warrants investigation. Service providers need to support people with ALS as they negotiate feelings of acceptance and independence. Research to identify the key parameters of the ALS patient experience of services is required.
Owing to the frequent observation of poverty of movements, facial hypomimia and balance impairment, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) variant with predominance of upper motor neuron involvement (UMN-ALS) is prone to be diagnosed with Parkinsonism. A clinical assessment, including the velocity-dependent stretch response test to differentiate between pyramidal and extrapyramidal stiffness; the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and the Berg Balance Scale to assess degree of bradykinesia and postural instability; and (123)I-FP-CIT scintigraphy evaluation to investigate the nigrostriatal circuit involvement, were carried out to characterize Parkinson-like features in UMN-ALS patients. Sixteen UMN-ALS patients were included in the study. The velocity-dependent stretch response indicated spasticity in all the muscles tested. The degree of stiffness was found to be related to bradykinesia and postural instability. Eleven patients (70%) showed a reduction in striatal (123)I-FP-CIT uptake found to be related to disease duration and patients' ages but not to scores of the functional scales. Slowness of movements and postural instability noted in our patients could be mostly attributed to spasticity. The lack of any correlation between UPDRS or BBS scores and the degree of nigrostriatal impairment on DaTSCAN seems to disprove nigrostriatal circuit involvement in these extrapyramidal-like features.
Possible clinicopathological relationship between vacuolar degeneration of cerebral white matter and clinical manifestation, especially of supranuclear ophthalmoparesis, both infrequent in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients, was tested. Of 104 ALS sequential series, cases with vacuolar degeneration of the cerebral white matter were selected to yield 14 cases pathologically surveyed in this study. Clinical features were retrospectively assessed in their clinical records. Microscopic examination clarified vacuolar changes with fibrous gliosis, infiltration of macrophages, axonal degeneration with segmental dilatation and partial loss of myelin on electron microscopy. This histological change was extended into the cerebral white matter just under the cortices but sometimes accentuated as restricted areas along the pyramidal tract and precentral regions. In a patient with the most extensive focal lesion, these white matter vacuolar changes were detected with magnetic resonance imaging. The clinical manifestations linked to this focal vacuolar degeneration were disturbance of vertical ocular movements and shorter duration of the illness, compared with patients without vacuolar degeneration. In conclusion, histological demonstration of characteristic vacuolar degeneration in the white matter of ALS and its focal accentuation along precentral-pyramidal tracts are mutually related and possibly linked to clinical manifestations such as supranuclear ophthalmoparesis, an exceptional but possible manifestation of ALS.
Near Death Experiences are those accounted by people who after being clinically dead return to life spontaneously or after reanimation. These experiences have been used traditionally to support the belief in the existence of the soul and of life after death. However, today neuroscience tries to explain these experiences from the scientific point of view, i.e. explaining them based on their brain substrates. Their resemblance to mystic experiences and to altered states of consciousness seems to indicate that they may be produced by hyperactivity of limbic structures caused by anoxia or hypercapnia.
Growth hormone secretagogues (GHS) constitute a new GH deficiency treatment increasing exponentially in number and improved potency and bioavailability over the last decade. The growth hormone releasing activity makes these compounds attractive for the artificial improvement of the human sports skills, now that recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) administration is effectively detected. The GHS family is extremely diverse both in number and chemical heterogeneity and keeps growing continuously. In this paper, a general screening test is proposed. To develop a universal method, the single common property of growth hormone secretagogues has been targeted: their capacity to bind to the GHS receptor 1a (GHS-R1a). Pretreated urine samples have been tested in a competition assay where eventually the GHS presence detached a radiolabelled ligand from the receptor in a dose-dependent manner. Blank urine samples were processed to determine potential age, gender and exercise effects, and to define a threshold beyond which a specimen is considered positive. Samples from a growth hormone releasing peptide 2 (GHRP-2) excretion study corroborated the screening assay applicability with a detection window of approximately 4.5 h, and results were confirmed by comparison with a dedicated LC-MS quantification of the intact compound.
Several Eph receptors, prominently EphA4 and EphA7, and their corresponding ligands are known to influence neocortical development, including topographic sorting of thalamocortical axons within primary somatosensory cortex (SI). This study investigated postnatal expression of a ligand that can bind to these receptors, ephrin-A2. Quantitative methods revealed that expression of ephrin-A2 mRNA in SI reached maximum levels on postnatal day (P) 4 and dropped thereafter to background by P18. Ephrin-A2 mRNA expression assessed by in situ hybridization qualitatively revealed a similar time course and localized the expression pattern primarily in two broad laminae in SI, comprising the supragranular and infragranular layers, and with additional expression in the subplate. This expression pattern was investigated in greater detail using immunohistochemistry for ephrin-A2 protein. Immunoreactivity generally showed the same laminar distribution as seen with in situ hybridization, except that it persisted longer, lasting to approximately P14. Expression in the cortical plate was low or absent within presumptive layer IV, and it remained so as cortical lamination progressed. Double-labeling immunohistochemistry with confocal microscopy revealed that cortical neurons were the principal elements expressing ephrin-A2 protein. These findings are consistent with possible involvement of ephrin-A2, in concert with one or more Eph receptors, in influencing arbor development of thalamocortical axons at cortical layer IV boundaries.
The three-dimensional (3D) analysis of anatomical ultrastructures is extremely important in most fields of biological research. Although it is very difficult to perform 3D image analysis on exact serial sets of ultrathin sections, 3D reconstruction from serial ultrathin sections can generally be used to obtain 3D information. However, this technique can only be applied to small areas of a specimen because of technical and physical difficulties. We used ultrahigh voltage electron microscopy (UHVEM) to overcome these difficulties and to study the chemical neuroanatomy of 3D ultrastructures. This methodology, which links UHVEM and light microscopy, is a useful and powerful tool for studying molecular and/or chemical neuroanatomy at the ultrastructural level.
Introduction. Patients with -thalassemia intermedia have a higher incidence of thromboembolic events compared to the general population. Previous studies have shown that patients with sickle cell disease, who are also prone to ischemic events, have higher intracranial arterial blood flow velocities measured by transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD). The aim of this study is to evaluate intracranial arterial flow velocities in patients with -thalassemia intermedia and compare the results with those found in healthy subjects. Methods. Sixty-four patients with -thalassemia intermedia and 30 healthy subjects underwent transcranial Doppler sonography. Results. Significantly higher flow velocities were found in intracranial arteries of patients compared to controls (P = 0.001). Previously splenectomized patients with thrombocytosis showed higher flow velocities than nonsplenectomized patients without thrombosis. Conclusion. The increased flow velocities in patients with -thalassemia intermedia may point to a higher risk of ischemic events. Preventive measures such as blood transfusion or antiplatelet treatment may be beneficial in these patients.
Knowledge of how crash severity influences injury risk in car crashes is essential in order to create a safe road transport system. Analyses of real-world crashes increase the ability to obtain such knowledge.The aim of this study was to present injury risk functions based on real-world frontal crashes where crash severity was measured with on-board crash pulse recorders.Results from 489 frontal car crashes (26 models of four car makes) with recorded acceleration-time history were analysed. Injury risk functions for restrained front seat occupants were generated for maximum AIS value of two or greater (MAIS2+) using multiple logistic regression. Analytical as well as empirical injury risk was plotted for several crash severity parameters; change of velocity, mean acceleration and peak acceleration. In addition to crash severity, the influence of occupant age and gender was investigated.A strong dependence between injury risk and crash severity was found. The risk curves reflect that small changes in crash severity may have a considerable influence on the risk of injury. Mean acceleration, followed by change of velocity, was found to be the single variable that best explained the risk of being injured (MAIS2+) in a crash. Furthermore, all three crash severity parameters were found to predict injury better than age and gender. However, age was an important factor. The very best model describing MAIS2+ injury risk included delta V supplemented by an interaction term of peak acceleration and age.

Axon regeneration is a medically relevant process that can repair damaged neurons. This review describes current progress in understanding axon regeneration in the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans. Factors that regulate axon regeneration in C. elegans have broadly similar roles in vertebrate neurons. This means that using C. elegans as a tool to leverage discovery is a legitimate strategy for identifying conserved mechanisms of axon regeneration.
My mother, Leonore, was diagnosed with Huntington's disease (HD) in 1968 at age 53. I was 23, my sister Alice 26, and our father, Milton Wexler, 60 years old. The same year, our father created the Hereditary Disease Foundation (HDF), dedicated to finding treatments and cures for HD. HD is an autosomal dominant, neurodegenerative disorder. Alice and I each have a 50% chance of inheriting and dying from the disorder. Over the past 43 years, we have been proud to change the face of science. Through Milton Wexler Interdisciplinary Workshops, judicious funding, and focusing on innovation and creativity, the HDF is an integral partner in key discoveries. The HDF recruited and supported &gt;100 scientists worldwide who worked together as the Huntington's Disease Collaborative Research Group in a successful ten-year search for the HD gene. We found a DNA marker for the HD gene in 1983-the first marker to be found when the chromosomal location was unknown. We isolated the HD gene itself a decade later. These breakthroughs helped launch the Human Genome Project. We supported creating the first mouse model of HD and many other model systems. Currently, we focus on gene silencing, among other approaches, to create new treatments and cures.
Empathy--the ability to share the feelings of others--is fundamental to our emotional and social lives. Previous human imaging studies focusing on empathy for others' pain have consistently shown activations in regions also involved in the direct pain experience, particularly anterior insula and anterior and midcingulate cortex. These findings suggest that empathy is, in part, based on shared representations for firsthand and vicarious experiences of affective states. Empathic responses are not static but can be modulated by person characteristics, such as degree of alexithymia. It has also been shown that contextual appraisal, including perceived fairness or group membership of others, may modulate empathic neuronal activations. Empathy often involves coactivations in further networks associated with social cognition, depending on the specific situation and information available in the environment. Empathy-related insular and cingulate activity may reflect domain-general computations representing and predicting feeling states in self and others, likely guiding adaptive homeostatic responses and goal-directed behavior in dynamic social contexts.
Here, we update our 1990 Annual Review of Neuroscience article, &quot;The Attention System of the Human Brain.&quot; The framework presented in the original article has helped to integrate behavioral, systems, cellular, and molecular approaches to common problems in attention research. Our framework has been both elaborated and expanded in subsequent years. Research on orienting and executive functions has supported the addition of new networks of brain regions. Developmental studies have shown important changes in control systems between infancy and childhood. In some cases, evidence has supported the role of specific genetic variations, often in conjunction with experience, that account for some of the individual differences in the efficiency of attentional networks. The findings have led to increased understanding of aspects of pathology and to some new interventions.
Despite being regarded as a hippie science for decades, cannabinoid research has finally found its well-deserved position in mainstream neuroscience. A series of groundbreaking discoveries revealed that endocannabinoid molecules are as widespread and important as conventional neurotransmitters such as glutamate or GABA, yet they act in profoundly unconventional ways. We aim to illustrate how uncovering the molecular, anatomical, and physiological characteristics of endocannabinoid signaling has revealed new mechanistic insights into several fundamental phenomena in synaptic physiology. First, we summarize unexpected advances in the molecular complexity of biogenesis and inactivation of the two endocannabinoids, anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol. Then, we show how these new metabolic routes are integrated into well-known intracellular signaling pathways. These endocannabinoid-producing signalosomes operate in phasic and tonic modes, thereby differentially governing homeostatic, short-term, and long-term synaptic plasticity throughout the brain. Finally, we discuss how cell type- and synapse-specific refinement of endocannabinoid signaling may explain the characteristic behavioral effects of cannabinoids.
Neurons in early sensory cortex show weak but systematic correlations with perceptual decisions when trained animals perform at psychophysical threshold. These correlations are observed across repeated presentations of identical stimuli and cannot be explained by variation in external factors. The relationship between the activity of individual sensory neurons and the animal's behavioral choice means that even neurons in early sensory cortex carry information about an upcoming decision. This relationship, termed choice probability, may reflect the effect of fluctuations in neuronal firing rate on the animal's decision, but it can also reflect modulation of sensory responses by cognitive factors, or network properties such as variability that is shared among populations of neurons. Here, we review recent work clarifying the relationship among fluctuations in the responses of individual neurons, correlated variability, and behavior in a variety of tasks and cortical areas. We also discuss the possibility that choice probability may in part reflect the influence of cognitive factors on sensory neurons and explore the situations in which choice probability can be used to make inferences about the role of particular sensory neurons in the decision-making process.
The curse of dimensionality poses severe challenges to both technical and conceptual progress in neuroscience. In particular, it plagues our ability to acquire, process, and model high-dimensional data sets. Moreover, neural systems must cope with the challenge of processing data in high dimensions to learn and operate successfully within a complex world. We review recent mathematical advances that provide ways to combat dimensionality in specific situations. These advances shed light on two dual questions in neuroscience. First, how can we as neuroscientists rapidly acquire high-dimensional data from the brain and subsequently extract meaningful models from limited amounts of these data? And second, how do brains themselves process information in their intrinsically high-dimensional patterns of neural activity as well as learn meaningful, generalizable models of the external world from limited experience?
The circadian system of mammals is composed of a hierarchy of oscillators that function at the cellular, tissue, and systems levels. A common molecular mechanism underlies the cell-autonomous circadian oscillator throughout the body, yet this clock system is adapted to different functional contexts. In the central suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus, a coupled population of neuronal circadian oscillators acts as a master pacemaker for the organism to drive rhythms in activity and rest, feeding, body temperature, and hormones. Coupling within the SCN network confers robustness to the SCN pacemaker, which in turn provides stability to the overall temporal architecture of the organism. Throughout the majority of the cells in the body, cell-autonomous circadian clocks are intimately enmeshed within metabolic pathways. Thus, an emerging view for the adaptive significance of circadian clocks is their fundamental role in orchestrating metabolism.
Attractor networks are a popular computational construct used to model different brain systems. These networks allow elegant computations that are thought to represent a number of aspects of brain function. Although there is good reason to believe that the brain displays attractor dynamics, it has proven difficult to test experimentally whether any particular attractor architecture resides in any particular brain circuit. We review models and experimental evidence for three systems in the rat brain that are presumed to be components of the rat's navigational and memory system. Head-direction cells have been modeled as a ring attractor, grid cells as a plane attractor, and place cells both as a plane attractor and as a point attractor. Whereas the models have proven to be extremely useful conceptual tools, the experimental evidence in their favor, although intriguing, is still mostly circumstantial.
In many regions of the developing brain, neuronal circuits undergo defined phases of enhanced plasticity, termed critical periods. Work in the rodent visual cortex has led to important insights into the cellular and molecular mechanisms regulating the timing of the critical period. Although there is little doubt that the maturation of specific inhibitory circuits plays a key role in the opening of the critical period in the visual cortex, it is less clear what puts an end to it. In this review, we describe the established mechanisms and point out where more experimental work is needed. We also show that plasticity in the visual cortex is present well before, and long after, the peak of the critical period.
Reinforcement learning is an adaptive process in which an animal utilizes its previous experience to improve the outcomes of future choices. Computational theories of reinforcement learning play a central role in the newly emerging areas of neuroeconomics and decision neuroscience. In this framework, actions are chosen according to their value functions, which describe how much future reward is expected from each action. Value functions can be adjusted not only through reward and penalty, but also by the animal's knowledge of its current environment. Studies have revealed that a large proportion of the brain is involved in representing and updating value functions and using them to choose an action. However, how the nature of a behavioral task affects the neural mechanisms of reinforcement learning remains incompletely understood. Future studies should uncover the principles by which different computational elements of reinforcement learning are dynamically coordinated across the entire brain.
Gamma rhythms are commonly observed in many brain regions during both waking and sleep states, yet their functions and mechanisms remain a matter of debate. Here we review the cellular and synaptic mechanisms underlying gamma oscillations and outline empirical questions and controversial conceptual issues. Our main points are as follows: First, gamma-band rhythmogenesis is inextricably tied to perisomatic inhibition. Second, gamma oscillations are short-lived and typically emerge from the coordinated interaction of excitation and inhibition, which can be detected as local field potentials. Third, gamma rhythm typically concurs with irregular firing of single neurons, and the network frequency of gamma oscillations varies extensively depending on the underlying mechanism. To document gamma oscillations, efforts should be made to distinguish them from mere increases of gamma-band power and/or increased spiking activity. Fourth, the magnitude of gamma oscillation is modulated by slower rhythms. Such cross-frequency coupling may serve to couple active patches of cortical circuits. Because of their ubiquitous nature and strong correlation with the &quot;operational modes&quot; of local circuits, gamma oscillations continue to provide important clues about neuronal population dynamics in health and disease.
Memory consolidation is the hypothetical process in which an item in memory is transformed into a long-term form. It is commonly addressed at two complementary levels of description and analysis: the cellular/synaptic level (synaptic consolidation) and the brain systems level (systems consolidation). This article focuses on selected recent advances in consolidation research, including the reconsolidation of long-term memory items, the brain mechanisms of transformation of the content and of cue-dependency of memory items over time, as well as the role of rest and sleep in consolidating and shaping memories. Taken together, the picture that emerges is of dynamic engrams that are formed, modified, and remodified over time at the systems level by using synaptic consolidation mechanisms as subroutines. This implies that, contrary to interpretations that have dominated neuroscience for a while, but similar to long-standing cognitive concepts, consolidation of at least some items in long-term memory may never really come to an end.
The calyx of Held is an axosomatic terminal in the auditory brainstem that has attracted anatomists because of its giant size and physiologists because of its accessibility to patch-clamp recordings. The calyx allows the principal neurons in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) to provide inhibition that is both well timed and sustained to many other auditory nuclei. The special adaptations that allow the calyx to drive its principal neuron even when frequencies are high include a large number of release sites with low release probability, a large readily releasable pool, fast presynaptic calcium clearance and little delayed release, a large quantal size, and fast AMPA-type glutamate receptors. The transformation from a synapse that is unremarkable except for its giant size into a fast and reliable auditory relay happens in just a few days. In rodents this transformation is essentially ready when hearing starts.
The psychology of extinction has been studied for decades. Approximately 10 years ago, however, there began a concerted effort to understand the neural circuits of extinction of fear conditioning, in both animals and humans. Progress during this period has been facilitated by a high degree of coordination between rodent and human researchers examining fear extinction. Here we review the major advances and highlight new approaches to understanding and exploiting fear extinction. Research in fear extinction could serve as a model for translational research in other areas of behavioral neuroscience.
Answers to the question &quot;What are human emotions for?&quot; have stimulated highly productive programs of research on emotional phenomena in psychology and neuroscience in the past decade. Although a variety of functions have been proposed and examined at different levels of abstraction, what is undeniable is that when emotional processing is compromised, most things social go awry. In this review we survey the research findings documenting the functions of emotion and link these to new discoveries about how emotion is accurately processed and transmitted. We focus specifically on emotion processing in dyads and groups, which reflects the current scientific trend. Within dyads, emotional expressions and learning and understanding through vicarious emotion are the phenomena of interest. Behavioral and brain mechanisms supporting their successful occurrence are evaluated. At the group level, group emotions and group-based emotions, two very different phenomena, are discussed, and mechanistic accounts are reviewed.
The ultimate goal of neuroscience research is to understand the operating mechanism of the human brain and to exploit this understanding to devise methods for repair when it malfunctions. A key feature of this operating mechanism is electrical activity of single brain cells and cell assemblies. For obvious ethical reasons, scientists rely mostly on animal research in the study of such signals. Research in humans is often limited to electrical signals that can be recorded at the scalp or to surrogates of electrical activity, namely magnetic source imaging and measures of regional blood flow and metabolism. Invasive brain recordings performed in patients during various clinical procedures provide a unique opportunity to record high-resolution signals in vivo from the human brain-data that are otherwise unavailable. Of special value are the rare opportunities to record in awake humans the activity of single brain cells and small cellular assemblies. These recordings provide a unique view on aspects of human cognition that are impossible to study in animals, including language, imagery, episodic memory, volition, and even consciousness. In the current review we discuss the unique contribution of invasive recordings from patients to the field of cognitive neuroscience.
Individual differences in human intelligence are of interest to a wide range of psychologists and to many people outside the discipline. This overview of contributions to intelligence research covers the first decade of the twenty-first century. There is a survey of some of the major books that appeared since 2000, at different levels of expertise and from different points of view. Contributions to the phenotype of intelligence differences are discussed, as well as some contributions to causes and consequences of intelligence differences. The major causal issues covered concern the environment and genetics, and how intelligence differences are being mapped to brain differences. The major outcomes discussed are health, education, and socioeconomic status. Aging and intelligence are discussed, as are sex differences in intelligence and whether twins and singletons differ in intelligence. More generally, the degree to which intelligence has become a part of broader research in neuroscience, health, and social science is discussed.
Advances in cognitive, affective, and social neuroscience raise a host of new questions concerning the ways in which neuroscience can and should be used. These advances also challenge our intuitions about the nature of humans as moral and spiritual beings. Neuroethics is the new field that grapples with these issues. The present article surveys a number of applications of neuroscience to such diverse arenas as marketing, criminal justice, the military, and worker productivity. The ethical, legal, and societal effects of these applications are discussed. Less practical, but perhaps ultimately more consequential, is the impact of neuroscience on our worldview and our understanding of the human person.

Deposition of amyloid-beta (A) protein, a 39-43 amino acid peptide, in the brain is a major pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have previously provided evidence that in primary cultures of rat basal forebrain and human fetal neurons (HFNs), neurotoxic effects of oligomeric A are expressed through the amylin receptor. In this study, we utilized RT-PCR arrays to compare RNA expression levels of 84 markers for pro and anti- apoptotic signalling pathways following exposure of HFNs to either A(1-42) (20M) or human amylin (2M). Oligomeric A(1-42) or human amylin was applied to HFNs alone or after pre-treatment of cultures with the amylin receptor antagonist, AC253. Changes in RNA levels were then quantified and compared to each other in order to identify increases or decreases in gene expression of apoptotic markers. Applications of A(1-42) or human amylin, but not the inactive inverse sequence A(42-1) or rat amylin, resulted in a time-dependent marked increase in mediators of apoptosis including a 10- to 30-fold elevations in caspases 3, 6, 9, BID and XIAP levels. Amylin receptor antagonists, AC253 (10M) or AC187 (10M), significantly attenuated the induction of several pro-apoptotic mediators up-regulated following exposure to A(1-42) or human amylin and increased the expression of several anti-apoptotic markers. These data allow us to identify key elements in the A-induced apoptosis that are blocked by antagonism of the amylin receptor and further support the potential for amylin receptor blockade as a potential therapeutic avenue in AD.
A 64-year-old man (GK) was referred to our memory clinic because of progressive memory and concentration problems. His symptoms had started 3 years earlier with gradually increasing visual problems for which no ophthalmologic explanations could be found. Neuropsychological assessment with detailed examination of the visuoperception revealed striking impairments in the higher-order visual functions, leading to a probable diagnosis of posterior cortical atrophy (PCA). The results of magnetic resonance imaging and cerebrospinal fluid examination supported the diagnosis. PCA is considered the posterior variant of Alzheimer's disease that typically presents with problems in visuoperception or, less frequent, apraxia. Despite its clear clinical features, the diagnosis of PCA is often delayed because of the focus on ophthalmologic examination. In this case report, the diagnosis of PCA in a 64-year-old man was not considered until further neuropsychological decay was evident. We argue that screening of higher-order visual functions can significantly contribute to an early diagnosis and treatment of PCA.
Individuals with multiple sclerosis (MS) often experience cognitive impairments in information processing. However, the relative contributions of processing speed abilities and working memory abilities to information-processing tasks are not yet fully understood. The current study examined the extent to which processing speed and/or working memory abilities contributed to an information-processing task, the Keeping Track Task (KTT). Forty-nine individuals with MS were given tests to assess processing speed and working memory, as well as the KTT. Regression analyses indicated that in the MS group, processing speed abilities accounted for the majority of the explained variance in KTT performance. The findings suggest that processing speed plays a significant role on KTT performance in MS. Implications for cognitive rehabilitation treatments aimed at improving processing speed abilities in MS are discussed.
Knowing the prevalence of low scores on a battery of executive-functioning tests supplements clinical interpretation and can reduce the likelihood of misdiagnosing deficits in executive functioning. The purpose of this study is to examine the base rates of low scores on the Test of Verbal Conceptualization and Fluency (TVCF; Reynolds &amp; Horton, 2006 ) in healthy adults (n = 332; M (age) = 33.0 years, SD = 10.5, range = 20-59) and older adults (n = 138; M (age) = 74.9 years, SD = 7.8, range = 60-89) from the TVCF standardization sample. The TVCF consists of four tests of executive functioning (i.e., Category Fluency, Letter Naming, Classification, and Trails C) that provide five age-adjusted T-scores. The prevalence of low scores was examined in the total sample and was stratified by educational level. When the five T-scores were considered simultaneously, having one or more scores that were 1 standard deviation (SD) below the mean was found in 28% of healthy adults and 38% of older adults. Education-based differences were also present with more lenient cutoff scores (e.g., 1 SD) but not with more conservative cutoffs. Consistent with the existing literature on other test batteries, at least one low subtest score on the TVCF is common in healthy adults and older adults.
The present study examined the impact of cognitive reserve in maintaining intact neuropsychological (NP) function among older HIV-positive individuals, a uniquely at-risk subgroup. Participants included 129 individuals classified by HIV serostatus, age group, and NP impairment. A three-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by a series of within-group ANOVA and multiple regression analyses were conducted to investigate the pattern of cognitive reserve (vs. other protective) influence among groups with varying risks of NP impairment. Results indicated a significant ageHIV status interaction, with older HIV-positive individuals demonstrating higher cognitive reserve than subgroups with less risk for NP compromise (younger age and/or HIV-negative). Results demonstrated higher cognitive reserve specific to NP-intact older HIV-positive individuals. Within this group, the interaction of younger age and higher cognitive reserve independently contributed to cognitive status when controlling for psychiatric, immunological, and psychosocial protective mechanisms, suggesting the importance of cognitive reserve beyond other protective mechanisms in maintaining optimal NP functioning in those individuals most at risk. Alongside younger age, factors contributing to cognitive reserve (i.e., education and estimated premorbid intelligence) may provide substantial benefit for older HIV-positive adults who are at high risk for NP compromise.
The main objective of this research was to establish the relation between age, cognitive reserve (CR), and attentional and executive functions. One hundred and sixty healthy participants aged 20 to 65 years old completed a wide battery of frontal-lobe tasks using classical tests that assess planning and control of movement, problem solving, and inhibition of automatic response, visuomotor tracking, focused and sustained attention, shifting, spontaneity and reasoning. The total sum of the score in premorbid IQ (by means of the Weschsler Adult Intelligence Scale Vocabulary subtest), educational level, and type of profession was used as a proxy of CR. Subjects were divided into groups of low or high CR. Multiple linear and logistic analyses revealed that age is a predictor of the 20Q Test, Terman Merril's Picture task, Similarities, Digit Span (backward), Trail-Making Tests, Porteus Maze Trace, the &quot;A&quot; Letter Cancellation Test, and reciprocal inhibition. CR is a predictor of the Controlled Oral Word Association Test, Trail-Making Tests A and B, Digit Span (forward), and Similarities. In conclusion, a higher CR score is associated with better performance in almost all tests employed. But it has a significant contribution to performance on verbal fluency, behavioral spontaneity, reasoning, divided and complex attention, and working memory functions, which are mainly related to the dorsolateral prefrontal area.







Approaches for treating poststroke language impairments (aphasia) based on constraint-induced (CI) principles were first introduced in 2001. CI principles as previously applied to upper extremity and locomotor retraining in stroke survivors were derived from basic neuroscience. They comprise forced-use of the affected modality, a gradual rebuilding of targeted functions using a highly intensive treatment protocol, administered in a behaviorally relevant context. CI-based approaches have stimulated considerable neurorehabilitation research interest in the past decade. The original CI aphasia treatment protocol was tailored to improve functional communication in chronic aphasia (ie, 6-12mo after stroke) and more recently, it has been adapted to treat language impairments in acute stroke survivors as well. Moreover, CI therapy applied to aphasia has been used as a model to assess language network plasticity in response to treatment using functional imaging techniques. In the following article, we review the first 10 years of behavioral and functional brain imaging research on CI-based approaches for aphasia rehabilitation.




The functional significance of the proteasome activator REG in the regulation of cell proliferation and apoptosis has been recognized. However, pathological contributions to tumor development remain to be elucidated. Both oncogenic proteins and tumor suppressors are targeted by REG for proteasomal degradation. It has been proposed that the role of the REG in the pathogenesis of cancer is cell- and context-specific. In this study, we aimed to explore the potential involvement of REG in laryngeal carcinomas, comparing protein expression in tumor and adjacent tissues by immunohistochemical staining and Western blot analysis. We also characterized the correlation between the expression of REG and the previously identified substrates p53 and p21. We showed that REG was abnormally highly expressed in cancer tissues. Statistical analysis revealed that there was a positive relationship between the level of REG and the expression of p53 and p21. Our study suggests that RE overexpression can facilitate the growth of laryngeal cancer cells.
To aim of this was to observe emodin-mediated cytotoxicity and its influence on Rad51 and ERCC1 expressionin non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). NSCLC cells were cultured in vitro with emodin at various concentrations (0, 25, 50, 75 and 100 mol/L) for 48 h and the proliferation inhibition rate was determined by the MTT method. Then, NSCLC were treated with emodin (SK-MES-1 40 mol/L, A549 70 mol/L) or 20 mol/L U0126 (an ERK inhibitor) for 48 h, or with various concentrations of emodin for 48 h and the protein and mRNA expressions of ERCC1 and Rad51 were determined by RT-PCR and Western blot assay, respectively. Emodin exerted a suppressive effect on the proliferation of NSCLC in a concentration dependent manner. Protein and mRNA expression of ERCC1 and Rad51 was also significantly decreased with the dose. Vacuolar degeneration was observed in A549 and SK-MES-1 cell lines after emodin treatment by transmission electron microscopy. Emodin may thus inhibited cell proliferation in NSCLC cells by downregulation ERCC1 and Rad51.
This study investigated attachment representations and executive functioning (i.e., response inhibition and working memory) at age 8 in relation to ADHD symptoms one year later. Well-validated laboratory measures of both executive functioning and attachment representations were used. Additive, interaction, as well as mediation effects were investigated. The results showed that attachment disorganization and executive functioning were independently related to ADHD symptoms, even when using conduct problems as a covariate. No significant interaction effects were found, and executive functioning was not found to act as a mediator between attachment disorganization and ADHD symptoms. In conclusion, attachment disorganization had a significant effect on ADHD symptoms, independent of both executive functioning and conduct problems, which suggests that the parent-child attachment is a factor that needs to be included if we are to more fully understand the development of ADHD.
Over 30years of research using Posner's spatial cueing paradigm has shown that selective attention operates on representations of spatial locations, leading to space-based theories of attention. Manipulations of stimuli and methods have shown this paradigm to be sensitive to several types of object-based representations-providing evidence for theories incorporating object-based attentional selection. This paper critically evaluates the evidence demanding object-based explanations that go beyond positing spatial representations alone, with an emphasis on identifying and interpreting successes and failures in obtaining object-based cueing effects. This overview of current evidence is used to generate hypotheses regarding critical factors in the emergence and influence of object representations-their generation, strength, and maintenance-in the modulation of object-based facilitatory and inhibitory cueing effects.
Cervical and ocular vestibular evoked myogenic potentials (cVEMPs and oVEMPs) to air-conducted tone bursts (250-2000 Hz) were recorded in 14 patients with superior canal dehiscence (SCD) and 32 healthy controls. For cVEMPs, the most common 'optimal frequency' in control ears (48.2%) was 500 Hz; for oVEMPs, it was 1000 Hz (51.8%). We found a significant interaction between age and frequency, with a shift towards higher-frequency tuning in older subjects. cVEMP and oVEMP tuning in SCD was characterised by a broadening of amplitude and threshold tuning curves. The tendency of cVEMPs to tune to lower frequencies compared to oVEMP was enhanced in SCD. Differences in cVEMP and oVEMP 'optimal frequencies', demonstrated in 57.1% intact ears and 81.3% dehiscent ears, imply differences in the recruitment of hair cells generating these two reflexes. Age-matched oVEMP amplitudes provided excellent separation between SCD and control ears. Although cVEMP amplitudes overlapped between SCD and control ears, better separation was achieved by using a 2-kHz stimulus.
The Stacked auditory brainstem response (SABR) was developed and investigated as a screening tool for small (1 cm) unilateral acoustic tumors (vestibular schwannomas) that were missed by standard clinical auditory brainstem response (ABR) measures [Don et al.: Am J Otol 1997;18:608-621; Audiol Neurotol 2005;10:274-290]. While the SABR measure provided much greater sensitivity than the standard ABR measures for small tumor detection, we believed that the large intersubject variability of the SABR measure compromised both the sensitivity and specificity of the measure. However, as we demonstrate in this paper, the variability between ears of a given individual is small. Thus, we introduced an interaural SABR (ISABR) amplitude difference measure to improve the sensitivity and specificity of the SABR amplitude measure to detect small unilateral acoustic tumors. Its main advantages are two-fold. First, it is somewhat immune to variables that affect the absolute SABR amplitudes because it is a relative measure. Second, it is better at assessing tumor patients with very large and non-tumor patients with very small absolute SABR amplitudes. We believe that the ISABR is a useful addition to ABR measures aimed at detecting the presence of unilateral acoustic tumors.
Aminoglycoside antibiotics are known to damage the vestibular and auditory sensory epithelia. Although loop diuretics enhance the cochleotoxic effect of aminoglycosides, it is not known whether concomitant administration of an aminoglycoside and a loop diuretic affects the vestibular system. The aim of our study was to investigate the effect of co-administration of kanamycin and furosemide upon the otolith organs and to compare it to the known vestibulotoxic effect of gentamicin. Five guinea pigs were injected with a single dose of both kanamycin (400 mg/kg, s.c.) and furosemide (100 mg/kg, i.v.), 5 animals received gentamicin (100 mg/kg, i.p.) for 10 days, and 5 untreated animals served as controls. After 7 days, vestibular function was assessed by measuring vestibular short-latency evoked potentials (VsEPs) to linear acceleration stimuli and cochlear function by auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) to clicks. Hair cell densities were determined in phalloidin-stained whole mounts of the utricles and saccules, and in midmodiolar sections of resin-embedded cochleae. Co-administration of kanamycin and furosemide had no significant effect on VsEPs and hair cell densities in the utricles and saccules were not reduced. ABR thresholds were increased to a great extent (by 60 dB), and histologically a severe loss of cochlear hair cells was observed. The effect of gentamicin, both on vestibular and cochlear function, was just the opposite. VsEP thresholds to horizontal stimulation were elevated and suprathreshold amplitudes showed a decrease, whereas cochlear function was not reduced. With this protocol, we have a tool to selectively induce cochlear or vestibular damage, which may be of interest to researchers and clinicians alike.
Ocular vestibular evoked myogenic potentials (oVEMP) in response to 250-, 500- and 1000-Hz air-conducted short tone bursts were studied in 22 healthy subjects and 37 Mnire's disease patients. The goal of this study was to investigate normal tuning characteristics of the oVEMP and the possible oVEMP changes with respect to frequency dependence in Mnire's disease. In unilateral Mnire's disease patients, a distinction was made between affected ears and unaffected ears. It was found that in normal subjects, the oVEMP tunes to a stimulus frequency of 500 Hz, with the highest amplitude and lowest threshold at this particular frequency. Generally, Mnire's disease patients showed lower amplitudes and higher thresholds than normal subjects at all 3 stimulus frequencies in both the affected and the unaffected ear. Additionally, for ears affected by Mnire's disease, the best stimulus frequency was 1000 Hz. With the use of this altered tuning for these ears, we tried to find a criterion for distinguishing normal from Mnire's disease ears.
Autism affects 1:88 children in the United States. Familial history of autoimmune disease, autoantibodies in the serum of mothers when there is more than one autistic offspring, and neuroglial response in CSF and brain tissue in autistic patients suggest an immunological variable may be associated with this condition. Lenalidomide has the potential to invoke changes in TNF- with less toxicity than thalidomide. This pilot study evaluated lenalidomide at reduction of TNF- and improvement of behavior and language in children with autism with elevated TNF-. Subjects with elevated TNF- were given 2.5mgs lenalidomide daily for 12-weeks. Pharmacodynamics and safety was evaluated. Changes in language and autistic behaviors after six and twelve weeks were measured. Although statistical significance was not achieved for most measures, there were trends toward improvement. After 6-weeks, mean receptive language increased: 60.67  12.06 to 65.00  15.10 (P = 0.11) and symptoms of autism decreased (40.75  5.96 versus 38.67  7.90, P = 0.068). After 12-weeks, CSF-TNF- declined 57%  25% from 80.5  41.03 to 38.0  31.27 (P = 0.068). Serum TNF- declined 57% (92.50  68.92 to 40.25  44.53 (P = 0.048). This study suggests that lenalidomide is tolerated as a treatment by children with autism and should be further studied as a potential agent for cytockine inflammation.
Autism is a chronic neurodevelopmental disorder of unknown cause that affects approximately 1-3 percent of children and four times more boys than girls. Its prevalence is global and its social impact is devastating. In autism, the brain is unable to process sensory information normally. Instead, simple stimuli from the outside world are experienced as overwhelmingly intense and strain the emotional centers of the brain. A stress response to the incoming information is initiated that destabilizes cognitive networks and short-circuits adequate behavioral output. As a result, the child is unable to respond adequately to stimulation and initiate social behavior towards family, friends, and peers. In addition, these children typically face immune-digestive disorders that heighten social fears, anxieties, and internal conflicts. While it is critical to treat the physical symptoms, it is equally vital to offer an evidence-based holistic solution that harmonizes both their emotional and physical well-being as they move from childhood into adult life. Here, we summarize evidence from clinical studies and neuroscience research that suggests that an approach built on yogic principles and meditative tools is worth pursuing. Desired outcomes include relief of clinical symptoms of the disease, greater relaxation, and facilitated expression of feelings and skills, as well as improved family and social quality of life.
Several lines of evidence support the view that autism is a typical member of a large family of immune-related, noninfectious, chronic diseases associated with postindustrial society. This family of diseases includes a wide range of inflammatory, allergic, and autoimmune diseases and results from consequences of genetic/culture mismatches which profoundly destabilize the immune system. Principle among these consequences is depletion of important components, particularly helminths, from the ecosystem of the human body, the human biome. Autism shares a wide range of features in common with this family of diseases, including the contribution of genetics/epigenetics, the identification of disease-inducing triggers, the apparent role of immunity in pathogenesis, high prevalence, complex etiologies and manifestations, and potentially some aspects of epidemiology. Fortunately, using available resources and technology, modern medicine has the potential to effectively reconstitute the human biome, thus treating or even avoiding altogether the consequences of genetic/cultural mismatches which underpin this entire family of disease. Thus, if indeed autism is an epidemic of postindustrial society associated with immune hypersensitivity, we can expect that the disease is readily preventable.
The cellular recycling process of autophagy is emerging as a central player in many of the conserved longevity pathways in C. elegans, but the underlying mechanisms that link autophagy and life span remain unclear. In a recent study, we provided evidence to suggest that autophagy modulates aging through an effect on lipid homeostasis. Specifically, we identified a role for autophagy in a longevity model in which germline removal in C. elegans extends life span. Life-span extension in these animals is achieved, at least in part, through increased expression of the lipase LIPL-4. We found that autophagy and LIPL-4-dependent lipolysis are both upregulated in germline-less animals and work interdependently to prolong life span. While these genetic results lend further support to a growing link between autophagy and lipid metabolism, our findings are the first to suggest a possible molecular mechanism by which autophagy modulates organismal aging.
Mitochondrial health is maintained by the quality control mechanisms of mitochondrial dynamics (fission and fusion) and mitophagy. Decline of these processes is thought to contribute to aging and neurodegenerative diseases. To investigate the role of mitochondrial quality control in aging on the cellular level, human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) were subjected to mitochondria-targeted damage by combining staining of mitochondria and irradiation. This treatment induced a short boost of reactive oxygen species, which resulted in transient fragmentation of mitochondria followed by mitophagy, while mitochondrial dynamics were impaired. Furthermore, targeted mitochondrial damage upregulated autophagy factors LC3B, ATG5 and ATG12. Consequently these proteins were overexpressed in HUVEC as an in vitro aging model, which significantly enhanced the replicative life span up to 150% and the number of population doublings up to 200%, whereas overexpression of LAMP-1 did not alter the life span. Overexpression of LC3B, ATG5 and ATG12 resulted in an improved mitochondrial membrane potential, enhanced ATP production and generated anti-apoptotic effects, while ROS levels remained unchanged and the amount of oxidized proteins increased. Taken together, these data relate LC3B, ATG5 and ATG12 to mitochondrial quality control after oxidative damage, and to cellular longevity.
Methamphetamine (MA) increases dopamine (DA) levels within the mesolimbic pathway and acetylcholine (ACh), a neurotransmitter known to increase DA cell firing and release and mediate reinforcement, within the ventral tegmental area (VTA). The laterodorsal tegmental (LDT) and pedunculopontine tegmental (PPT) nuclei provide cholinergic input to the VTA; however, the contribution of LDT- and PPT-derived ACh to MA-induced DA and ACh levels and locomotor activation remains unknown. The first experiment examined the role of LDT-derived ACh in MA locomotor activation by reversibly inhibiting these neurons with bilateral intra-LDT microinjections of the M2 receptor agonist oxotremorine (OXO). Male C57BL/6J mice were given a bilateral 0.1l OXO (0, 1, or 10nM/side) microinjection immediately prior to IP saline or MA (2mg/kg). The highest OXO concentration significantly inhibited both saline- and MA-primed locomotor activity. In a second set of experiments we characterized the individual contributions of ACh originating in the LDT or pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPT) to MA-induced levels of ACh and DA by administering intra-LDT or PPT OXO and performing in vivo microdialysis in the VTA and NAc. Intra-LDT OXO dose-dependently attenuated the MA-induced increase in ACh within the VTA but had no effect on DA in NAc. Intra-PPT OXO had no effect on ACh or DA levels within the VTA or NAc, respectively. We conclude that LDT, but not PPT, ACh is important in locomotor behavior and the cholinergic, but not dopaminergic, response to systemic MA.
Neuregulin 1 (Nrg1) has been implicated in the development of schizophrenia and influences key neurodevelopmental processes such as myelination and neuronal migration. The heterozygous transmembrane domain Nrg1 mutant mouse (Nrg1 TM HET) exhibits a sex-specific phenotype relevant for schizophrenia research, which is characterized by the development of locomotor hyperactivity, social withdrawal, and changes to the serotonergic system. Cognitive impairments are characteristic of schizophrenia patients and male Nrg1 TM HET mice exhibit cognitive deficits in novel object recognition and contextual fear conditioning. Thus, we investigated the cognitive performance of female Nrg1 mutants, using a cognitive test battery for a variety of paradigms, including fear conditioning, cheeseboard, Y maze, object exploration and passive avoidance. Female Nrg1 mutant mice displayed impairments in the fear conditioning tasks, including significantly reduced fear conditioning to a context and a strong trend towards a decreased ability for cue fear conditioning. These cognitive deficits were task-specific, as no differences were seen between mutant and control mice in spatial learning of the cheeseboard for reference memory measures, in the Y-maze for working memory measures, or in novel object recognition and passive avoidance paradigms. These findings indicate that neuregulin 1 plays only a minor role in cognition in female test mice. The current study provides a further behavioural validation of this genetic mouse model for the schizophrenia candidate gene neuregulin 1 and confirms the importance of considering female test animals in animal models for schizophrenia.
Despite considerable evidence for potential effects of estrogen on emotional processing, several studies of postmenopausal women who began hormone therapy (HT) remote from menopause report no effects of HT on emotional measures. As early HT initiation may preserve brain mechanisms, we examined effects of HT on emotional processing in postmenopausal women who started HT early after menopause. We performed a cross-sectional comparison of 52 postmenopausal women 665 years old, including 15 users of conjugated equine estrogen, 20 users of conjugated equine estrogen plus medroxyprogesterone acetate, and 17 who never used hormones (NT). All hormone users started therapy within two years of menopause, and received at least 10 years of continuous therapy. Outcomes were fMRI-detected brain activity and behavioral measures during an emotional processing picture rating task. During processing of positive pictures, NT women had greater activation than estrogen treated women in medial prefrontal cortex extending to the anterior cingulate, and more activation than estrogen plus progestin treated women in the insula. During processing of negative pictures, estrogen treated women had higher activation than NT women in the entorhinal cortex. Current compared to past HT users showed greater activation in the hippocampus and higher emotion recognition accuracy of neutral stimuli. Estrogen plus progestin treated women had slower response time than NT women when rating all pictures. In conclusion, hormone use was associated with differences in brain functional responses during emotional processing. These fMRI effects were more prominent than those observed for behavioral measures and involved brain regions implicated in cognitive-emotional integration.
Preclinical data demonstrate that the selective blockade of 5-HT7 receptors produces antidepressant-like behavioural effects. Although the involvement of 5-HT7 receptors in cognitive processes has been previously suggested, little is known about their role in the prefrontal cortex (PFC)-dependent processes that may be impaired in stress-related states. According to our previous study, repeated restraint stress induces the long-lasting cognitive impairment in a rat model of PFC-dependent attentional set-shifting task (ASST). Therefore, the first aim of the present experiments was to examine the impact of the selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist, SB-269970, on ASST performance of stressed and control rats. Since the selective blockade of 5-HT7 receptors has been previously demonstrated to enhance the behavioural effects of antidepressants, the second goal was to examine the impact of the joint administration of inactive doses of SB-269970 and escitalopram in the ASST. SB-269970 (0.3 and 1mg/kg) given to stressed rats 30min before testing reversed the restraint-induced impairment of the extra-dimensional (ED) set-shifting ability. Additionally, SB-269970 (1mg/kg) also improved ED performance of the unstressed control group. Moreover, SB-269970, given at an inactive dose, enhanced the pro-cognitive efficacy of escitalopram. In conclusion, these results highlight the possibility that 5-HT7 receptor antagonism may represent a useful pharmacological approach in the treatment of frontal-like cognitive disturbances in stress-related psychiatric disorders.
Zebrafish has been gaining popularity in behavioral genetics and behavioral neuroscience as this species offers an excellent compromise between system complexity and practical simplicity for mechanistic analyses of brain and behavior function. Recently, a number of studies started to investigate methods with which fear responses may be induced reliably in zebrafish. The ultimate goal of these studies has been to develop zebrafish models of pathological processes and to investigate the mechanisms of fear and to eventually translate the findings to the human clinic. Previously, animated image of a sympatric predator of zebrafish was shown to induce fear responses. Here we expand on this recently gained knowledge and investigate whether other moving images may induce more robust fear responses. The images investigated include the original sympatric predator, the Indian leaf fish, another sympatric predator, the needle fish, a bird silhouette moved on the side or above the tank, an expanding dot mimicking rapid approach of an object shown on the side and from above the tank, as well as non-fear inducing images including a single and a group of zebrafish. Our results indicate that although the sympatric predators do induce some fear responses, the other images, particularly the expanding dot but also the bird silhouette shown from above are more effective. The results also reveal a stimulus dependent motor pattern response repertoire of zebrafish demonstrating that perhaps univariate quantification methods may not be appropriate for uncovering the complexity of fear or anxiety related phenotypical changes in this species.
This study presents an in vivo investigation of the arylpropylsulfonamide -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor positive modulator (R,R)-N,N-(2,20-[biphenyl-4-40-diyl]bis[propane-2,1-diyl])dimethanesulfonamide (PIMSD). The pharmacokinetics of the drug were examined in male C57BL/6J mice and the drug concentration in blood plasma determined after subcutaneous injection of 1mg/kg b.w. This analysis revealed a rapid increase of the plasma concentration, peaking within 30min after administration with a T(1/2) of approximately 30min and a peak plasma concentration of about 2M. Analysis of brain tissue homogenates also indicated blood-brain barrier permeability of the compound. Cognitive enhancing effects of the drug were then studied on place learning in male C57BL/6J mice in a water maze. In order to elucidate the potential positive effects of PIMSD on spatial learning the muscarinergic antagonist scopolamine was utilized, which is known to impair spatial learning ability. The mice were divided into four groups and subjected to two sequential subcutaneous injections administered 25min prior to behavioural testing: (1) vehicle/vehicle; (2) PIMSD/vehicle; (3) scopolamine/vehicle; (4) PIMSD/scopolamine. PIMSD at a dose of 3mg/kg b.w. was able to partially reverse the impairment given by 0.5mg/kg b.w. scopolamine. These results suggest that arylpropylsulfonamides such as PIMSD may have a therapeutic use in the enhancement of cognitive function and support the hypothesis that AMPA receptor potentiation is one mechanism that can be targeted for diseases of cognitive impairment.
Gap junctions (GJ) are intercellular channels which directly connect the cytoplasm of adjacent cells. GJ allow direct cell-to-cell communication via the diffusion of ions, metabolites and second messengers such as IP(3). The connexin36 (Cx36) protein has been detected in GJ between interneurons of the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, striatum, amygdala, the inferior olive, cerebellum and other brain structures, such as the olfactory bulb. Cx36 knockout (Cx36 KO) mice display changes in synchronous network oscillations in the hippocampus, neocortex and inferior olive and exhibit impaired spatial alternation and one-trial object recognition in a Y-maze. Here, we further characterized the behavioral changes induced by Cx36 deficiency in the mouse by using different behavioral measures and experimental procedures. Additionally, we examined the effects of Cx36 deficiency on acetylcholine esterase (AChE) activity and calcium calmodulin kinase II alpha (CaMKII) protein levels in the striatum. The homozygous Cx36 KO mice displayed increased locomotion and running speed in the open-field, reduced object exploration and impaired one-trial object-place recognition. Furthermore, they exhibited more anxiety-like behavior as compared to the heterozygous controls in the light-dark box. Homozygous Cx36 KO mice exhibited reduced CaMKII levels in the striatum as compared to the heterozygous mice. AChE activity in the striatum was not significantly different between groups. The present results suggest that Cx36 deficiency in the mouse leads to reduced CaMKII levels in the striatum and behavioral changes in open-field activity, anxiety-related behavior in the light-dark box and one-trial object-place recognition.
Adult Drosophila melanogaster has long been a popular model for learning and memory studies. Now the larval stage of the fruit fly is also being used in an increasing number of classical conditioning studies. In this study, we employed heat shock as a novel negative reinforcement for larvae and obtained high learning scores following just one training trial. We demonstrated heat-shock conditioning in both reciprocal and non-reciprocal paradigms and observed that the time window of association for the odor and heat shock reinforcement is on the order of a few minutes. This is slightly wider than the time window for electroshock conditioning reported in previous studies, possibly due to lingering effects of the high temperature. To test the utility of this simplified assay for the identification of new mutations that disrupt learning, we examined flies carrying mutations in the dnc gene. While the sensitivity to heat shock, as tested by writhing, was similar for wild type and dnc homozygotes, dnc mutations strongly diminished learning. We confirmed that the learning defect in dnc flies was indeed due to mutation in the dnc gene using non-complementation analysis. Given that heat shock has not been employed as a reinforcement for larvae in the past, we explored learning as a function of heat shock intensity and found that optimal learning occurred around 41 C, with higher and lower temperatures both resulting in lower learning scores. In summary, we have developed a very simple, robust paradigm of learning in fruit fly larvae using heat shock reinforcement.
The effects of nicotine on cognitive processes such as learning and memory may play an important role in the addictive liability of tobacco. However, it remains unknown whether genetic variability modulates the effects of nicotine on learning and memory. The present study characterized the effects of acute, chronic, and withdrawal from chronic nicotine administration on fear conditioning, somatic signs, and the elevated plus maze in 8 strains of inbred mice. Strain-dependent effects of acute nicotine and nicotine withdrawal on contextual fear conditioning, somatic signs, and the elevated plus maze were observed, but no association between the effects of acute nicotine and nicotine withdrawal on contextual fear conditioning were observed, suggesting that different genetic substrates may mediate these effects. The identification of genetic factors that may alter the effects of nicotine on cognition may lead to more efficacious treatments for nicotine addiction.
The variance components models for gene-environment interaction proposed by Purcell in 2002 are widely used. In both the bivariate and the univariate parameterization of these models, the variance decomposition of trait T is a function of moderator M. We show that if M and T are correlated, and moderator M is correlated between twins as well, the univariate parameterization produces a considerable increase in false positive moderation effects. A simple extension of this univariate moderation model prevents this elevation of the false positive rate provided the covariance between M and T is itself not also subject to moderation. If the covariance between M and T varies as a function of M, then moderation effects observed in the univariate setting should be interpreted with care as these can have their origin in either moderation of the covariance between M and T or in moderation of the unique paths of T. We conclude that researchers should use the full bivariate moderation model to study the presence of moderation on the covariance between M and T. If such moderation can be ruled out, subsequent use of the extended univariate moderation model, as proposed in this paper, is recommended as this model is more powerful than the full bivariate moderation model.
Hypertension is a risk factor for cognitive decline, but the mechanisms underlying the effects of hypertension on cognition, particularly in midlife, are unclear. We examined whether hypertension modifies genetic influences on individual differences in cognition. Nine cognitive domains and general cognitive ability were assessed in a sample of 1,237 male twins aged 51-60 who were divided into three blood pressure groups: non-hypertensive; medicated hypertensive; and unmedicated hypertensive. Heritability was significantly lower among unmedicated hypertensives compared to medicated hypertensives and non-hypertensives for visual-spatial ability (p = 0.013) and episodic memory (p = 0.004). There were no heritability differences between non-hypertensives and medicated hypertensives. In addition, there were no significant differences in mean level cognition across the three blood pressure groups. These results suggest that in middle-aged men, untreated hypertension suppresses normal genetic influences on individual differences in certain domains of cognition prior to the emergence of hypertension-related effects on cognitive performance. These results further suggest that antihypertensive medication may protect against or reverse this effect.
We present the longitudinal neurolinguistic, neuropsychological and neurologic follow-up of a 64 y.o. right-handed woman, who developed progressive apraxia of speech (PAOS), followed by peripheral agraphia then a left corticobasal syndrome (CBS). Neuroimaging (CT, MRI and FDG-PET) unequivocally showed progressive right hemispheric atrophy and hypometabolism. This particular evolution first confirms that PAOS is a phenotype of probable corticobasal degeneration (CBD). More importantly, this case underpins the neural organisation of motor planning processing in relation with speech, as well as graphic and limb praxis impairments, and constitutes a rare example of crossed-PAOS.


Changes of cognitive function in PD have been extensively documented and defined as a 'frontal' type executive dysfunction. One of the main components of this executive dysfunction is the impairment of verbal fluency. The aim of the present study was to assess semantic and phonemic fluency in a large sample of PD patients and to investigate the effect of clinical and sociodemographic variables on verbal fluency in this patient group. Three hundred patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease who were consecutive referrals to our clinic and 50 age and education matched healthy controls completed the phonemic and semantic verbal fluency tasks. Both phonemic and semantic verbal fluency were significantly impaired in PD patients relative to matched controls. Stage of illness, presence of depression, education and age influenced verbal fluency measures. Regression analyses established that global measures of cognitive ability (MMSE) and executive function (FAB) and side of onset of motor symptoms predicted 36-37% of variance of phonemic or semantic verbal fluency measures. Thus, future studies aimed at assessing cognitive functioning in PD patients treated by deep brain stimulation (DBS) should adequately take into account several factors (stage of illness, depression, executive functioning) which may potentially influence performance on verbal fluency tasks.
This study examines performance of schizophrenia patients, unaffected relatives and controls in social cognition, cognitive and psychiatric scales looking for possible markers of vulnerability in schizophrenia. Performance of schizophrenia patients from multiplex families, first-degree relatives, and matched controls was compared and, subsequently, discriminant analysis method was used for identifying the best predictors for group membership. By using Multigroup Discriminant Analyses on the three groups, the best predictors were PANSS, Premorbid Adjustment Scale, Faux Pas test, and a face/emotion categorizing task. This model obtained 82% correct global classification, suggesting that the combination of psychiatric scales and neuropsychological/social cognition tasks are the best approach for characterizing this disease. Although preliminary, our results suggest that social cognition tasks are robust markers of schizophrenia family impairments, and that combining clinical, social and neuropsychological measures is the best approach to asses patients and relatives vulnerability.
It is generally accepted that the anterior temporal lobes support knowledge of famous people. The specific roles of the right and left temporal lobe remain a subject of debate, with some studies suggesting differential roles based on modality (visual versus verbal information) and others category (person knowledge versus general semantics). The present study re-examined performance of semantic dementia patients with predominantly right and predominantly left temporal lobe atrophy on famous face, famous name and general semantic tasks, with the specific aim of testing the hypothesis that the right temporal lobe has a privileged role for person knowledge and the left temporal lobe for general semantic knowledge. Comparisons of performance rankings across tasks showed no evidence to support this hypothesis. By contrast, there was robust evidence from naming, identification and familiarity measures for modality effects: right-sided atrophy being associated with relatively greater impairment for faces and visual tasks and left-sided atrophy for names and verbal tasks. A double dissociation in test scores in two patients reinforced these findings. The data present a challenge for the influential `semantic hub' model, which views the anterior temporal lobes as an area of convergence in which semantic information is represented in amodal form.
The purpose of this study was to explore aspects of engagement in physical activity in persons with obstructive sleep apnea and overweight. Seven women and 8 men were interviewed, and transcribed data were analyzed according to qualitative content analysis. Two themes evolved reflecting influences on engagement in physical activity: (a) incentives strong enough and (b) facilitators for success and challenges to overcome. Strong incentives to change seem crucial for engagement in physical activity. The identified challenges and facilitators concerned a spectrum of emotional and contextual aspects, as well as diseases and physical symptoms. Exploring the patient's expectations on physical activity behavior change and the perceived facilitators and barriers for engagement may be helpful when tailoring behavioral support strategies.
7-Hydroxycholesterol cytotoxicity has been shown in vivo and in vitro to be dependent on the accumulation of its esters. We show in our study, using a detergent-free raft preparation and LC/MS lipid content analysis, that membrane microdomains isolated from 7-hydroxycholesterol-treated C6 cells have a reduced cholesterol: cholesterol ester ratio and accumulate 7keto-hydroxycholesterol, 7-hydroxycholesterol and 7-hydroxycholesterol esters. These modifications in lipid content are accompanied by a redistribution of flotillin-1 in the lipid rafts. Transient increases of AMPK phosphorylation and mitochondrial activity during the first 12 h of 7-hydroxycholesterol treatment indicate that C6 cells undergo energy stress and increase oxidative phosphorylation. Even so, ATP levels are maintained during 15 h until glucose uptake decreases. The cell's answers to raft modifications and energy stress are sequential activations of different signaling pathways such as ERK, AMPK and PI3K/Akt. These pathways, known to be activated under energy stress conditions, are transiently activated at 6 h (ERK, AMPK) and 12 h (Akt) of treatment respectively suggesting a shift from cell survival to cell proliferation. The persistence of 7-hydroxycholesterol-induced stress led after 24 h to P38 activation, loss of GSK3 activation and to cell death. Finally we demonstrate that the observed signaling responses depend on 7-hydroxycholesterol esterification, confirming that esterification of 7-hydroxycholesterol is essential for cytotoxicity.
Recent new findings indicate significant biological roles of cysteine cathepsin proteases in secretory vesicles for production of biologically active peptides. Notably, cathepsin L in secretory vesicles functions as a key protease for proteolytic processing of proneuropeptides (and prohormones) into active neuropeptides that are released to mediate cell-cell communication in the nervous system for neurotransmission. Moreover, cathepsin B in secretory vesicles has been recently identified as a -secretase for production of neurotoxic - amyloid (A) peptides that accumulate in Alzheimer's disease (AD), participating as a notable factor in the severe memory loss in AD. These secretory vesicle functions of cathepsins L and B for production of biologically active peptides contrast with the well-known role of cathepsin proteases in lysosomes for the degradation of proteins to result in their inactivation. The unique secretory vesicle proteome indicates proteins of distinct functional categories that provide the intravesicular environment for support of cysteine cathepsin functions. Features of the secretory vesicle protein systems insure optimized intravesicular conditions that support the proteolytic activity of cathepsins. These new findings of recently discovered biological roles of cathepsins L and B indicate their significance in human health and disease. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Proteolysis 50 years after the discovery of lysosome.

For decades, it was believed that the adult brain was a quiescent organ unable to produce new neurons. At the beginning of the1960's, this dogma was challenged by a small group of neuroscientists. To date, it is well-known that new neurons are generated in the adult brain throughout life. Adult neurogenesis is primary confined to the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the forebrain and the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus within the hippocampus. In both the human and the rodent brain, the primary progenitor of adult SVZ is a subpopulation of astrocytes that have stem-cell-like features. The human SVZ possesses a peculiar cell composition and displays important organizational differences when compared to the SVZ of other mammals. Some evidence suggests that the human SVZ may be not only an endogenous source of neural precursor cells for brain repair, but also a source of brain tumors. In this review, we described the cytoarchitecture and cellular composition of the SVZ in the adult human brain. We also discussed some clinical implications of SVZ, such as: stem-cell-based therapies against neurodegenerative diseases and its potential as a source of malignant cells. Understanding the biology of human SVZ and its neural progenitors is one of the crucial steps to develop novel therapies against neurological diseases in humans.
Tinnitus is a deafferentation-induced phantom phenomenon characterized by abnormal cerebral synchrony and connectivity. Computationally, we show that desynchronizing acoustic coordinated reset (CR) stimulation can effectively counteract both up-regulated synchrony and connectivity. CR stimulation has initially been developed for the application to electrical deep brain stimulation. We here adapt this approach to non-invasive, acoustic CR stimulation. For this, we use the tonotopic organization of the central auditory system and replace electrical stimulation bursts applied to different brain sites by acoustically delivered tones of different pitch. Based on our simulations, we propose non-invasive acoustic CR stimulation as a possible novel therapy for tinnitus.

Young adult participants are known to more accurately remember faces from both their own age- and ethnic groups. The present study examined combined effects of such own-age and own-race biases by asking young Caucasian participants to learn and remember elderly and young Caucasian as well as elderly and young Asian faces. Neural correlates were assessed by recording event-related potentials (ERPs). Behavioral results indicated both an own-race bias for young but not elderly faces, and an own-age bias for Caucasian but not Asian faces. Importantly, no additional decrease in recognition memory for other-race/other-age faces was detected. An early parietal ERP old/new effect (300-500 ms) was most pronounced for young Caucasian &quot;in-group&quot; faces, while the old/new effect in a later time window (500-800 ms) was generally larger for own- as compared to other-race faces. In conclusion, these findings suggest at least partly different neural processes to accompany the own-race and own-age biases.
Ca(2+)-dependent activator protein for secretion 2 (CADPS2), a secretory granule associate protein, mediates monoamine transmission and neurotrophin release. Both monoamines and neurotrophins play a crucial role in cognition, learning and memory. An aberrant splice variant of CADPS2, CADPS2Exon3, was reported to be associated with autism. Therefore, we examined the possible association between the expression of CADPS2/CADPS2Exon3 in peripheral blood and brain functions such as intelligence and memory. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis was performed in 271 healthy adults (age range 20-74 years, mean  SD 43.3  15.3). Data on intelligence quotient (IQ) and memory were obtained by using full versions of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R), and the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R), respectively. CADPS2 expression levels were not significantly associated with any scores/sub-scores of these scales. However, CADPS2Exon3 expression was significantly associated with lower IQ (p=0.022; effect size: (p)(2)=0.031), particularly verbal IQ of WAIS-R (p=0.019; (p)(2)=0.032), lower verbal memory (p=0.026; (p)(2)=0.026) and delayed recall (p=0.042; (p)(2)=0.021) of WMS-R. Our results suggest that CADPS2Exon3 affects intelligence and memory in the non-clinical population.
It is now generally agreed that there are inherent sex differences in healthy individuals across a number of neurobiological domains (including brain structure, neurochemistry, and cognition). Moreover, there is a burgeoning body of evidence highlighting sex differences within neuropsychiatric populations (in terms of the rates of incidence, clinical features/progression, neurobiology and pathology). Here, we consider the extent to which attention and impulsivity are sexually dimorphic in healthy populations and the extent to which sex might modulate the expression of disorders characterised by abnormalities in attention and/or impulsivity such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism and addiction. We then discuss general genetic mechanisms that might underlie sex differences in attention and impulsivity before focussing on specific positional and functional candidate sex-linked genes that are likely to influence these cognitive processes. Identifying novel sex-modulated molecular targets should ultimately enable us to develop more effective therapies in disorders associated with attentional/impulsive dysfunction.

We report two experiments on the influence of spatial caricaturing on face learning and recognition. In the learning phase of Experiment 1, participants learned unfamiliar faces, half of which were caricatured at an exaggeration level of 30%. During learning we found increased N170, N250 and LPC and decreased P200 for caricatures. At test we observed better generalization to non-identical exemplars for faces learned as caricatures. At test, N250 was larger for caricatures. In Experiment 2, using more and stronger levels of caricaturing (0%=veridical, 35% and 70%), we replicated and extended main findings of Experiment 1 and found a clear learning advantage for caricatures. ERP and performance effects were directly related to the level of caricaturing. Overall, the present results suggest that (i) distinctive shape information is particularly informative to form new face representations for unfamiliar faces, and (ii) this formation of new representations is reflected by an increase in occipito-temporal negativity that is most prominent in the time range of the P200 and N250 components.
Stem cells are considered a valuable cellular resource for tissue replacement therapies in most brain disorders. Stem cells have the ability to self-replicate and differentiate into numerous cell types, including neurons, oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. As a result, stem cells have been considered the &quot;holy grail&quot; of modern medical neuroscience. Despite their tremendous therapeutic potential, little is known about the mechanisms that regulate their differentiation. In this review, we analyze stem cells in embryonic and adult brains, and illustrate the differentiation pathways that give origin to most brain cells. We also evaluate the emergent role of the well known anti-oxidant, vitamin C, in stem cell differentiation. We believe that a complete understanding of all molecular players, including vitamin C, in stem cell differentiation will positively impact on the use of stem cell transplantation for neurodegenerative diseases.
Various attempts have been made to develop artificial conduits for nerve repair, but with limited success. We describe here conduits made from Bombyx mori regenerated silk protein, and containing luminal fibres of Spidrex(), a silk-based biomaterial with properties similar to those of spider silk. Assessment in vitro demonstrated that Spidrex() fibres support neurite outgrowth. For evaluation in vivo, silk conduits 10 mm in length and containing 0, 100, 200 or 300 luminal Spidrex() fibres, were implanted to bridge an 8 mm gap in the rat sciatic nerve. At 4 weeks, conduits containing 200 luminal Spidrex() fibres (PN200) supported 62% and 59% as much axon growth as autologous nerve graft controls at mid-conduit and distal nerve respectively. Furthermore, Spidrex() conduits displayed similar Schwann cell support and macrophage response to controls. At 12 weeks, animals implanted with PN200 conduits showed similar numbers of myelinated axons (81%) to controls, similar gastrocnemius muscle innervation, and similar hindpaw stance assessed by Catwalk footprint analysis. Plantar skin innervation was 73% of that of controls. PN200 Spidrex() conduits were also effective at bridging longer (11 and 13 mm) gaps. Our results show that Spidrex() conduits promote excellent axonal regeneration and function recovery, and may have potential for clinical application.
Impulsiveness is an important component of many psychiatric disorders including Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Although the neurobiological basis of ADHD is unresolved, behavioral tests in animal models have become indispensable tools for improving our understanding of this disorder. In the punishment/extinction paradigm, impulsivity is shown by subjects that persevere with responding despite punishment or unrewarded responses. Exploiting this principle, we developed a new behavioral test that would evaluate impulsivity in the most validated animal model of ADHD of the Spontaneously Hypertensive rat (SHR) as compared with the normotensive &quot;control&quot; strain, the Wistar Kyoto rat (WKY). In this paradigm we call the Electro-Foot Shock aversive water Drinking test (EFSDT), water-deprived rats should pass over an electrified quadrant of the EFSDT apparatus to drink water. We reasoned that impulsive animals show increased frequency to drink water even with the presentation of an aversive consequence (electro-shock). Through this assay, we showed that the SHR was more impulsive than the WKY as it demonstrated more &quot;drinking attempts&quot; and drinking frequency. Methylphenidate, the most widely used ADHD medication, significantly reduced drinking frequency of both SHR and WKY in the EFSDT. Thus, the present assay may be considered as another behavioral tool to measure impulsivity in animal disease models, especially in the context of ADHD.
Oroxylin A is a flavone isolated from a medicinal herb reported to be effective in reducing the inflammatory and oxidative stresses. It also modulates the production of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in cortical neurons by the transactivation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB). As a neurotrophin, BDNF plays roles in neuronal development, differentiation, synaptogenesis, and neural protection from the harmful stimuli. Adenosine A2A receptor colocalized with BDNF in brain and the functional interaction between A2A receptor stimulation and BDNF action has been suggested. In this study, we investigated the possibility that oroxylin A modulates BDNF production in cortical neuron through the regulation of A2A receptor system. As ex-pected, CGS21680 (A2A receptor agonist) induced BDNF expression and release, however, an antagonist, ZM241385, prevented oroxylin A-induced increase in BDNF production. Oroxylin A activated the PI3K-Akt-GSK-3 signaling pathway, which is inhibited by ZM241385 and the blockade of the signaling pathway abolished the increase in BDNF production. The physiological roles of oroxylin A-induced BDNF production were demonstrated by the increased neurite extension as well as synapse formation from neurons. Overall, oroxylin A might regulate BDNF production in cortical neuron through A2A receptor stimulation, which promotes cellular survival, synapse formation and neurite extension.
Theoretical discussions and computational models of bio-inspired embodied and situated agents are introduced in this article capturing in simplified form the dynamical essence of robust, yet adaptive behavior. This article analyzes the general problem of how the dynamical coupling between internal control (brain), body and environment is used in the generation of specific behaviors. Based on the Evolutionary Robotics (ER) paradigm, four computational models are described to support discussions including descriptions on performance after a series of structural, sensorimotor or mutational perturbations, or are developed in the absence of them. Experimental results suggest that 'dynamic determinacy' - i.e. the continuous presence of a unique dynamical attractor that must be chased during functional behaviors - is a common dynamic phenomenon in the analyzed robust and adaptive agents. These agents show dynamical states that are definitely and unequivocally characterized via transient dynamics toward a unique, yet moving attractor at neural level for coherent actions. This determinacy emerges as a control strategy rooted on behavioral couplings and relies on mechanisms that are distributed on brain, body and environment. Different ways to induce further distribution of behavioral mechanisms are also discussed in this paper from a bio-inspired ER perspective.
Regeneration of damaged central nervous systems (CNS) is an important topic in neuroscience and neuroengineering. Grafting new neurons derived from pluripotent stem cells into damaged regions can be done to restore functions after injury. Little is known, however, about network-wide interactions between stem-cell-derived neurons and CNS neurons. In this study, we developed a co-culture method of stem cell-derived neuronal networks and CNS networks and observed spontaneous activity in the co-culture samples. By using a microfabricated poly(dimethylsiloxane) device having two culture compartments and 20 connecting microconduits, we are able to compartmentalize P19-derived neurons and mouse cortical neurons and connect them via the microconduits. Furthermore, we combined the co-culture device and a microelectrode array (MEA)-based recording system and recorded spontaneous activity in the co-cultured networks. We found that periodic synchronized bursting spreading over both neuronal networks occurred during the second week in vitro and that P19-derived neurons in the co-cultured networks had different developmental processes compared with those grown in monoculture. These findings suggest that functional interactions form between P19-dervived neurons and mouse cortical neurons and that the co-culture method is useful for exploring the network-wide integrations between stem cell-derived neurons and CNS neurons.
As the skeletal muscle cell is an efficient force transducer, it has been incorporated in bio-microdevices using electrical field stimulation for generating contractile patterns. To improve both the spatial and temporal resolutions, we made photosensitive skeletal muscle cells from murine C2C12 myoblasts, which express channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2), one of archaea-type rhodopsins derived from green algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. The cloned ChR2-expressing C2C12 myoblasts were made and fused with untransfected C2C12 to form multinucleated myotubes. The maturation of myotubes was facilitated by electrical field stimulation. Blue LED light pulse depolarized the membrane potential of a ChR2-expressing myotube and eventually evoked an action potential. It also induced a twitch-like contraction in a concurrent manner. A contraction pattern was thus made with a given pattern of LED pulses. This technique would have many applications in the bioengineering field, such as wireless drive of muscle-powered actuators/microdevices.
Early recurrent cardioembolic stroke on the previously unaffected side has very rarely been reported during or after intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator for acute ischemic stroke. For these cases, thrombolysis guidelines lack any clear recommendation. We report two cases of thrombolysed stroke patients, with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation but normal sinus rhythm on admission, who respectively developed recurrent ischemic stroke within few hours after complete improvement and during intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator infusion. Intravenous thrombolysis was successfully repeated after echocardiographic evidence of left appendage thrombus in the first case and discontinued before complete administration in the second.

Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channels (HCN) can act as pacemakers in the brain making them strong candidates for driving aberrant hypersynchronous network activity seen in epilepsy. Transcriptional changes in HCN channels occur in several animal models of epilepsy. However, only recently have genetic studies demonstrated sequence variation in HCN1 and HCN2 genes associated with human epilepsy. These include a triple proline deletion in HCN2 that increases channel function and occurs more often in patients with febrile seizure syndromes. Other HCNx gene variants have been described in idiopathic generalized epilepsy although the functional consequence of these remains unclear. In this review we explore potential cellular and network mechanisms involving HCN channels in the genetic epilepsies. We suggest how new genetic sequencing technology, medium-throughput functional assays and the ability to develop syndrome-specific animal models will provide a more comprehensive understanding of how I(h) contributes to pathogenic mechanisms underlying human genetic epilepsy. We also discuss what is known about the pharmacological manipulation of HCN channels in the context of epilepsy and how this may help future efforts in developing HCN-channel-based therapy.
System x(c)(-) is an amino acid antiporter that typically mediates the exchange of extracellular l-cystine and intracellular L-glutamate across the cellular plasma membrane. Studied in a variety of cell types, the import of L-cystine through this transporter is critical to glutathione production and oxidative protection. The exchange-mediated export of L-glutamate takes on added significance within the CNS, as it represents a non-vesicular route of release through which this excitatory neurotransmitter can participate in either neuronal signalling or excitotoxic pathology. When both the import of L-cystine and the export of L-glutamate are taken into consideration, system x(c)(-) has now been linked to a wide range of CNS functions, including oxidative protection, the operation of the blood-brain barrier, neurotransmitter release, synaptic organization, viral pathology, drug addiction, chemosensitivity and chemoresistance, and brain tumour growth. The ability to selectively manipulate system x(c)(-), delineate its function, probe its structure and evaluate it as a therapeutic target is closely linked to understanding its pharmacology and the subsequent development of selective inhibitors and substrates. Towards that goal, this review will examine the current status of our understanding of system x(c)(-) pharmacology and the structure-activity relationships that have guided the development of an initial pharmacophore model, including the presence of lipophilic domains adjacent to the substrate binding site. A special emphasis is placed on the roles of system x(c)(-) within the CNS, as it is these actions that are among the most exciting as potential long-range therapeutic targets.

Contemporary clinical and basic neuroscience studies have increasingly implicated the anterior temporal lobe regions, bilaterally, in the formation of coherent concepts. Mounting convergent evidence for the importance of the anterior temporal lobe in semantic memory is found in patients with bilateral anterior temporal lobe damage (e.g. semantic dementia), functional neuroimaging and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation studies. If this proposal is correct, then one might expect patients with anterior temporal lobe resection for long-standing temporal lobe epilepsy to be semantically impaired. Such patients, however, do not present clinically with striking comprehension deficits but with amnesia and variable anomia, leading some to conclude that semantic memory is intact in resection for temporal lobe epilepsy and thus casting doubt over the conclusions drawn from semantic dementia and linked basic neuroscience studies. Whilst there is a considerable neuropsychological literature on temporal lobe epilepsy, few studies have probed semantic memory directly, with mixed results, and none have undertaken the same type of systematic investigation of semantic processing that has been conducted with other patient groups. In this study, therefore, we investigated the semantic performance of 20 patients with resection for chronic temporal lobe epilepsy with a full battery of semantic assessments, including more sensitive measures of semantic processing. The results provide a bridge between the current clinical observations about resection for temporal lobe epilepsy and the expectations from semantic dementia and other neuroscience findings. Specifically, we found that on simple semantic tasks, the patients' accuracy fell in the normal range, with the exception that some patients with left resection for temporal lobe epilepsy had measurable anomia. Once the semantic assessments were made more challenging, by probing specific-level concepts, lower frequency/more abstract items or measuring reaction times on semantic tasks versus those on difficulty-matched non-semantic assessments, evidence of a semantic impairment was found in all individuals. We conclude by describing a unified, computationally inspired framework for capturing the variable degrees of semantic impairment found across different patient groups (semantic dementia, temporal lobe epilepsy, glioma and stroke) as well as semantic processing in neurologically intact participants.
The pedunculopontine nucleus, a component of the reticular formation, is topographically organized in animal models and implicated in locomotor control. In Parkinson's disease, pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation is an emerging treatment for gait freezing. Local field potentials recorded from pedunculopontine nucleus electrodes in such patients have demonstrated oscillations in the alpha and beta frequency bands, reactive to self-paced movement. Whether these oscillations are topographically organized or relevant to locomotion is unknown. Here, we recorded local field potentials from the pedunculopontine nucleus in parkinsonian patients during rest and unconstrained walking. Relative gait speed was assessed with trunk accelerometry. Peaks of alpha power were present at rest and during gait, when they correlated with gait speed. Gait freezing was associated with attenuation of alpha activity. Beta peaks were less consistently observed across rest and gait, and did not correlate with gait speed. Alpha power was maximal in the caudal pedunculopontine nucleus region and beta power was maximal rostrally. These results indicate a topographic distribution of neuronal activity in the pedunculopontine nucleus region and concur with animal data suggesting that the caudal subregion has particular relevance to gait. Alpha synchronization, proposed to suppress 'task irrelevant' distraction, has previously been demonstrated to correlate with performance of cognitive tasks. Here, we demonstrate a correlation between alpha oscillations and improved gait performance. The results raise the possibility that stimulation of caudal and rostral pedunculopontine nucleus regions may differ in their clinical effects.
Transcranial direct current stimulation, a form of non-invasive brain stimulation, is showing increasing promise as an adjunct therapy in rehabilitation following stroke. However, although significant behavioural improvements have been reported in proof-of-principle studies, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. The rationale for transcranial direct current stimulation as therapy for stroke is that therapeutic stimulation paradigms increase activity in ipsilesional motor cortical areas, but this has not previously been directly tested for conventional electrode placements. This study was performed to test directly whether increases in ipsilesional cortical activation with transcranial direct current stimulation are associated with behavioural improvements in chronic stroke patients. Patients at least 6months post-first stroke participated in a behavioural experiment (n=13) or a functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment (n=11), each investigating the effects of three stimulation conditions in separate sessions: anodal stimulation to the ipsilesional hemisphere; cathodal stimulation to the contralesional hemisphere; and sham stimulation. Anodal (facilitatory) stimulation to the ipsilesional hemisphere led to significant improvements (5-10%) in response times with the affected hand in both experiments. This improvement was associated with an increase in movement-related cortical activity in the stimulated primary motor cortex and functionally interconnected regions. Cathodal (inhibitory) stimulation to the contralesional hemisphere led to a functional improvement only when compared with sham stimulation. We show for the first time that the significant behavioural improvements produced by anodal stimulation to the ipsilesional hemisphere are associated with a functionally relevant increase in activity within the ipsilesional primary motor cortex in patients with a wide range of disabilities following stroke.
We assessed the duration and severity of tremor in a real-life ambulatory setting in patients with psychogenic and organic tremor by actigraphy, and compared this with self-reports of tremor over the same period. Ten participants with psychogenic tremor and eight with organic tremor, diagnosed using standardized clinical criteria, were studied. In an explicit design, participants were asked to wear a small actigraph capable of continuously monitoring tremor duration and intensity for 5 days while keeping a diary of their estimates of tremor duration during the same period. Eight patients with psychogenic tremor and all patients with organic tremor completed the study. Psychogenic patients reported significantly more of the waking day with tremor compared with patients with organic tremor (83.514.0% of the waking day versus 58.019.0% of the waking day; P&lt;0.01), despite having almost no tremor recorded by actigraphy (3.93.7% of the waking day versus 24.87.7% of the waking day; P=0.001). Patients with organic tremor reported 28% more tremor than actigraphy recordings, whereas patients with psychogenic tremor reported 65% more tremor than actigraphy. These data demonstrate that patients with psychogenic tremor fail to accurately perceive that they do not have tremor most of the day. The explicit study design we employed does not support the hypothesis that these patients are malingering. We discuss how these data can be understood within models of active inference in the brain to provide a neurobiological framework for understanding the mechanism of psychogenic tremor.
As a consequence of nascent technology, the 19th century witnessed a profound change in orientation to the nervous system. For example, improved microscopy in the first half of the 19th century allowed high magnification without blurring. The subsequent observation of nucleated cells led to the identification of individual brain cells. Philosophical changes in approach to the natural sciences took their lead from those applied to physical observations. The Ukrainian anatomist and histologist, Vladimir Alekseyevich Betz (1834-94) played a pivotal role in reshaping scientific and philosophical approaches to the brain, connecting cerebral localization, function and brain microstructure. Betz revolutionized methods of cell fixation and staining. Sometimes his efforts yielded enormously complicated technological improvements. Betz's greatest contribution, however, was connecting his discovery of the function of giant pyramidal neurons of the primary motor cortex ('cells of Betz') with the cortical organization. Considering cortical cytoarchitectonics in relation with physiological function, Betz recognized this organization in two areas: motor and sensory. He defined a functional area on histological grounds and thereby opened the way to study precise cortical areas. Betz participated in the scientific transformation of cytoarchitectonics based on macro- and microscopic studies of the cortical surface, enabling him to view the paths of nerve cells in the brain. Betz's influence allowed systemization of scattered scientific findings. The discovery of pyramidal cells was a turning point in the prevailing philosophical and scientific approach to the brain, linking cytoarchitecture, neurophysiology and cerebral localization.

Arginine vasotocin (AVT) and its mammalian homologue, arginine vasopressin (AVP), regulate a variety of social and reproductive behaviors, often with complex species-, sex- and context-dependent effects. Despite extensive evidence documenting seasonal variation in brain AVT/AVP, relatively few studies have investigated the environmental and/or hormonal factors mediating these seasonal changes. In the present study, we investigated whether the pineal hormone melatonin alters brain AVT immunoreactivity in green treefrogs (Hyla cinerea). Reproductively active male and female frogs were collected during the summer breeding season and a melatonin-filled or blank silastic capsule was surgically implanted subcutaneously. The duration of hormone treatment was 4 weeks, at which time frogs were eutha-nized and the brains and blood collected and processed for AVT immunohistochemistry and steroid hormone assay. We quantified AVT-immunoreactive (AVT-ir) cell bodies in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), caudal striatum and amygda- la (AMG), anterior preoptic area, suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and infundibular region of the ventral hypothalamus. Sex differences in AVT-ir cell number were observed in all brain regions except in the anterior preoptic area and ventral hypothalamus, with males having more AVT-ir cells than females in the NAcc, amygdala and SCN. Brain AVT was sensitive to melatonin signaling during the breeding season, and the effects of melatonin varied significantly with both region and sex. Treatment with melatonin decreased AVT immunoreactivity in both the NAcc and SCN in male H. cinerea. In contrast, brain AVT was relatively insensitive to melatonin signaling in females, indicating that the regulation of the AVT/AVP neuropeptide system by melatonin may be sexually dimorphic. Finally, melatonin did not significantly influence testosterone or estradiol concentrations of male or female frogs, respectively, suggesting that the effects of melatonin on AVT immunoreactivity are independent of changes in gonadal sex steroid hormones. Collectively, our results indicate that the AVT/AVP neuronal system may be an important target for melatonin in facilitating seasonal changes in reproductive physiology and social behavior.
The distribution of axons from the saccule, lagena, and utricle to descending octaval nucleus neurons that project to the auditory midbrain in the goldfish is reported. We have divided these auditory projection neurons, located in the dorsal portion of the descending octaval nucleus (dDO), into two groups, medial and lateral, each of which contains several neuronal populations based on morphology and location. At most levels of the dDO, there are three medial and three lateral populations; the rostral dDO contains an additional lateral population. The saccule provides input to each of the seven medial and lateral populations but appears to be the exclusive/nearly exclusive source of primary input to the most dorsal cell group of the medial population. Along with the saccule, the lagena and utricle each supply the remaining six medial and lateral populations. Neurons in each of these populations receive input from more than one end organ. One medial and one lateral population include neurons that receive remarkably large contacts from utricular afferents. Overall, the results reveal a more substantial input from the lagena and utricle to the main first-order auditory nucleus in the goldfish than was previously recognized, suggest this nucleus is composed of functionally distinct populations, and relate to functional and evolutionary issues about hearing in early vertebrates.

The arcuate nucleus is a prominent cell group in the human hindbrain, characterized by its position on the pial surface of the pyramid. It is considered to be a precerebellar nucleus and has been implicated in the pathology of several disorders of respiration. An arcuate nucleus has not been convincingly demonstrated in other mammals, but we have found a similarly positioned nucleus in the C57BL/6J mouse. The mouse arcuate nucleus consists of a variable group of neurons lying on the pial surface of the pyramid. The nucleus is continuous with the ventrolateral part of the principal nucleus of the inferior olive and both groups are calbindin positive. At first we thought that this mouse nucleus was homologous with the human arcuate nucleus, but we have discovered that the neurons of the human nucleus are calbindin negative, and are therefore not olivary in nature. We have compared the mouse arcuate neurons with those of the inferior olive in terms of molecular markers and cerebellar projection. The neurons of the arcuate nucleus and of the inferior olive share three major characteristics: they both contain neurons utilizing glutamate, serotonin or acetylcholine as neurotransmitters; they both project to the contralateral cerebellum, and they both express a number of genes not present in the major mossy fiber issuing precerebellar nuclei. Most importantly, both cell groups express calbindin in an area of the ventral hindbrain almost completely devoid of calbindin-positive cells. We conclude that the neurons of the hindbrain mouse arcuate nucleus are a displaced part of the inferior olive, possibly separated by the caudal growth of the pyramidal tract during development. The arcuate nucleus reported in the C57BL/6J mouse can therefore be regarded as a subgroup of the rostral inferior olive, closely allied with the ventral tier of the principal nucleus.
Gonadal steroid hormones have been shown to influence adult neurogenesis in addition to their well-defined role in regulating social behavior. Adult neurogenesis consists of several processes including cell proliferation, which can be studied via 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling. In a previous study we found that social stimulation altered both cell proliferation and levels of circulating gonadal steroids, leaving the issue of cause/effect unclear. In this study, we sought to determine whether socially modulated BrdU-labeling depends on gonadal hormone changes. We investigated this using a gonadectomy-implant paradigm and by exposing male and female green treefrogs (Hyla cinerea) to their conspecific chorus or control stimuli (i.e. random tones). Our results indicate that socially modulated cell proliferation occurred independently of gonadal hormone levels; furthermore, neither androgens in males nor estrogen in females increased cell proliferation in the preoptic area (POA) and infundibular hypothalamus, brain regions involved in endocrine regulation and acoustic communication. In fact, elevated estrogen levels decreased cell proliferation in those brain regions in the implanted female. In male frogs, evoked calling behavior was positively correlated with BrdU-labeling in the POA; however, statistical analysis showed that this behavior did not mediate socially induced cell proliferation. These results show that the social modulation of cell proliferation can occur without gonadal hormone involvement in either male or female adult anuran amphibians, and confirms that it is independent of a behavioral response in males.
The accessibility of the vertebrate retina has provided the opportunity to assess various parameters of the visual abilities of a range of species. This thin but complex extension of the brain achieves a large proportion of the necessary visual processing of an optical image before information is delivered to the brain as neural impulses. Studies of the retina as a wholemount or a flattened sheet of neural tissue are abundant due to the large amount of information that can be analysed, as follows: the level of summation or convergence; the coverage, stratification and potential sites of synaptic connections; the spatial resolving power; the arrangement of neuronal arrays or mosaics; electrophysiological access for the recording of responses to visual stimuli; the spatial arrangement of cell dendritic fields; location of retinal 'blind spots' (optic nerve, falciform process and pecten); topographic differences in retinal cell sampling; spectral filters, and reflective structures. The present study examines all aspects of the wholemount technique, including enucleation, fixation, retinal extraction, flattening, staining, visualization of labelled cells and stereological mapping of cell density. Uniquely, it highlights the crucial technical and often species-specific differences encountered when examining a range of vertebrate taxa (fishes, reptiles, birds and mammals). This broad comparative approach will enable future studies to overcome technical difficulties, thus permitting larger conceptual questions to be posed regarding the diversity of visual tasks across phylogenetic boundaries.
Olfactory nerve and olfactory bulb projections in lepidosirenid lungfishes were experimentally determined with neural tracers. Unilateral injections of DiI into the olfactory nerve labeled the accessory and main olfactory bulbs as well as fibers of the anterior root of the terminal nerve, which terminates extensively in cell groups of the medial hemispheric wall, the dorsal and lateral pallia, and the preoptic nuclei and posterior tubercle. Lepidosirenid lungfishes do not exhibit separate vomeronasal nerves, but previous data indicate that calbindin-positive receptors within basal crypts of the olfactory epithelium are homologous to the vomeronasal organ of tetrapods. Unilateral injections of DiI into the accessory olfactory bulb reveal an accessory olfactory tract which terminates primarily if not solely in the ipsilateral medial amygdalar nucleus as in amphibians. Unilateral injections of tracers into the main olfactory bulb reveal extensive projections to all cell groups in the ipsilateral telencephalic hemisphere, except for the medial amygdalar nucleus, as well as secondary olfactory projections (decussating in the habenular commissure) to the contralateral dorsal pallium and main olfactory bulb. Secondary olfactory projections also terminate bilaterally in diencephalic and midbrain centers after partial decussation in the anterior and postoptic commissures, as well as in the ventral hypothalamus and posterior tubercle. Cladistic analysis of the extensive secondary olfactory projections indicates that this pattern is primitive for all bony fishes whereas the reduction in secondary olfactory projections in amphibians, particularly anurans, is a derived, simplified pattern.
Neuroinflammatory changes are characteristic of many, if not all, neurodegenerative diseases but the extent to which the immune system is involved in the pathogenesis of these diseases is unclear. The findings of several studies during the past decade has established that there is a well-developed communication between the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral immune system, but also has revealed that the immune system in the CNS is much more sophisticated that previously acknowledged. In this mini-review, we discuss two major neurodegenerative disorders, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and multiple sclerosis (MS), and consider whether the therapies most likely to succeed are those that are identified by studying the marriage of neuroscience and immunology.
The wide-spread utilization of diffusion-weighted imaging in the clinical neurosciences to assess white-matter (WM) integrity and architecture calls for robust validation strategies applied to the data that are acquired with noninvasive imaging. However, the pathology and detailed fiber architecture of WM tissue can only be observed postmortem. With these considerations in mind, we designed an automated method for the determination of axonal orientation in high-resolution microscope images. The algorithm was tested on tissue that was stained using a silver impregnation technique that was optimized to resolve axonal fibers against very low levels of background. The orientation of individual nerve fibers was detected using spatial filtering and a template-matching algorithm, and the results are displayed as color-coded overlays. Quantitative models of WM fiber architecture at the microscopic level can lead to improved interpretation of low-resolution neuroimaging data and to more accurate mapping of fiber pathways in the human brain.
Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness with neurobiological bases that remain elusive. One hypothesis emphasizes disordered thalamic function. We previously used concurrent single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (spTMS) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to show that individuals with schizophrenia have a decreased spTMS-evoked response in the thalamus, and decreased effective connectivity between thalamus and insula and thalamus and superior frontal gyrus. To better understand the factors that may accompany or account for these findings, we investigated, in the same participants, resting state functional connectivity, white matter structural connectivity, and grey matter integrity. Patients with schizophrenia did not differ from healthy control subjects in resting state functional- or white matter structural connectivity, although they did show decreased measures of grey matter integrity in the insula. However, in this region, the spTMS-evoked response did not differ between groups. In a region of the thalamus that also had grey matter intensity abnormalities, although not at a level that survived correction for multiple comparisons, the spTMS-evoked response in patients was deficient. These results suggest that measures of structure and function are not necessarily complementary. Further, given its sensitivity for identifying deficits not evident with traditional imaging methods, these results highlight the utility of spTMS-fMRI, a method that directly and causally probes effective connectivity, as a tool for studying brain-based disorders.
Pharmacological functional brain imaging has traditionally focused on neuropharmacological modulations of event-related responses. The current study is a randomized, cross-sectional resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging study where a single dose of commonly prescribed amounts of either benzodiazepine (oxazepam), L-dopa, or placebo was given to 81 healthy subjects. It was hypothesized that the connectivity in resting-state networks would be altered, and that the strength of connectivity in areas rich in target receptors would be particularly affected. Additionally, based on known anxiolytic mechanisms of benzodiazepines, modulated amygdala (Am) connectivity was predicted. To test this, seed region-based correlational analysis was performed using seven seeds placed in well-characterized resting-state networks, in regions with above-average densities of GABA-A or dopamine receptors and in Am. To alleviate the anatomical bias introduced by the a priori selected seed regions, whole-brain exploratory analysis of regional homogeneity and fractional amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (fALFF) was also carried out. Oxazepam increased functional connectivity between midline regions of the default-mode network (DMN) and the prefrontal, parietal, and cerebellar areas, but decreased connectivity between, for example, the Am and temporal cortex. L-dopa mainly decreased connectivity between the Am and bilateral inferior frontal gyri and between midline regions of the DMN. The fALFF analysis revealed that L-dopa decreased low-frequency fluctuations in the cerebellum. It was concluded that the overall effects of single administrations of oxazepam and L-dopa on resting-state connectivity were small both in strength and in spatial extent, and were on par with placebo effects as revealed by comparing the two placebo groups.
In the past decade, the fast and transient coupling and uncoupling of functionally related brain regions into networks has received much attention in cognitive neuroscience. Empirical tools to study network coupling include functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)-based functional and/or effective connectivity, and electroencephalography (EEG)/magnetoencephalography-based measures of neuronal synchronization. Here we use simultaneously recorded EEG and fMRI to assess whether fMRI-based connectivity and frequency-specific EEG power are related. Using data collected during resting state, we studied whether posterior EEG alpha power fluctuations are correlated with connectivity within the visual network and between the visual cortex and the rest of the brain. The results show that when alpha power increases, BOLD connectivity between the primary visual cortex and occipital brain regions decreases and that the negative relation of the visual cortex with the anterior/medial thalamus decreases and the ventral-medial prefrontal cortex is reduced in strength. These effects were specific for the alpha band, and not observed in other frequency bands. The decreased connectivity within the visual system may indicate an enhanced functional inhibition during a higher alpha activity. This higher inhibition level also attenuates long-range intrinsic functional antagonism between the visual cortex and the other thalamic and cortical regions. Together, these results illustrate that power fluctuations in posterior alpha oscillations result in local and long-range neural connectivity changes.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has proved to be useful for analyzing the effects of illness and pharmacological agents on brain activation. Many fMRI studies now incorporate effective connectivity analyses on data to assess the networks recruited during task performance. The assessment of the sample size that is necessary for carrying out such calculations would be useful if these techniques are to be confidently applied. Here, we present a method of estimating the sample size that is required for a study to have sufficient power. Our approach uses Bayesian Model Selection to find a best fitting model and then uses a bootstrapping technique to provide an estimate of the parameter variance. As illustrative examples, we apply this technique to two different tasks and show that for our data, ~20 volunteers per group is sufficient. Due to variability between task, volunteers, scanner, and acquisition parameters, this would need to be evaluated on individual datasets. This approach will be a useful guide for Dynamic Causal Modeling studies.
Previous studies showed that functional connectivity (FC) within resting state (RS) networks is modulated by previous experience. In this study the effects of sustained cognitive performance on subsequent RS FC were investigated in healthy young (25-30 years; n=15) and middle-aged (50-60 years; n=14) male schoolteachers. Participants were scanned (functional magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]) after a cognitively demanding and a control intervention (randomized tester-blind within-subject design). Independent component analysis (ICA) was used to decompose the data into spatially independent networks. This study focused on the executive control (ExN), the left and right frontoparietal (FPN), and the default mode network (DMN). The effects of cognitive performance and age were calculated with a full-factorial analysis of variance (ANOVA). A main effect of age was found in the left inferior frontal gyrus for the ExN and in the middle frontal gyrus for the DMN with middle-aged teachers having reduced RS FC. Sustained cognitive performance increased subsequent RS FC between the ExN and a lingual/parahippocampal cluster, and between the left FPN and a right calcarine/precuneus cluster. In these clusters, FC strength correlated positively with the perceived amount of effort during the intervention. Further, sustained cognitive performance affected subsequent RS FC between the ExN and the right temporal superior gyrus differently in young and middle-aged men. The results suggest that effects of age on RS FC are already present at middle age. Sustained cognitive performance increased RS FC between task-positive networks and other brain regions, although a change in RS FC within the networks was not found.
It is now widely accepted that Alzheimer's disease is characterized by a functional disconnection between brain regions. The disease appears to begin up to decades prior to clinical diagnosis. Therefore, in the present study, we combined magnetoencephalography, a memory task, and functional connectivity analysis in mild cognitive impairment subjects in order to identify functional connectivity patterns that could characterize subjects who would eventually go on to develop the disease. We monitored 19 subjects and finally 5 of them developed Alzheimer's disease. These progressive patients showed a differential profile of functional connectivity values compared with those patients who remained stable over time. Specifically there were higher synchronization values over the parieto-occipital region in  and  frequency bands. The involvement of this brain region in amyloid- accumulation and its possible association with hyper-synchronization are also discussed.







The ability to store and manipulate online information may be enhanced by an inner speech mechanism that draws upon motor brain regions. Neural correlates of this mechanism were examined using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Sixteen participants completed two conditions of a verbal working memory task. In both conditions, participants viewed one or two target letters. In the &quot;storage&quot; condition, these targets were held in mind across a delay. Then a probe letter was presented, and participants indicated by button press whether the probe matched the targets. In the &quot;manipulation&quot; condition, participants identified new targets by thinking two alphabetical letters forward of each original target (e.g., fh). Participants subsequently indicated whether the probe matched the newly derived targets. Brain activity during the storage and manipulation conditions was examined specifically during the delay phase in order to directly compare manipulation versus storage processes. Activations that were common to both conditions, yet disproportionately greater with manipulation, were observed in the left inferior frontal cortex, premotor cortex, and anterior insula, bilaterally in the parietal lobes and superior cerebellum, and in the right inferior cerebellum. This network shares substrates with overt speech and may represent an inner speech pathway that increases activity with greater working memory demands. Additionally, an inverse correlation was observed between manipulation-related brain activity (on correct trials) and test accuracy in the left premotor cortex, anterior insula, and bilateral superior cerebellum. This inverse relationship may represent intensification of inner speech as one struggles to maintain performance levels.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a devastating muscle disorder caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene. There is currently no effective treatment for DMD. Muscle satellite cells are tissue-specific stem cells found in the skeletal muscle; these cells play a central role in postnatal muscle growth and regeneration, and are, therefore, a potential source for stem cell therapy for DMD. However, transplantation of satellite cell-derived myoblasts has not yet been successful in humans. Patient-specific induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells are expected to be a source for autologous cell transplantation therapy for DMD, because iPS cells can proliferate vigorously in vitro and can differentiate into multiple cell lineages both in vitro and in vivo. Here, we discuss the strategies to generate muscle stem cells from iPS cells. So far, the most promising method for generating muscle stem cells from iPS cells is the conditional overexpression of Pax3 or Pax7 in the differentiating mouse embryoid bodies. However, induction methods for human iPS cells have not yet been developed. Thus, iPS cells are expected to serve as an in vitro disease model system, which will enable us to determine the pathology of muscle diseases and develop pharmaceutical treatments.
Lysosomal myopathies are hereditary myopathies characterized morphologically by the presence of autophagic vacuoles. In mammals, autophagy plays an important role for the turnover of cellular components, particularly in response to starvation or glucagons. In normal muscle, autolysosomes or autophagosomes are typically inconspicuous. In distinct neuromuscular disorders, however, lysosomes become structurally abnormal and functionally impaired, leading to the accumulation of autophagic vacuoles in myofibers. In some instances, the accumulation of autophagic vacuoles can be a prominent feature, implicating autophagy as a contributor to disease pathomechanism and/or progression. At present, there are two disorders in the muscle that are associated with a primary defect in lysosomal proteins, namely Pompe disease and Danon disease. This review will give a brief discussion on these disorders, highlighting the role of autophagy in disease progression.

Current views posit the dorsal hippocampus (DHipp) as contributing to spatial memory processes. Conversely, the ventral hippocampus (VHipp) modulates stress, emotions and affects. Arguments supporting this segregation include differences in (i) connectivity: the DHipp is connected with the entorhinal cortex which receives visuospatial neocortical inputs; the VHipp is connected with both the amygdala and hypothalamus, (ii) electrophysiological characteristics: there is a larger proportion of place cells in the DHipp than in the VHipp, and an increasing dorsoventral gradient in the size of place fields, suggesting less refined spatial coding in the VHipp, and (iii) consequences of lesions: spatial memory is altered after DHipp lesions, less dramatically, sometimes not, after VHipp lesions. Using reversible inactivation, we report in rats, that lidocaine infusions into the DHipp or VHipp right before a probe trial impair retrieval performance in a water-maze task. This impairment was found at two post-acquisition delays compatible with recent memory (1 and 5days). Pre-training blockade of the VHipp did not prevent task acquisition and drug-free retrieval, on the contrary to pre-training blockade of DHipp, which altered performance in a subsequent drug-free probe trial. Complementary experiments excluded possible locomotor, sensorimotor, motivational or anxiety-related biases from data interpretation. Our conclusion is that a spatial memory can be acquired with the DHipp, less efficiently with the VHipp, and that the retrieval of such a memory and/or the expression of its representation engages the dorsoventral axis of the hippocampus when the task has been learnt with an entirely functional hippocampus.
Although the arrangement of the corticospinal projection in primates is consistent with a more prominent role of the ipsilateral motor cortex on proximal muscles, rather than on distal muscles involved in manual dexterity, the role played by the primary motor cortex on the control of manual dexterity for the ipsilateral hand remains a matter a debate, either in the normal function or after a lesion. We, therefore, tested the impact of permanent unilateral motor cortex lesion on the manual dexterity of the ipsilateral hand in 11 macaque monkeys, within a time window of 60days post-lesion. For comparison, unilateral reversible pharmacological inactivation of the motor cortex was produced in an additional monkey. Manual dexterity was assessed quantitatively based on three motor parameters derived from two reach and grasp manual tasks. In contrast to the expected dramatic, complete deficit of manual dexterity of the contralesional hand that persists for several weeks, the impact on the manual dexterity of the ipsilesional hand was generally moderate (but statistically significant) and, when present, lasted less than 20days. Out of the 11 monkeys, only 3 showed a deficit of the ipsilesional hand for 2 of the 3 motor parameters, and 4 animals had a deficit for only one motor parameter. Four monkeys did not show any deficit. The reversible inactivation experiment yielded results consistent with the permanent lesion data. In conclusion, the primary motor cortex exerts a modest role on ipsilateral manual dexterity, most likely in the form of indirect hand postural control.
Myxopapillary ependymoma (MPE), which is a benign histological subtype of ependymoma, is found predominantly in the cauda equina region. It occurs rarely in the brain and mostly as a metastatic deposit from a spinal lesion. The occurrence of primary intracranial MPE is exceptional, with only 11 cases reported to date. We report an additional case of intracranial MPE, which is the third reported case in the fourth ventricle. The tumor manifested in a 50-year-old lady, who presented with features of raised intracranial pressure. A gross total resection of the tumor was achieved. Histologically, the tumor had characteristic features of MPE with focal metaplastic cartilaginous deposit. On further evaluation, there was no evidence of a primary tumor in the spinal cord. Intracranial MPE needs further evaluation by craniospinal MRI to exclude an unrecognized primary in the spinal region, which could warrant surgical attention.
There is a clear reported association between social disparity and oral health, for example, between dental caries and malnutrition in children. This fact is detected in several studies, and also found amongst the Brazilian population. However, several efforts have been made to improve the quality of life of the population and to achieve the 2015 Millennium Development Goals. Oral health is a branch to be improved among these goals. The Brazilian experience has been drawing the attention of authorities, insofar as there have been direct improvements in oral health through state oral health programs, and also indirect results by improving the quality of life of the population. Included within the Brazilian oral health programs are the Family Health Program and Smiling Brazil Program. The former is a global healthcare program which involves primary oral healthcare, while the latter is a specialized oral care program. Among the social programs that would indirectly improve oral health are Family Stipend and the Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience of Natal (ELS-IINN). In conclusion, although oral health problems are related to socioeconomic factors, the implementation of primary oral health programs and programs to improve the population's quality of life may directly or indirectly improve the oral health scenario. This fact is being observed in Brazil, where the oral health policies have changed, and social programs have been implemented.


With the growing interdependence between medicine and technology, the prospect of connecting machines to the human brain is rapidly being realized. The field of neuroprosthetics is transitioning from the proof of concept stage to the development of advanced clinical treatments. In one area of brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) related to the motor system, also termed 'motor neuroprosthetics', research successes with implanted microelectrodes in animals have demonstrated immense potential for restoring motor deficits. Early human trials have also begun, with some success but also highlighting several technical challenges. Here we review the concepts and anatomy underlying motor BMI designs, review their early use in clinical applications, and offer a framework to evaluate these technologies in order to predict their eventual clinical utility. Ultimately, we hope to help neuroscience clinicians understand and participate in this burgeoning field.
An estimated one-third of the world's population (2 billion people) is infected with the tubercle bacilli (TB), which is estimated to cause 6% of all deaths worldwide. Despite there being a decline in the incidence of tuberculosis seen in Europe, there are still some countries in the rest of the world where the estimated number of new cases is very high. When a person presents with persistent fever with or without neurological symptoms, the diagnosis of TB cannot be excluded. We present a case report of a 26-year-old male patient, who died of CNS tuberculosis. Such case studies will help keep neuroscience nurses alert to potential medical issues in multiethnic patient populations.

The purpose of this study was to investigate staff experience and satisfaction in the seizure monitoring unit (SMU) of a large health region serving a population of 1.4 million. A staff satisfaction questionnaire was administered yearly between 2007 and 2010 with an average response rate of 58.4%. The majority of staff perceived the SMU to be a positive workplace. Strengths of the SMU were interdisciplinary teamwork and patient-centred care. Satisfaction with professional development opportunities increased from 2007 to 2010, likely reflecting the implementation of training sessions. The physical environment was the least satisfactory. This study highlights aspects of staff experience that have improved or still need to be improved since implementing a quality and safety program in our SMU.
Progress in improving the prognosis of patients with glioblastoma has been modest and has predominantly relied on informative imaging, optimization of medical and surgical treatment, and approval of new drugs with modest benefits on overall and/or progression-free survival. This has frustrated clinicians and demoralized patients but has underscored the importance of pursuing novel treatment strategies in hopes of mounting a decisive assault on this disease. Although initially not intuitive, the use of a pathogen to treat cancer has become a radical and sophisticated strategy to combat the aggressive phenotype of this disease. In fact, the engineering of viruses to fight cancer is a field that has now reached scientific maturity and has rapidly progressed from preclinical stages to clinical testing with considerable safety but disappointing efficacy. Here we review the milestones of this therapy focusing on landmark clinical trials, shed light on the limitations of this approach, and describe the recent and future strategies aimed at bringing promising efficacy to this mode of therapy.
Introduction. Smoking is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality globally and it is a significant modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and other chronic diseases. Efforts to encourage and support smokers to quit are critical to prevent premature smoking-associated morbidity and mortality. Hospital settings are seldom equipped to help patients to quit smoking thus missing out a valuable opportunity to support patients at risk of smoking complications. We report the impact of a smoking cessation clinic we have established in a tertiary care hospital setting to serve patients with CVD. Methods. Patients received behavioural and pharmacological treatments and were followed up for a minimum of 6 months (mean 541 days, SD 197 days). The main study outcome is 50% reduction in number of cigarettes smoked at followup. Results. One hundred and eighty-six patients completed 6 months followup. More than half of the patients (52.7%) achieved 50% smoking reduction at follow up. Establishment of a plan to quit smoking and use of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) were significantly associated with smoking reduction at followup. Conclusions. A hospital-based smoking cessation clinic is a beneficial intervention to bring about smoking reduction in approximately half of the patients.

Odontoid fractures are typically associated with low rates of acute neurologic deficit and morbidity/mortality in nonelderly patients. In the patient in this case, traumatic injury triggered by a syncopal event led to a combined C1-C2 fracture and a fatal spinal cord injury with apnea, quadriplegia, and cardiovascular instability. We briefly review the anatomical basis for the pathophysiology of cardiac dysfunction following high-cervical spine injury and present an example of a worst-case scenario.
Spontaneous eye opening associated with burst suppression electroencephalogram has been reported in adults following postanoxic injury. Previous reports have correlated the onset of epileptiform bursts with the eye opening and attribute it to a brainstem-release phenomenon associated with poor prognosis. The author presents a case of a 12-year-old boy with burst suppression electroencephalogram following severe anoxic injury where the eye opening occurred at the conclusion of the bursts that has never been previously reported. These electroencephalographic findings are important for intensive care physicians to recognize and may provide further insight into the pathophysiological mechanism of this rare phenomenon.
Cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) is a relatively rare cause of stroke and has a wide spectrum of unspecific symptoms, which may delay diagnosis. There are many etiologies, including hematological disorders, trauma, infection, and dehydration. Iron-deficiency anemia (IDA) has been reported as an extremely rare cause of CVT, especially in adults.
Corticosteroid-induced reduction in contrast enhancement on radiographic imaging is most commonly associated with lymphoma but has been reported in other entities, including glioma. This finding may represent a diagnostic dilemma. Concern that steroid-induced cytotoxicity obscures histological diagnosis of suspected lymphoma may lead to postponement of a biopsy. If glioma is not considered in the differential diagnosis, reduction in tumor contrast enhancement may be misinterpreted as disease regression rather than a transient radiographic change. We report a case of a patient with an enhancing right temporoparietal mass adjacent to the atrium of the lateral ventricle. After treatment with dexamethasone was started, the mass exhibited marked reduction in contrast enhancement, with symptom improvement. The clinical course suggested lymphoma, and surgery was not performed. Subsequent screening for extra-axial lymphoma was negative. Two weeks later, the patient developed worsening symptoms, and repeat T1-weighted imaging showed interval increase in size and enhancement. The findings suggested a possible diagnosis of malignant glioma. The patient underwent a stereotactic-guided craniotomy for excision of the right temporoparietal mass lesion. Final histological diagnosis was glioblastoma multiforme, World Health Organization grade IV.
Stereotactic radiosurgery to benign tumors of the spine has not been advocated as a primary treatment modality because of the favorable prognosis for these lesions after gross-total resection. There is even less evidence regarding its use as an adjuvant to neurosurgical resection of benign recurrent spinal disease. We describe the case of a 30-year-old man with a thoracic spinal schwannoma who had an interval increase of his lesion five months after thoracoscopic microsurgical resection. The patient opted for noninvasive stereotactic radiosurgery in lieu of additional surgical excision and has had stable disease 15 months after radiosurgical treatment with the linear accelerator (LINAC) system. In this setting, stereotactic radiosurgery provided a useful adjunct to thoracoscopic microsurgical resection. Future Class I and II evidence should be sought to evaluate the utility of stereotactic radiosurgery as a primary treatment modality or as an adjuvant for microneurosurgical resection of benign spinal lesions in patients who want noninvasive treatment after disease recurrence or who harbor medical comorbidities that would preclude them from being safe surgical candidates.
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) is a neurotoxic state accompanied by a unique brain imaging pattern. This cliniconeuroradiological entity usually presents with visual disturbances (cortical blindness, homonymous hemianopia, visual neglect, and blurred vision) along with neurotoxic manifestations. Only a few cases of PRES have previously been reported in patients with advanced HIV disease. The authors describe a case of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) in a patient with advanced HIV/TBC infection who developed a neurotoxic state following TB and ART therapy initiation. They present a comprehensive review of the literature and discuss the pathogenetic hypotheses.
Vitreous cysts are very rare ocular malformations. In this observational case study, we report on an unusual case of a pigmented free-floating vitreous cyst and discuss its differential diagnosis. A 14-year-old male was referred to ophthalmology for a pigmented lesion in his left eye. He complained of an intermittent floater in the left eye. Visual acuity was 20/20 in the right eye and 20/40 in the left eye. Fundus examination was unremarkable bilaterally, except for a piece of brownish oval material floating in the vitreous in the left eye. He had received a knock on the left side of his head a few days before the visual discomfort of the left eye. Real-time ultrasound of the left eye detected a piece of hyperechogenic spherical material with no internal reflectivity, floating in the middle of the vitreous. The first use of color Doppler ultrasound in this context indicated no arterial flow, ruling out the presence of a persistent hyaloid artery. Intraocular cysts are rare ocular disorders, which have been divided into clear and pigmented cysts, and into those that occupy the anterior chamber, the retrolental space, and the vitreous cavity. This last is extremely rare. We describe such a case.
The authors describe the first case of eye amelanotic cellular blue nevus reported in literature and discuss the main differential diagnosis.
Atlantoaxial rotatory dislocation (AARD) is a rare complication in adults usually leading to pain, spinal cord injury, or death. Clinical and radiological diagnosis is difficult and often delayed. We report a rare case of posttraumatic AARD in a neurological intact 27-year-old male in which initial radiographic evaluation was negative. A computed tomography (CT) scan was promptly done because the patient showed a severe torticollis. Therefore, early diagnosis, immobilisation, and surgical fusion and arthrodesis were performed. After surgery, cervical pain and torticollis were resolved and the patient remained neurologically intact with a CT scan documentation of fusion at the 3-year followup.
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT) is a benign neoplasm with typical supratentorial location, but the possibility of these rare tumors can also be located in the posterior fossa must be taken into account. We report a 21-year-old woman that suffered gait instability, headache, and diplopia. On CT-scan, an intraparenchymatous cerebellar tumor was disclosed. It was isodense, showing light enhancement after contrast administration. On MRI (T1-weighted image) the tumor was isointense, showing inhomogeneous hyperintensity after-gadolinium administration. On T2-weighted MRI, the tumor was inhomogenously hyperintense. At surgery, a solid and hypervascularized tumor was completely removed. Two years after surgery, the patient is symptom-free. Pathological study showed coexistence of areas of pilocytic astrocytoma with areas in which small rounded oligodendrocyte-like cells (OLC), with strong synaptophysin expression were identified. These neurocytic areas showed an eosinophilic matrix forming microcysts, and cells with aspect of &quot;floating neurons&quot; were occasionally identified. A complex form variant of DNT was diagnosed. Our case suggests that in presence of a cerebellar tumor with features of pilocytic astrocytoma, the possibility of a complex form variant of DNT should be considered.
Background and Purpose. Tornwaldt's cysts are rare nasopharyngeal lesions that develop from remnants of the embryonic notochord. Summary of Case. We reported a twelve-year-old female stroke patient with Tornwaldt's cysts, whose father also suffered a stroke at age fifty two with the presence of an abdominal aortic aneurysm, suggesting a genetic influence in this case. Conclusions. This paper suggests an etiologic connection between Tornwaldt's cysts and cerebral vasculature abnormalities by way of notochordal dysfunction during development, likely the result of perturbation of notochord-derived molecular cues during development or biogenesis.
Corpus callosum agenesis is a relatively common brain malformation. It can be isolated or included in a complex alteration of brain (or sometimes even whole body) morphology. Etiology and pathogenetic mechanisms have been better understood in recent years due to the availability of more adequate animal models and the relevant progresses in developmental neurosciences. We present the case of a girl with a complete agenesis of the corpus callosum discovered at birth. She had mild learning difficulties, but reached satisfactory levels of autonomy after an individually tailored rehabilitative treatment. Her story is discussed in light of recent findings, which emphasize the possibility to exploit brain plasticity and the utility of an individually tailored approach, defined on the basis of a dialogue with the family and the patient.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a chronic condition characterized by obsessions or compulsions that cause distress or interfere with functioning. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are the first-line strategy in the treatment of OCD, but approximately 40% to 60% of patients with OCD fail to respond to them. Several augmentation strategies have been proposed, including the use of atypical antipsychotics and antidepressant combinations. In the present paper we describe the case of a young female patient suffering from severe treatment-resistant OCD who remitted as a result of agomelatine augmentation of escitalopram therapy.
Transorbital slow-penetrating injury is an uncommon type of head injury that is seen more often in the pediatric age group. This type of injury can be occult, which is often associated with serious complications. We report on a 4-year-old female who presented with orbital swelling after an unwitnessed right orbital injury following a fall on her face at her school. Three days after injury, the presence of a foreign body was discovered on imaging study when she presented with orbital swelling and purulent discharges. She recovered well after surgical and medical management. This paper sheds light on the importance of high suspicion for the presence and early surgical management of a penetrating foreign body.
Mucormycosis is the third most common invasive fungal infection that particularly occurs in immunocompromised patients. Intracranial and extracranial arteriovenous vasculopathy is a complication that makes this disease more complex and difficult to treat. We describe a 23-year-old female, who presented to her local hospital with acute blindness and diabetic ketoacidosis-induced coma requiring intensive care treatment. She was found to have lesions in the nasal sinuses, orbit, and frontal base. The left carotid artery was occluded from its origin in the neck to the supraclinoid segment and left cavernous sinus involvement. No cerebral infarction was noted. Biopsies obtained by endonasal debridement confirmed mucormycosis. In addition to antimicrobial therapy, she underwent several multidisciplinary approaches to treat her disease. Multiple endonasal, and cranial procedures were done including bilateral orbital exenteration. After prolonged treatment on the intensive care unit she made a remarkable recovery to the point where she was communicating verbally and had normal limb movements and later discharged home. She remained alive and well for two months, but later succumbed to a recurrence of her disease. In conclusion, mucormycosis-induced vasculopathy is a complex problem, which merits aggressive treatment of this invasive disease. It is normally regarded as an indicator of grave prognosis.
We present here a rare case of heterotopic ossification in interspinous/interlaminar Coflex device. The classical surgical indications for these implants are degenerative canal stenosis, discogenic low back pain, disk herniations, facet syndrome, and instability. However, fractures of spinous processes are a potential risk after interspinous/interlaminar devices' implantation. Recently, heterotopic ossification, a well-known complication of hip and knee arthroplasty, has been reported after cervical and lumbar prosthesis. We performed undercutting and implantation of the dynamic interspinous/interlaminar device to treat an adult male patient with L4-L5 stenosis. The patient underwent 45-day imaging and clinical followup, and we observed both a neurological and imaging improvement. A CT bone scan, performed 3 years after surgery for recurrence of neurogenic claudication, showed a new stenosis due to an abnormal ossification all over the device. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of heterotopic ossification in an interspinous/interlaminar dynamic device. Accordingly, we aim to suggest it as a new complication of interspinous/interlaminar devices.
In science education, inquiry-based approaches to teaching and learning provide a framework for students to building critical-thinking and problem-solving skills. Teacher professional development has been an ongoing focus for promoting such educational reforms. However, despite a strong consensus regarding best practices for professional development, relatively little systematic research has documented classroom changes consequent to these experiences. This paper reports on the impact of sustained, multiyear professional development in a program that combined neuroscience content and knowledge of the neurobiology of learning with inquiry-based pedagogy on teachers' inquiry-based practices. Classroom observations demonstrated the value of multiyear professional development in solidifying adoption of inquiry-based practices and cultivating progressive yearly growth in the cognitive environment of impacted classrooms.
Toll-like receptors 2 (TLR2) and 4 (TLR4) are present in the plasma membrane of skeletal muscle cells where their functions remain incompletely resolved. They can bind various extracellular ligands, such as FSL-1, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and/or palmitic acid (PA). We have investigated the link between PA, TLR2/4 and ribosomal S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) in C2C12 myotubes. Incubation with agonists of either TLR2 or TLR4, and with a high concentration of PA, increased S6K1 phosphorylation. Canonical upstream kinases of S6K1, protein kinase B (PKB) and mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), were regulated in the opposite way by PA, indicating that these kinases were probably not involved. By using the SB202190 inhibitor, p38 MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) was found to be a key mediator of PA-induced phosphorylation of S6K1. Downregulation of either tlr2 or tlr4 gene expression by small interfering RNAs prevented the activation of both p38 MAPK and S6K1 by FSL-1, LPS or PA. Thus TLR2 and TLR4 agonists can increase the level of S6K1 phosphorylation in a p38 MAPK-dependent way in C2C12 myotubes. As PA induced the same intracellular signalling, a novel atypical pathway for PA is induced at the cellular membrane level and results in a higher phosphorylation state of S6K1.
CD133 can be a marker of tumorigenic CSCs (cancer stem cells) in human GBM (glioblastoma multiforme), although tumorigenic CD133-negative CSCs have been also isolated. Additional evidence indicates that CSCs from GBM exhibit different phenotypes, with increasing interest in the potential significance of the different CSCs with respect to diagnosis, prognosis and the development of novel targets for treatment. We have analysed the expression of CD133 in freshly isolated cells from 15 human GBM specimens. Only 4 of them contained cells positive for AC133 by FACS analysis, and all of them yielded distinct CSC lines, whereas only 6 CSC lines were obtained from the other 11 GBMs. Of these 10 CSCs lines, we further characterized 6 CSC lines. Three CSCs grew as fast-growing neurospheres with higher clonogenic ability, whereas the remaining 3 grew as slow-growing semi-adherent spheres of lower clonogenicity. In addition, the former CSC lines displayed better differentiation capabilities than the latter ones. PCR and Western blot analysis showed that all 6 GBM CSC lines expressed CD133/prominin-1, suggesting that cells negative by FACS analysis may actually represent cells expressing low levels of CD133 undetected by FACS. Nevertheless, all the 6 CSC lines were tumorigenic in nude mice. In conclusion, CSCs from human primary GBMs show different phenotypes and variable levels of CD133 expression, but these parameters did not directly correlate with the tumorigenic potential.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) constitute a class of small, non-coding RNAs that act as post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression. In neurons, the functions of individual miRNAs are just beginning to emerge, and recent studies have elucidated roles for neural miRNAs at various stages of neuronal development and maturation, including neurite outgrowth, dendritogenesis, and spine formation. Notably, miRNAs regulate mRNA translation locally in the axosomal and synaptodendritic compartments, and thereby contribute to the dynamic spatial organization of axonal and dendritic structures and their function. Given the critical role for miRNAs in regulating early brain development and in mediating synaptic plasticity later in life, it is tempting to speculate that the pathology of neurological disorders is affected by altered expression or functioning of miRNAs. Here we provide an overview of recently identified mechanisms of neuronal development and plasticity involving miRNAs, and the consequences of miRNA dysregulation.
Prothymosin alpha (ProT) is an acidic nuclear protein implicated in several cellular functions including cell survival. ProT is found in the central nervous system, but the regional and cell type-specific expression patterns are not known. In this study, our immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that ProT is expressed ubiquitously throughout adult brain with difference in the intensity of region-specific protein reactivity. Interestingly, the highest ProT signals were observed in the brain regions relevant to neurogenesis, such as sub-ventricular zone, granular cell layer of dentate gyrus, as well as granule cell layer of olfactory bulb. Strong immunoreactivity was also found in habenula, ependymal cells lining the dorsal third and fourth ventricle, and in neurons in the Purkinje cell layer of cerebellum. We showed that ProT was strictly localized in the nuclei of neurons, while it was found in the cytosolic space of astroglial and microglial processes and cell body in the adult brain. To clarify the phenomenon underlying cytosolic localization of ProT in non-neuronal cells, ZVAD-fmk, a caspase-3 inhibitor, was delivered intracerebroventricularly in the brain. At the follow-up 24h after ZVAD-fmk injection, we found that nuclear intensity of ProT was significantly increased in astrocytes, whereas the ProT expression was not affected in microglia. The present study would contribute toward better understanding of physiological and pathophysiological roles of ProT in the brain.


Metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most lethal cancers worldwide. However, the cell population responsible for its metastasis remains largely unknown. Here, we reported that CD133(+)CD44(+/high) defined a subgroup of tumor cells that was responsible for hematogenous metastasis of liver cancers. Immunohistochemical investigation of human HCC specimens revealed that the number of CD133(+) and CD44(+) HCC cells was increased and was associated with portal vein invasion. Purified CD133(+) or CD44(high) HCC cells were superior in clonogenic growth and vascular invasion, respectively. Thus, the combination of CD133 and CD44 was used to define a novel HCC sub-population. CD133(+)CD44(high), but not CD133(+)CD44(low/-), CD133(-)CD44(high) or CD133(-)CD44(low/-) xenografts, produced intrahepatic or lung metastasis in nude mice. Further analysis of human HCC samples by flow cytometry showed that the number of CD133(+)CD44(+) tumor cells was associated with portal vein metastasis. The cDNA microarray analysis of CD133(+)CD44(+) and CD133(+)CD44(-) tumor cells isolated from metastatic HCC patients revealed that these cells comprised of two different populations possessing distinct gene expression profiles. Our results suggest that CD133(+)CD44(+) tumor cells are a particular population responsible for hematogenous metastasis in liver cancers and that these cells might be targets for treatment of HCC metastasis.
The blood-nerve barrier (BNB) is a highly specialized unit that maintains the microenvironments of the peripheral nervous system. Since the breakdown of the BNB has been considered a key step in autoimmune neuropathies such as Guillain-Barr syndrome and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyraduculoneuropathy, it is important to understand the cellular properties of the peripheral nerve microvascular endothelial cells (PnMECs) which constitute the BNB. For this purpose, we established an immortalized cell line derived from human PnMECs. The human PnMECs were transduced with retroviral vectors encoding the temperature-sensitive SV40 large T antigen and human telomerase. This cell line, termed FH-BNB, showed a spindle fiber-shaped morphology, expression of von Willebrand factor and uptake of acetylated low density lipoprotein. These cells expressed tight junction proteins including occludin, claudin-5, ZO-1 and ZO-2 at the cell-cell boundaries. P-glycoprotein and GLUT-1 were also detected by a Western blot analysis and the cells exhibited the functional expression of p-glycoprotein. In addition, transendothelial electrical resistance experiments and paracellular permeabilities of sodium fluorescein and fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled dextran of molecular weight 4 kDa across these cells demonstrated that FH-BNBs had functional tight junctions. These results indicated that FH-BNBs had highly specialized barrier properties and they might therefore be a useful tool to analyze the pathophysiology of various neuropathies.
Cell therapies consist in transplanting healthy cells into a disabled tissue with the goal to repopulate it and restore its function at least partially. In muscular diseases, most of the time, myoblasts are chosen for their expansion capacity in culture. Nevertheless, cell transplantation has limitations, among them, death of the transplanted cells, during the days following the graft. One possibility to counteract this problem is to enhance the proliferation of the transplanted myoblasts before their fusion with the existing muscle fibers. AG490 is a specific inhibitor of janus tyrosine kinase 2 (JAK2). The hypothesis is to block myoblast differentiation with AG490, thus permitting their proliferation. The inhibition of myoblast fusion by AG490 was confirmed in this study by gene expression and with a myosin heavy chain staining (MyHC). Moreover, cell survival was estimated by flow cytometry. AG490 was found to protect myoblasts in vitro from apoptosis induced by H(2)O(2) or by preventing attachment of cells to their substrate. Finally, in an in vivo model of muscle regeneration, when AG490 was coinjected with the myoblasts their survival was increased by 45% at 5 days after their transplantation.
Neurotrophic factors (NTFs) are involved in the regulation of neuronal survival and function and, thus, may be used to treat neurological diseases associated with neuronal death. A major hurdle for their clinical application is the delivery mode. We describe here a new strategy based on the use of progenitor cells called mesoangioblasts (MABs). MABs can be isolated from postnatal mesoderm tissues and, because of a high adhesin-dependent migratory capacity, can reach perivascular targets especially in damaged areas. We generated genetically modified MABs producing nerve growth factor (MABs-NGF) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (MABs-BDNF) and assessed their bystander effects in vitro using PC12 cells, primary cultures, and organotypic cultures of adult hippocampal slices. MABs-NGF-conditioned medium induced differentiation of PC12 cells, while MABs-BDNF-conditioned medium increased viability of cultured neurons and slices. Slices cultured with MABs-BDNF medium also better retained their morphology and functional connections, and all these effects were abolished by the TrkB kinase blocker K252a or the BDNF scavenger TrkB-IgG. Interestingly, the amount of BDNF released by MABs-BDNF produced greater effects than an identical amount of recombinant BDNF, suggesting that other NTFs produced by MABs synergize with BDNF. Thus, MABs can be an effective vehicle for NTF delivery, promoting differentiation, survival, and functionality of neurons. In summary, MABs hold distinct advantages over other currently evaluated approaches for NTF delivery in the CNS, including synergy of MAB-produced NTF with the neurotrophins. Since MABs may be capable of homing into damaged brain areas, they represent a conceptually novel, promising therapeutic approach to treat neurodegenerative diseases.
Neurorestoratology is a newborn and emerging distinct discipline in the neuroscience family. Its establishment will definitely speed up the advance of this promising frontier realm. A worldwide association for Neurorestoratology and several official journals covering this discipline have recently been set up. Clinical practice has demonstrated that the sequelae of damages and diseases of the CNS can be functionally restored to some degree. Obstacles that hinder the promising methods of Neurorestoratology to be translated from the bench to the bedside include political, governmental, religious, ethical, economic, and scientific factors or in most instances they work in combination. Falsehoods against the recognition of neurorestoratology include: 1) no therapeutic method is currently available that suggests that it is possible to repair, even partially, neurological functions; 2) according to the media, a cure will be very soon found for patients with severe spinal cord injury, brain trauma, and progressively deteriorated CNS degenerative diseases; 3) randomizing double blind control designed studies are the only gold standard for clinical study; self-comparison designed studies should be ignored and neglected. Future directions for neurorestoratology include the comparison and integration of current and upcoming available neurorestoration methods to look for the optimization regimes, and edit and publish clinical neurorestoratology treatment guidelines.

Bone marrow-derived cells have different plastic properties, especially regarding cell fusion, which increases with time and is prompted by tissue injury. Several recessive mutations, including Purkinje Cell Degeneration, affect the number of Purkinje cells in homozygosis; heterozygous young animals have an apparently normal phenotype but they undergo Purkinje cell loss as they age. Our findings demonstrate that heterozygous pcd mice undergo Purkinje cell loss at postnatal day 300, this slow but steadily progressing cell death starting sooner than has been reported previously and without massive reactive gliosis or inflammation. Here, transplantation of bone marrow stem cells was performed to assess the arrival of bone marrow-derived cells in the cerebellum in these heterozygous mice. Our results reveal that a higher number of cell fusion events occurs in heterozygous animals than in the controls, on days 150 and 300 postnatally. In sum, this study indicates that mild cell death promotes the fusion of bone marrow-derived cells with surviving Purkinje neurons. This phenomenon suggests new therapies for long-lasting neurodegenerative disorders.
In multiple sclerosis (MS), a chronic inflammatory relapsing demyelinating disease, failure to control or repair damage leads to progressive neurological dysfunction and neurodegeneration. Implantation of neural stem cells (NSCs) has been shown to promote repair and functional recovery in the acute experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) animal model for MS; the major therapeutic mechanism of these NSCs appeared to be immune regulation. In the present study, we examined the efficacy of intraventricularly injected NSCs in chronic relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (CREAE), the animal disease model that is widely accepted to mimic most closely recurrent inflammatory demyelination lesions as observed in relapsing-remitting MS. In addition, we assessed whether priming these NSCs to become oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) by transient overexpression of Olig2 would further promote functional recovery, for example, by contributing to actual remyelination. Upon injection at the onset of the acute phase or the relapse phase of CREAE, NSCs as well as Olig2-NSCs directly migrated toward active lesions in the spinal cord as visualized by in vivo bioluminescence and biofluorescence imaging, and once in the spinal cord, the majority of Olig2-NSCs, in contrast to NSCs, differentiated into OPCs. The survival of Olig2-NSCs was significantly higher than that of injected control NSCs, which remained undifferentiated. Nevertheless, both Olig2-NSCs and NSC significantly reduced the clinical signs of acute and relapsing disease and, in case of Olig2-NSCs, even completely abrogated relapsing disease when administered early after onset of acute disease. We provide the first evidence that NSCs and in particular NSC-derived OPCs (Olig2-NSCs) ameliorate established chronic relapsing EAE in mice. Our experimental data in established neurological disease in mice indicate that such therapy may be effective in relapsing-remitting MS preventing chronic progressive disease.
Transplantation of stem or progenitor cells is an attractive strategy for cell replacement therapy. However, poor long-term survival and insufficiently reproducible differentiation to functionally appropriate cells in vivo still present major obstacles for translation of this methodology to clinical applications. Numerous experimental studies have revealed that the expression of just a few transcription factors can be sufficient to drive stem cell differentiation toward a specific cell type, to transdifferentiate cells from one fate to another, or to dedifferentiate mature cells to pluripotent stem/progenitor cells (iPSCs). We thus propose here to apply the strategy of expressing the relevant key transcription factors to guide the differentiation of transplanted cells to the desired cell fate in vivo. To achieve this requires tools allowing us to control the expression of these genes in the transplant. Here, we describe drug-inducible systems that allow us to sequentially and timely activate gene expression from the outside, with a particular emphasis on the Tet system, which has been widely and successfully used in stem cells. These regulatory systems offer a tool for strictly limiting gene expression to the respective optimal stage after transplantation. This approach will direct the differentiation of the immature stem/progenitor cells in vivo to the desired cell type.
In this study, we assess the feasibility of bioluminescence imaging to monitor the survival of Schwann cells (SCs) and olfactory ensheathing glia cells (OECs) after implantation in the lesioned spinal cord of adult rats. To this end, purified SCs and OECs were genetically modified with lentiviral vectors encoding luciferase-2 and GFP and implanted in the lesioned dorsal column. The bioluminescent signal was monitored for over 3 months, and at 7 and 98 days postsurgery, the signal was compared to standard histological analysis of GFP expression in the spinal cords. The temporal profile of the bioluminescent signal showed three distinct phases for both cell types. (I) A relatively stable signal in the first week. (II) A progressive decline in signal strength in the second and third week. (III) After the third week, the average bioluminescent signal stabilized for both cell types. Interestingly, in the first week, the peak of the bioluminescent signal after luciferin injection was delayed when compared to later time points. Similar to in vitro, our data indicated a linear relationship between the in vivo bioluminescent signal and the GFP signal of the SCs and OECs in the spinal cords when the results of both the 7 and 98 day time points are combined. This is the first report of the use of in vivo bioluminescence to monitor cell survival in the lesioned rat spinal cord. Bioluminescence could be a potentially powerful, noninvasive strategy to examine the efficacy of treatments that aim to improve the survival of proregenerative cells transplanted in the injured rat spinal cord.
Transplantation of neural stem cells and the mobilization of endogenous neuronal precursors in the adult brain have been proposed as therapeutic strategies for central nervous system disorders and injuries. The aim of the present study was to investigate the possible survival and integration of grafted neural progenitor cells (NPCs) from the subventricular zone (SVZ) in a hypoglossal nerve avulsion model with substantial neuronal loss. Adult neural progenitor cells (NPCs) from the subventricular zone (SVZ) were cultured from inbred transgenic eGFP Lewis rats and transplanted to the hypoglossal nucleus of inbred Lewis rat from the same family but that were not carrying the eGFP strain after avulsion of the hypoglossal nerve. Grafted cells survived in the host more than 3 months and differentiated into neurons [III tubulin (Tuj-1 staining)] with fine axon- and dendrite-like processes as well as astrocytes (GFAP) and oligodendrocytes (O4) with typical morphology. Staining for synaptic structures (synaptophysin and bassoon) indicated integration of differentiated cells from the graft with the host CNS. Furthermore, transplantation of NPCs increased the number of surviving motoneurons in the hypoglossal nucleus after nerve avulsion that, if untreated, result in substantial neuronal death. The NPCs used in this study expressed VEGF in vitro as well as in vivo following transplantation that may mediate the rescue effect of the axotomized motoneurons.
Stem cell transplantation procedures using intraparenchymal injections cause tissue injury in addition to associated surgical risks. Intravenous cell administration give engraftment in parenchymal lesions although the method has low efficacy and specificity. In pathological conditions with inflammation, such as traumatic brain injury, there is a transient up-regulation of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 which might provide environmental cues for migration of stem cells from blood to parenchyma. The aim of this study was to i) analyze the effect of intra-arterial administration on cellular engraftment, ii) compare engraftment and side effects between three different stem cell systems, and iii) analyze gene expression in these three systems. We performed specific intra-arterial transplantations with human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs), human neural progenitor cells (hNPCs), and rat neural progenitor cells (rNPCs) in a rat model of traumatic brain injury. These results were compared to the intravenous route for each cell type, respectively. Analysis of engraftment and recipient characterization was performed by immunohistochemistry. We further characterized the different types of cells by microarray and RT-qPCR analysis. Specific intra-arterial transplantations produced significantly higher engraftment compared to intravenous transplantation with hMSCs and rNPCs. No engraftment was detected after intra-arterial or intravenous administration of hNPCs. Characterization of integrin expression indicated that CD49dVCAM-1 and possibly ICAM-1 interactions through CD18 and CD11a, respectively, are important for engraftment after intravascular cell administration. No side effects, such as thromboembolic complications, were detected. When translating stem cell therapies to clinical practice, the route of transplantation and the properties of the cell lines (homing, diapedesis, and migration) become important. This study supports the use of selective intra-arterial transplantation for improving engraftment after traumatic brain injury. In addition, we conclude that careful analysis of cells intended for local, intra-arterial transplantation with respect to integrin expression is important.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most frequent muscular dystrophy in children and young adults. Currently, there is no cure for the disease. The transplantation of healthy myoblasts is an experimental therapeutic strategy, since it could restore the expression of dystrophin in DMD muscles. Nevertheless, this cellular therapy is limited by immune reaction, low migration of the implanted cells, and high early cell death that could be at least partially due to anoikis. To avoid the lack of attachment of the cells to an extracellular matrix after the transplantation, which is the cause of anoikis, we tested the use of a fibrin gel for myoblast transplantation. In vitro, three concentrations of fibrinogen were compared (3, 20, and 50 mg/ml) to form a fibrin gel. A stiffer fibrin gel leads to less degradability and less proliferation of the cells. A concentration of 3 mg/ml fibrin gel enhanced the differentiation of the myoblasts earlier as a culture in monolayer. Human myoblasts were also transplanted in muscles of Rag/mdx mice in a fibrin gel or in a saline solution (control). The use of 3 mg/ml fibrin gel for cell transplantation increased not only the survival of the cells as measured after 5 days but also the number of fibers expressing dystrophin after 21 days, compared to the control. Moreover, the fibrin gel was also compared to a prosurvival cocktail. The survival of the myoblasts at 5 days was increased in both conditions compared to the control but the efficacy of the prosurvival cocktail was not significantly higher than the fibrin gel.
Contralateral recruitment remains a controversial phenomenon in both the clinical and normative populations. To investigate the neural correlates of this phenomenon, we explored the tendency for older adults to recruit prefrontal cortex (PFC) regions contralateral to those most active in younger adults. Participants were scanned with diffusion tensor imaging and functional magnetic rresonance imaging during a lateralized word matching task (unilateral vs. bilateral). Cross-hemispheric communication was measured behaviorally as greater accuracy for bilateral than unilateral trials (bilateral processing advantage [BPA]) and at the neural level by functional and structural connectivity between contralateral PFC. Compared with the young, older adults exhibited 1) greater BPAs in the behavioral task, 2) greater compensatory activity in contralateral PFC during the bilateral condition, 3) greater functional connectivity between contralateral PFC during bilateral trials, and 4) a positive correlation between fractional anisotropy in the corpus callosum and both the BPA and the functional connectivity between contralateral PFC, indicating that older adults' ability to distribute processing across hemispheres is constrained by white matter integrity. These results clarify how older adults' ability to recruit extra regions in response to the demands of aging is mediated by existing structural architecture, and how this architecture engenders corresponding functional changes that allow subjects to meet those task demands.
The cingulate and retrosplenial regions are major components of the dorsomedial (dm) limbic cortex and have been implicated in a range of cognitive functions such as emotion, attention, and spatial memory. While the structure and connectivity of these cortices are well characterized, little is known about their development. Notably, the timing and mode of migration that govern the appropriate positioning of late-born neurons remain unknown. Here, we analyzed migratory events during the early postnatal period from ventricular/subventricular zone (VZ/SVZ) to the cerebral cortex by transducing neuronal precursors in the VZ/SVZ of newborn rats/mice with Tomato/green fluorescent protein-encoding lentivectors. We have identified a pool of postmitotic pyramidal precursors in the dm part of the neonatal VZ/SVZ that migrate into the medial limbic cortex during the first postnatal week. Time-lapse imaging demonstrates that these cells migrate on radial glial fibers by locomotion and display morphological and behavioral changes as they travel through the white matter and enter into the cortical gray matter. In the granular retrosplenial cortex, these cells give rise to a Satb2+ pyramidal subtype and develop dendritic bundles in layer I. Our observations provide the first insight into the patterns and dynamics of cell migration into the medial limbic cortex.
The capacity to imagine being somewhere else and seeing the environment from a different point of view is crucial for spatial planning in daily life and for understanding the intentions, actions, and state of mind of other people. The neural bases of spatial updating of multiple object locations were investigated using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Healthy volunteers saw an array of objects on a table in a virtual reality environment and imagined movement of their own viewpoint or rotation of the array. Their memory for the locations of the objects was then tested with a change-detection task. Behavioral results confirmed the advantage for imagined viewpoint change compared with imagined array rotation of equivalent size. Encoding of object locations was associated with a network of areas, including bilateral superior and inferior parietal cortices. The precuneus was additionally activated by the demands of both viewpoint- and array rotation. The parieto-occipital sulcus/retrosplenial cortex and hippocampus were additionally activated by the demands of viewpoint rotation, while array rotation was associated with activation of the right intraparietal sulcus. These findings support a computational model of spatial memory in which parieto-occipital sulcus/retrosplenial cortex mediates spatial updating as part of a process of translation between &quot;egocentric&quot; and &quot;allocentric&quot; reference frames.
Whether emotion is a source of moral judgments remains controversial. This study combined neurophysiological measures, including functional magnetic resonance imaging, eye-tracking, and pupillary response with behavioral measures assessing affective and moral judgments across age. One hundred and twenty-six participants aged between 4 and 37 years viewed scenarios depicting intentional versus accidental actions that caused harm/damage to people and objects. Morally, salient scenarios evoked stronger empathic sadness in young participants and were associated with enhanced activity in the amygdala, insula, and temporal poles. While intentional harm was evaluated as equally wrong across all participants, ratings of deserved punishments and malevolent intent gradually became more differentiated with age. Furthermore, age-related increase in activity was detected in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex in response to intentional harm to people, as well as increased functional connectivity between this region and the amygdala. Our study provides evidence that moral reasoning involves a complex integration between affective and cognitive processes that gradually changes with age and can be viewed in dynamic transaction across the course of ontogenesis. The findings support the view that negative emotion alerts the individual to the moral salience of a situation by bringing discomfort and thus can serve as an antecedent to moral judgment.
Decoding specific cognitive states from brain activity constitutes a major goal of neuroscience. Previous studies of brain-state classification have focused largely on decoding brief, discrete events and have required the timing of these events to be known. To date, methods for decoding more continuous and purely subject-driven cognitive states have not been available. Here, we demonstrate that free-streaming subject-driven cognitive states can be decoded using a novel whole-brain functional connectivity analysis. Ninety functional regions of interest (ROIs) were defined across 14 large-scale resting-state brain networks to generate a 3960 cell matrix reflecting whole-brain connectivity. We trained a classifier to identify specific patterns of whole-brain connectivity as subjects rested quietly, remembered the events of their day, subtracted numbers, or (silently) sang lyrics. In a leave-one-out cross-validation, the classifier identified these 4 cognitive states with 84% accuracy. More critically, the classifier achieved 85% accuracy when identifying these states in a second, independent cohort of subjects. Classification accuracy remained high with imaging runs as short as 30-60 s. At all temporal intervals assessed, the 90 functionally defined ROIs outperformed a set of 112 commonly used structural ROIs in classifying cognitive states. This approach should enable decoding a myriad of subject-driven cognitive states from brief imaging data samples.
There is an increasing interest to integrate electrophysiological and hemodynamic measures for characterizing spatial and temporal aspects of cortical processing. However, an informative combination of responses that have markedly different sensitivities to the underlying neural activity is not straightforward, especially in complex cognitive tasks. Here, we used parametric stimulus manipulation in magnetoencephalography (MEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) recordings on the same subjects, to study effects of noise on processing of spoken words and environmental sounds. The added noise influenced MEG response strengths in the bilateral supratemporal auditory cortex, at different times for the different stimulus types. Specifically for spoken words, the effect of noise on the electrophysiological response was remarkably nonlinear. Therefore, we used the single-subject MEG responses to construct parametrization for fMRI data analysis and obtained notably higher sensitivity than with conventional stimulus-based parametrization. fMRI results showed that partly different temporal areas were involved in noise-sensitive processing of words and environmental sounds. These results indicate that cortical processing of sounds in background noise is stimulus specific in both timing and location and provide a new functionally meaningful platform for combining information obtained with electrophysiological and hemodynamic measures of brain function.









AMPA receptor (AMPAR) plasticity at glutamatergic synapses in the mesostriatal dopaminergic pathway has been implicated in persistent cocaine-induced behavioral responses; however, the precise mechanism underlying these changes remains unknown. Utilizing cocaine psychomotor sensitization in mice we find that repeated cocaine results in a basal reduction of Ser 845 GluA1 and cell surface GluA1 levels in the dorsal striatum (dStr) following a protracted withdrawal period, an adaptation that is dependent on Cav 1.3 channels but not those expressed in the VTA. We find that the basally-induced decrease in this phosphoprotein is the result of recruitment of the striatal dopamine D2 pathway, as evidenced by enhanced levels of D2 receptor (D2R) mRNA expression and D2R function as examined using the D2R antagonist, eticlopride, as well as alterations in the phosphorylation status of several downstream molecular targets of D2R's, including CREB, DARPP-32, Akt and GSK3. Taken together with our recently published findings examining similar phenomena in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), these results underscore the utilization of divergent molecular mechanisms in the dStr, in mediating cocaine-induced persistent behavioral changes.
Collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP-2), traditionally viewed as an axon/dendrite specification and axonal growth protein, has emerged as nidus in regulation of both pre- and post-synaptic Ca ( 2+) channels. Building on our discovery of the interaction and regulation of Ca ( 2+) channels by CRMP-2, we recently identified a short sequence in CRMP-2 which, when appended to the transduction domain of HIV TAT protein, suppressed acute, inflammatory and neuropathic pain in vivo by functionally uncoupling CRMP-2 from the Ca ( 2+) channel. Remarkably, we also found that this region attenuated Ca ( 2+) influx via N-methylD-Aspartate receptors (NMDARs) and reduced neuronal death in a moderate controlled cortical impact model of traumatic brain injury (TBI). Here, we sought to extend these findings by examining additional neuroprotective effects of this peptide (TAT-CBD3) and exploring the biochemical mechanisms by which TAT-CBD3 targets NMDARs. We observed that an intraperitoneal injection of TAT-CBD3 peptide significantly reduced infarct volume in an animal model of focal cerebral ischemia. Neuroprotection was observed when TAT-CBD3 peptide was given either prior to or after occlusion but just prior to reperfusion. Surprisingly, a direct biochemical complex was not resolvable between the NMDAR subunit NR2B and CRMP-2. Intracellular application of TAT-CBD3 failed to inhibit NMDAR current. NR2B interactions with the post synaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) remained intact and were not disrupted by TAT-CBD3. Peptide tiling of intracellular regions of NR2B revealed two 15-mer sequences, in the carboxyl-terminus of NR2B, that may confer binding between NR2B and CRMP-2 which supports CRMP-2's role in excitotoxicity and neuroprotection.
Bronchopulmonary inflammation, such as that associated with asthma, activates afferent neural pathways. We recently demonstrated that localized inflammation in the lungs, induced by intratracheal administration of ovalbumin in ovalbumin-preimmunized mice (an animal model of asthma) results in activation of the dorsolateral part of the nucleus of the solitary tract, a major target of vagal afferent fibers innervating the lungs and airways. Activation of the nucleus of the solitary tract was evident in the absence of activation of the area postrema, a circumventricular organ, consistent with the hypothesis that localized inflammation in the bronchopulmonary system can signal to the central nervous system via specific neural pathways, in the absence of circulating proinflammatory mediators. The pattern of brain activation in ovalbumin-challenged mice differs from the pattern of activation in mice challenged with heat-killed Mycobacterium vaccae, suggesting that qualitative aspects of bronchopulmonary inflammation determine the overall pattern of brain activation. The mechanisms through which localized bronchopulmonary inflammation signals to the central nervous system is poorly understood, but appears to involve both vagal and spinal afferent pathways. In this chapter, we review our current understanding of the anatomical pathways through which localized inflammation in the bronchopulmonary system influences central nervous system function.
Asthma has long been considered a condition in which psychological distress exerts a negative impact. Epidemiological studies confirm that depression and anxiety disorders, amongst the most common psychiatric disorders, occur in higher rates in people with asthma than in the general population. Alterations in the stress axis, immune and autonomic nervous systems appear to be involved in the pathogenesis of each disorder and may contribute to the observed associations between these conditions. Although there is increasing recognition of the importance of treating psychological distress to optimize symptom control in people with asthma, there are few studies examining whether specific treatments for depression or anxiety can improve symptom control in asthma and result in better overall function and outcome.
There are currently multiple explanations for mathematical learning disabilities (MLD). The present study focused on those assuming that MLD are due to a basic numerical deficit affecting the ability to represent and to manipulate number magnitude ( Butterworth, 1999 , 2005 ; A. J. Wilson &amp; Dehaene, 2007 ) and/or to access that number magnitude representation from numerical symbols ( Rousselle &amp; Nol, 2007 ). The present study provides an original contribution to this issue by testing MLD children (carefully selected on the basis of preserved abilities in other domains) on numerical estimation tasks with contrasting symbolic (Arabic numerals) and nonsymbolic (collection of dots) numbers used as input or output. MLD children performed consistently less accurately than control children on all the estimation tasks. However, MLD children were even weaker when the task involved the mapping between symbolic and nonsymbolic numbers than when the task required a mapping between two nonsymbolic numerical formats. Moreover, in the estimation of nonsymbolic numerosities, MLD children relied more than control children on perceptual cues such as the cumulative area of the dots. Finally, the task requiring a mapping from a nonsymbolic format to a symbolic format was the best predictor of MLD. In order to explain these present results, as well as those reported in the literature, we propose that the impoverished number magnitude representation of MLD children may arise from an initial mapping deficit between number symbols and that magnitude representation.
Prenatal exposure to alcohol may lead to a range of neurobehavioral effects, including impaired learning and memory. Although children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) exhibit both verbal and nonverbal memory impairments, their memory for faces has not been as thoroughly investigated and the extent literature provides inconsistent results. The aim of the current study was to determine whether difficulties in face memory exist in children with FASD and whether the difficulties are mediated by task demands. To address this, we used two measures of immediate and delayed facial recognition memory, the Children's Memory Scale (CMS) and Test of Memory and Learning (TOMAL). Compared to typically developing controls, children with FASD showed memory deficits on all tests and were more likely to perform in a clinically significant range. As well, children performed more poorly on the CMS compared to TOMAL, a finding consistent with the greater difficulty of the CMS task. Our results are consistent with our hypothesis that children with FASD show impairment in facial memory, particularly on demanding memory tasks.
Attention and social functioning and their interrelationships have not been routinely examined in children with early brain insult (EBI). This study aimed to describe attention and social functioning in children with two types of EBI: malformations of cortical development (MCD) and stroke. Children diagnosed with MCD (n = 14, 6 males) or stroke (n = 14, 8 males) aged 8 to 14 years (M = 12 years 11 months) completed neuropsychological assessments to examine attention processes. Primary caregivers completed a questionnaire to assess executive components of children's attention and teachers completed a questionnaire to measure children's social functioning. Brain scans (MRI or CT) were coded by a pediatric neuroradiologist. Higher rates of impairments in attention and social function were found in children with EBI compared with normative expectations. Children with MCD experienced more global and clinically significant levels of impairment than children with stroke; though impairments were present in both groups. A strong association between executive components of attention and social function was observed. In addition, complex attention processes were associated with social function. The findings emphasize the reciprocity between attention, behavior and social outcomes, and the vulnerability of social function following EBI.
Untreated maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) leads to encephalopathy in neonates and causes abnormalities on the electroencephalogram (EEG). A case is presented of MSUD with unique features consisting of a comb-like rhythm before the therapy and its disappearance with therapy is presented. This case illustrates the potential use of the EEG in the identification of this specific cause of a neonatal encephalopathy.
There is growing evidence that the neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE) and its sister molecule epinephrine (EPI) (adrenaline) affect some types of cancer. Several recent epidemiological studies have shown that chronic use of beta blocking drugs (which antagonize NE/EPI receptors) results in lower recurrence, progression, or mortality of breast cancer and malignant melanoma. Preclinical studies have shown that manipulation of the levels or receptors of NE and EPI with drugs affects experimentally induced cancers. Psychological stress may play an etiological role in some cases of cancer (which has been shown epidemiologically), and this could be partly mediated by NE and EPI released by the sympathetic nervous system as part of the body's &quot;fight or flight&quot; response. A less well-appreciated phenomenon is that the genetic tone of NE/EPI may play a role in cancer. NE and EPI may affect cancer by interacting with molecular pathways already implicated in abnormal cellular replication, such as the P38/MAPK pathway, or via oxidative stress. NE/EPI-based drugs other than beta blockers also may prevent or treat various types of cancer, as may cholinesterase inhibitors that inhibit the sympathetic nervous system, which could be tested epidemiologically.

Chronic itch represents a burdensome clinical problem that can originate from a variety of aetiologies. Pruriceptive itch originates following the activation of peripheral sensory nerve endings following damage or exposure to inflammatory mediators and ascends to the brain through the spinal thalamic tract. Much insight has been gained into the understanding of the mechanisms underlying pruriceptive itch through studies using humans and experimental animals. More than one sensory nerve subtype is thought to subserve pruriceptive itch which includes both unmyelinated C-fibres and thinly myelinated A nerve fibres. There are a myriad of mediators capable of stimulating these afferent nerves leading to itch, including biogenic amines, proteases, cytokines, and peptides. Some of these mediators can also evoke sensations of pain and the sensory processing underlying both sensations overlaps in complex ways. Studies have demonstrated that both peripheral and central sensitization to pruritogenic stimuli occur during chronic itch.

The recent success of therapies directed at B cells has highlighted their potential as central players in multiple sclerosis (MS) pathogenesis. Exciting new data showed that B cell depletion led to reduced clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evidence of disease activity. However, the mechanisms of action remain unknown, but could involve autoantibody production, antigen presentation and/or cytokine production by B cells. Another exciting line of investigation in the field of MS comes from latent infection of memory B cells by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). These cells are hijacked as 'Trojan horses' and 'smuggle' the virus into the central nervous system (CNS). Thus, these new anti B cell treatments will also be likely to have anti-viral effects. We briefly review recent findings in the field of MS pathogenesis, and highlight promising new targets for therapeutic intervention in MS.

1. Evidence is accumulating for a role for Ca signalling in the differentiation and development of embryonic skeletal muscle. 2. Imaging of intact, normally developing transgenic zebrafish that express the protein component of the Ca-sensitive complex aequorin, specifically in skeletal muscle, show that two distinct periods of spontaneous synchronised Ca transients occur in the trunk: one at approximately 17.5-19.5 h post-fertilization (h.p.f.; termed signalling period SP1) and the other after approximately 23 h.p.f. (termed SP2). These periods of intense Ca signalling activity are separated by a quiet period. 3. Higher-resolution confocal imaging of embryos loaded with the fluorescent Ca reporter calcium green-1 dextran shows that the Ca signals are generated almost exclusively in the slow muscle cells, the first muscle cells to differentiate, with distinct nuclear and cytoplasmic components. 4. Here, we show that coincidental with the SP1 Ca signals, dystrophin becomes localized to the vertical myoseptae of the myotome. Introduction of a dmd morpholino (dmd-MO) resulted in no dystrophin being expressed in the vertical myoseptae, as well as a disruption of myotome morphology and sarcomere organization. In addition, the Ca signalling signatures of dmd-MO-injected embryos or homozygous sapje mutant embryos were abnormal such that the frequency, amplitude and timing of the Ca signals were altered compared with controls. 5. Our new data suggest that, in addition to a structural role, dystrophin may function in the regulation of [Ca](i) during the early stages of slow muscle cell differentiation when the Ca signals generated in these cells coincide with the first spontaneous contractions of the trunk.
In the developed world, diseases of the retina are common causes of untreatable blindness. In many cases, a genetic component to the aetiology has been identified, making the development of gene-based treatments a logical long-term goal. The clinical strategy for retinal gene therapy broadly encompasses two distinct advantages over systemic drug delivery. First is that gene delivery can limit expression of a therapeutic protein to a specific target cell, which is rarely possible even with local drug delivery methods. Second, by delivering DNA that remains stable and non-degraded, gene expression and hence protein production could in theory be indefinite, obviating the need for repeated tablets or injections. Viruses have evolved distinct mechanisms, such as receptor mediated uptake and genomic integration, which efficiently encompass these two properties. For non-viral gene therapy approaches, however, nuclear localization and stable long-term transgene expression remain significant hurdles that need to be overcome. The challenge of non-viral gene therapy is therefore to harness current laboratory and molecular-based techniques to develop a man-made system that can approach the efficiency of a natural biological process. In the unique environment of the retina, this goal may not be insurmountable and would overcome the major limiting factor of adeno-associated viral vectors, which is the size of gene that can be delivered.

The extent of resection in high grade glioma is increasingly been shown to positively effect survival. Nevertheless, heterogeneity and migratory behavior of glioma cells make gross total resection very challenging. Several techniques were used in order to improve the detection of residual tumor. Aim of this study was to analyze advantages and limitations of fluorescence and image guided resection. A multicentric prospective study was designed to evaluate the accuracy of each method. Furthermore, the role of 5-aminolevulinc acid and neuronavigation were reviewed. Twenty-three patients harboring suspected high grade glioma, amenable to complete resection, were enrolled. Fluorescence and image guides were used to perform surgery. Multiple samples were obtained from the resection cavity of each lesion according to 5-ALA staining positivity and boundaries as delineated by neuronavigation. All samples were analyzed by a pathologist blinded to the intra-operative labeling. Decision-making based on fluorescence showed a sensitivity of 91.1% and a specificity of 89.4% (p&lt;0.001). On the other hand, the image-guided resection accuracy was low (sensitivity: 57.8%; specificity: 57.4%; p=0.346). We observed that the sensitivity of 5-ALA can be improved by the combined use of neuronavigation, but this leads to a significant reduction in specificity. Thus, the use of auxiliary techniques should always be subject to critical skills of the surgeon. We advocate a large-scale study to further improve the assessment of multimodal approaches.

Septo-optic dysplasia is a rare congenital anomaly with an incidence of 1 in 10,000 live births. Recognizing this anomaly early can help parents take an informed decision. There are very few reports of pathological descriptions of this anomaly. We present neuropathological findings at autopsy following medical termination of pregnancy of a 23-week fetus with septo-optic dysplasia (SOD), optic nerve hypoplasia, absent septum pellucidum with aplastic posterior pituitary.
Somatoform disorder is a relatively common and severe disorder for which pharmacotherapy has been minimally studied. We report a case of 30-year-old woman with treatment-resistant somatoform disorder that was successfully treated with add-on treatment of gabapentin. Our result showed that gabapentin 1800 mg/day could be tried in case of treatment-resistant somatoform disorder as an add-on strategy. However, controlled trials are needed to investigate the effectiveness of gabapentin in the management of this condition.

Dystonia has historically been considered a disorder of the basal ganglia. This review aims to critically examine the evidence for a role of the cerebellum in the pathophysiology of dystonia. We compare and attempt to link the information available from both clinical and experimental studies; work detailing cerebellar connectivity in primates; data that suggests a role for the cerebellum in the genesis of dystonia in murine models; clinical observation in humans with structural lesions and heredodegenerative disorders of the cerebellum; and imaging studies of patients with dystonia. The typical electrophysiological findings in dystonia are the converse to those found in cerebellar lesions. However, certain subtypes of dystonia mirror cerebellar patterns of increased cortical inhibition. Furthermore, altered cerebellar function can be demonstrated in adult onset focal dystonia with impaired cerebellar inhibition of motor cortex and abnormal eyeblink classical conditioning. We propose that abnormal, likely compensatory activity of the cerebellum is an important factor within pathophysiological models of dystonia. Work in this exciting area has only just begun but it is likely that the cerebellum will have a key place within future models of dystonia.

The available instruments for cognitive assessment in multiple sclerosis (MS) require considerable time and resources, and are not readily available in all countries. The study aimed to examine validity of the Czech translation of the Minimal Assessment of Cognitive Function in MS (MACFIMS), to validate the Brief International Cognitive Assessment for MS (BICAMS), and to compare their outcomes. We evaluated 367 MS patients and 134 healthy controls with the MACFIMS battery, which comprises the three tests of the BICAMS (Symbol Digit Modalities Test, Brief Visuospatial Memory Test-Revised, California Verbal Learning Test, second edition). The most accurate BICAMS criterion of cognitive deficit was that of at least one of the overall three tests outside the normal range (sensitivity = 94%, specificity = 86%, p = 10(-28)). Outcomes of the Czech translation of the MACFIMS were comparable to its original. The MACFIMS and the BICAMS identified cognitive deficit in 55% and 58% of the MS patients, respectively. Both batteries predicted patient self-reported vocational status. This is the first study to show that the BICAMS is highly sensitive and specific to cognitive impairment in MS as defined by the MACFIMS. This impairment is associated with vocational status. Czech versions of the studied batteries have now been validated.
This paper proposes that malingered symptoms may become internalized due to the self-deceptive power of cognitive dissonance. Studies demonstrating how other-deception may turn into self-deception are briefly discussed, as are clinical notions about the overlap between malingering and medically unexplained symptoms. In our view this literature showcases the relevance of cognitive dissonance for research on malingering. A cognitive dissonance perspective may help to clarify how ambiguous sensations may escalate into subjectively compelling symptoms. This perspective suggests that malingered symptom reports are more than just a complication during psychological evaluation. It may generate new research avenues and may clarify practically relevant issues.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is progressive neurological disease characterized by resting tremor, rigidity, akinesia, postural instability and cognitive changes. The symptoms of PD are debilitating and often become unsatisfactorily treated by medication. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an effective treatment to significantly reduce the cardinal motor symptoms of PD. However, the neuropsychological effects of this treatment are less clear. This study examined pre- to post-DBS scores on the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) using Reliable Change Indices (RCIs) derived from 20 patients with PD who were medically managed, and then compared to 20 patients with PD treated with DBS and medication. When using group statistical analyses and false discovery rate correction, no significant differences between or within groups were evident at baseline or at follow-up. However, when using the RCIs more patients in the DBS group exhibited reliable change in RBANS scores than did the Med Tx group. Although preliminary, these RCIs provide clinicians and researchers a foundational tool for assessing the effects of interventions (e.g., DBS) independent of the effects of PD and measurement error when using the RBANS.
Hyponatremia (serum sodium concentration [Na+]&lt;136 mEq/L) is a potentially life-threatening condition. Recent evidence (Renneboog, Musch, Vandemergel, Manto, &amp; Decaux, 2006) shows that even mild hyponatremia is associated with disorders of balance/gait. This retrospective analysis explored the influence of serum [Na+] on neuropsychological (NP) measurements at baseline from 44 patients with chronic hyponatremia who participated in an efficacy and safety study of an experimental compound over a decade ago. Group mean serum [Na+] was 124.84.9 mEq/L. Age-adjusted partial correlations were computed between serum [Na+] and NP measurements, 39% of which were statistically significant--all involving psychomotor functioning. These findings replicate and extend previous observations that psychomotor deficits are, at least in part, associated with hyponatremia in these patients. While chronic hyponatremia is known to have deleterious effects on quality of life, motor and gait disturbances represent manifestations of mild hyponatremia that have until now gone unrecognized. A new class of medication, vasopressin antagonists, has been shown to correct hyponatremia. It will be important to explore the effects of correcting hyponatremia on psychomotor functioning in individuals with hyponatremia.



Clinical pharmaceutical trials aimed at modulating the immune system in Alzheimer's Disease have largely focused on either dampening down central proinflammatory innate immunity or have manipulated adaptive immunity to facilitate the removal of centrally deposited beta amyloid. To date, these trials have had mixed clinical therapeutic effects. However, a number of clinical studies have demonstrated disturbances of both systemic and central innate immunity in Alzheimer's Disease and attention has been drawn to the close communication pathways between central and systemic immunity. This paper highlights the need to take into account the potential systemic effects of drugs aimed at modulating central immunity and the possibility of developing novel therapeutic approaches based on the manipulation of systemic immunity and its communication with the central nervous system.
The memory dysfunctions that characterize Alzheimer's disease (AD) are strongly correlated with synapse loss. The amyloid precursor protein (APP) and its cleavage product A play central roles in synapse and memory loss, and thus are strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of AD. Numerous in vitro and transgenic AD mouse model studies have shown that overexpression of APP leads to A accumulation, which causes decreased synaptic activity and dendritic spine density. However, the normal synaptic function of APP itself is not fully understood. Several recent studies have found that full-length APP promotes synaptic activity, synapse formation, and dendritic spine formation. These findings cast APP as a potential key player in learning and memory. It is of interest that the synaptic functions of full-length APP are opposite to the effects associated with pathological A accumulation. In this review, we will summarize the normal functions of APP at synapses and spines along with other known functions of APP, including its role in cell motility, neuronal migration, and neurite outgrowth. These studies shed light on the physiological actions of APP, independent of A effects, and thus lead to a better understanding of the synaptic dysfunctions associated with AD.
Individual differences in affect intensity are typically assessed with the Affect Intensity Measure (AIM). Previous factor analyses suggest that the AIM is comprised of four weakly correlated factors: Positive Affectivity, Negative Reactivity, Negative Intensity and Positive Intensity or Serenity. However, little data exist to show whether its four factors relate to other measures differently enough to preclude use of the total scale score. The present study replicated the four-factor solution and found that subscales derived from the four factors correlated differently with criterion variables that assess personality domains, affective dispositions, and cognitive patterns that are associated with emotional reactions. The results show that use of the total AIM score can obscure relationships between specific features of affect intensity and other variables and suggest that researchers should examine the individual AIM subscales.
Numerous studies have claimed that emotional stimuli are able to capture attention automatically when presented outside the main focus of attention. In the current study this claim was tested by using task-relevant and task-irrelevant emotional stimuli. Specifically, in two experiments the effect of emotional stimuli presented in the periphery of attention was tested by using a flanker task. Results showed that emotional stimuli did not capture attention in an unconditional manner. Emotional distracting stimuli created interference only when they were relevant to the task. The findings suggest that &quot;task relevance&quot; is determined by (a) task requirements, and/or (b) target characteristics. The current results have implications for the concept of cognitive load and automaticity of processing emotional stimuli.
Considerable controversy persists regarding the nature of threat-related attention biases in social anxiety. Previous studies have not considered how variations in the temporal and energetic dimensions of affective stimulus delivery interact with anxiety-related individual differences to predict biased attention. We administered a visual dot-probe task, using faces that varied in affective intensity (mild, moderate, strong) and presentation rate (100, 500, 1,250 ms) to a selected sample. The high, compared to the low, socially anxious group showed vigilance towards angry faces and emotionally ambiguous faces more generally during rapid (100 ms) presentations. By 1,250 ms, there was only a non-specific motor slowing associated with angry faces in the high socially anxious group. Findings suggest the importance of considering both chronometric and energetic dimensions of affective stimuli when examining anxiety-related attention biases. Future studies should consider using designs that more closely replicate aspects of real-world interaction to study processing biases in socially anxious populations.


We studied the ability of patients with lesions arising from operation for an anterior or posterior (left or right) brain tumour to read a set of words and pronounceable nonwords. In line with previous works, we observed that damage to the left posterior or left anterior cortex can give rise to phonological alexia, where the reading performance of nonwords is affected more than that of words. More surprisingly, similar effects were found in the right posterior group. However, there were significant differences in the error types, for both complex and positional errors, between phonological alexic patients in the three location groups. The findings present difficulties for the position held by theorists of the triangle model that phonological alexia arises from impairments in the language production system or in a general-purpose orthographic-phonological translation system. They also pose new questions about the possible role of the right posterior cortex in letter sequence representation.
Proper characterization of each individual's unique pattern of strengths and weaknesses requires good measures of diverse abilities. Here, we advocate combining our growing understanding of neural and cognitive mechanisms with modern psychometric methods in a renewed effort to capture human individuality through a consideration of specific abilities. We articulate five criteria for the isolation and measurement of specific abilities, then apply these criteria to face recognition. We cleanly dissociate face recognition from more general visual and verbal recognition. This dissociation stretches across ability as well as disability, suggesting that specific developmental face recognition deficits are a special case of a broader specificity that spans the entire spectrum of human face recognition performance. Item-by-item results from 1,471 web-tested participants, included as supplementary information, fuel item analyses, validation, norming, and item response theory (IRT) analyses of our three tests: (a) the widely used Cambridge Face Memory Test (CFMT); (b) an Abstract Art Memory Test (AAMT), and (c) a Verbal Paired-Associates Memory Test (VPMT). The availability of this data set provides a solid foundation for interpreting future scores on these tests. We argue that the allied fields of experimental psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and vision science could fuel the discovery of additional specific abilities to add to face recognition, thereby providing new perspectives on human individuality.
This study addresses two central and controversial issues in developmental prosopagnosia (DP), configuration- versus feature-based face processing and the influence of affective information from either facial or bodily expressions on face recognition. A sample of 10 DPs and 10 controls were tested with a previously developed face and object recognition and memory battery (Facial Expressive Action Stimulus Test, FEAST), a task measuring the influence of emotional faces and bodies on face identity matching (Face-Body Compound task), and an emotionally expressive face memory task (Emotional Face Memory task, FaMe-E). We show that DPs were impaired in upright, but not inverted, face matching but they performed at the level of controls on part-to-whole matching. Second, DPs showed impaired memory for both neutral and emotional faces and scored within the normal range on the Face-Body Compound task. Third, configural perception but not feature-based processing was significantly associated with memory performance. Taken together the results indicate that DPs have a deficit in configural processing at the perception stage that may underlie the memory impairment.
Children learn about the world through senses such as touch, smell, vision, and audition, but they conceive of the world in terms of objects, events, agents, and their mental states. A fundamental question in cognitive science is how nature and nurture contribute to the development of such conceptual categories. What innate mechanisms do children bring to the learning problem? How does experience contribute to development? In this article we discuss insights into these longstanding questions from cognitive neuroscience studies of blindness. Despite drastically different sensory experiences, behavioural and neuroscientific work suggests that blind children acquire typical concepts of objects, actions, and mental states. Blind people think and talk about these categories in ways that are similar to sighted people. Neuroimaging reveals that blind people make such judgements relying on the same neural mechanisms as sighted people. One way to interpret these findings is that neurocognitive development is largely hardwired, and so differences in experience have little consequence. Contrary to this interpretation, neuroimaging studies also show that blindness profoundly reorganizes the visual system. Most strikingly, developmental blindness enables &quot;visual&quot; circuits to participate in high-level cognitive functions, including language processing. Thus, blindness qualitatively changes sensory representations, but leaves conceptual representations largely unchanged. The effect of sensory experience on concepts is modest, despite the brain's potential for neuroplasticity.
Research on the brain basis of speech and language faces theoretical and empirical challenges. Most current research, dominated by imaging, deficit-lesion, and electrophysiological techniques, seeks to identify regions that underpin aspects of language processing such as phonology, syntax, or semantics. The emphasis lies on localization and spatial characterization of function. The first part of the paper deals with a practical challenge that arises in the context of such a research programme. This maps problem concerns the extent to which spatial information and localization can satisfy the explanatory needs for perception and cognition. Several areas of investigation exemplify how the neural basis of speech and language is discussed in those terms (regions, streams, hemispheres, networks). The second part of the paper turns to a more troublesome challenge, namely how to formulate the formal links between neurobiology and cognition. This principled problem thus addresses the relation between the primitives of cognition (here speech, language) and neurobiology. Dealing with this mapping problem invites the development of linking hypotheses between the domains. The cognitive sciences provide granular, theoretically motivated claims about the structure of various domains (the &quot;cognome&quot;); neurobiology, similarly, provides a list of the available neural structures. However, explanatory connections will require crafting of computationally explicit linking hypotheses at the right level of abstraction. For both the practical maps problem and the principled mapping problem, developmental approaches and evidence can play a central role in the resolution.
Abstract Gotts et al. provide a timely review of the major neural models of repetition suppression (RS) and priming. They justifiably call on researchers to focus their attention on the extent to which these phenomena can be explained by changes in synchrony between cortical regions. They are relatively agnostic as to which regions may be critical to RS and priming. Here I argue we should devote more attention to the role of frontal regions, and suggest that there is a need to engage with more cognitive accounts of priming in order to develop a comprehensive neurocognitive account of priming and RS.
Abstract A central goal of cognitive neuroscience is to understand the relationship between repetition suppression (RS) and priming. Gotts and colleagues propose a new model examining this relationship where stimulus repetition produces increased neural synchronization, thus increasing the efficiency of neural responses and potentially explaining the characterizing features of both RS and priming. While synchrony is an appealing new model, we suggest that further constraints are necessary to account for qualitatively different types of RS and priming yet to be considered by the present implementation.
Abstract Gotts et al. present an attractive model of how priming can arise from neuronal adaptation effects. Their very satisfying account helps to demystify adaptation effects. In fact, adaptation effects are even less mysterious than portrayed: While Gotts et al. state that &quot;fMRI studies in humans that have attempted to evaluate sharpening of visual object representations with experience have  generated mixed results&quot;, referring to fMRI adaptation (fMRI-A) studies by our group and others, the results described in the cited papers are in fact entirely compatible, further establishing the usefulness of fMRI-A to probe neuronal tuning in humans.
Abstract The article &quot;More than a feeling: Pervasive influences of memory without awareness of retrieval&quot; reviews evidence from ERP studies of recognition memory that the FN400 effect typically ascribed to familiarity may index implicit memory that occurs during recognition testing. We find their argument compelling, and contend that this potential &quot;implicit contamination&quot; is not unique to ERP studies. We suggest an analogous problem affecting fMRI studies, focusing particularly on the perirhinal cortex. Resolving this issue is critical for understanding the relationship between memory and the medial temporal lobes.
The cognitive neuroscience of long-term memory is ingrained with the assumptions that a particular task measures a single cognitive process and that each cognitive process is mediated by a single brain region. However, these assumptions are simplistic and hindering progress toward understanding the true mechanisms of memory. This special issue of Cognitive Neuroscience presents five empirical papers and two theoretical discussion papers with peer commentaries on the spatial and/or temporal mechanisms of memory. Using fMRI, Yu et al. show ventral parietal cortex sub-regions mediate dissociable aspects of recollection, and Mickley Steinmetz et al. study time-delay effects on processes engaged during emotional versus neutral item encoding. Employing ERPs, Galli et al. investigate anticipatory activity and recall, and Evans et al. study the effect of cognitive demands on recollection activity. Using fMRI and ERPs, Herzmann et al. investigate spatial-temporal activity associated with recognition. Voss et al. review electrophysiological, fMRI, and behavioral evidence indicating implicit memory can influence explicit memory measures. Gotts et al. review electrophysiological, fMRI, and modeling evidence to evaluate proposals of repetition priming and highlight neural synchronization. These papers embrace complex cognitive and neural processes, and thus will provide a framework for future studies to investigate the mechanisms of memory.
Most neuropsychological research using food as a reward uses single-bid auctions. We wished to determine whether focal brain lesions would affect the ability and motivation to win snack food items in a computerized auction allowing multiple bids. This allowed us to assess participants' abilities under more complex conditions. We enrolled 154 male penetrating traumatic brain injury (pTBI) veterans, mean age 58, from the Vietnam Head Injury Study registry, and 53 male uninjured veterans, mean age 59. We used voxel-based lesion symptom mapping (VLSM) to identify effects of brain lesions on the ability to win items and on participants' answers to statements regarding their level of motivation and evaluation of how well they performed. Number of items won was not significantly associated with any lesions; however, lesions in gustatory cortex (GC) affected motivation and self-evaluation. Our findings provide further evidence of the primary GC's role in motivation for food and drink.
Impulsivity is often characterized by rapid decisions under risk, but most current tests of decision-making do not impose time pressures on participants' choices. Here we introduce a new traffic lights test which requires people to choose whether to program a risky, early eye movement before a traffic light turns green (earning them high rewards or a penalty) or wait for the green light before responding to obtain a small reward instead. Young participants demonstrated bimodal responses: an early, high-risk and a later, low-risk set of choices. By contrast, elderly people invariably waited for the green light and showed little risk-taking. Performance could be modeled as a race between two rise-to-threshold decision processes, one triggered by the green light and the other initiated before it. The test provides a useful measure of rapid decision-making under risk, with the potential to reveal how this process alters with aging or in patient groups.
Synesthesia is a rare condition in which stimulation in one modality leads to a secondary experience in another sensory modality. Varying accounts attribute the condition to either neuroanatomical differences between the synesthetes and non-synesthetes or functional differences in how sensory brain regions interact. This study employed voxel-based morphometry to examine whether synesthetes who experience both grapheme-color and tone-color synesthesia as their evoked sensation show neuroanatomical differences in gray matter volume compared to non-synesthetes. We observed that synesthetes showed an increase in gray matter volume in left posterior fusiform gyrus (FG), but a concomitant decrease in anterior regions of left FG and left MT/V5. These findings imply that synesthesia for color is linked to neuroanatomical changes between adjacent regions of the visual system.
The observation of cueing effects (faster responses for cued than uncued targets) rapidly following centrally-presented arrows has led to the suggestion that arrows trigger rapid automatic shifts of spatial attention. However, these effects have primarily been observed during easy target-detection tasks when both cue and target remain on the screen until the behavioral response. We manipulated stimulus duration and task difficulty in an attention-cueing experiment to explore non-attentional explanations for rapid cueing effects. Contrary to attention-based predictions, short-interval cueing effects were observed only for long-duration cue and target stimuli, occurred even when the cue and target were presented simultaneously, and were driven by slowing of the uncued-target responses, rather than any facilitation for cued targets. We propose that, under these long-duration, short-interval conditions, the processing of the cue and target interact more extensively in the brain, and that when the cue and target convey incongruent spatial information (i.e., on invalidly cued trials) it leads to conflict-related slowing of responses.
The immune system is designed to protect the host from infection and injury. However, when an adaptive immune response continues unchecked in the brain, the proinflammatory innate microglial response leads to the accumulation of neurotoxins and eventual neurodegeneration. What drives such responses are misfolded and nitrated proteins. Indeed, the antigen in Parkinson's disease (PD) is an aberrant self-protein, although the adaptive immune responses are remarkably similar in a range of diseases. Ingress of lymphocytes and chronic activation of glial cells directly affect neurodegeneration. With this understanding, new therapies aimed at modulating the immune system's response during PD could lead to decreased neuronal loss and improved clinical outcomes for disease.
1,3,5-Trinitroperhydro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX) is a nitroamine explosive, with common toxic effects including seizures. Here, we explore the behavioral effects of acute RDX exposure in adult zebrafish Danio rerio, a rapidly developing model in neuroscience and neurotoxicology research. Overall, a 30-min exposure to RDX low dose of 0.1 mM evoked behavioral activation in zebrafish, while a higher dose of 1 mM markedly reduced exploration, increased freezing and evoked seizure-like responses (i.e., bouts of hyperactivity, spasms, and corkscrew swimming). Likewise, whole-body cortisol levels were also significantly elevated in fish exposed to 1 mM (but not 0.1 mM) RDX. In line with clinical and animal data, our study demonstrates the dose-dependent behavioral activation and pro-convulsant effects of RDX in zebrafish-based models.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs which repress gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. In this study, an expressed sequence tag (EST)-based combined method was applied for the detection of miRNAs in Macaca fascicularis which is used as a model animal extensively in medical experiments, particularly those involved with neuroscience and disease. Initially, previously known miRNA sequences from metazoans were used to blast with the EST databases of Macaca fascicularis, and then a range of filtering criteria was conducted to remove some pseudo ones. At last a total of 8 novel conserved miRNAs were identified; their functions were further predicted and analyzed. Together, our study provides insight into miRNAs and their functions in Macaca fascicularis, indicating that the EST analysis is an efficient and affordable alternative approach for identifying novel miRNA candidates.

Endovascular treatment of intracranial aneurysms (IAs) has improved to the extent that in some instances such an approach has now become safer than surgery. This has dramatically changed clinical practice by reducing the volume and increasing the complexity of IAs referred for open surgical treatment. We review the simulation techniques and dedicated vascular neuronavigation systems that have been developed to maintain the quality of aneurysm clipping in this context. Simulation of surgical approaches was made possible by the introduction of high-resolution 3D imaging techniques such as three-dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA) and three-dimensional digital subtraction angiography (3D-DSA), enabling reproduction of the craniotomy and rotation of the vascular tree according to the orientation of the operative microscope. A virtual simulator for compiling such data, the Dextroscope, is now available for this purpose. Simulation of final clipping has been investigated through virtual or physical models, enabling anticipation of aneurysm deformation during clip application and selection of the appropriate clip(s) in terms of number, size, shape and orientation. To improve surgical dissection guidance, specific cerebrovascular neuronavigation procedures have been developed based on 3D-CTA or 3D-DSA. These help make the operation secure by accurately predicting the location and orientation of an aneurysm within its parenchymal and vascular environment. Future simulators dedicated to cerebrovascular procedures will need to integrate representation of the brain surface and biomechanical modeling of brain and aneurysm wall deformation under retraction or during clipping. They should contribute to training and maintenance of surgical skills, thereby optimizing the quality of surgical treatment in this field.
Epileptogenesis is a dynamic process producing increased seizure susceptibility. Electroencephalography (EEG) data provides information critical in understanding the evolution of epileptiform changes throughout epileptic foci. We designed an algorithm to facilitate efficient large-scale EEG analysis via linked automation of multiple data processing steps. Using EEG recordings obtained from electrical stimulation studies, the following steps of EEG analysis were automated: (1) alignment and isolation of pre- and post-stimulation intervals, (2) generation of user-defined band frequency waveforms, (3) spike-sorting, (4) quantification of spike and burst data and (5) power spectral density analysis. This algorithm allows for quicker, more efficient EEG analysis.
Most models of central pattern generators (CPGs) involve two distinct nuclei mutually inhibiting one another via synapses. Here, we present a single-nucleus model of biologically realistic Hodgkin-Huxley neurons with random gap junction coupling. Despite no explicit division of neurons into two groups, we observe a spontaneous division of neurons into two distinct firing groups. In addition, we also demonstrate this phenomenon in a simplified version of the model, highlighting the importance of afterhyperpolarization currents (I(AHP)) to CPGs utilizing gap junction coupling. The properties of these CPGs also appear sensitive to gap junction conductance, probability of gap junction coupling between cells, topology of gap junction coupling, and, to a lesser extent, input current into our simulated nucleus.
We present a formal methodology for identifying a channel in a system consisting of a communication channel in cascade with an asynchronous sampler. The channel is modeled as a multidimensional filter, while models of asynchronous samplers are taken from neuroscience and communications and include integrate-and-fire neurons, asynchronous sigma/delta modulators and general oscillators in cascade with zero-crossing detectors. We devise channel identification algorithms that recover a projection of the filter(s) onto a space of input signals loss-free for both scalar and vector-valued test signals. The test signals are modeled as elements of a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS) with a Dirichlet kernel. Under appropriate limiting conditions on the bandwidth and the order of the test signal space, the filter projection converges to the impulse response of the filter. We show that our results hold for a wide class of RKHSs, including the space of finite-energy bandlimited signals. We also extend our channel identification results to noisy circuits.
Understanding the neural mechanisms for sensing environmental information and controlling behavior in natural environments is a principal aim in neuroscience. One approach towards this goal is rebuilding neural systems by simulation. Despite their relatively simple brains compared with those of mammals, insects are capable of processing various sensory signals and generating adaptive behavior. Nevertheless, our global understanding at network system level is limited by experimental constraints. Simulations are very effective for investigating neural mechanisms when integrating both experimental data and hypotheses. However, it is still very difficult to construct a computational model at the whole brain level owing to the enormous number and complexity of the neurons. We focus on a unique behavior of the silkmoth to investigate neural mechanisms of sensory processing and behavioral control. Standard brains are used to consolidate experimental results and generate new insights through integration. In this study, we constructed a silkmoth standard brain and brain image, in which we registered segmented neuropil regions and neurons. Our original software tools for segmentation of neurons from confocal images, KNEWRiTE, and the registration module for segmented data, NeuroRegister, are shown to be very effective in neuronal registration for computational neuroscience studies.
In recent years, Independent Component Analysis (ICA) has become a standard to identify relevant dimensions of the data in neuroscience. ICA is a very reliable method to analyze data but it is, computationally, very costly. The use of ICA for online analysis of the data, used in brain computing interfaces, results are almost completely prohibitive. We show an increase with almost no cost (a rapid video card) of speed of ICA by about 25 fold. The EEG data, which is a repetition of many independent signals in multiple channels, is very suitable for processing using the vector processors included in the graphical units. We profiled the implementation of this algorithm and detected two main types of operations responsible of the processing bottleneck and taking almost 80% of computing time: vector-matrix and matrix-matrix multiplications. By replacing function calls to basic linear algebra functions to the standard CUBLAS routines provided by GPU manufacturers, it does not increase performance due to CUDA kernel launch overhead. Instead, we developed a GPU-based solution that, comparing with the original BLAS and CUBLAS versions, obtains a 25x increase of performance for the ICA calculation.
We used a recently proposed graph index to investigate connectivity redundancy in resting state MEG recordings. Usually, brain network analyses consider indexes linked to the shortest paths between cerebral regions. However, important information might be lost about alternative trails by neglecting longer pathways. We measured the redundancy of the connectivity by considering the multiple paths at the global level (i.e., scalar redundancy), across different path lengths (i.e., vector redundancy), and between node pairs (i.e., matrix redundancy). We applied this approach to a robust frequency domain functional connectivity measure, the corrected imaginary part of coherence. The redundancy in the MEG networks, for each frequency band, was significantly (P &lt; 0.05) higher than in the random graphs, thus, confirming a natural tendency of the brain to present multiple interaction pathways between different specialized areas. Notably, this difference was more evident and localized among the channels covering the parietooccipital areas in the alpha range of MEG oscillations (7.5-13Hz), as expected in the resting state conditions. Interestingly enough, the results obtained with the redundancy indexes were poorly correlated with those obtained using shortest paths only, and more sensitive with respect to those obtained by considering walk-based indexes.

Network analysis of functional imaging data reveals emergent features of the brain as a function of its topological properties. However, the brain is not a homogeneous network, and the dependence of functional connectivity parameters on neuroanatomical substrate and parcellation scale is a key issue. Moreover, the extent to which these topological properties depend on underlying neurochemical changes remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated both global statistical properties and the local, voxel-scale distribution of connectivity parameters of the rat brain. Different neurotransmitter systems were stimulated by pharmacological challenge (d-amphetamine, fluoxetine, and nicotine) to discriminate between stimulus-specific functional connectivity and more general features of the rat brain architecture. Although global connectivity parameters were similar, mapping of local connectivity parameters at high spatial resolution revealed strong neuroanatomical dependence of functional connectivity in the rat brain, with clear differentiation between the neocortex and older brain regions. Localized foci of high functional connectivity independent of drug challenge were found in the sensorimotor cortices, consistent with the high neuronal connectivity in these regions. Conversely, the topological properties and node roles in subcortical regions varied with neurochemical state and were dependent on the specific dynamics of the different functional processes elicited.
The application of Graph Theory to the brain connectivity patterns obtained from the analysis of neuroelectrical signals has provided an important step to the interpretation and statistical analysis of such functional networks. The properties of a network are derived from the adjacency matrix describing a connectivity pattern obtained by one of the available functional connectivity methods. However, no common procedure is currently applied for extracting the adjacency matrix from a connectivity pattern. To understand how the topographical properties of a network inferred by means of graph indices can be affected by this procedure, we compared one of the methods extensively used in Neuroscience applications (i.e. fixing the edge density) with an approach based on the statistical validation of achieved connectivity patterns. The comparison was performed on the basis of simulated data and of signals acquired on a polystyrene head used as a phantom. The results showed (i) the importance of the assessing process in discarding the occurrence of spurious links and in the definition of the real topographical properties of the network, and (ii) a dependence of the small world properties obtained for the phantom networks from the spatial correlation of the neighboring electrodes.
Granger causality analysis is becoming central for the analysis of interactions between neural populations and oscillatory networks. However, it is currently unclear whether single-trial estimates of Granger causality spectra can be used reliably to assess directional influence. We addressed this issue by combining single-trial Granger causality spectra with statistical inference based on general linear models. The approach was assessed on synthetic and neurophysiological data. Synthetic bivariate data was generated using two autoregressive processes with unidirectional coupling. We simulated two hypothetical experimental conditions: the first mimicked a constant and unidirectional coupling, whereas the second modelled a linear increase in coupling across trials. The statistical analysis of single-trial Granger causality spectra, based on t-tests and linear regression, successfully recovered the underlying pattern of directional influence. In addition, we characterised the minimum number of trials and coupling strengths required for significant detection of directionality. Finally, we demonstrated the relevance for neurophysiology by analysing two local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously recorded from the prefrontal and premotor cortices of a macaque monkey performing a conditional visuomotor task. Our results suggest that the combination of single-trial Granger causality spectra and statistical inference provides a valuable tool for the analysis of large-scale cortical networks and brain connectivity.
Functional neural connectivity is drawing increasing attention in neuroscience research. To infer functional connectivity from observed neural signals, various methods have been proposed. Among them, phase synchronization analysis is an important and effective one which examines the relationship of instantaneous phase between neural signals but neglecting the influence of their amplitudes. In this paper, we review the advances in methodologies of phase synchronization analysis. In particular, we discuss the definitions of instantaneous phase, the indexes of phase synchronization and their significance test, the issues that may affect the detection of phase synchronization and the extensions of phase synchronization analysis. In practice, phase synchronization analysis may be affected by observational noise, insufficient samples of the signals, volume conduction, and reference in recording neural signals. We make comments and suggestions on these issues so as to better apply phase synchronization analysis to inferring functional connectivity from neural signals.

Phase-amplitude modulation is a form of cross frequency coupling where the phase of one frequency influences the amplitude of another higher frequency. It has been observed in neurophysiological recordings during sensory, motor, and cognitive tasks, as well as during general anesthesia. In this paper, we describe a novel beamforming procedure to improve estimation of phase-amplitude modulation. We apply this method to 64-channel EEG data recorded during propofol general anesthesia. The method improves the sensitivity of phase-amplitude analyses, and can be applied to a variety of multi-channel neuroscience data where phase-amplitude modulation is present.
The pathogenesis of tinnitus involves multiple hierarchical levels of auditory processing and appraisal of sensory saliency. Early tinnitus onset is most likely attributed to homeostatic plasticity in the periphery, while the chronification and decompensation are tightly linked to brain areas for the allocation of attentional resources, such as e.g., the thalamocortical feedback loops and the limbic system. Increased spontaneous firing after sensory deafferentation might be sufficient to generate a phantom perception, yet the question why not every peripheral hearing loss automatically elicits a tinnitus sensation is still to be addressed. Utilizing quantitative modeling of multiple hierarchical levels in the auditory pathway, we demonstrate the effects of lateral inhibition on increased spontaneous firing and the resulting elevation of firing regularity and synchronization of neural activity. The presented therapeutical approach is based on the idea of disrupting the heightened regularity of the neural population response in the tinnitus frequency range. This neural activity regularity depends on lateral dispersion of common noise and thus is susceptible for edge effects and might be influenced by a change in neural activity in bordering frequency ranges by fitted acoustical stimulation. We propose the use of patient specifically adapted tailor-made notched acoustic stimulation, utilizing modeling results for the optimal adjustment of the stimulation frequencies to archive a therapeutical edge-effect.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) has long been understood as an increase in the potency of a synaptic connection between two neurons. In this study, we combine a previously developed two-stage cascade model with electrophysiological recordings of rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells both before and after LTP to analyze linear and nonlinear contributions of pre and post-synaptic partners to the strengthening of their synaptic connectivity. The result suggests that the major nonlinear expression locus of LTP exists in the post-synaptic side. Additionally, the report reveals that LTP should be understood not only in the traditional view as a change in the magnitude of communication between two cells, but also as a change in their temporal coding properties of information exchange.
Human emotion perception is a topic of great interest for both cognitive and clinical neuroscience, but its electrophysiological correlates are still poorly understood. The present study is aimed at evaluating if measures of synchronization and indexes based on graph-theory are a tool suitable to study and quantify electrophysiological changes due to emotional stimuli perception. In particular, our study is aimed at evaluating if different EEG connectivity patterns can be induced by pleasant (consonant) or unpleasant (dissonant) music, in a population of healthy subjects, and in patients with severe disorders of consciousness (DOCs), namely vegetative state (VS) patients. In the control group, pleasant music induced an increase in network number of connections, compared with the resting condition, while no changes were caused by the unpleasant stimuli. However, clustering coefficient and path length, two indexes derived from graph theory, able to characterise segregation and integration properties of a network, were not affected by the stimuli, neither pleasant nor unpleasant. In the VS group, changes were found only in those patients with the less severe consciousness impairment, according to the clinical assessment. In these patients a stronger synchronization was found during the unpleasant condition; moreover we observed changes in the network topology, with decreased values of clustering coefficient and path length during both musical stimuli.Our results show that measures of synchronization can provide new insights into the study of the electro physiological correlates of emotion perception, indicating that these tools can be used to study patients with DOCs, in whom the issue of objective measures and quantification of the degree of impairment is still an open and unsolved question.
So far, a generally accepted objective measure for the listening effort estimation in clinical settings is not existent. Such a measure could support the hearing aid fitting in order to reduce the listening effort in hearing impaired patients by an adequate adaption of their personal hearing aids. In the current study, we propose a new measure for the quantification of large-scale listening effort correlates. This measure takes the phase information of the ongoing oscillatory EEG activity into account. The phase was gained from the 32 channel EEG. Then, the entropy of the extracted phase was calculated. We assume that this angular entropy reflects phase synchronization effects of the ongoing activities due to an increased attention on the relevant (speech) signal. Thus, we expect that smaller values of the angular entropy reflect a more &quot;ordered&quot; process of the phase distribution. The new method was tested in 13 young normal hearing subjects using different auditory tasks consisting of differently adapted sentences to create different listening conditions. The results indicate that the angular entropy can be applied to reveal significantly differences between the solving and the relaxing part of the paradigm, i.e. between a more effortful and a more relaxing listening situation. It is concluded, that the further research includes the development of more effortful listening tasks in order to reveal also differences between the auditory paradigms.
Real neurobiological systems in the mammalian brain have a complicated and detailed structure, being composed of 1) large numbers of neurons with intricate, branching morphologies--complex morphology brings with it complex passive membrane properties; 2) active membrane properties--nonlinear sodium, potassium, calcium, etc. conductances; 3) non-uniform distributions throughout the dendritic and somal membrane surface of these non-linear conductances; 4) non-uniform and topographic connectivity between pre- and post-synaptic neurons; and 5) activity-dependent changes in synaptic function. One of the essential, and as yet unanswered questions in neuroscience is the role of these fundamental structural and functional features in determining &quot;neural processing&quot; properties of a given brain system. To help answer that question, we're creating a large-scale biologically realistic model of the intrinsic pathway of the hippocampus, which consists of the projection from layer II entorhinal cortex (EC) to dentate gyrus (DG), EC to CA3, DG to CA3, and CA3 to CA1. We describe the computational hardware and software tools the model runs on, and demonstrate its viability as a modeling platform with an EC-to-DG model.
The transfer entropy (TE) has recently emerged as a nonlinear model-free tool, framed in information theory, to detect directed interactions in coupled processes. Unfortunately, when applied to neurobiological time series TE is biased by signal cross-talk due to volume conduction. To compensate for this bias, in this study we introduce a modified TE measure which accounts for possible instantaneous effects between the analyzed time series. The new measure, denoted as compensated TE (cTE), is tested on simulated time series reproducing conditions typical of neuroscience applications, and on real magnetoencephalographic (MEG) multi-trial data measured during a visuo-tactile cognitive experiment. Simulations show that cTE performs similarly to TE in the absence of signal cross-talk, and prevents false positive detection of information transfer in the case of instantaneous mixing of uncoupled signals. When applied to MEG data, cTE detects significant information flow from the visual cortex to the somatosensory area during task execution, suggesting the activation of mechanisms of multisensory integration.
Existing methods for withdrawal reflex detection from surface electromyography (sEMG) do not consider the potential presence of electrical crosstalk, which in practical applications may entail reduced detection accuracy. This study estimated muscle fiber conduction velocities (CV) for the tibialis anterior (TA) and soleus (SOL) muscles of both genuine reflexes and identified crosstalk, measured during antagonistic reflex responses. These estimations were used to develop and assess a novel method for reflex detection resistant to crosstalk. Cross correlations of two single differential (SD) sEMG signals recorded along the muscle fibers were performed and two features were extracted from the resulting correlograms (average CV and maximal cross correlation). Reflex detection based on evaluation of the extracted features was compared to a conventional reflex detection method (thresholding of interval peak z-scores), applied on both SD and double differential (DD) sEMG. Intramuscular electromyography (iEMG) was used as validation for reflex detection. Apparent CV due to electrical crosstalk alone were more than one order of magnitude higher than CV estimated for genuine reflexes. Conventional reflex detection showed excellent sensitivity but poor specificity (0.19-0.76) due to the presence of crosstalk. In contrast, cross correlation analysis allowed reflex detection with significantly improved specificity (0.91-0.97). The developed methodology may be readily implemented for more reliable reflex detection.
We propose a novel intervention to train the speed and accuracy of attention orienting and eye movements in Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Training eye movements and attention could not only affect those important functions directly, but could also result in broader improvement of social communication skills. To this end we describe a system that would allow ASD children to improve their fixation skills while playing a computer game controlled by an eye tracker. Because this intervention will probably be time consuming, this system should be designed to be used at homes. To make this possible, we propose an implementation based on wireless and dry electrooculography (EOG) technology. If successful, this system would develop an approach to therapy that would improve clinical and behavioral function in children and adults with ASD. As our initial steps in this direction, here we describe the design of a computer game to be used in this system, and the predictions of gaze position from EOG data recorded while a subject played this game.
We propose a new Bayesian classifier, based on the recently introduced causal Markov random field (MRF) model, Quadrilateral MRF (QMRF). We use a second order inhomogeneous anisotropic QMRF to model the prior and likelihood probabilities in the maximum a posteriori (MAP) classifier, named here as MAP-QMRF. The joint distribution of QMRF is given in terms of the product of two dimensional clique distributions existing in its neighboring structure. 20 manually labeled human brain MR images are used to train and assess the MAP-QMRF classifier using the jackknife validation method. Comparing the results of the proposed classifier and FreeSurfer on the Dice overlap measure shows an average gain of 1.8%. We have performed a power analysis to demonstrate that this increase in segmentation accuracy substantially reduces the number of samples required to detect a 5% change in volume of a brain region.
We present a novel methodology for instantaneous estimation of quantitative correlates of depth of Anesthesia from noninvasive electrocardiographic recordings. The analysis is based on a point process model of heartbeat dynamics that allows for continuous tracking of linear and nonlinear HRV indices, including a novel instantaneous assessment of the Lyapunov Spectrum by using a cubic autoregressive formulation. The effective estimation of the model parameters is ensured by the Laguerre expansion of the Wiener-Volterra kernels along with the maximum local log-likelihood procedure. We apply the proposed assessment to experimental recordings from healthy subjects during propofol anesthesia. The new assessment reveals novel time-varying complex heartbeat dynamics that underlie the quasi-periodic heartbeat fluctuations elicited by the sympatho-vagal balance. Results suggest that such quantification provides important information which is independent from the standard autonomic assessment and significantly correlated with loss of consciousness. Further investigation will focus on evolving our mathematical approach towards a promising monitoring tool for an accurate, noninvasive assessment of general anesthesia.
In order to approach human hand performance levels, artificial anthropomorphic hands/fingers have increasingly incorporated human biomechanical features. However, the performance of finger reaching movements to visual targets involving the complex kinematics of multi-jointed, anthropomorphic actuators is a difficult problem. This is because the relationship between sensory and motor coordinates is highly nonlinear, and also often includes mechanical coupling of the two last joints. Recently, we developed a cortical model that learns the inverse kinematics of a simulated anthropomorphic finger. Here, we expand this previous work by assessing if this cortical model is able to learn the inverse kinematics for an actual anthropomorphic humanoid finger having its two last joints coupled and controlled by pneumatic muscles. The findings revealed that single 3D reaching movements, as well as more complex patterns of motion of the humanoid finger, were accurately and robustly performed by this cortical model while producing kinematics comparable to those of humans. This work contributes to the development of a bioinspired controller providing adaptive, robust and flexible control of dexterous robotic and prosthetic hands.
Mapping the dynamics of neural source processes critically involved in initiating and propagating seizure activity is important for effective epilepsy diagnosis, intervention, and treatment. Tracking time-varying shifts in the oscillation modes of an evolving seizure may be useful for both seizure onset detection as well as for improved non-surgical interventions such as microstimulation. In this report we apply a multivariate eigendecomposition method to analyze the time-varying principal oscillation patterns (POPs, or eigenmodes) of maximally-independent (ICA) sources of intracranial EEG data recorded from subdural electrodes implanted in a human patient for evaluation of surgery for epilepsy. Our analysis of a subset of the most dynamically important eigenmodes reveals distinct shifts in characteristic frequency and damping time before, throughout, and following seizures providing insight into the dynamical structure of the system throughout seizure evolution.
Two research communities, motor systems neuroscience and motor prosthetics, examine the relationship between neural activity in the motor cortex and movement. The former community aims to understand how the brain controls and generates movement; the latter community focuses on how to decode neural activity as control signals for a prosthetic cursor or limb. Both have made progress toward understanding the relationship between neural activity in the motor cortex and behavior. However, these findings are tested using animal models in an environment that constrains behavior to simple, limited movements. These experiments show that, in constrained settings, simple reaching motions can be decoded from small populations of spiking neurons. It is unclear whether these findings hold for more complex, full-body behaviors in unconstrained settings. Here we present the results of freely-moving behavioral experiments from a monkey with simultaneous intracortical recording. We investigated neural firing rates while the monkey performed various tasks such as walking on a treadmill, reaching for food, and sitting idly. We show that even in such an unconstrained and varied context, neural firing rates are well tuned to behavior, supporting findings of basic neuroscience. Further, we demonstrate that the various behavioral tasks can be reliably classified with over 95% accuracy, illustrating the viability of decoding techniques despite significant variation and environmental distractions associated with unconstrained behavior. Such encouraging results hint at potential utility of the freely-moving experimental paradigm.
It has been suggested that the human mirror neuron system (MNS) plays a critical role in action observation and imitation. However, the transformation of perspective between the observed (allocentric) and the imitated (egocentric) actions has received little attention. We expand a previously proposed biologically plausible MNS model by incorporating general spatial transformation capabilities that are assumed to be encoded by the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) and the superior parietal lobule (SPL) as well as investigating their interactions with the inferior frontal gyrus and the inferior parietal lobule. The results reveal that the IPS/SPL could process the frame of reference and the viewpoint transformations, and provide invariant visual representations for the temporo-parieto-frontal circuit. This allows the imitator to imitate the action performed by a demonstrator under various perspectives while replicating results from the literatures. Our results confirm and extend the importance of perspective transformation processing during action observation and imitation.
Recently, we have shown that denoising evoked potential (EP) images is possible using two dimensional diffusion filtering methods. This restoration allows for an integration of regularities over multiple stimulations into the denoising process. In the present work we propose the nonlocal means (NLM) method for EP image denoising. The EP images were constructed using auditory brainstem responses (ABR) collected in young healthy subjects using frequency specific and broadband chirp stimulations. It is concluded that the NLM method is more efficient than conventional approaches in EP imaging denoising, specially in the case of ABRs, where the relevant information can be easily masked by the ongoing EEG activity, i.e., signals suffer from rather low signal-to-noise ratio SNR. The proposed approach is for the a posteriori denoising of single trials after the experiment and not for real time applications.
Inexpensive, high-throughput, low maintenance systems for precise temporal and spatial measurement of mouse home cage behavior (including movement, feeding, and drinking) are required to evaluate products from large scale pharmaceutical design and genetic lesion programs. These measurements are also required to interpret results from more focused behavioral assays. We describe the design and validation of a highly-scalable, reliable mouse home cage behavioral monitoring system modeled on a previously described, one-of-a-kind system. Mouse position was determined by solving static equilibrium equations describing the force and torques acting on the system strain gauges; feeding events were detected by a photobeam across the food hopper, and drinking events were detected by a capacitive lick sensor. Validation studies show excellent agreement between mouse position and drinking events measured by the system compared with video-based observation--a gold standard in neuroscience.
We present a self-contained portable USB based device that can amplify and record small bioelectric signals from insects and animals. The system combines a purpose built low noise amplifier with off the shelf components to provide a low cost low power system for recording electrophysiological signals. Using open source software the system is programmed as a simple USB device and can be connected to any USB capable computer for recording data. This simple and universal interface provides the ability to connect to a variety of systems. Open source acquisition software was also written to record signals under the linux operating system. Performance analysis shows that our device is able to record good quality signals both indoors and outdoors and delivers this performance at a very low cost. Compared to larger systems our device provides the additional advantage of portability given that it can fit into a pocket and costs a fraction of large systems used in electrophysiology labs.
The use of microelectrodes for both recording and stimulation of cortical tissue is a well-established technique in neuroscience. We demonstrate that the use of existing microelectrode arrays and instrumentation can be extended to studying the spinal cord. We show that microelectrode arrays can be used to perform stimulation and recording in the corticospinal tract of an animal model commonly used in spinal cord injury (SCI) research. This technique could not only provide fundamental insights into the structure and function of the spinal cord, but also ultimately serve as the basis of a therapeutic treatment for severe spinal cord injuries.
The traditional brain-computer interface (BCI) system measures the electroencephalography (EEG) signals by the wet sensors with the conductive gel and skin preparation processes. To overcome the limitations of traditional BCI system with conventional wet sensors, a wireless and wearable multi-channel EEG-based BCI system is proposed in this study, including the wireless EEG data acquisition device, dry spring-loaded sensors, a size-adjustable soft cap. The dry spring-loaded sensors are made of metal conductors, which can measure the EEG signals without skin preparation and conductive gel. In addition, the proposed system provides a size-adjustable soft cap that can be used to fit user's head properly. Indeed, the results are shown that the proposed system can properly and effectively measure the EEG signals with the developed cap and sensors, even under movement. In words, the developed wireless and wearable BCI system is able to be used in cognitive neuroscience applications.
Here, we introduce a novel approach to the EEG inverse problem based on the assumption that principal cortical sources of multi-channel EEG recordings may be assumed to be spatially sparse, compact, and smooth (SCS). To enforce these characteristics of solutions to the EEG inverse problem, we propose a correlation-variance model which factors a cortical source space covariance matrix into the multiplication of a pre-given correlation coefficient matrix and the square root of the diagonal variance matrix learned from the data under a Bayesian learning framework. We tested the SCS method using simulated EEG data with various SNR and applied it to a real ECOG data set. We compare the results of SCS to those of an established SBL algorithm.
The purpose of this study is twofold. First, we present a simplified multiscale modeling approach integrating activity on the scale of ionic channels into the spatiotemporal scale of neural field potentials: Resting upon a Hodgkin-Huxley based single cell model we introduced a neuronal feedback circuit based on the Llins-model of thalamocortical activity and binding, where all cell specific intrinsic properties were adopted from patch-clamp measurements. In this paper, we expand this existing model by integrating the output to the spatiotemporal scale of field potentials. Those are supposed to originate from the parallel activity of a variety of synchronized thalamocortical columns at the quasi-microscopic level, where the involved neurons are gathered together in units. Second and more important, we study the possible effects of nanoparticles (NPs) that are supposed to interact with thalamic cells of our network model. In two preliminary studies we demonstrated in vitro and in vivo effects of NPs on the ionic channels of single neurons and thereafter on neuronal feedback circuits. By means of our new model we assumed now NPs induced changes on the ionic currents of the involved thalamic neurons. Here we found extensive diversified pattern formations of neural field potentials when comparing to the modeled activity without neuromodulating NPs addition. This model provides predictions about the influences of NPs on spatiotemporal neural field oscillations in thalamocortical networks. These predictions can be validated by high spatiotemporal resolution electrophysiological measurements like voltage sensitive dyes and multiarray recordings.
In the field of neuroprosthetic control, there is an emerging need for simplified control of high-dimensional devices. Advances in robotic technology have led to the development of prosthetic arms that now approach the look and number of degrees of freedom (DoF) of a natural arm. These arms, and especially hands, now have more controllable DoFs than the number of control DoFs available in many applications. In natural movements, high correlations exist between multiple joints, such as finger flexions. Therefore, discrepancy between the number of control and effector DoFs can be overcome by a control scheme that maps low-DoF control space to high-DoF joint space. Imperfect effectors, sensor noise and interactions with external objects require the use of feedback controllers. The incorporation of feedback in a system where the command is in a different space, however, is challenging, requiring a potentially difficult inverse high-DoF to low-DoF transformation. Here we present a solution to this problem based on the Extended Kalman Filter.
Neuroscience research often requires direct access to brain tissue in animal models which clearly requires opening of the protective cranium. Minimizing animal numbers requests only well-experienced surgeons, since clumsy performance may lead to premature death of the animal. To minimise those traumatic outcomes, an algorithmic approach for closed-loop control of our Spherical Assistant for Stereotaxic Surgery (SASSU) was designed. Controlling the surgical robot's micro-drill unit by audio pattern recognition proved to be a simple and reliable way to automatically stop the automated drill feed. Sound analysis based on the anatomical morphology of a rat skull was used to train a Support Vector Machine (SVM) classification of the time-frequency representations of the drill sound. Fully automated high throughput animal surgeries are the goal of this approach.
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a method of non-invasive brain stimulation which uses weak electric currents applied on the scalp to modulate activity of underlying brain tissue. In addition to being used as a tool for cognitive neuroscience investigations, tDCS has generated considerable interest for use as a therapeutic modality for neurologic disorders. Though the safety and tolerability of tDCS in adults is well-established, there is little information on the safety of tDCS in children. Because there are differences between children and adults in several key parameters (such as skull thickness and cerebrospinal fluid volume) which affect current flow through the brain, special consideration should be given to the stimulation parameters which are used in a pediatric study population. In this study we present cortical electrical field maps at different stimulation intensities and electrode configurations using a high-resolution-MRI derived finite element model of a typically developing, anatomically normal 12 year old child. The peak electrical fields for a given stimulus intensity in the adolescent brain were twice as high as in the adult brain for conventional tDCS and nearly four times as high for a 4X1 High-Definition tDCS electrode configuration. These data suggest that acceptable tDCS stimulation parameters may be different in children compared to adults, and that further modeling studies are needed to help guide decisions about applied current intensity.
The combination of the neural science and the microelectronics science offers a new way to restore the function of central nervous system. A neural regeneration module is used to be implanted into body to bridge the damaged nerve. A microelectronics neural bridge IC designed in CSMC 0.5m CMOS process which can detect the neural signal and stimulate the nerve is presented. The neural regeneration module is composed of the microelectronics neural bridge IC and some discrete devices. An animal experiment has been done to check whether the neural signal can be transmitted with the chip normally or not. The animal experiment results suggest that the neural regeneration module can make the neural signal transmit normally.
Micro-electrode arrays (MEAs) have been used in a variety of intracortical neural prostheses. While intracortical MEAs have demonstrated their utility in neural prostheses, in many cases MEA performance declines after several months to years of in vivo implantation. The application of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) may increase the functional longevity of intracortical MEAs through enhanced biocompatibility and charge injection properties. An MEA metalized with platinum (Pt) on all electrodes had a CNT coating applied to the electrodes on half of the array. This Pt/Pt-CNT MEA was implanted into feline motor cortex for &gt;1 year. Recordings of action potentials and 1 kHz impedance measurements were made on all electrodes to evaluate device functionality. Additionally, electromyogram (EMG) responses were evoked using micro-stimulation via the MEA to measure device performance. These metrics were compared between Pt and Pt-CNT electrodes. There was no significant difference in the data acquisition or micro-stimulation performance of Pt and the Pt-CNT electrodes. However, impedances were lower on the Pt-CNT electrodes. These results demonstrate the functionality of CNT coatings during chronic in vivo implantation. The lower impedances suggest that for microstimulation applications CNT coatings may impart enhanced interface properties.
Pain, either acute pain or chronic pain, is usually treated/relieved by chemical means, in which nociceptive signals are blocked from transmitting into the pain registration sites in the brain. However, besides their side effects, chemical means of pain relief are not always effective, causing some serious clinical incidents like anesthesia awareness and chronic pains that are not treatable. A physical means of pain relief that physically modifies pain perception at the brain sites responsible for pain registration could be more effective, for both acute pain and chronic pain. In this paper a novel approach of magnetically induced deep brain modulation of neuronal firing is proposed for pain treatment/relief, in which pain treatment/relief is bioelectronics based and is non-invasive and free of side effects. A novel pulse magnetic field projector has been developed for pain relief through modulation of neuronal firing at the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). It is based on the neuroscience findings that pain registration in the brain is closely related to the excitation of nociceptive neurons at the ACC, in which the nociceptive neuronal firing rate increases as pain gets more intense. The mechanism of pain relief in the proposed approach is to modify the nociceptive neuronal firing rate at the ACC by magnetically inducing a pulse electric field applying on the neurons in the ACC, hyperpolarizing the neurons that are firing at high frequency during pain perception, resulting in a low level firing rate associated to no pain. A parametric study has been carried out to determine the physical and technical parameters of the proposed approach. The feasibility of the approach has been verified by simulation with the modulation implemented on a reconstructed ACC LV pyramidal cell using Hodgkin-Huxley style model. Action potentials recorded in the soma indicated that the firing frequency can be modulated by the applied pulse electric field.
Selective attention contributes to perceptual efficiency by modulating cortical activity according to task demands. The majority of attentional research has focused on the effects of attention to a single modality, and little is known about the role of attention in multimodal sensory processing. Here we employ a novel experimental design to examine the electrophysiological basis of audio-visual attention shifting. We use electroencephalography (EEG) to study differences in brain dynamics between quickly shifting attention between modalities and focusing attention on a single modality for extended periods of time. We also address interactions between attentional effects generated by the attention-shifting cue and those generated by subsequent stimuli. The conclusions from these examinations address key issues in attentional research, including the supramodal theory of attention, or the role of attention in foveal vision. The experimental design and analysis methods used here may suggest new directions in the study of the physiological basis of attention.
Point-process models have been recognized as a distinguished tool for the instantaneous assessment of heartbeat dynamics. Although not thoroughly linked to the physiology, nonlinear models also yield a more accurate quantification of cardiovascular control dynamics. Here, we propose a Laguerre expansion of the linear and nonlinear Wiener-Volterra kernels in order to account for the nonlinear and non-gaussian information contained in the ECG-derived heartbeat series while using a reduced number of parameters. Within an Inverse-Gaussian probability model, up to quadratic nonlinearities were considered to continuously estimate the dynamic spectrum and bispectrum. Results performed on 10 subjects undergoing a stand-up protocol show that this novel methodology improves on the algorithmic performances and, at the same time, more accurately characterizes sympatho-vagal changes to posture.
This paper introduces a novel methodology able to provide time varying estimates of the Lyapunov Spectrum within a point process framework. The algorithm is applied to ECG-derived data to characterize heartbeat nonlinear dynamics by using a cubic autoregressive point process model. Estimation of the model parameters is ensured by the Laguerre expansion of the Wiener-Volterra kernels along with a maximum local log-likelihood procedure. In addition to the instantaneous Lyapunov exponents, as well as indices related to higher order dynamic polyspectra, our method is also able to provide all the instantaneous time domain and frequency domain measures of instantaneous heart rate (HR) and heart rate variability (HRV) previously considered. Experimental results show that our method is able to track complex cardiovascular control dynamics during fast transitional gravitational changes.
Cigarette smoking is prevalent in cocaine/methamphetamine-dependent patients and associated with significant morbidity and mortality, yet, the provision of smoking cessation treatment in conjunction with substance use disorder (SUD) treatment is not standard practice. This is due, in part, to clinician concern that combining smoking cessation treatment with SUD treatment could lead to poorer SUD outcomes. The NIDA Clinical Trials Network is conducting a 10-week, two-group, randomized trial to evaluate the impact of providing smoking cessation treatment (SCT) with SUD treatment as usual (TAU), compared to TAU alone, in smokers who are in outpatient treatment for cocaine or methamphetamine dependence. Approximately 528 participants, recruited from 12 community treatment programs, will be randomized into the trial. The present paper describes key design decisions made during protocol development. The trial is designed to evaluate the relationship between cigarette smoking and stimulant use, which prior research suggests is linked, and should contribute to our understanding of how best to address the co-occurring problems of nicotine dependence and cocaine/methamphetamine-dependence. Unique aspects of the trial include the primary question of interest, which concerns the impact of providing SCT on SUD outcomes rather than on smoking outcomes, and the intensity of the SCT chosen, which includes bupropion, nicotine replacement, and two psychosocial interventions.

The interhemispheric connections of the cortical areas of the human brain are distributed within the corpus callosum according to a topographic order which is being studied in detail by novel imaging techniques. Total section of the corpus callosum is followed by a variety of interhemispheric disconnection symptoms each of which can be attributed to the interruption of fibers in a specific callosal sector. Disconnection symptoms deriving from posterior callosal sections, disconnecting parietal, temporal and occipital lobes across the midline, are more apparent than those following anterior callosal sections disconnecting the frontal lobes. In spite of the massive bulk of the frontal callosal connections in man, ascertained consequences of their interruption are limited to disorders of motor control, with particular regard to bimanual coordination. Technical advances in brain imaging and the design of appropriate tests are expected to reveal so far undetected deficits in the domain of executive and higher cognitive functions, resulting from callosal disconnection of the prefrontal cortices.
For a long time, in a localizationist view of brain functioning, a combination of symptoms called &quot;frontal syndrome&quot; has been interpreted as the direct result of damages involving the frontal lobe(s). The goal of this review is to challenge this view, that is, to move to a hodotopical approach to lesion mapping, on the basis of new insights provided by intraoperative electrostimulation mapping investigations in patients who underwent awake surgery for cerebral tumors. These original data reported in the last decade break with the traditional dogma of a modular and fixed organization of the central nervous system, by switching to the concepts of cerebral connectivity and plasticity - i.e., a brain organization based on dynamic interrelationships between parallel distributed networks. According to this revisited model, &quot;frontal symptoms&quot; can be generated by tumor or electrostimulation not only of the frontal lobes, but also of cortical and subcortical (white matter pathways/deep gray nuclei) structures outside the frontal lobes: especially, stimulation of the superior longitudinal fascicle may elicit speech production disorders, syntactic disturbances, involuntary language switching or phonemic paraphasia (arcuate fascicle), stimulation of the inferior fronto-occipital fascicle can generate semantic paraphasia or deficit of cross-modal judgment, stimulation of the subcallosal fasciculus may elicit transcortical motor aphasia, while stimulation of the striatum induces preservations. On the other hand, it is also possible to perform extensive right or left frontal lobectomy in patients who continue to have a normal familial, social and professional life, without &quot;frontal syndrome&quot;. Therefore, this provocative approach may open the door to a renewal in the modeling of brain processing as well as in its clinical applications, especially in the fields of cerebral surgery and functional rehabilitation. These findings illustrate well the need to reinforce links between cognitive neuroscience and clinical neurology/neurosurgery.
This article focuses on a series of six studies that address functional localization in the frontal lobe; they were published in Argentina between 1906 and 1909 by Christfried Jakob (1866-1956), one of the great thinkers in early 20th century neuropathology and neurophilosophy. At that time, the localization-holism controversy was at a peak, having been triggered by the historic Marie-Djerine aphasiology debate. Jakob held the view that constitutive physiological elements of cognition are localized. Nonetheless, he cast doubt on phrenological approaches that considered the frontal lobe as 'superior' to the other cortical regions. Jakob studied the human frontal lobe from fetal life through senility, in normality and pathology, including tumors, injuries, softening, general paralysis and dementia. Based on those finds, he considered strict localization theories a dead-end. Taking a critical look at Flechsig's ideas on the parallel ontogenies of frontal association centers and intellect, Jakob argued that the frontal lobe does not carry any selective advantage over the remaining human cerebral lobes or even over the frontal lobe in non-human primates. Regarding lesion experiments in laboratory animals, he pointed to methodological caveats, such as insufficient recovery time, that may lead to disorientating conclusions, and rejected lite brain research, calling it superficial and inexact. Jakob was convinced that the verification of the anatomical connections of the frontal lobe would elucidate its functions. Thus, he viewed the frontal lobe as a central station receiving input via olfactory pathways and thalamic radiations, pertinent to muscular and cutaneous senses, and attributed a perceptive character to a brain region traditionally associated with productive functions. Modern neuroscience seems to support Jakob's rejection of distinguishable motor and sensory regions and to adopt a cautious stance concerning oversimplified localization views.



Pulmonary complications are prevalent in the critically ill neurological population. Respiratory failure, pneumonia, acute lung injury and the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ALI/ARDS), pulmonary edema, pulmonary contusions and pneumo/hemothorax, and pulmonary embolism are frequently encountered in the setting of severe brain injury. Direct brain injury, depressed level of consciousness and inability to protect the airway, disruption of natural defense barriers, decreased mobility, and secondary neurological insults inherent to severe brain injury are the main cause of pulmonary complications in critically ill neurological patients. Prevention strategies and current and future therapies need to be implemented to avoid and treat the development of these life-threatening medical complications.
Reduced lung volumes and atelectasis are common after open-heart surgery, and pronounced restrictive lung volume impairment has been found. The aim of this study was to investigate factors influencing lung volumes on the second postoperative day. Open-heart surgery patients (n = 107, 68 yrs, 80% male) performed spirometry both before surgery and on the second postoperative day. The factors influencing postoperative lung volumes and decrease in lung volumes were investigated with univariate and multivariate analyses. Associations between pain (measured by numeric rating scale) and decrease in postoperative lung volumes were calculated with Spearman rank correlation test. Lung volumes decreased by 50% and were less than 40% of the predictive values postoperatively. Patients with BMI&gt;25 had lower postoperative inspiratory capacity (IC) (33  14% pred.) than normal-weight patients (39  15% pred.), (P = 0.04). More pain during mobilisation was associated with higher decreases in postoperative lung volumes (VC: r = 0.33, P = 0.001; FEV(1): r = 0.35, P  0.0001; IC: r = 0.25, P = 0.01). Patients with high BMI are a risk group for decreased postoperative lung volumes and should therefore receive extra attention during postoperative care. As pain is related to a larger decrease in postoperative lung volumes, optimal pain relief for the patients should be identified.
Complexity is widespread in neuronal spike trains and propagation of spike activity, in that variations in measurements of neural activity are irregular, heterogeneous, non-stationary, transient, and scale-free. There are numerous possible reasons for this complexity, and numerous possible consequences for neural and behavioral function. The present review is focused on relationships among neural plasticity, learning, and complex spike dynamics in animal nervous systems, including those of humans. The literature on complex spike dynamics and mechanisms of synaptic plasticity are reviewed for the purpose of considering the roles that each might play for the other. That is, the roles of complex spike dynamics in learning and regulatory functions are considered, as well as the roles of learning and regulatory functions in generating complex spike dynamics. Experimental and computational studies from a range of disciplines and perspectives are discussed, and it is concluded that cognitive science and neuroscience have much to gain from investigating the adaptive aspects of complex spike dynamics for neural and cognitive function.
This article serves as an introduction to the themed special issue on &quot;Complex Systems in Neurobiology.&quot; The study of complexity in neurobiology has been sensitive to the stochastic processes that dominate the micro-level architecture of neurobiological systems and the deterministic processes that govern the macroscopic behavior of these systems. A large body of research has traversed these scales of interest, seeking to determine how noise at one spatial or temporal scale influences the activity of the system at another scale. In introducing this special issue, we pay special attention to the history of inquiry in complex systems and why scientists have tended to favor linear, causally driven, reductionist approaches in Neurobiology. We follow this with an elaboration of how an alternative approach might be formulated. To illustrate our position on how the sciences of complexity and the study of noise can inform neurobiology, we use three systematic examples from the study of human motor control and learning: 1) phase transitions in bimanual coordination; 2) balance, intermittency, and discontinuous control; and 3) sensorimotor synchronization and timing. Using these examples and showing that noise is adaptively utilized by the nervous system, we make the case for the studying complexity with a perspective of understanding the macroscopic stability in biological systems by focusing on component processes at extended spatial and temporal scales. This special issue continues this theme with contributions in topics as diverse as neural network models, physical biology, motor learning, and statistical physics.

Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is currently the only non-invasive in vivo assessment of white matter tract integrity. Capitalizing on the diffusion properties of water within an axon, DTI enables the visualization of tissue structure at a microscopic scale. Furthermore, measurements of anisotropy and diffusivity enable the detection of subtle details of the effects of injury that cannot be detected using conventional magnetic resonance techniques. Recently, DTI has been applied to the spinal cord, and results have demonstrated it to be a valuable tool for assessing the extent of white matter damage in numerous spinal cord-related conditions including multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, myelitis, and spinal cord tumors. The purpose of this review is to discuss the technical limitations of the imaging method within the spinal cord, review possible solutions, and highlight the current uses and the potential clinical application of this technique.
The purpose of stem cells in various organs of vertebrates is to replenish dying cells or to replace damaged tissues. However, a few organs have reasonable, while others have very limited regenerative, capacity. Until the last two decades, the organs such as brain, heart, and kidneys were known to lack regenerative capacity for lack of resident stem cell population. However, with advancement of techniques and an increase in scientific communication, new discoveries have brought novel concepts and data to discover and manipulate these valuable resources. Much focus has been devoted to understanding the regulation and maintenance of these stem cells. We discuss the preclinical data emerging from retino-vascular interactions useful in the exploitation of ciliary epithelium-derived stem cells for therapeutic regeneration.
Diagnosis and therapeutic strategies in Alzheimer's disease (AD) might greatly benefit of the present multidisciplinary approach for studying the molecular pathogenesis of the disorder. Gene expression profile at peripheral level could be a promising tool for pathogenic studies as well as for early diagnosis of AD. A dysregulated inflammatory response, as well as other systemic disorders, have been described in AD. Therefore, we investigated the expression, at peripheral level, of a number of genes involved in the inflammatory, oxidative stress and proliferative response of a well defined, small cohort of sporadic AD patients. Firstly, the mRNA expression of inflammatory, stress and proliferation/ differentiation genes were evaluated, using SuperArray, in mitogen-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from a group of 12 well-characterized, sporadic AD patients with various levels of dementia, by comparison with aged-matched controls. Real-time RT-PCR confirmed the trend of alteration in 16 genes out of the 36 supposed to be dysregulated in AD patients, by the preliminary screening. The expression level of the NFKB1(p105/50Kd) gene was significantly higher in AD with respect to adult age-matched controls (AA) and was related to the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score of the same patients. In addition, the expression of various NF-B target genes and of both NF-Bp50 and NF-Bp65 DNA-binding activity were increased in PBMC from AD patients in comparison with those from AA. Our results suggest that NF-B activation at peripheral blood cell level could be a potential new hallmark of AD progression and sustain a rationale to more deeply investigate the therapeutic potential of specific NF-B inhibitors in AD.
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors comprise a large family of G protein-coupled receptors that are involved in the regulation of many important functions of the central and peripheral nervous system. To achieve such a large range of physiological effects, these receptors interact with a large array of accessory proteins including scaffold molecules, ion channels and enzymes that operate as molecular transducers of muscarinic function in addition to the canonical heterotrimeric G proteins. Interestingly, as demonstrated for others G protein-coupled receptors, this type of receptor is also able to oligomerise, a fact that has been shown to play a critical role in their subcellular distribution, trafficking, and fine tuning of cholinergic signalling. On the other hand, the specificity of these receptor interactions may be largely determined by the occurrence of precise protein-interacting motifs, posttranslational modifications, and the differential tissue distribution and stoichiometry of the receptor-interacting proteins. Thus, the exhaustive cataloguing and documentation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-interacting proteins and the grasp of their specific function will explain key physiological differences in muscarinic-mediated cholinergic transmission. Overall, a better comprehension of the muscarinic receptor interactome will have a significant impact on the cholinergic pharmacology and thus provide previously unrealised opportunities to achieve greater specificity in muscarinic-related drug discovery and diagnostics.
D2 dopamine receptors (D2Rs) represent an important class of receptors in the pharmacological development of novel therapeutic drugs for the treatment of schizophrenia. Recent research into D2R signaling suggests that receptor properties are dependent on interaction with a cohort of dopamine receptor interacting proteins (DRIPs) within a macromolecular structure termed the signalplex. One component of this signalplex is neuronal calcium sensor 1 (NCS-1) a protein found to regulate the phosphorylation, trafficking, and signaling profile of the D2R in neurons. It has also been found that NCS-1 can contribute to the pathology of schizophrenia and may play a role in the efficacy of antipsychotic drug medication in the brain. In this review we discuss how the selective targeting of a DRIP, such as NCS-1, can be utilized as a novel strategy of drug design for the creation of new therapeutics for a disease such as schizophrenia. Using a fluorescence polarization assay we explore how the ability to detect changes in D2R/NCS-1 interaction can be exploited as an effective screening tool in the isolation and development of lead compounds for antipsychotic drug development. This line of work explores a novel direction in targeting D2Rs via their signalplex components and supports the notion that receptor interacting proteins represent an emerging new class of molecular targets for pharmacological drug development.
The combined effects of ligamentous laxity, hypotonia, and decrements associated with aging lead to stability-enhancing foot placement adaptations during routine overground walking at a younger age in adults with Down syndrome (DS) compared to their peers with typical development (TD). Our purpose here was to examine real-time adaptations in older adults with DS by testing their responses to walking on a treadmill at their preferred speed and at speeds slower and faster than preferred. We found that older adults with DS were able to adapt their gait to slower and faster than preferred treadmill speeds; however, they maintained their stability-enhancing foot placements at all speeds compared to their peers with TD. All adults adapted their gait patterns similarly in response to faster and slower than preferred treadmill-walking speeds. They increased stride frequency and stride length, maintained step width, and decreased percent stance as treadmill speed increased. Older adults with DS, however, adjusted their stride frequencies significantly less than their peers with TD. Our results show that older adults with DS have the capacity to adapt their gait parameters in response to different walking speeds while also supporting the need for intervention to increase gait stability.
Down syndrome (DS) is a condition where a complete or segmental chromosome 21 trisomy causes variable intellectual disability, and progressive memory loss and neurodegeneration with age. Many research groups have examined development of the brain in DS individuals, but studies on age-related changes should also be considered, with the increased lifespan observed in DS. DS leads to pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by 40 or 50 years of age. Progressive age-related memory deficits occurring in both AD and in DS have been connected to degeneration of several neuronal populations, but mechanisms are not fully elucidated. Inflammation and oxidative stress are early events in DS pathology, and focusing on these pathways may lead to development of successful intervention strategies for AD associated with DS. Here we discuss recent findings and potential treatment avenues regarding development of AD neuropathology and memory loss in DS.
Genetic engineering of stem cells and their derivatives has the potential to enhance their regenerative capabilities. Here, dendrimer- and lipofection-based approaches were used for non-viral neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) over-expression in Schwann cells differentiated from skin precursors (SKP-SCs). A variety of dendrimers were first tested for transfection efficiency on HEK 293T cells, with PAMAMNH2 G4 found most effective and used subsequently for SKP-SCs transfection. Plasmid-based expression resulted in increased NT-3 release from SKP-SCs in both adherent and microcarrier-based culture. In a proof-of-concept study, the microcarrier/SKP-SCs were implanted into the injured nerve, and transfected cells were shown to detach, integrate into the nerve tissue and associate with regenerating axons. Virus-free systems for transient neurotrophin expression are a feasible and biologically safe option to increase the therapeutic value of stem cells and stem cell-derived cells in nerve repair strategies. Further work to develop bioprocesses for expansion of SKP-SCs on microcarriers in bioreactors is still needed.
Serpinins are a family of peptides derived from proteolytic cleavage of the penultimate and the last pair of basic residues at the C-terminus of Chromogranin A. Three forms of naturally occurring serpinin have been found in AtT-20 pituitary cells and rat heart. They are serpinin, pyrogutaminated (pGlu) -serpinin and a C-terminally extended form, serpinin-RRG. In addition pGlu-serpinin has been found in brain, primarily in neurites and nerve terminals and shown to have protective effects against oxidative stress on neurons and pituitary cells. Serpinin has also been demonstrated to regulate granule biogenesis in endocrine cells by up-regulating the protease inhibitor, protease nexin-1 transcription via a cAMP-PKA-sp1 pathway. This leads to inhibition of granule protein degradation in the Golgi complex which in turn promotes granule formation. More recently, pGlu-serpinin has been demonstrated to enhance both myocardial contractility (inotropy) and relaxation (lusitropy). In the Langendorff perfused rat heart, pGlu-serpinin showed a concentration-dependent positive inotropic effect exerted through a cAMP-PKA dependent pathway. In conclusion, the serpinin peptides have profound effects at many levels that affect the endocrine and nervous systems and cardiac function.
Neurodegenerative disorders, e.g. Parkinson's, Huntington's and Alzheimer's diseases are distinct clinical and pathological entities sharing a number of leading features in their underlying processes. These common features involve the disturbances in the normal functioning of the mitochondria and the alterations in the delicate balance of tryptophan metabolism. The development of agents capable of halting the progression of these diseases is in the limelight of neuroscience research. This review highlights the role of mitochondria in the development of neurodegenerative processes with special focus on the involvement of neuroactive kynurenines both as pathological agents and potential targets and tools for future therapeutic approaches by providing a comprehensive summary of the main streams of rational drug design and giving an insight into present clinical achievements.
Glutamate is one of the major neurotrasmitters in mammalian brain and changes in its concentration have been associated with a number of neurological disorders, including neurodegenerative, cerebrovascular diseases and epilepsy. Moreover, recently a possible role for glutamatergic system dysfunction has been suggested also in the peripheral nervous system. This chapter will revise the current knowledge in the distribution of glutamate and of its receptors and transporters in the central nervous system.
The concept of intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions and evidence for their existences were introduced in the beginning of the 1980's, suggesting the existence of receptor heterodimerization. The discovery of GPCR heteromers and the receptor mosaic (higher order oligomers, more than two) has been related to the parallel development and application of a variety of resonance energy transfer techniques such as bioluminescence (BRET), fluorescence (FRET) and sequential energy transfer (SRET). The assembly of interacting GPCRs, heterodimers and receptor mosaic leads to changes in the agonist recognition, signaling, and trafficking of participating receptors via allosteric mechanisms, sometimes involving the appearance of cooperativity. The receptor interface in the GPCR heteromers is beginning to be characterized and the key role of electrostatic epitope-epitope interactions for the formation of the receptor heteromers will be discussed. Furthermore, a &quot;guide-and-clasp&quot; manner of receptor-receptor interactions has been proposed where the &quot;adhesive guides&quot; may be the triplet homologies. These interactions probably represent a general molecular mechanism for receptor-receptor interactions. It is proposed that changes in GPCR function (moonlighting) may develop through the intracellular loops and C-terminii of the GPCR heteromers as a result of dynamic allosteric interactions between different types of G proteins and other receptor interacting proteins in these domains of the receptors. The evidence for the existence of receptor heteromers opens up a new field for a better understanding of neurophysiology and neuropathology. Furthermore, novel therapeutic approaches could be possible based on the use of heteromers as targets for drug development based on their unique pharmacology.
Glutamate has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several diseases on the central nervous system, but recent studies have also suggested that it can be involved also in the onset and course of peripheral neuropathies. Given the increasing evidence of this possibility, several attempts have been performed in order to modulate its activity. Among them, glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCP II) inhibition demonstrated promising results in different models of peripheral nerve damage, including diabetic and toxic neuropathies.
Glutamate is the major mediator of excitatory signaling in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) and it has recently been described to have a central role in the transduction of sensory input in the peripheral nervous system (PNS), too. However, functional glutamatergic systems are expressed by peripheral non-neural tissues as well, such as heart, kidney, lungs, ovary, testis, blood and skin. Interestingly, glutamatergic alterations have been repeatedly described in these tissues in various neuropsychiatric diseases. Here we will review evidence suggesting that glutamate measurements obtained from sampling ex vivo peripheral cells can permit the assessment of the dynamics of glutamate release, uptake, receptor-mediated signaling, synthesis and degradation, and mirror homologous dysfunctions operative within the CNS in each single patient. Among all the available cell types we will focus on leukocytes, platelets and fibroblasts that can be easily obtained from patients multiple times without concerns related to post-mortem changes. Finally, we will briefly review another possibility, offered by testing plasma (and CSF) glutamate levels, allowing the indirect investigation of glutamate-mediated crosstalk between central and peripheral compartments. Technical pitfalls of these biomarkers will be contextually emphasized.
Glutamate carboxypeptidase II, also known as prostate specific membrane antigen or folate hydrolase I, is a type II transmembrane 750 amino acid membrane-bound glycoprotein, with a molecular weight in the human form of approximately 100 kDa and a demonstrated metallopeptidase activity. At the synaptic level it hydrolyzes N-acetylaspartylglutamate to N-acetyl-aspartate and glutamate. Its localization in the animal and human nervous system has only recently been clearly established, since many of the older studies gave conflicting results, likely due to the use of poorly characterized antibodies lacking epitope mapping and proper controls (i.e. immunohistochemistry complemented by western blot analysis and enzyme activity determination). In this chapter, we will review the available literature describing the animal and human distribution of glutamate carboxypeptidase in the central and peripheral nervous system.
Ischemic stroke is the second leading cause of death and long-term disability worldwide, for which no effective therapies are available. The increasing prevalence of ischemic stroke and related health risks, combined with the lack of effective therapies, highlight the desperate need for continued research for exploring the safe and effective drugs, which favourably influence multiple pathways leading to neuroprotection and extend the benefit to a larger number of patients diagnosed with stroke. Numerous preclinical studies have reported very promising results using &quot;neuroprotectants&quot;, all of which have failed at clinical trials because of either safety issues or lack of efficacy. The delivery of many potentially therapeutic neuroprotectants and diagnostic compounds to specific areas of the brain is restricted by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Nanoparticles (NPs) have colossal applications that could revolutionize the treatment of ischemic stroke. NPs can readily transmigrate across the BBB without compromising its integrity. Recent striking developments in nanotechnology have produced a great deal of nano-devices, which could be used for the treatment and neuronal regeneration following ischemic stroke. This article attempts to convey the untapped potentials of nanopharmaceuticals for the treatment of ischemic stroke. Looking towards the future, this review focuses on the potential applications of nanoparticulate systems for the delivery of therapeutic cargo into the brain for imparting neuroprotection against ischemic stroke. This review also provides an overview of targeted NPs, which are being used for imaging, neuroprotection and regeneration of ischemic brain.


(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol ((9)-THC) is the main compound of the Cannabis Sativa responsible for most of the effects of the plant. Another major constituent is cannabidiol (CBD), formerly regarded to be devoid of pharmacological activity. However, laboratory rodents and human studies have shown that this cannabinoid is able to prevent psychotic-like symptoms induced by high doses of (9)- THC. Subsequent studies have demonstrated that CBD has antipsychotic effects as observed using animal models and in healthy volunteers. Thus, this article provides a critical review of the research evaluating antipsychotic potential of this cannabinoid. CBD appears to have pharmacological profile similar to that of atypical antipsychotic drugs as seem using behavioral and neurochemical techniques in animal models. Additionally, CBD prevented human experimental psychosis and was effective in open case reports and clinical trials in patients with schizophrenia with a remarkable safety profile. Moreover, fMRI results strongly suggest that the antipsychotic effects of CBD in relation to the psychotomimetic effects of (9)-THC involve the striatum and temporal cortex that have been traditionally associated with psychosis. Although the mechanisms of the antipsychotic properties are still not fully understood, we propose a hypothesis that could have a heuristic value to inspire new studies. These results support the idea that CBD may be a future therapeutic option in psychosis, in general and in schizophrenia, in particular.
Cannabis derivatives produce their CNS effect through activation of the endocannabinoid system, a recently discovered signalling system comprising specific receptors, their intrinsic lipid ligands and the associated enzymatic machinery (transporters, biosynthetic and degradative enzymes). This review provides the latest preclinical and clinical breakthroughs on the endocannabinoid system's role in psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia. Data reported so far clearly indicate the presence of a dysregulation in the endocannabinoid system (both in term of cannabinoid receptors and endocannabinoid ligands) in animal models of psychosis as well as in schizophrenic patients. Based on these observations, the pharmacological modulation of the endocannabinoid system has been taken into account as a new therapeutic possibility for psychotic disorders. However, preclinical studies have not provided straightforward results, with both agonists and antagonists exhibiting positive, negative or even no effect. At human level, only cannabidiol, a non psychotropic phytocannabinoid, and the antagonist/inverse agonist rimonabant were tested, however additional controlled trials are required to confirm the therapeutic exploitation of these compounds. Another important aspect in studying the relationship between the endocannabinoid system and schizophrenia is the impact of Cannabis consumption on psychotic disorders, especially when this occurs at vulnerable ages such as adolescence. In fact literature from animal models support adolescence as a highly vulnerable age for the consequences of cannabis exposure on different domains (such as cognition and social behaviour) that are altered in psychotic disorders.

Cannabis is among the most widely used illicit substances. Epidemiological and neuroscientific evidence, though poorly integrated, have established a strong association between cannabis use and increased risk of psychosis. Chronic cannabis use, especially of new synthetic varieties, may trigger psychosis and precipitate schizophrenia in vulnerable individuals. However, the specific pathways by which cannabis affects brain function are unclear. It seems likely that a complex genetic-environmental interaction may underlie the link between cannabis exposure and psychosis onset, with multiple genetic variations and several environmental factors (i.e., trauma or maltreatment during childhood) involved. Also, the possible role of basic symptoms in cannabis users is still not fully acknowledged. Basic symptoms may possibly be a marker for the development of full schizophrenia in cannabis users and their recognition may play a role in prevention strategies. Moreover, the differential impact of different types of cannabis has been generally overlooked and little is known about possible pharmacological treatment approaches (with antipsychotics, cannabis agonists, cannabis antagonists) for cannabis users at risk of psychosis. The aim of the present review is to open this issue with a broad introduction on the clinical and pathophysiological link between cannabis abuse and psychosis onset.
Cannabis use is associated with an increased risk for psychotic disorder, yet most cannabis users do not develop psychosis, suggesting that other factors are also involved. This paper reviews the available evidence suggesting that differential sensitivity to the psychosis-inducing effects of cannabis may be related to underlying genetic liability. There is robust evidence that persons at psychometric risk for psychosis are most vulnerable to display psychotic symptoms subsequent to the use of cannabis. Multiple studies have also found that persons at familial risk for psychosis have an increased sensitivity to the effects of cannabis. Together, these findings support the concept of a biological interaction between cannabis use and one's underlying genetic vulnerability. At the molecular-genetic level, however, few (if any) interactions have been consistently replicated, although a reported interaction with variation in AKT1 is promising and deserves further follow-up. The apparent lack of consistent replication can be ascribed to problems of initial gene selection, statistical power, a bias towards positive results and insufficient attempts at true replication, leading to the conclusion that increased sample sizes, greater density of genetic markers and a stronger focus on true replication are necessary. The major challenge for molecular-genetic gene-environment interaction research will be to combine the agnostic detection of disorder-associated genetic variants from genome-wide studies with the hypothesis-based approach from epidemiological and neurobiological studies. Possible strategies for future cannabis interaction studies are discussed.

Complex mechanisms have evolved that control feeding and energy homeostasis in mammals. Centrally, particularly in the hypothalamus, numerous neurotransmitters have been identified that regulate appetite and energy homeostasis. On the other hand, hormones released from the gut signal states of hunger and satiety to the brain. From the large number of players involved in this interplay, peptides from the neuropeptide Y (NPY) family are unique, with the predominantly neuronally expressed NPY being one of the most strongly stimulating agents for food intake while its two other closely related family members peptide YY (PYY) and pancreatic polypeptide (PP) released from the gut induce satiety. Another major player in this circuitry is ghrelin, which is released from the stomach and is the only known hormone that signals hunger to the brain. It is doing this by stimulating hypothalamic NPY production and release, subsequently leading to increased appetite and feeding behaviour. Deregulation of these processes can lead to either the development of obesity or the other extreme, anorexia. The aim of this review is to summarize the recent literature on NPY and ghrelin and its involvement in anorexia nervosa.
Symptom provocation has proved its worth for understanding the pathophysiology of diseases and in general for the development of new therapeutic approaches in the medical field. In the research of anxiety disorders, investigations using experimentally induced panic attacks by various agents, such as sodium lactate, carbon dioxide, cholezystokinine-tetrapetid etc., have a long tradition and allow the exploration of usually naturally occuring spontaneous psychopathological phenomena under controlled conditions. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a prevalent disorder that can develop following exposure to an extreme traumatic event. In DSM-IV it is currently classified as an anxiety disorder and shares phenomenological similarities with panic disorder. The use of panicogenic challenge tests is also an interesting neurobiological approach to learn more about the nature of PTSD and may be a possibility to develop new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of PTSD symptoms. Not only panic anxiety, but also flashbacks and other dissociative symptoms can be provoked by several panicogens in PTSD. The purpose of this review is to evaluate studies using panicogens in PTSD. Methodological short-comings of current studies and needed directions of further research are discussed.
Stroke pathology involves multifactorial pro-death responses, including inflammation, oxidative stress, vascular dysfunction, and activation of necrotic and apoptotic pathways. The interruption of a single specific pathway in defined stroke model systems has not been sufficient to address the multifactorial nature of stroke-induced injuries in the human population. CD36 is a class B scavenger receptor that functions in regulating normal physiological and pathological functions. CD36 pathways are activated by several distinct ligands. Convergence of these pathways results in inflammatory responses and endothelial dysfunction, which may be an underlying cause of cardio- and cerebrovascular diseases. The current review describes receptor CD36-ligand interactions relevant to endothelial function and discusses how targeting CD36 may have therapeutic utility in stroke.
Stem cell transplantation has emerged as a promising treatment strategy for stroke. The development of effective ways to monitor transplanted stem cells is essential to understand how stem cell transplantation enhances stroke recovery and ultimately will be an indispensable tool for advancing stem cell therapy to the clinic. In this review, we describe existing methods of tracking transplanted stem cells in vivo, including optical imaging, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography (PET), with emphasis on the benefits and drawbacks of each imaging approach. Key considerations such as the potential impact of each tracking system on stem cell function, as well as its relative applicability to humans are discussed. Finally, we describe multi-modal imaging strategies as a more comprehensive method to track transplanted stem cells in the stroke-injured brain.
The sigma-1 receptor is a 26 kDa endoplasmic reticulum resident membrane protein that has been shown to have chaperone activity in addition to its promiscuous binding to pharmacological agents. Ligand binding domain(s) of the sigma-1 receptor have been identified using the E. coli expressed and purified receptor protein and novel radioiodinated azido photoaffinity probes followed by proteolytic and chemical cleavage strategies. The outcome of these experiments indicates that the sigma-1 receptor ligand binding regions are formed primarily by juxtaposition of its second and third hydrophobic domains, regions where the protein shares considerable homology with the fungal enzyme, sterol isomerase that is essential for the biosynthesis of ergosterol. Data indicate that these hydrophobic steroid binding domain like (SBDL) regions on the sigma-1 receptor are likely to interact selectively with N-alkyl amines such as the endogenous sphingolipids and with synthetic N-alkylamines and N-aralkylamines derivatives. A proposed model for the sigma-1 receptor is presented.
Dysregulation of glutamate neurotransmission has been implicated in schizophrenia primarily because antagonists of the n-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors exacerbate preexisting symptoms of schizophrenia in patients and produce behavioral disruptions that resemble some symptoms of schizophrenia in healthy individuals. Given this, NMDA receptor antagonists have been used extensively to model aspects of the disease in laboratory animals and have provided a useful preclinical tool for testing novel treatment strategies. More recent genetic and postmortem findings have implicated proteins other than the NMDA receptor in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia which play a role in regulation of the glutamate synapse. Animal models developed based on these findings have the potential of increasing our mechanistic understanding of the disease. Here we review some of the pertinent literature related to pharmacological and genetic animal models of glutamate dysfunction in schizophrenia.
In this paper we try to examine some of the philosophical issues that arise from the clinical and scientific study of the prodromal phase of psychotic illness. These issues can be broadly grouped in to ethical concerns and those relating to the philosophy of psychology and science. Specifically, we discuss the notion of the prodrome as a discrete disorder as opposed to being a segment of the continuum of psychosis, and whether we can define psychopathology purely via the use of neuroscientific variables and concepts. We argue that many psychopathological terms have definitions that rely on normative notions that themselves may not be able to be reduced to terms in cognitive neuroscience and hence a purely neuroscientific conception of psychopathology and of the prodromal phase of psychosis may be unachievable. Ethical concerns arise around the treatment of 'false positives', that is, those who may clinically look to be at risk but do not develop psychosis, and the reification of a subtle research category into a DSM-5 diagnosis. More subtle issues lie in the clinical encounter where one has to balance communicating risk about developing psychosis with attempts to normalize experiences and decrease anxiety. We conclude by noting that studying the brain solely will not enable us to comprehensively understand prodromal phase of psychosis: a close attention to continua and normativity is also required and that several important clinical and ethical issues arise in both indentifying and intervening in this high risk group, and that these are now cast sharply in to focus with the inclusion of the risk syndrome in the draft DSM-5.
Schizophrenia is a disorder with a pronounced developmental component. Accordingly, there is a growing interest in characterizing developmental changes in the period leading up to disease onset, in an effort to develop effective preventative interventions. One of the ongoing neurodevelopmental changes known to occur in the late adolescent period that often overlaps with the prodromal phase and time of onset is white matter development and myelination. In this critical review, a disruption in the normal trajectory of white matter development could potentially play an important role in the onset of psychosis. We seek to summarize the existing state of research on white matter development in prodromal subjects, with a particular focus on diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) measures. First, we describe the physiological basis of developmental white matter changes and myelination. Next, we characterize the pattern of white matter changes associated with typical development across adolescence as measured with DTI. Then, we discuss white matter changes observed in adult patients with schizophrenia and in individuals seen in genetic and clinical high risk states. Finally, we discuss the implications of these findings for future research directions and for potential therapeutic interventions.
Since the discovery of the CFTR gene mutations which cause cystic fibrosis (CF) in 1989 the average life expectancy of CF patients has almost doubled and now exceeds 37 years. The advances in molecular diagnostics and medical treatments expanded beyond the CF patient population as some of the newest treatments are also being tested for treatment of complex diseases such as COPD and other inherited disorders. Rapid development of CF therapeutics is important for the cystic fibrosis community and is an excellent example for other nonprofit organizations, disease foundations and pharmaceutical companies alike. Better understanding of disease variability and underlying molecular mechanisms through genetic association studies aimed to identify novel CF modifier genes opens new venues for targeted drug design. Furthermore, these genetic studies allow development of molecular diagnostic tests for patient population stratification and treatment personalization, which is already being done for CF patients with specific mutations in the CFTR gene, as well as implementation of new molecular tests for reliable assessment of disease progression and severity.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is an age-associated neurodegenerative disease clinically characterized as a movement disorder. The motor symptoms in PD arise due to selective degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the ventral midbrain thereby depleting the dopamine levels in the striatum. Most of the current pharmacotherapeutic approaches in PD are aimed at replenishing the striatal dopamine. Although these drugs provide symptomatic relief during early PD, many patients develop motor complications with long-term treatment. Further, PD medications do not effectively tackle tremor, postural instability and cognitive deficits. Most importantly, most of these drugs do not exhibit neuroprotective effects in patients. Consequently, novel therapies involving natural antioxidants and plant products/molecules with neuroprotective properties are being exploited for adjunctive therapy. Curcumin is a polyphenol and an active component of turmeric (Curcuma longa), a dietary spice used in Indian cuisine and medicine. Curcumin exhibits antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties, crosses the blood-brain barrier and is neuroprotective in neurological disorders. Several studies in different experimental models of PD strongly support the clinical application of curcumin in PD. The current review explores the therapeutic potential of curcumin in PD.
Colorectal distension (CRD) is a widely accepted, reproducible method for assessing visceral sensitivity in both clinical and pre-clinical studies. Distension of the colon mirrors the human scenario of visceral pain with regard to intensity and referral of pain in patients. There are several readouts that can be applied to the CRD protocol depending on the species being evaluated, two of which are described in this unit. CRD can be used to measure the impact of novel compounds, strain, or genetic differences as well as the effect of physical and psychological stressors on the sensitivity of the colon. Investigation of the impact of a noxious visceral stimulus (CRD) on other systems within the body can also be carried out. Given that visceral pain is a major clinical problem and one of the most common reasons patients seek out medical advice, the ability to assess this type of pain is essential to the discovery of successful treatments. This unit outlines two protocols that describe CRD of rats and mice.
With the main objective of comparing the prospective diagnostic power of two 11C-labelled molecular imaging biomarkers with affinity for TSPO and used for the visualisation of activated microglia after a stroke, we measured with positron emission tomography (PET) in four post-stroke patients the regional brain uptake and binding potential of [11C]vinpocetine and [11C]PK11195. Percentage standard uptake values (%SUV) and binding potential (BPND) were used as outcome measures. The total peak brain uptake value and average global brain uptake value were higher for [11C]vinpocetine than for [11C]PK11195. The regional %SUV values were significantly higher for [11C]vinpocetine than for [11C]PK11195 in the hemispheres as well as in almost all standard brain regions. The %SUV values of [11C]vinpocetine were higher in the peri-infarct zone than in the ischaemic core, however, the difference did not prove to be significant. There was basically no difference in %SUV values between the ischaemic core and the peri-infarct zone for [11C]PK11195. The BPND values for [11C]vinpocetine were higher in all standard regions than those for [11C]PK11195, but the difference was not significant between them. The BPND values of [11C]vinpocetine were higher in the peri-infarct zone than in the ischaemic core, however, the difference did not prove to be significant. A comparative analysis of the two ligands indicates that [11C]vinpocetine shows a number of favourable characteristics over [11C]PK11195, but to demonstrate that it may serve as a prospective molecular imaging biomarker of microglia activation in post-stroke patients, further studies are required.
There are two well-defined neurogenic regions in the adult brain, the subventricular zone (SVZ) lining the lateral wall of the lateral ventricles and, the subgranular zone (SGZ) in the dentate gyrus at the hippocampus. Within these neurogenic regions, there are neural stem cells with astrocytic characteristics, which actively respond to the basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF, FGF2 or FGF-) by increasing their proliferation, survival and differentiation, both in vivo and in vitro. FGF2 binds to fibroblast growth factor receptors 1 to 4 (FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4). Interestingly, these receptors are differentially expressed in neurogenic progenitors. During development, FGFR-1 and FGFR-2 drive oligodendrocytes and motor neuron specification. In particular, FGFR-1 determines oligodendroglial and neuronal cell fate, whereas FGFR-2 is related to oligodendrocyte specification. In the adult SVZ, FGF-2 promotes oligodendrogliogenesis and myelination. FGF-2 deficient mice show a reduction in the number of new neurons in the SGZ, which suggests that FGFR-1 is important for neuronal cell fate in the adult hippocampus. In human brain, FGF-2 appears to be an important component in the anti-depressive effect of drugs. In summary, FGF2 is an important modulator of the cell fate of neural precursor and, promotes oligodendrogenesis. In this review, we describe the expression pattern of FGFR2 and its role in neural precursors derived from the SVZ and the SGZ.
In recent years, descriptive symptom-based approaches of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have been increasingly replaced by more sophisticated endophenotype-based strategies, better suited to investigate its pathophysiological basis, which is inherently heterogeneous. Measurements derived from neuroimaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) constitute endophenotypes of growing interest, capable of providing unprecedented windows on neurochemical and neuroanatomical components of psychiatric conditions. This chapter reviews the current state of knowledge regarding putative neural and behavioral endophenotypes of ADHD, across the lifespan. To this end, recent evidence drawn from molecular and structural neuroimaging studies are discussed in the light of widely accepted neuropsychological and pharmacological models of ADHD.
Research has begun to identify how variability in brain function contributes to individual differences in complex behavioral traits. Examining variability in molecular signaling pathways with emerging and established methodologies such as pharmacologic fMRI, multimodal PET/fMRI, and hormonal assays are beginning to provide a mechanistic understanding of how individual differences in brain function arise. Against this background, functional genetic polymorphisms are being utilized to understand the origins of variability in signaling pathways as well as to efficiently model how such emergent variability impacts behaviorally relevant brain function and health outcomes. This chapter provides an overview of a research strategy that integrates these complimentary levels of analysis; existing empirical data is used to illustrate the effectiveness of this approach in illuminating the mechanistic neurobiology of individual differences in complex behavioral traits. This chapter also discusses how such efforts can contribute to the identification of predictive risk markers that interact with unique environmental factors to precipitate psychopathology.
Behavioral neuroimaging is a rapidly evolving discipline that represents a marriage between the fields of behavioral neuroscience and preclinical molecular imaging. This union highlights the changing role of imaging in translational research. Techniques developed for humans are now widely applied in the study of animal models of brain disorders such as drug addiction. Small animal or preclinical imaging allows us to interrogate core features of addiction from both behavioral and biological endpoints. Snapshots of brain activity allow us to better understand changes in brain function and behavior associated with initial drug exposure, the emergence of drug escalation, and repeated bouts of drug withdrawal and relapse. Here we review the development and validation of new behavioral imaging paradigms and several clinically relevant radiotracers used to capture dynamic molecular events in behaving animals. We will discuss ways in which behavioral imaging protocols can be optimized to increase throughput and quantitative methods. Finally, we discuss our experience with the practical aspects of behavioral neuroimaging, so investigators can utilize effective animal models to better understand the addicted brain and behavior.
The zebrafish has been prominently utilized in developmental biology for the past three decades and numerous genetic tools have been developed for it. Due to the accumulated genetic knowledge the zebrafish has now been considered an excellent research tool in other disciplines of biology too, including behavioral neuroscience and behavior genetics. Given the complexity of the vertebrate brain in general and the large number of human brain disorders whose mechanisms remain mainly unmapped in particular, there is a substantial need for appropriate laboratory research organisms that may be utilized to model such diseases and facilitate the analysis of their mechanisms. The zebrafish may have a bright future in this research field. It offers a compromise between system complexity (it is a vertebrate similar in many ways to our own species) and practical simplicity (it is small, easy to keep, and it is prolific). These features have made zebrafish an excellent choice, for example, for large scale mutation and drug screening. Such approaches may have a chance to tackle the potentially large number of molecular targets and mechanisms involved in complex brain disorders. However, although promising, the zebrafish is admittedly a novel research tool and only few empirical examples exist to support this claim. In this chapter, first I briefly review some of the rapidly evolving genetic methods available for zebrafish. Second, I discuss some promising examples for how zebrafish have been used to model and analyze molecular mechanisms of complex brain disorders. Last, I present some recently developed zebrafish behavioral paradigms that may have relevance for a spectrum of complex human brain disorders including those associated with abnormalities of learning and memory, fear and anxiety, and social behavior. Although at this point co-application of the genetics and behavioral approaches is rare with zebrafish, I argue that the rapid accumulation of knowledge in both of these disciplines will make zebrafish a prominent research tool for the genetic analysis of complex brain disorders.
There are well-established patterns of structural brain changes associated with aging. The change in brain volume with age and with the diseases of aging presents a particular challenge for MRI studies in the elderly. Structural MRI is important for studies in normal aging, late-life depression, dementia, Alzheimer disease and other cognitive disorders to examine how age-associated changes in neuroanatomy are associated with specific age-related changes in brain function. Functional MRI has been a major advance for the fields of cognitive and affective neuroscience by allowing investigators to test theories of the underlying neural pathways controlling cognitive and emotional processes. In this chapter, we will review the contribution of MRI studies to late-life mood and anxiety disorders: major depression, bipolar disorder and anxiety disorders in late-life.
Functional neuroimaging is a novel technique for the study of drug action in the brain. The emerging role of this method is intimately tied to the unique challenges to advancing drug development for neuropsychiatric disorders. This chapter first presents a brief overview of the important treatment needs that remain to be met, which serve as clinical targets for drug development. Important factors that hinder progress in drug development, which arise from clinical, scientific and economic issues, are acknowledged. This sets the stage for the unique advantages of functional neuroimaging modalities such as functional MRI (fMRI) as a biomarker and drug development tool, in both clinical and preclinical phases. The physiological basis of the fMRI signal is briefly outlined, and aspects of neural signaling related to this signal change, with emphasis on implications for pharmacology studies. The utility of fMRI for evaluating the full anatomic extent of central neurotransmitter systems in a dynamic manner is then described. This is a critical advantage, and particularly important for studies of how systems such as the monoamines modulate distributed neural networks during cognitive processes in both health and illness, and how these actions are modified with pharmacological intervention. Central catecholamine systems are seen as paradigmatic targets amenable to pharmacologic fMRI. fMRI is observed to occupy a unique position in the armamentarium of methods available to the pharmacologist and the drug development process, and poised to play an expanding role in basic and clinical neuroscience.
Detectable cognitive decline occurs in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) well before the clinical diagnosis can be made with any certainty. Studies examining this preclinical period identify decline in episodic memory as the earliest manifestation of the disease (i.e., a condition of amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment). The episodic memory impairment is characterized by deficits in a number of processes including delayed recall, the recollective aspect of recognition memory, associative memory necessary for &quot;binding&quot; representations of two or more stimuli, pattern separation necessary to distinguish between two similar memory representations, prospective memory required to remember a delayed intention to act at a certain time in the future, and autobiographical memory for specific episodes that occurred in one's past. A growing body of evidence suggests that cognitive changes in preclinical AD may be more global in nature. Deterioration of semantic knowledge is evident on demanding naming and category fluency tasks, and &quot;executive&quot; dysfunction is apparent on tasks that require concurrent mental manipulation of information (e.g., working memory) or cue-directed behavior (e.g., set-shifting). Asymmetric cognitive test performance may also be apparent prior to significant decline in cognitive ability. The pattern and progression of these neuropsychological changes fit well with the proposed distribution and spread of AD pathology and serve as important cognitive markers of early disease.
Traits of inattention, impulsivity, and motor hyperactivity characterize children diagnosed with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), whose inhibitory control is reduced. In animal models, crucial developmental phases or experimental transgenic conditions account for peculiarities, such as sensation-seeking and risk-taking behaviors, and reproduce the beneficial effects of psychostimulants. An &quot;impulsive&quot; behavioral profile appears to emerge more extremely in rats when forebrain dopamine (DA) systems undergo remodeling, as in adolescence, or with experimental manipulation tapping onto the dopamine transporter (DAT). Ritalin() (methylphenidate, MPH), a DAT-blocking drug, is prescribed for ADHD therapy but is also widely abused by human adolescents. Administration of MPH during rats' adolescence causes a long-term modulation of their self-control, in terms of reduced intolerance to delay and diminished proneness for risk when reward is uncertain. Exactly the opposite profile emerges when exogenous alteration of DAT levels is achieved via lentiviral transfection. Both adolescent MPH exposure and DAT-targeting transfection lead to enduring hyperfunction of dorsal striatum and hypofunction of ventral striatum. Together with upregulation of prefronto-cortical phospho-creatine, striatal upregulation of selected genes (like serotonin 7 receptor gene) suggests that enhanced inhibitory control is generated by adolescent MPH exposure. Operant tasks, which assess the balance between motivational drives and inhibitory self-control, are thus useful for investigating reward-discounting processes and their modulation by DAT-targeting tools. In summary, due to the complexity of human studies, preclinical investigations of rodent models are necessary to understand better both the neurobiology of ADHD-like symptoms' etiology and the long-term therapeutic safety of adolescent MPH exposure.
Recent research on emotion and aging has revealed a stability of emotional experience from adulthood to older age, despite aging-related decrements in the perception and categorization of emotionally relevant stimuli. Research also shows that emotional expression remains intact with aging. In contrast, other studies provide evidence for an age-related decrease in autonomic nervous system physiological arousal, particularly in response to emotionally negative stimuli, and for shifts in central nervous system physiologic response to emotional stimuli, with increased prefrontal cortex activation and decreased amygdala activation in aging. Research on attention and memory for emotional information supports a decreased processing of negative emotional stimuli (i.e., a decrease in the negativity effect seen in younger adults), and a relative increase in the processing of emotionally positive stimuli (positivity effect). These physiological response and attentional/memory preference differences across increasingly older groups have been interpreted, within socioemotional selectivity theory, as reflecting greater motivation for emotion regulation with aging. According to this theory, as persons age, their perceived future time horizon shrinks, and a greater value is placed upon cultivating close, familiar, and meaningful relationships and other situations that give rise to positive emotional experience, and avoiding, or shifting attention from, those people and situations that are likely to elicit negative emotion. Even though there are central nervous system structural changes in emotion-relevant brain regions with aging, this shift in socioemotional selectivity, and perhaps the decreased autonomic nervous system physiological arousal of emotion with aging, facilitate enhanced emotion regulation with aging.
Although quite overlooked, increasing evidence points to a significant association between attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and obesity. Here, we present an updated systematic review and a critical discussion of studies on the relationship between ADHD and obesity, with a particular emphasis on the possible behavioral, neurobiological, and genetics underlying mechanisms. Available empirically based studies indicate that the prevalence of ADHD in clinical samples of patients seeking treatment for their obesity is higher than that in the general population. Moreover, although still limited, current evidence shows that individuals with ADHD have higher-than-average body mass index z-scores and/or significantly higher obesity rates compared with subjects without ADHD. Three mechanisms underlying the association between ADHD and obesity have been proposed: (1) obesity and/or factors associated with it (such as sleep-disordered breathing and deficits in arousal/alertness) manifest as ADHD-like symptoms; (2) ADHD and obesity share common genetics and neurobiological dysfunctions, involving the dopaminergic and, possibly, other systems (e.g., brain-derived neurotropic factor, melanocortin-4-receptor); and (3) impulsivity and inattention of ADHD contribute to weight gain via dysregulated eating patterns. With regards to the possible clinical implications, we suggest that it is noteworthy to screen for ADHD in patients with obesity and to look for abnormal eating behaviors as possible contributing factors of obesity in patients with ADHD. If further studies confirm a causal relationship between ADHD and obesity, appropriate treatment of ADHD may improve eating patterns and, as a consequence, weight status of individuals with both obesity and ADHD.
Epidemiological studies of Alzheimer's disease (AD) provide insights into changing public health trends and their contribution to disease incidence. The current chapter considers how the population-based approach has contributed to our understanding of lifetime exposures that contribute to later disease risk and may act to modify onset of symptoms. We focus on the findings from a recent survey of an exceptionally long-lived population, the Cache County Utah Study of Memory, Health, and Aging. This study is confined to a single geographic population has allowed estimation of the genetic and environmental influences on AD expression across the expected human lifespan of 95+ years. Given the emphasis of this text on the behavioral neurosciences of aging, we highlight within the current chapter the particular contributions of this population-based study to the neuropsychology of aging and AD. We also discuss hypotheses generated from this survey with respect to factors that may either accelerate or delay symptom onset in AD and the conditions that appear to be associated with successful cognitive aging.
The literature on the neuroanatomical changes that occur during normal, non-demented aging is reviewed here with an emphasis on the improved accuracy of studies that use stereological techniques. Loss of neural tissue involved in cognition occurs during aging of humans as well as the other mammals that have been examined. There is considerable regional specificity within the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus in both the degree and cellular basis for loss. The anatomy of the prefrontal cortex is especially vulnerable to the effects of aging while the major subfields of the hippocampus are not. A loss of neurons, dendrites and synapses has been documented, as well as changes in neurotransmitter systems, in some regions of the cortex and hippocampus but not others. Species differences are also apparent in the cortical white matter and the corpus callosum where there are indications of loss of myelin in humans, but most evidence favors preservation in rats. The examination of whether the course of neuroanatomical aging is altered by hormone replacement in females is just beginning. When hormone replacement is started close to the time of cycle cessation, there are indications in humans and rats that replacement can preserve neural tissue but there is some variability due to the type of hormones and regimen of administration.
Although aging is inexorable, aging well is not. From the perspective of research in rats and complementary models, reproductive experience has significant effects; indeed, benefits, which include better-than-average cognitive skills, a slowing of the slope of decline, and a healthier brain and/or nervous system well later into life. Work from our lab and others has suggested that the events of pregnancy and parturition, collectively referred to as reproductive experience-an amalgam of hormone exposure, sensory stimulation, and offspring behavioral experience and interaction-may summate to flatten the degree of decline normally associated with aging. Mimicking the effects of an enriched environment, reproductive experience has been shown to: enhance/protect cognition and decrease anxiety well out to two-plus years; result in fewer hippocampal deposits of the Alzheimer's disease herald, amyloid precursor protein (APP); and, in general, lead to a healthier biology. Based on a suite of recent work in organisms as diverse as nematodes, flies, and mammals, the ubiquitous hormone insulin and its large family of related substances and receptors may play a major role in mediating some of the effects of RE on the parameters of aging studied thus far. We will discuss the current set of data that suggest mechanisms for successful biological and neurobiological aging, and the implications for understanding aging and senescence in their broadest terms.
In this chapter, we consider the relevance of impulsivity as both a psychological construct and endophenotype underlying attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and drug addiction. The case for executive dysfunction in ADHD and drug addiction is critically reviewed in the context of dissociable cognitive control processes mediated by the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), the orbital and ventral medial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC). We argue that such neuroanatomical divisions within the prefrontal cortex are likely to account for the multidimensional basis of impulsivity conceptually categorized in terms of &quot;motoric&quot; and &quot;choice&quot; impulsivity. The relevance of this distinction for the etiology of ADHD and drug addiction is integrated within a novel theoretical framework. This scheme embraces animal learning theory to help explain the heterogeneity of impulse control disorders, which are exemplified by ADHD as a vulnerability disorder for drug addiction.
Cadherin EGF LAG seven-pass G-type receptors 1, 2, and 3 (Celsr1-3) form a family of three atypical cadherins with multiple functions in epithelia and in the nervous system. During the past decade, evidence has accumulated for important and distinct roles of Celsr1-3 in planar cell polarity (PCP) and brain development and maintenance. Although the role of Celsr in PCP is conserved from flies to mammals, other functions may be more distantly related, with Celsr working only with one or a subset of the classical PCP partners. Here, we review the literature on Celsr in PCP and neural development, point to several remaining questions, and consider future challenges and possible research trends.
The advent of molecular neuroimaging has greatly impacted on understanding the neurochemical changes occurring in the CNS from subjects with psychiatric disorders, especially schizophrenia. This review focuses on the outcomes from studies using positron emission tomography and single photon emission computer tomography that have measure levels of neurotransmitter receptors and transporters in the CNS from subjects with schizophrenia. One outcome from such studies is the confirmation of a number of findings using postmortem tissue, but in the case of neuroimaging, using drug nave and drug free subjects. These findings add weight to the argument that findings from postmortem studies are not an artifact of tissue processing or a simple drug effect. However, there are some important unique findings from studies using neuroimaging studies. These include evidence to suggest that in schizophrenia there are alterations in dopamine synthesis and release, which are not accompanied by an appropriate down-regulation of dopamine D2 receptors. There are also data that would support the notion that decreased levels of serotonin 2A receptors may be an early marker of the onset of schizophrenia. Whilst there is a clear need for on-going development of neuroimaging ligands to expand the number of targets that can be studied and to increase cohort sizes in neuroimaging studies to give power to the analyses of the resulting data, current studies show that existing neuroimaging studies have already extended our understanding of the underlying pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia has been historically characterized by the presence of positive symptomatology, however, decades of research highlight the importance of cognitive deficits in this disorder. At present, cognitive impairments remain one of the most important unmet therapeutic needs in schizophrenia. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) controls a large number of higher brain functions altered in a variety of psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia. Histological studies indicate the presence of a large proportion of PFC neurons expressing monoaminergic receptors sensitive to the action of current atypical antipsychotics. Functional studies also show that these medications act at PFC level to increase dopamine neurotransmission in the mesocortical pathway. Here we focus on monoaminergic molecular targets that are actively being explored as potential therapeutic agents in the basic and clinical cognitive neuroscience research, to support the development of co-treatments used in conjunction with antipsychotic medications. These targets include dopamine and serotonin receptors in the prefrontal cortex, as well as elements of the noradrenergic system.

Schizophrenia is a complex epigenetic puzzle, the antecedents of which are presumed to lie in neurodevelopmental dysmaturation. This dysmaturation has an impact on children and adolescents at genetic risk for schizophrenia. In this framework, normative mechanisms of brain development that are highly dynamic in adolescence are likely to be disrupted in the at-risk adolescent brain. It is likely that what is affected is the integrity of brain networks that sub-serve fundamental domains of function such as sustained attention. Notably, expansion in proficiency in sustained attention that is characteristic of typical development is likely to be compromised in adolescents at risk for schizophrenia. This confluence of at-risk adolescents and neuro-behavioral domains of inquiry is discussed. We outline the evidence for developmental antecedents of schizophrenia, and their bases in systems and molecular mechanisms in the brain. Then we juxtapose these results against neuro-behavioral evidence of attention deficits in high-risk populations, and fMRI evidence of dysfunctional responses in critical brain regions. We end by advocating the application of systems-based approaches toward understanding the progression of network dysfunction in the adolescent risk-state.
Physiological enzymatic cleavage of membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 (PLA2) results in normal levels of phosphomonoester and phosphodiester, by which a normal dopamine neurotransmission is maintained. Data from postmortem tissue and in vivo imaging studies suggest that increased activity of intracellular calcium-independent PLA2 (iPLA2) in the brain of schizophrenic patients might accelerate the breakdown of membrane phospholipids and alter the properties of neuronal membranes, which in turn contributes to a hypodopaminergy. Alterations in PLA2 activity are probably genetically determined and represent a possible pharmacological target for Schizophrenia.
Theory of Mind, the ability to understand the potential mental states and intentions of others, represents a relevant aspect of social cognition, with high impact on the capacity to interact within the social world. This very human ability has been one of the focuses of neuroscience research in the past decades and data from neuroimaging studies allowed to identify a Theory of Mind network and to formulate a neurobiological model. Concurrent neuropsychiatric studies showed that Theory of Mind is differently impaired in several conditions, among these, in schizophrenia, a disease characterized by functional and social disability. This paper addresses the issue of neurofunctional correlates of Theory of Mind deficits in schizophrenia, reviewing functional imaging studies of the past ten years comparing schizophrenia patients to healthy controls. Several differences in hemodynamic response between patients and controls were observed in the areas known to be critically involved in social cognition, such as the medial prefrontal cortex, temporal cortex surrounding superior temporal sulcus and temporo-parietal junction and cingulate cortex. Results are promising, however they are still heterogeneous. The reported variability could depend on factors related to the construct of Theory of Mind itself, technical aspects and psychopathological/physiopathological mechanisms and needs to be further addressed by future studies.

This manuscript serves as a review of how the R language has been used in the last decade to address problems related to medicinal chemistry design. This includes the use of the R language for chemoinformatics applications and interfaces, as well as statistical modeling for ADMET and potency endpoints. Additionally, a few examples of R code are provided to demonstrate the ability of this language to make available cutting-edge statistical analysis to the medicinal chemistry design community.

Phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins (PITPs), comprising five members in the human genome are implicated in the non-vesicular traffic of phosphatidylinositol (PI) between intracellular membranes and the plasma membrane. Three members of the PITP family (PITP, PITP, and RdgB (retinal degeneration type B) alt. name PITPNC1) are present as single domain proteins and two (RdgBI and RdgBII alt. name PITPNM1 and PITPNM2) are present as multi-domain proteins with the PITP domain located at the N-terminus. The hallmark of PITP proteins is to extract PI molecules from a membrane, sequester in its binding pocket and deposit the lipid to membranes. PITPs regulate the synthesis of phosphoinositides (PPIs) either by delivery of the substrate, PI to specific membrane compartments or by potentiating the activities of the lipid kinases, or both. In the light of recent studies, we propose that PITPs are regulators of phosphoinositide pathways by recruitment to membranes through specific protein interactions to promote molecular exchange between closely opposed membranes i.e., at membrane contact sites. Individual PITP proteins play highly specific roles in many biological processes including neurite outgrowth, membrane traffic, cytokinesis, and sensory transduction in mammals as well as in the model organisms, Drosophila, Caenorhabditis elegans, and zebrafish. The common requirement for the diverse functions for all PITPs is their ability to bind PI and coupling its function to phosphoinositide-dependent pathways.
The central dogma of molecular biology defines the major route for the transfer of genetic information from genomic DNA to messenger RNA to three-dimensional proteins that affect structure and function. Like alternative splicing, the post-transcriptional conversion of adenosine to inosine (A-to-I) by RNA editing can dramatically expand the diversity of the transcriptome to generate multiple, functionally distinct protein isoforms from a single genomic locus. While RNA editing has been identified in virtually all tissues, such post-transcriptional modifications have been best characterized in RNAs encoding both ligand- and voltage-gated ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors. These RNA processing events have been shown to play an important role in the function of the encoded protein products and, in several cases, have been shown to be critical for the normal development and function of the nervous system.







The aim of this study was to validate the Japanese version of the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination-Revised (ACE-R) [Mori: Japanese Edition of Hodges JR's Cognitive Assessment for Clinicians, 2010] designed to detect dementia, and to compare its diagnostic accuracy with that of the Mini-Mental State Examination. The ACE-R was administered to 85 healthy individuals and 126 patients with dementia. The reliability assessment revealed a strong correlation in both groups. The internal consistency was excellent (-coefficient = 0.88). Correlation with the Clinical Dementia Rating sum of boxes score was significant (r(s) = -0.61, p &lt; 0.001). The area under the curve was 0.98 for the ACE-R and 0.96 for the Mini-Mental State Examination. The cut-off score of 80 showed a sensitivity of 94% and a specificity of 94%. Like the original ACE-R and the versions designed for other languages, the Japanese version of the ACE-R is a reliable and valid test for the detection of dementia.









Positive (PA) and negative affect (NA) are two separate systems markers of subjective well-being and measures of the state depression (low PA combined with high NA). The present study investigated differences in temperament, character, locus of control, and depressive symptoms (sleep quality, stress, and lack of energy) between affective profiles in an adolescent sample. Participants (N = 304) were categorized into four affective profiles: &quot;self-fulfilling&quot; (high PA, low NA), &quot;high affective&quot; (high PA, high NA), &quot;low affective&quot; (low PA, low NA), and &quot;self-destructive&quot; (low PA, high NA). Personality was measured by the Temperament and Character Inventory and affective profiles by the Positive Affect and Negative Affect Schedule. The &quot;self-fulfilling&quot; profile was characterized by, compared to the other affective profiles, higher levels of sleep quality, less stress and more energy and also higher levels of persistence and a mature character (i.e., high scores in self-directedness and cooperativeness). &quot;Self-destructive&quot; adolescents reported higher levels of external locus of control, high scores in harm avoidance and reward dependence combined with less mature character. The results identify the importance of character maturity in well-being and suggest that depressive state can be positively influenced by promoting positive emotions which appears to be achieved by character development.
This paper proposes to analyse the relationships between depression and high intellectual potential through a multidisciplinary and original approach. Based on their respective experience in psychology and child psychiatry, the authors will focus their analysis on creative potential. First, relationships between creativity (literary, artistic, or scientific creativity) and melancholy (&quot;melancholy&quot; comes from the Greek words for &quot;black&quot; (&quot;melas&quot;) and &quot;bile&quot; (&quot;khole&quot;)) will be examined from antiquity to modern times. Aristotle introduced a quantitative factor, asserting that levels of melancholy and black bile are positively correlated; however, under a given threshold of black bile, it can give rise to an exceptional being. Second, the case study of Blaise Pascal (scientific and philosophical creativity associated with major depressive episodes from childhood) will be presented and discussed. This case study sheds light on the paradoxical role of depression in the overinvestment in intellectual and creative spheres as well as on the impact of traumatic events on high intellectual potential. Third, observations will be reported based on a study conducted on 100 children with high intellectual potential (6-12 years old). Finally, based on these different levels of analysis, it appears that heterogeneity of mental functioning in children with high intellectual potential is at the center of the creative process and it has related psychological vulnerability.
Background. Much research is done on the stigma of mental illness, but little research has been done to characterize these phenomena from the perspective of people with mood disorders. Objective. To characterize the extent to which individuals with bipolar disorder and depression are stigmatized, determine factors related to higher levels of stigmatization, and assess the reliability of the Inventory of Stigmatizing Experiences in a population of people with a mood disorder. Methods. Two hundred and fourteen individuals with depression and bipolar disorder were recruited from a tertiary care psychiatric hospital and surveyed using the Inventory of Stigmatizing Experiences. Results. Participants reported high levels of stigma experiences and this did not differ by diagnosis (P = 0.578). However, people with bipolar disorder reported greater psychosocial impact of stigma on themselves and their family members compared to people with depression (P = 0.019). The two subscales produced internally consistent results with both populations. Conclusion. Stigma negatively affects those with both depression and bipolar disorder but appears to have a greater psychosocial impact on those with bipolar disorder.
Acne is a chronic inflammatory disease of pilosebaceous units. Although the acne isnot a life threatening disease, studies have revealed that it has significant effect on self-image and quality of life. The purpose of this paper was to investigate the health-related quality of life in patients with acne in an Iranian context. Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) and Cardiff Acne Disability Index (CADI) were used for measuring quality of life, and severity of acne was measured by Global Acne Grading System (GAGS). The mean (SD) of DLQI and CADI scores was 6.42 (4.77) and 5.97 (2.97), respectively. Acne influenced the quality of life in 51.8% of patients from moderate to very much, and the quality of life was affected by the severity of acne (P &lt; 0.01). Since acne has significant effects on patient's quality of life, the management of patients with acne requires more attention to different aspects of quality of life.
The Drosophila larval central brain contains about 10,000 differentiated neurons and 200 scattered neural progenitors (neuroblasts), which can be further subdivided into ~95 type I neuroblasts and eight type II neuroblasts per brain lobe. Only type II neuroblasts generate self-renewing intermediate neural progenitors (INPs), and consequently each contributes more neurons to the brain, including much of the central complex. We characterized six different mutant genotypes that lead to expansion of neuroblast numbers; some preferentially expand type II or type I neuroblasts. Transcriptional profiling of larval brains from these mutant genotypes versus wild-type allowed us to identify small clusters of transcripts enriched in type II or type I neuroblasts, and we validated these clusters by gene expression analysis. Unexpectedly, only a few genes were found to be differentially expressed between type I/II neuroblasts, suggesting that these genes play a large role in establishing the different cell types. We also identified a large group of genes predicted to be expressed in all neuroblasts but not in neurons. We performed a neuroblast-specific, RNAi-based functional screen and identified 84 genes that are required to maintain proper neuroblast numbers; all have conserved mammalian orthologs. These genes are excellent candidates for regulating neural progenitor self-renewal in Drosophila and mammals.
Regulated proliferation and cell cycle exit are essential aspects of neurogenesis. The Yap transcriptional coactivator controls proliferation in a variety of tissues during development, and this activity is negatively regulated by kinases in the Hippo signaling pathway. We find that Yap is expressed in mitotic mouse retinal progenitors and it is downregulated during neuronal differentiation. Forced expression of Yap prolongs proliferation in the postnatal mouse retina, whereas inhibition of Yap by RNA interference (RNAi) decreases proliferation and increases differentiation. We show Yap is subject to post-translational inhibition in the retina, and also downregulated at the level of mRNA expression. Using a cell culture model, we find that expression of the proneural basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors Neurog2 or Ascl1 downregulates Yap mRNA levels, and simultaneously inhibits Yap protein via activation of the Lats1 and/or Lats2 kinases. Conversely, overexpression of Yap prevents proneural bHLH proteins from initiating cell cycle exit. We propose that mutual inhibition between proneural bHLH proteins and Yap is an important regulator of proliferation and cell cycle exit during mammalian neurogenesis.
Recent event-related potential (ERP) evidence demonstrates that adults employ temporally selective attention to preferentially process the initial portions of words in continuous speech. Doing so is an effective listening strategy since word-initial segments are highly informative. Although the development of this process remains unexplored, directing attention to word onsets may be important for speech processing in young children who would otherwise be overwhelmed by the rapidly changing acoustic signals that constitute speech. We examined the use of temporally selective attention in 3- to 5-year-old children listening to stories by comparing ERPs elicited by attention probes presented at four acoustically matched times relative to word onsets: concurrently with a word onset, 100 ms before, 100 ms after, and at random control times. By 80 ms, probes presented at and after word onsets elicited a larger negativity than probes presented before word onsets or at control times. The latency and distribution of this effect is similar to temporally and spatially selective attention effects measured in adults and, despite differences in polarity, spatially selective attention effects measured in children. These results indicate that, like adults, preschool aged children modulate temporally selective attention to preferentially process the initial portions of words in continuous speech.
The ontogeny of human empathy is better understood with reference to the evolutionary history of the social brain. Empathy has deep evolutionary, biochemical, and neurological underpinnings. Even the most advanced forms of empathy in humans are built on more basic forms and remain connected to core mechanisms associated with affective communication, social attachment, and parental care. In this paper, we argue that it is essential to consider empathy within a neurodevelopmental framework that recognizes both the continuities and changes in socioemotional understanding from infancy to adulthood. We bring together neuroevolutionary and developmental perspectives on the information processing and neural mechanisms underlying empathy and caring, and show that they are grounded in multiple interacting systems and processes. Moreover, empathy in humans is assisted by other abstract and domain-general high-level cognitive abilities such as executive functions, mentalizing and language, as well as the ability to differentiate another's mental states from one's own, which expand the range of behaviors that can be driven by empathy.

Synaptic function is crucially dependent on the spatial organization of the presynaptic and postsynaptic apparatuses and the juxtaposition of both membrane compartments. This precise arrangement is achieved by a protein network at the submembrane region of each cell that is built around scaffold proteins. The membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family of proteins is a widely expressed and well-conserved group of proteins that plays an essential role in the formation and regulation of this scaffolding. Here, we review general features of this protein family, focusing on the discs large and calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase subfamilies of MAGUKs in the formation, function, and plasticity of synapses.
The ability of a cell to change the shape of its membranes is intrinsic to many cellular functions. Proteins that can alter or recognize curved membrane structures and those that can act to recruit other proteins which stabilize the membrane curvature are likely to be essential in cell functions. The BAR (Bin, amphiphysin, RVS167 homology) domain is a protein domain that can either induce lipidic membranes to curve or can sense curved membranes. BAR domains are found in several proteins at neuronal synapses. We will review BAR domain structure and the role that BAR domain containing proteins play in regulating the morphology and function of the Drosophila neuromuscular junction. In flies the BAR domain containing proteins, endophilin and syndapin affect synaptic vesicle endocytosis, whereas CIP4, dRich, nervous wreck and syndapin affect synaptic morphology. We will review the growing evidence implicating mutations in BAR domain containing proteins being the cause of human pathologies.
Electroencephalogram (EEG) coherence is a mixture of phase locking interrupted by phase shifts in the spontaneous EEG. Average reference, Laplacian transforms, and independent component (ICA) reconstruction of time series can distort physiologically generated phase differences and invalidate the computation of coherence and phase differences as well as in the computation of directed coherence and phase reset. Time domain measures of phase shift and phase lock are less prone to artifact and are independent of volume conduction. Cross-frequency synchrony in the surface EEG and in Low Resolution Electromagnetic Tomography (LORETA) provides insights into dynamic functions of the brain.
Conflict adaptation effects occur when previous-trial congruency affects current-trial performance. We examined developmental differences in response time (RT), error rate, and electrophysiological (N450 and conflict slow-potential [conflict SP] event-related potentials [ERPs]) indices of conflict adaptation in 21 typically developing children and 26 adults during a Stroop task. Children exhibited significantly slower RTs, increased error rates, and increased ERP amplitudes relative to adults. Groups did not differ in magnitude of conflict adaptation for RTs, error rates, or the conflict SP. Neither group showed significant N450 conflict adaptation. Results suggest current indices of conflict adaptation do not differ between children and adults.
The research investigated the role of complexity and the hot-cool distinction in cognitive development. The 120, 3- to 6-year-old children completed four hot tasks, which involved an affective component and three cool tasks, which did not. All tasks included binary- and ternary-relational items. Complexity was a major source of difficulty on all tasks, especially for younger children. Consistent with a hot-cool distinction, ternary-relational processing emerged earlier and more 4- and 5-year-olds mastered ternary-relational items in hot than cool tasks. Overall performance was better in hot than cool tasks at 4 years but this pattern was reversed at 6 years.

Stem cells rely on extracellular signals produced by the niche, which dictate their ability to self-renew, expand and differentiate. It is essential to have sensitive and reproducible methods of either quantifying or isolating these stem cells and progenitors to understand their intrinsic properties and how extrinsic signals regulate their development. However, stem cells are difficult to distinguish from multipotential progenitors, which may look and act like them. Here we define a 4-color flow cytometry panel using CD133, LeX, CD140a, NG2 to define a neural stem cell (NSC) as well as 4 classes of multipotential progenitors and 3 classes of bipotential progenitors, several of which have not been described previously. We performed gain and loss of function studies for leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and showed a depletion of NSCs, a subset of multipotential neural precursors and immature oligodendrocytes in LIF null mice. Gain of function studies showed that LIF increased the abundance of these precursors. Our studies also show that these NPs have differential requirements for LIF and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and for epidermal growth factor (EGF), fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) for their propagation in vitro. Surprisingly, the related cytokine, CNTF, was less potent than LIF in increasing the NSCs and more potent than LIF in increasing the PDGF responsive multipotential precursors. Finally, we show that LIF increases the expression of the core transcription factors: Klf4, Fbx15, Nanog, Sox2 and c-Myc. Altogether our FACS (fluorescence-activated cell sorter) analyses reveal that the neonatal subventricular zone is far more heterogeneous than previously suspected and our studies provide new insights into the signals and mechanisms that regulate their self-renewal and proliferation.
A rapidly approaching object provides information about the object's approach and how imminent a collision is. Prospective control when responding to a looming virtual object approaching on a direct collision course was studied longitudinally in 10 infants aged 5/6 and 12/13 months. Different characteristics of the looming-related visual evoked potential (VEP) responses from infants' brain electrical recordings (EEG) were explored and compared between the infants at these different ages. The aim of this study was to find evidence for infant brain electrical responses coherent with a looming stimulus approaching the infant under three different accelerations. It was also investigated whether the use of different timing strategies to estimate the loom's time-to-collision would produce differences in the EEG recordings. The results showed that the timing and the duration of the VEP responses differed with age. At the age of 5/6 months, infants showed VEP peaks earlier in the looming sequence and VEP responses with longer duration than when they were 12/13 months old. Results from the timing-strategy analysis showed that with age, 4 infants shifted from a less efficient timing strategy involving the loom's velocity to the more efficient strategy involving the loom's time-to-collision. Further, it was found that peak VEP activation in the investigated areas propagated across the cortex, showing the highest observed activation in the occipital area at the age of 5/6 months, whereas the parietal area showed the highest activation when the infants were 12/13 months. The decrease in processing time together with a peak VEP response closer to the loom's time-to-collision indicate a developmental trend in infants' prediction of an object's time-to-collision. This developmental trend is further substantiated by the shift from a less efficient to a more efficient timing strategy and by evidence of propagated peak VEP activation towards higher information processing areas in the visual pathway with age. As infants grow older and become more mobile, one of the underlying causes of the developmental trend found in our study could be due to an increase in locomotor experience. More follow-up research is needed to investigate the relation between behavioural development and changes in brain activity associated with infants' perception of looming motion.
Autism is a highly debilitating disorder that has recently displayed a dramatic rise in incidence. In order to realistically study preventative and remedial strategies, it is important that we develop and understand useful animal models of the disorder. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of the prenatal valproic acid (VPA) rat model of autism by examining the neuro-anatomical and behavioural outcomes of offspring exposed to this paradigm. The VPA-treated rats exhibited behavioural changes in the delayed non-match-to-sample task, novel object recognition, activity box, and Whishaw tray reaching task. Anatomically, there was a reduction in brain weight and cortical thickness, along with decreased dendritic branching in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and decreased spine density in the mPFC, OFC, and cerebellum. Behavioural and anatomical findings from this study produced reliable results indicating that prenatal VPA exposure may be a viable model for the study of autism in rats.
An animal model with brain growth similar to humans, that can be used in MRI studies to investigate brain development, would be valuable. Our laboratory has developed and validated MRI methods for regional brain volume quantification in the neonatal piglet. The aim of this study was to utilize the MRI-based volume quantification technique in a longitudinal study to determine brain growth in domestic pigs from 2 to 24 weeks of age. MRI data were acquired from pigs 2-24 weeks of age using a 3-dimensional magnetization-prepared gradient echo sequence on a Magnetom Trio 3-tesla imager. Manual segmentation was performed for volume estimates of total brain, cortical, diencephalon, brainstem, cerebellar and hippocampal regions. Logistic modeling procedures were used to characterize brain growth. Total brain volume increased 130% (12%) and 121% (7%) from 2 to 24 weeks in males and females, respectively. The maximum increase in total brain volume occurred about the age of 4 weeks and 95% of whole brain growth occurred by the age of 21-23 weeks. Logistical modeling suggests there are sexually dimorphic effects on brain growth. For example, in females, the cortex was smaller (p = 0.04). Furthermore, the maximum growth of the hippocampus occurred about 5 weeks earlier in females than males, and the window for hippocampal growth was significantly shorter in females than males (p = 0.02, p = 0.002 respectively). These sexual dimorphisms are similar to what is seen in humans. In addition to providing important data on brain growth for pigs, this study shows pigs can be used to obtain longitudinal MRI data. The large increase in brain volume in the postnatal period is similar to that of human neonates and suggests pigs can be used to investigate brain development.
Removal of the midline frontal cortex on postnatal day 10 is followed by apparent regeneration of the part of the lost cortex, correlated with substantial recovery of function in adulthood. The spontaneous regrowth of the medial frontal cortex after midline frontal lesions on postnatal day 10 was blocked by pretreatment with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) on embryonic days 11, 12, 13, 15, or 17. BrdU pretreatment on embryonic day 21 or postnatal day 10 did not block either functional recovery or cortical regrowth. These results demonstrate a teratological effect of BrdU and are consistent with the claim that functional recovery after midline frontal removal on postnatal day 10 is supported by the generation of new midline frontal tissue.


The phosphatase and tensin homolog located on chromosome 10 (PTEN) suppresses the activity of the phosphoinositide-3-kinase/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, a signaling cascade critically involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and growth. Human patients carrying germ line PTEN mutations have an increased predisposition to tumors, and also display a variety of neurological symptoms and increased risk of epilepsy and autism, implicating PTEN in neuronal development and function. Consistently, loss of Pten in mouse neural cells results in ataxia, seizures, cognitive abnormalities, increased soma size and synaptic abnormalities. To better understand how Pten regulates the excitability of principal forebrain neurons, a factor that is likely to be altered in cognitive disorders, epilepsy and autism, we generated a novel conditional knockout mouse line (NEX-Pten) in which Cre, under the control of the NEX promoter, drives the deletion of Pten specifically in early postmitotic, excitatory neurons of the developing forebrain. Homozygous mutant mice exhibited a massive enlargement of the forebrain, and died shortly after birth due to excessive mTOR activation. Analysis of the neonatal cerebral cortex further identified molecular defects resulting from Pten deletion that likely affect several aspects of neuronal development and excitability.
Prenatal ethanol exposure is associated with, and is a risk factor for, developmental disorders with abnormal social behaviors, including autism spectrum disorders. We hypothesize that the specific effects of ethanol on social behavior are defined by the timing of the exposure as well as subsequent changes in brain regions such as the amygdala and ventral striatum. We recently reported that in utero ethanol exposure on gestational day 12 alters social behaviors of weanling [postnatal day (P) 28], adolescent (P42), and young adult (P75) rats. Male, but not female, offspring of the ethanol-exposed dams showed significant decreases in social investigation (sniffing of a social partner), contact behavior (grooming or crawling over/under the partner), and play fighting (following, chasing, nape attacks, or pinning) at all ages tested with maximal effects at P28 and P42. Furthermore, ethanol-exposed males and females showed evidence of social avoidance at P42 and P75. The present study sought to test whether a form of social enrichment could normalize any of the social deficits and what the molecular mechanisms of such effects might be. We found that housing rats with nonmanipulated control rats normalized the social avoidance phenotype normally seen when they are housed with sex-matched prenatal ethanol-exposed littermates. There was no mitigation of the other ethanol-induced behavioral deficits. Conversely, male control-treated rats housed with nonlittermates showed deficits in play fighting, social investigation and contact behavior. Molecular analyses of the amygdala and ventral striatum of adolescent rats following fetal ethanol exposure indicated several specific neurotransmitter systems and pathways that might underlie the social avoidance phenotype as well as its reversal.
The human brain is dependent upon successfully maintaining ionic, energetic and redox homeostasis within exceptionally narrow margins for proper function. The ability of neurons to adapt to genetic and environmental perturbations and evoke a 'new normal' can be most fully appreciated in the context of neurological disorders in which clinical impairments do not manifest until late in life, although dysfunctional proteins are expressed early in development. We now know that proteins controlling ATP generation, mitochondrial stability, and the redox environment are associated with neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Generally, focus is placed on the role that early or long-term environmental stress has in altering the survival of cells targeted by genetic dysfunctions; however, the central nervous system undergoes several periods of intense stress during normal maturation. One of the most profound periods of stress occurs when 50% of neurons are removed via programmed cell death. Unfortunately, we have virtually no understanding of how these events proceed in individuals who harbor mutations that are lethal later in life. Moreover, there is a profound lack of information on circuit formation, cell fate during development and neurochemical compensation in either humans or the animals used to model neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we consider the current knowledge of how energetic and oxidative stress signaling differs between neurons in early versus late stages of life, the influence of a new group of proteins that can integrate cell stress signals at the mitochondrial level, and the growing body of evidence that suggests early development should be considered a critical period for the genesis of chronic neurodegenerative diseases.
In maternal potentiation, the rate of vocalization by a young organism during isolation is greatly enhanced if that isolation has been immediately preceded by an interaction with the mother (or other adult female in the case of rats). The enhancement in isolation-induced vocalization rate does not occur if the young animal had an interaction with other social companions like littermates or with familiar inanimate stimuli like home cage shavings. The present study demonstrates that pups whose vagus nerve is cut below the diaphragm do not potentiate vocalization after an interaction with their dam. The vocalization rates of denervated pups in a first isolation, in the presence of the dam, and during cold exposure do not differ from control pups. Their non-vocal behaviors also appear unaffected by the surgery. Similar to what has been shown in studies of fever-induced behavioral changes, an intact vagus nerve from the gut is necessary for young rat pups to show normal social mediation of their isolation-induced vocal responses.
Development of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is influenced by external factors during early life in mammals, which optimizes adult function for predicted conditions. We have hypothesized that adolescence represents a sensitive period for the development of some aspects of adult stress response regulation. This was based on prior work showing that repeated exposure of rats to a stressor across an adolescent period increases fearfulness in a novel environment in adulthood and results in lower levels of dopamine receptor subtype-2 protein in prefrontal cortex. Here, we further our investigation of both acute and long-term effects of repeated adolescent stressor exposure on physiological (i.e., corticosterone) and behavioral (i.e., defensive behavior) measures of stress responding in male and female rats. Furthermore, we compared outcomes with those following identical manipulations administered in early adulthood and found that animals exposed to cues of predation threat during adolescence showed the most robust defensive responses to a homotypic stressor encountered in adulthood. Peer interaction during control manipulation in adolescence was identified as an important individual characteristic mediating development of adult defensive strategies.
The zebrafish has been one of the preferred vertebrate model organisms of developmental biology, and is becoming an important research tool for behavioral neuroscience and behavior genetics. A prominent feature of zebrafish is their strong shoaling tendency. Most recently, the first study investigating the development of shoaling in zebrafish demonstrated that a few days after hatching zebrafish do not shoal, but that shoaling tendency gradually increases during development. The current study investigates this phenomenon using the nearest neighbor distance, a measure most frequently employed for the quantification of shoal cohesion in fish. We demonstrate that shoal cohesion increases with age, while thigmotaxis, &quot;wall hugging,&quot; does not show a consistent age-dependent change. The mechanisms underlying the maturation of shoaling are unknown. HPLC analysis of whole brain extracts finds the concentration of dopamine, DOPAC, serotonin, and 5-HIAA normalized to total brain protein weight to increase with age. Although the behavioral and neurochemical results are only correlative at this point, they may open a new avenue into the investigation of the mechanisms and development of social behavior in zebrafish.
The association of enumeration and number comparison capacities with arithmetical competence was examined in a large sample of children from 2nd to 9th grades. It was found that efficiency on numerical capacities predicted separately more than 25% of the variance in the individual differences on a timed arithmetical test, and this occurred for both younger and older learners. These capacities were also significant predictors of individual variations in an untimed curriculum-based math achievement test and on the teacher scores of math performance over developmental time. Based on these findings, these numerical capacities were used for estimating the prevalence and gender ratio of basic numerical deficits and developmental dyscalculia (DD) over the grade range defined above (N = 11,652 children). The extent to which DD affects the population with poor ability on calculation was also examined. For this purpose, the prevalence and gender ratio of arithmetical dysfluency (AD) were estimated in the same cohort. The estimated prevalence of DD was 3.4%, and the male:female ratio was 4:1. However, the prevalence of AD was almost 3 times as high (9.35%), and no gender differences were found (male:female ratio = 1.07:1). Basic numerical deficits affect 4.54% of school-age population and affect more boys than girls (2.4:1). The differences between the corresponding estimates were highly significant ( &lt; .01). Based on these contrastive findings, it is concluded that DD, defined as a defective sense of numerosity, could be a distinctive disorder that affects only a portion of children with AD.
The inner ear is one of the most morphologically elaborate tissues in vertebrates, containing a group of mechanosensitive sensory organs that mediate hearing and balance. These organs are arranged precisely in space and contain intricately patterned sensory epithelia. Here, we review recent studies of inner ear development and patterning which reveal that multiple stages of ear development - ranging from its early induction from the embryonic ectoderm to the establishment of the three cardinal axes and the fine-grained arrangement of sensory cells - are orchestrated by gradients of signaling molecules.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disease with complex genetics; however, the genes that are responsible for this disease still remain mostly unknown. Here, we focus on the FOXP family of transcription factors as there is emerging evidence strongly linking these genes to ASD and other genes implicated in ASD. The FOXP family of genes includes three genes expressed in the central nervous system: FOXP1, FOPX2, and FOXP4. This unique group of transcription factors has known functions in brain development as well as the evolution of language. We will also discuss the other genes including transcriptional targets of FOXP genes that have been found to be associated with language and may be important in the pathophysiology of ASD. Finally, we will review the emerging animal models currently being used to study the function of the FOXP genes within the context of ASD symptomology. The combination of gene expression and animal behavior is critical for elucidating how genes such as the FOXP family members are key players within the framework of the developing brain.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative movement disorder. Among the candidate genes, DJ-1 accounts for about 1% of the cases in different populations. We aim to find the contribution of the gene towards PD among Indians. By screening DJ-1 in 308 PD patients of eastern India and 248 ethnically matched controls, a total of 21 nucleotide variants - including two nonsynonymous changes - were detected. p.Arg98Gln was identified in 6 unrelated patients and 2 controls while p.Val35Ile, a novel change, was found only in 2 unrelated patients. A SNP (rs7517357) was observed to be moderately associated with increased risk of PD (p&lt; 0.05). The deletion allele (g.168_185del) of a known 18 bp del/ins/dup polymorphism was found to be over represented (p&lt; 0.05) among older patients (&gt; 40 years) compared to the controls (&gt; 45 years). Two of the patients, also heterozygotes for PINK1 mutation, had more severe disease phenotypes, consistent with the reported interaction between PINK1 and DJ-1 gene products [19]. Our results demonstrate that up to 3.9% (12/308) of PD patients of eastern India harbor DJ-1 variants that should be explored further for any causal relationship with PD.
Leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene defects cause Parkinson's disease (PD). Recently, LRRK2 has also been shown by genome wide association (GWA) studies to be a susceptibility gene for the disease. In India mutations in LRRK2 is a rare cause of PD. We, therefore, genotyped 64 SNPs across LRRK2 in 161 control samples and finally studied 6 haplotype tagging SNPs for association-based study on 300 cases and 446 ethnically matched controls to explore the potential role of LRRK2 as a susceptibility gene in PD for East Indians. We did not find any significant allele/ genotype or haplotype associations with PD suggesting that common genetic variants within LRRK2 play limited role in modulating PD among East Indians. In addition, we also screened for the common mutations (viz. p.R1441C, p.R1441G, p.R1441H, p.Y1699C, p.G2019S), and a risk variant common among Asians (p.G2385R) but did not observe any of the above mentioned variants in our cohort. Our study, therefore, strongly suggests that LRRK2 has minimal role as a candidate and susceptibility gene in PD pathogenesis among East Indians.
Recent advances in gene knockout techniques and the in vivo analysis of mutant mice, together with the advent of large-scale projects for systematic mouse mutagenesis and genome-wide phenotyping, have allowed the creation of platforms for the most complete and systematic analysis of gene function ever undertaken in a vertebrate. The development of high-throughput phenotyping pipelines for these and other large-scale projects allows investigators to search and integrate large amounts of directly comparable phenotype data from many mutants, on a genomic scale, to help develop and test new hypotheses about the origins of disease and the normal functions of genes in the organism. Histopathology has a venerable history in the understanding of the pathobiology of human and animal disease, and presents complementary advantages and challenges to in vivo phenotyping. In this review, we present evidence for the unique contribution that histopathology can make to a large-scale phenotyping effort, using examples from past and current programmes at Lexicon Pharmaceuticals and The Jackson Laboratory, and critically assess the role of histopathology analysis in high-throughput phenotyping pipelines.














Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the central nervous system, traditionally considered to be an autoimmune, demyelinating disease. Based on this understanding, the initial therapeutic strategies were directed at immune modulation and inflammation control. At present, there are five licensed first-line disease-modifying drugs and two second-line treatments in MS. Currently available MS therapies have shown significant efficacy throughout many trials, but they produce different side-effect profiles in patients. Since they are well known and safe, they require regular and frequent parenteral administration and are associated with limited long-term treatment adherence. Thus, there is an important need for the development of new therapeutic strategies. Several oral compounds are in late-stage development for treating MS. Fingolimod (FTY720; Novartis, Basel, Switzerland) is an oral sphingosine-1-phosphase receptor modulator which has demonstrated superior efficacy compared with placebo and interferon -1a in Phase III studies and has been approved in the treatment of MS. We summarily review the oral compounds in study, focusing on the recent development, approval and the clinical experience with FTY720.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; ecstasy) is a ring-substituted amphetamine widely used for recreational purposes. MDMA is predominantly O-demethylenated in humans by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6, and is also a potent mechanism-based inhibitor of the enzyme. After assessing the inhibition and recovery of CYP2D6 in a previous study, the aim of this work was to study in humans the activity of CYP1A2 in vivo after CYP2D6 had been inhibited by MDMA, using caffeine as a probe drug. Twelve male and nine female recreational MDMA users were included. In session 1, 100 mg of caffeine was given at 0 h. In session 2, a 1.5 mg/kg MDMA dose (range 75-100 mg) was given at 0 h followed by a 100 mg dose of caffeine 4 h later. Aliquots of plasma were assayed for caffeine (137X) and paraxanthine (17X) and statistically significant differences were assessed with a one-way ANOVA. There were significant gender differences at basal condition, which persisted after MDMA administration. CYP1A2 activity was higher in both genders after drug administration, with an increase in 40% in females and 20% in males. Results show an increase in CYP1A2 activity when CYP2D6 is inhibited by MDMA in both genders, being more pronounced in females.

The aim of this study was to describe how former male patients perceive life after recovery from an eating disorder. A qualitative method with a phenomenographic approach was used to identify ways of experiencing recovery. Two descriptive categories were developed: body acceptance and self-worth. Six conceptions describe how recovered patients now relate in a balanced way to exercise and food, using strategies to avoid relapse. With a sense of self-acceptance and autonomy, they now appreciate their social life. Some perceive recovery as coping with remaining impulses to diet or exercise. Others experience themselves as totally free from the eating disorder.
Afterbirth ingestion by nonhuman mammalian mothers has a number of benefits: (1) increasing the interaction between the mother and infant; (2) potentiating pregnancy-mediated analgesia in the delivering mother; (3) potentiating maternal brain opioid circuits that facilitate the onset of caretaking behavior; and (4) suppressing postpartum pseudopregnancy. Childbirth is fraught with additional problems for which there are no practical nonhuman animal models: postpartum depression, failure to bond, hostility toward infants. Ingested afterbirth may contain components that ameliorate these problems, but the issue has not been tested empirically. The results of such studies, if positive, will be medically relevant. If negative, speculations and recommendations will persist, as it is not possible to prove the negative. A more challenging anthropological question is &quot;why don't humans engage in placentophagia as a biological imperative?&quot; Is it possible that there is more adaptive advantage in not doing so?
Puberty is unique in the sense that its onset shows an extraordinary individual variability of about 5 years, the basis of which being still elusive despite research efforts to understand the reason why. Continuing changes in environmental influences and interaction with genetic determinants are suggested by the still evolving pattern of the pubertal process both clinically and mechanistically. For instance, secular trends towards earlier breast development have been observed during the two past decades in some countries, resulting in possible skewing of the age distribution of that pubertal sign with less obvious changes in menarcheal age. Conceptually, puberty and subsequent reproduction appear now to be influenced by conditions not only at the time when they occur, but also during fetal and perinatal life. In addition, these influences can be apparently opposing since early maturation follows fetal malnourishment and postnatal overfeeding. In this review, the semiology and pathophysiology of puberty are discussed in a lifelong developmental perspective.
Saturated free fatty acids have been implicated in the increase of oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, apoptosis, and insulin resistance seen in type 2 diabetes. The purpose of this study was to determine whether palmitate-induced mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage contributed to increased oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, apoptosis, impaired insulin signaling, and reduced glucose uptake in skeletal muscle cells. Adenoviral vectors were used to deliver the DNA repair enzyme human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase/(apurinic/apyrimidinic) lyase (hOGG1) to mitochondria in L6 myotubes. After palmitate exposure, we evaluated mtDNA damage, mitochondrial function, production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species, apoptosis, insulin signaling pathways, and glucose uptake. Protection of mtDNA from palmitate-induced damage by overexpression of hOGG1 targeted to mitochondria significantly diminished palmitate-induced mitochondrial superoxide production, restored the decline in ATP levels, reduced activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) kinase, prevented cells from entering apoptosis, increased insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of serine-threonine kinase (Akt) (Ser473) and tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1, and thereby enhanced glucose transporter 4 translocation to plasma membrane, and restored insulin signaling. Addition of a specific inhibitor of JNK mimicked the effect of mitochondrial overexpression of hOGG1 and partially restored insulin sensitivity, thus confirming the involvement of mtDNA damage and subsequent increase of oxidative stress and JNK activation in insulin signaling in L6 myotubes. Our results are the first to report that mtDNA damage is the proximal cause in palmitate-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and impaired insulin signaling and provide strong evidence that targeting DNA repair enzymes into mitochondria in skeletal muscles could be a potential therapeutic treatment for insulin resistance.
Mammalian reproductive cyclicity requires the periodic discharge of GnRH from hypothalamic neurons into the portal vessels connecting the neuroendocrine brain to the pituitary gland. GnRH secretion is, in turn, controlled by changes in neuronal and glial inputs to GnRH-producing neurons. The transcriptional control of this process is not well understood, but it appears to involve several genes. One of them, termed enhanced at puberty 1 (EAP1), has been postulated to function in the female hypothalamus as an upstream regulator of neuroendocrine reproductive function. RNA interference-mediated inhibition of EAP1 expression, targeted to the preoptic region, delays puberty and disrupts estrous cyclicity in rodents, suggesting that EAP1 is required for the normalcy of these events. Here, we show that knocking down EAP1 expression in a region of the medial basal hypothalamus that includes the arcuate nucleus, via lentiviral-mediated delivery of RNA interference, results in cessation of menstrual cyclicity in female rhesus monkeys undergoing regular menstrual cycles. Neither lentiviruses encoding an unrelated small interfering RNA nor the placement of viral particles carrying EAP1 small interfering RNA outside the medial basal hypothalamus-arcuate nucleus region affected menstrual cycles, indicating that region-specific expression of EAP1 in the hypothalamus is required for menstrual cyclicity in higher primates. The cellular mechanism by which EAP1 exerts this function is unknown, but the recent finding that EAP1 is an integral component of a powerful transcriptional-repressive complex suggests that EAP1 may control reproductive cyclicity by inhibiting downstream repressor genes involved in the neuroendocrine control of reproductive function.
Current evidence suggests that the acquisition of female reproductive capacity and the maintenance of mature reproductive function are related processes transcriptionally regulated by gene networks operating within the neuroendocrine brain. One of these genes, termed enhanced at puberty 1 (EAP1), encodes an upstream regulator of these processes. Selective inhibition of EAP1 expression in discrete regions of the rat and nonhuman primate (NHP) hypothalamus, via targeted delivery of RNA interference, either disrupts (rats) or abolishes (monkeys) reproductive cycles. The striking loss of menstrual cyclicity resulting from knocking down hypothalamic EAP1 expression suggests that diminished EAP1 function may contribute to disorders of the menstrual cycle of neuroendocrine origin. Here we show that a single-nucleotide polymorphism in the 5'-flanking region of EAP1 gene is associated with increased incidence of amenorrhea/oligomenorrhea in NHP. In the presence of the risk allele, binding of the transcription factor mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 3 (SMAD3) to its recognition site contained within the polymorphic sequence in the monkey EAP1 promoter is reduced. The risk allele also diminishes the increase in EAP1 promoter activity elicited by TGF1, a peptide that activates a SMAD3/4-mediated signaling pathway to regulate gene transcription. These findings indicate that common genetic variation in the EAP1 locus increases the susceptibility of NHP to loss/disruption of menstrual cyclicity. They also raise the possibility that polymorphisms in EAP1 may increase the risk of functional hypothalamic amenorrhea in humans.
Hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity is subject to negative feedback control by glucocorticoids. Although the rapid component of this feedback is widely considered to contribute to regulation of dynamic HPA activity, few in vivo data exist on the temporal and pharmacological characteristics of this phenomenon. Thus, frequent automated blood sampling was undertaken in rats to determine the effects of acute glucocorticoid administration on basal and stress-induced corticosterone secretion. The glucocorticoid agonist methylprednisolone (5-2000 g) or dexamethasone (5-500 g) injected iv at the peak of the diurnal rhythm caused dose-dependent suppression of basal corticosterone secretion, which was attenuated by the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU38486. With 50 g methylprednisolone, the onset of this suppression occurred at 40 min and remained significant for 120 min. However, although higher doses led to a greater and more sustained suppression of endogenous corticosterone, the response was delayed by the emergence of an initial stimulatory response that imposed a finite minimum delay. A corticosterone response to injection of CRH (1 g, iv) during the period of maximal suppression indicated a suprapituitary site for the inhibitory effect glucocorticoid activation. This mechanism was supported by glucocorticoid injection immediately before a psychological stress (30 min, white noise); methylprednisolone caused dose-dependent attenuation of stress-induced corticosterone release and expression of the activity marker c-fos mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus but did not block the pituitary response to CRH. Thus, in rats, glucocorticoid receptor activation rapidly suppresses basal and stress-induced HPA activity that operates, at least in part, through a central mechanism of action.

Mounting evidence suggest that epigenetic regulation of brain functions is important in the etiology of psychiatric disorders. These epigenetic regulatory mechanisms, such as DNA methylation and histone acetylation, are influenced by many pharmaceutical compounds including psychiatric drugs. It is therefore of interest to investigate how psychiatric drugs are of influence and what the potential is of new epigenetic drugs for psychiatric disorders. With this targeted review we summarize the current state of knowledge in order to provide insight in this developing field. Several traditional psychiatric drugs have been found to alter the epigenome and in a variety of animal studies, experimental compounds with epigenetic targets have been investigated as potential psychiatric drugs. After discussion of the most relevant epigenetic mechanisms we present the evidence for epigenetic effects for the most relevant classes of drugs.

Intermittent photic stimulation (IPS) is a common procedure performed in the electroencephalography (EEG) laboratory in children and adults to detect abnormal epileptogenic sensitivity to flickering light (i.e., photosensitivity). In practice, substantial variability in outcome is anecdotally found due to the many different methods used per laboratory and country. We believe that standardization of procedure, based on scientific and clinical data, should permit reproducible identification and quantification of photosensitivity. We hope that the use of our new algorithm will help in standardizing the IPS procedure, which in turn may more clearly identify and assist monitoring of patients with epilepsy and photosensitivity. Our algorithm goes far beyond that published in 1999 (Epilepsia, 1999a, 40, 75; Neurophysiol Clin, 1999b, 29, 318): it has substantially increased content, detailing technical and logistical aspects of IPS testing and the rationale for many of the steps in the IPS procedure. Furthermore, our latest algorithm incorporates the consensus of repeated scientific meetings of European experts in this field over a period of 6 years with feedback from general neurologists and epileptologists to improve its validity and utility. Accordingly, our European group has provided herein updated algorithms for two different levels of methodology: (1) requirements for defining photosensitivity in patients and in family members of known photosensitive patients and (2) requirements for tailored studies in patients with a clear history of visually induced seizures or complaints, and in those already known to be photosensitive.
Treatment of refractory idiopathic primary generalized epilepsy can be very challenging, with limited drug options, especially in young women of childbearing age. Here we describe the cases of two young women with refractory idiopathic primary generalized epilepsy refractory to multiple antiepileptic drugs in monotherapy or combination before achieving a long-term remission with adjunctive lacosamide (LCS) treatment. Larger, randomized prospective studies are necessary to establish the effectiveness of lacosamide in these patients.

Epileptic encephalopathies are an epileptic condition characterized by epileptiform abnormalities associated with progressive cerebral dysfunction. In the classification of the International League Against Epilepsy eight age-related epileptic encephalopathy syndromes are recognized. These syndromes include early myoclonic encephalopathy and Ohtahara syndrome in the neonatal period, West syndrome and Dravet syndrome in infancy, myoclonic status in nonprogressive encephalopathies, and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, Landau-Kleffner syndrome, and epilepsy with continuous spike waves during slow wave sleep in childhood and adolescences. Other epileptic syndromes such as migrating partial seizures in infancy and severe epilepsy with multiple independent spike foci may be reasonably added. In this paper, we provide an overview of epileptic encephalopathies including clinical neurophysiological features, cognitive deterioration, and management options especially that these conditions are generally refractory to standard antiepileptic drugs.
Neuropsychologists assist in diagnosis (i.e., localization of dysfunction) and in prediction (i.e., how cognition may change following surgery) in individuals being considered for temporal lobe surgery. The current practice includes behavioural testing as well as mapping function via stimulation, inactivation, and (more recently) functional imaging. These methods have been providing valuable information in surgical planning for 60 years. Here, we discuss current assessment strategies and highlight how they are evolving, particularly with respect to integrating recent advances in cognitive neuroscience.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is the most common form of medically intractable epilepsy. Advances in electrophysiology and neuroimaging have led to a more precise localization of the epileptogenic zone within the temporal lobe. Resective surgery is the most effective treatment for TLE. Despite the variability in surgical techniques and in the extent of resection, the overall outcomes of different TLE surgeries are similar. Here, we review different surgical interventions for the management of TLE.
The Presidential Address of the European Association of Developmental Psychology this year concerned how genes and environments interplay to shape loneliness and other developmental psychological relevant outcomes. This is a very welcome. However, when developmental psychology now is ready to integrate recent genetic and neuroscience knowledge and methods, I think it would be very wise to not uncritical go through the mistakes that have be done in other disciplines and instead learn from their hard lessons. I discuss some problems (genes versus environments, identifying gene for a phenotype, environments cause of developmental outcomes, and gene X environment interaction and epigenetics) and some suggestions for solutions which can be used to avoid throwing in the bathwater with the baby.
The aim of this study was to investigate the protein content in aqueous humor in eyes with and without pseudoexfoliations (PEX) and to evaluate the quantitative proteomics method, isobaric tagging for relative and absolute protein quantification (iTRAQ), in combination with two separation methods followed by matrix-assisted Laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry and tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). During cataract surgery, samples of aqueous humor were collected from 20 eyes with PEX and from 18 control eyes. The relative concentrations of proteins in the pooled samples of ten PEX eyes and eight controls were evaluated after trypsin digestion and Labeling of the peptides with (iTRAQ) reagent. Two separation methods, Liquid chromatography (LC) and capillary electrophoresis (CE) were used, followed by MALDI mass spectrometry and MS/MS. Furthermore, 1D gel electrophoresis was performed on the remaining ten pooled PEX samples and ten control samples. The gel material was separated by nano-liquid chromatography (nano-LC) followed by Linear-ion-trap quadrupole Fourier transformation ion cyclotron resonance (FT-ICR). Fifty four proteins were identified in the LC runs and 24 with CE. The relative concentrations of beta-crystallines B2 and S were raised and those of angiotensinogen and osteopontin Lowered in the PEX sample compared to the control. The trends regarding beta-crystallines B2, angiotensinogen and osteopontin were confirmed by the 1D gel electrophoresis.
The maintenance of long-lasting forms of plasticity, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) is dependent on the capture of plasticity-related proteins (PRPs) in an input-specific manner - synaptic capture. Here, it is shown that LTP, induced at Schaffer collaterals-CA1 synapses in acute rat hippocampal slice preparation, is not sensitive to protein synthesis inhibition if N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are blocked, suggesting that synaptic activation is involved in the modulation of LTP maintenance. Similarly, it was found that synaptic activation also determines the sensitivity of LTP to manipulations of the actin cytoskeleton dynamics. Suspending synaptic activation or concomitant NMDA receptor inhibition is sufficient to rescue the impairment on LTP maintenance induced by actin polymerization blockade. Additionally, concomitant inhibition of protein degradation can partially prevent the LTP decay observed under actin polymerization blockade, suggesting that protein degradation is involved in the destabilization of LTP maintenance induced by actin polymerization blockade. Taken together, these observations suggest that LTP maintenance is determined by a balance of synthesis and degradation of PRPs modulated by synaptic activation and actin dynamics. Finally, it was uncovered that inhibition of actin depolymerization blocks synaptic capture, whereas inhibition of actin polymerization can extend the temporal window for synaptic capture. Additionally, inhibition of actin polymerization can rescue the impairment in synaptic capture induced by CaMKII inhibition, suggesting a link between CaMKII activation and modulation of actin dynamics during synaptic capture. These results show that an activity-dependent regulation of actin dynamics plays a critical role in LTP maintenance and synaptic capture.
Transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs) are auxiliary subunits that modulate AMPA receptor trafficking, gating and pharmacology throughout the brain. Why cornichon-2 (CNIH-2), another AMPA receptor-associated protein, modulates AMPA receptor gating and pharmacology in hippocampal neurons but not cerebellar granule neurons remains unresolved. Here, we report that CNIH-2 differentially impacts Type-Ia (-2 or -3) vs. Type-Ib (-4 or -8) TARP-containing AMPA receptors. Specifically, with AMPA receptors comprising -2, the cerebellar-enriched TARP isoform, CNIH-2 decreases I(KA) /I(Glu) ratio and decreases cyclothiazide efficacy while having minimal impact on recovery from desensitization and deactivation kinetics. By contrast, with AMPA receptors comprising -8, the hippocampal-enriched TARP isoform, we find that CNIH-2 slows deactivation kinetics, increases cyclothiazide potency and occludes a novel AMPA receptor kinetic phenomenon, namely resensitization. Additionally, we find that CNIH-2 differentially modulates the glutamate off-kinetics of -8-containing, but not -2-containing, AMPA receptors in a manner dependent upon the duration of agonist application. Together, these data demonstrate that the modulation of AMPA receptors by CNIH-2 depends upon the TARP isoform composition within the receptor complex.
Experimental studies emphasize the importance of homeostatic plasticity as a mean of stabilizing the properties of neural circuits. In the present work we combined two techniques able to produce short-term (5-Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, rTMS) and long-term (transcranial direct current stimulation, tDCS) effects on corticospinal excitability to evaluate whether and how the effects of 5-Hz rTMS can be tuned by tDCS preconditioning. Twelve healthy subjects participated in the study. Brief trains of 5-Hz rTMS were applied to the primary motor cortex at an intensity of 120% of the resting motor threshold, with recording of the electromyograph traces evoked by each stimulus of the train from the contralateral abductor pollicis brevis muscle. This interventional protocol was preconditioned by 15 min of anodal or cathodal tDCS delivered at 1.5 mA intensity. Our results showed that motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) increased significantly in size during trains of 5-Hz rTMS in the absence of tDCS preconditioning. After facilitatory preconditioning with anodal tDCS, 5-Hz rTMS failed to produce progressive MEP facilitation. Conversely, when 5-Hz rTMS was preceded by inhibitory cathodal tDCS, MEP facilitation was not abolished. These findings may give insight into the mechanisms of homeostatic plasticity in the human cerebral cortex, suggesting also more suitable applications of tDCS in a clinical setting.

TRPM1 is a spontaneously active non-selective cation channel that has recently been shown to play an important role in the depolarizing light responses of ON bipolar cells. Consistent with this role, mutations in the TRPM1 gene have been identified as a principal cause of congenital stationary night blindness. However, previous microarray studies have shown that Trpm1 and Trpm3 are acutely regulated by light in the eyes of mice lacking rods and cones (rd/rd cl), a finding consistent with a role in non-image-forming photoreception. In this study we show that pupillary light responses are significantly attenuated in both Trpm1(-/-) and Trpm3(-/-) animals. Trpm1(-/-) mice exhibit a profound deficit in the pupillary response that is far in excess of that observed in mice lacking rods and cones (rd/rd cl) or melanopsin, and cannot be explained by defects in bipolar cell function alone. Immunolocalization studies suggest that TRPM1 is expressed in ON bipolar cells and also a subset of cells in the ganglion cell layer, including melanopsin-expressing photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (pRGCs). We conclude that, in addition to its role in bipolar cell signalling, TRPM1 is involved in non-image-forming responses to light and may perform a functional role within pRGCs. By contrast, TRPM3(-/-) mice display a more subtle pupillary phenotype with attenuated responses under bright light and dim light conditions. Expression of TRPM3 is detected in Muller cells and the ciliary body but is absent from pRGCs, and thus our data support an indirect role for TRPM3 in pupillary light responses.
Past neuroimaging studies of writing demonstrate activation foci in several regions of the posterior parietal cortex (PPC). The present study aimed to dissociate the role of the superior parietal lobule (SPL) from the other PPC regions using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and functional connectivity. First, parametric event-related fMRI permitted the categorical comparison of experimental writing conditions with control conditions that were carefully chosen to match the experimental conditions in terms of variables extraneous to the motor act of writing, such as visual stimulus characteristics, and generating and retrieving verbal information. A selective focus of increased activation in the PPC restricted to the rostral part of the SPL (area PE) in the left hemisphere was demonstrated. Subsequently, functional connectivity analysis showed that area PE flexibly interacts with different language areas depending on the linguistic demands of the writing task. Activity in area PE correlates with the left angular gyrus, a region implicated in reading, when the writing is in response to words that are read; in sharp contrast, when the writing is in response to pictured objects, then area PE correlates with the supramarginal gyrus, a region involved in the articulatory and phonological loop, as well as with prefrontal regions that are involved in the retrieval and selection of semantic information. The results suggest that area PE serves as a critical interface between posterior cortical regions in the left hemisphere involved in language processing and the central motor and sensory regions that are directly involved in the control of movement.
Morphological and electrophysiological studies have shown that granule cell axons, the mossy fibers (MFs), establish gap junctions and therefore electrical communication among them. That granule cells express gap junctional proteins in their axons suggests the possibility that their terminals also express them. If this were to be the case, mixed electrical-chemical communication could be supported, as MF terminals normally use glutamate for fast communication with their target cells. Here we present electrophysiological studies in the rat and modeling studies consistent with this hypothesis. We show that MF activation produced fast spikelets followed by excitatory postsynaptic potentials in pyramidal cells (PCs), which, unlike the spikelets, underwent frequency potentiation and were strongly depressed by activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors, as expected from transmission of MF origin. The spikelets, which persisted during blockade of chemical transmission, were potentiated by dopamine and suppressed by the gap junction blocker carbenoxolone. The various waveforms evoked by MF stimulation were replicated in a multi-compartment model of a PC by brief current-pulse injections into the proximal apical dendritic compartment, where MFs are known to contact PCs. Mixed electrical and glutamatergic communication between granule cells and some PCs in CA3 may ensure the activation of sets of PCs, bypassing the strong action of concurrent feed-forward inhibition that granule cells activate. Importantly, MF-to-PC electrical coupling may allow bidirectional, possibly graded, communication that can be faster than chemical synapses and subject to different forms of modulation.
Owing to methodological shortcomings and a certain conservatism that consolidates wrong assumptions in the literature, some dogmas have become established and reproduced in papers and textbooks, derived from quantitative features of the brain. The first dogma states that the cerebral cortex is the pinnacle of brain evolution - based on the observations that its volume is greater in more 'intelligent' species, and that cortical surface area grows more than any other brain region, to reach the largest proportion in higher primates and humans. The second dogma claims that the human brain contains 100 billion neurons, plus 10-fold more glial cells. These round numbers have become widely adopted, although data provided by different authors have led to a broad range of 75-125 billion neurons in the whole brain. The third dogma derives from the second, and states that our brain is structurally special, an outlier as compared with other primates. Being so large and convoluted, it is a special construct of nature, unrelated to evolutionary scaling. Finally, the fourth dogma appeared as a tentative explanation for the considerable growth of the brain throughout development and evolution - being modular in structure, the brain (and particularly the cerebral cortex) grows by tangential addition of modules that are uniform in neuronal composition. In this review, we sought to examine and challenge these four dogmas, and propose other interpretations or simply their replacement with alternative views.
Stress can be a predisposing factor in the development of psychiatric disorders. However, not all individuals develop psychiatric disorders following a traumatic event. An attempt to understand these individual differences has led to a focus on factors that produce resistance. Interestingly, in rats, an experience with escapable tailshock (ES) before inescapable tailshock (IS) prevents the typical anxiety-like behavioral outcomes of IS. This type of resistance has been termed 'behavioral immunization', and it depends on activation of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) during ES. However, one outcome of IS that is not anxiety-related is potentiation of morphine conditioned place preference (CPP). The present experiments investigated whether prior ES would block IS-induced potentiation of morphine CPP. Rats received either ES, IS or homecage control treatment on day 1 and then either IS or homecage control treatment on day 2. Twenty-four hours following day 2, rats underwent morphine conditioning, and CPP was subsequently assessed. In a second experiment, rats received ES 3, 14 or 56 days prior to IS to determine the duration of behavioral immunization. In a final experiment, rats were microinjected with the GABA(A) agonist muscimol (50 ng/0.5 L) or saline in the mPFC before day 1 of stress. Prior ES blocked IS-induced potentiation of morphine CPP. This immunizing effect of ES lasted for at least 56 days. Additionally, intra-mPFC muscimol during ES prevented behavioral immunization. These results suggest that prior experience with ES activates the mPFC and produces long-lasting neural alterations that block subsequent IS-induced potentiation of morphine CPP.
Neuropathic pain is often accompanied by stress, anxiety and depression. Although there is evidence for involvement of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), the detailed neuronal basis of these pain-related mood alterations is unknown. This study shows that peripheral mononeuropathy was accompanied by changes in limbic forebrain CRF, but did not lead to changes in the functioning of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis and the midbrain Edinger-Westphal centrally projecting (EWcp) neuron population, which play main roles in the organism's response to acute pain. Twenty-four days after chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the rat sciatic nerve, the oval bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTov) contained substantially more Crf mRNA as did the central amygdala (CeA), which, in addition, possessed more CRF. In contrast, Crf mRNA and CRF contents of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) were unaffected by CCI. Similarly, EWcp neurons, producing the CRF family member urocortin 1 (Ucn1) and constitutively activated by various stressors including acute pain, did not show an effect of CCI on Ucn1 mRNA or Ucn1. Also, the immediate early gene products cFos and deltaFosB in the EWcp were unaffected by CCI. These results indicate that neuropathic pain does not act via the HPA-axis or the EWcp, but includes a main role of Crf in the limbic system, which is in clear contrast to stressors like acute and chronic pain, which primarily act on the PVN and the EWcp.

The perception of the vertical is frequently shifted to the contralesional side in patients with hemispheric lesions, and this is amplified by spatial neglect. However, we do not know the specific influence of hemianopia and space of perception on this phenomenon. Here, we analyzed the respective influences of spatial neglect, hemianopia and hemispace on the subjective vertical in patients with right hemispheric stroke. Twelve neglect patients with and 5 without hemianopia were compared to 3 non-neglect patients with and 13 without hemianopia. They had to match a luminous rod to the vertical, either in the mid-sagittal plane or in the right or the left hemispace. Patients showed a counter-clockwise deviation, and this was exaggerated by both neglect and hemianopia. In patients with neglect, the error was greater in the left hemispace. In conclusion, neglect and hemianopia had additive effects on the contralesional bias of the subjective vertical.

Dysautonomia can occur in early stages of Parkinson's disease (PD) influencing tolerance to dopaminergic therapies. Rotigotine, a non-ergot dopamine agonist, has recently been developed as an effective alternative antiparkinsonian drug, but its influence on the autonomic nervous system was not investigated. Twenty subjects out of 34 consecutive de novo PD patients were submitted to full assessment of cardiovascular autonomic function before and after reaching a stable rotigotine regimen [6 mg/24 h (n = 3) or 8 mg/24 h (n = 17)]. Patients reached significant clinical improvement (-27% on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale part III) and did not show significant differences in cardiovascular tests compared to baseline data. However, an unexpected trend towards increasing systolic blood pressure after head-up tilt test was detected. Our study demonstrates that rotigotine does not influence cardiovascular autonomic responses in early de novo PD patients. Consequently, it may represent a well-tolerated and efficacious therapeutic option in newly diagnosed PD subjects.


This article highlights the life and work of Bernhard Pollack (1865-1928), a pioneer neurohistologist, ophthalmologist, and world-class pianist. In 1897, Pollack published the first standard manual on staining methods for the nervous system. Born into a Prussian-Jewish family, he received his piano education from the composer Moritz Moszkowski and his pathology education from Carl Weigert. Pollack worked in the Institutes of Wilhelm Waldeyer (anatomy), Emanuel Mendel (neuropsychiatry), the later Nobel laureate Robert Koch (infectious diseases), and the Eye Policlinic of Paul Silex (ophthalmology), becoming a Professor of Ophthalmology at Berlin's Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universitt in 1919. The study also chronicles the founding by Pollack of the Berlin Doctors' Orchestra in 1911.


We demonstrated the exact location of the somatotopic area of the corticospinal tract in the internal capsule. Ten healthy subjects participated in this study. We used the imaging technique that combines functional magnetic resonance imaging and diffusion tensor tractography. In order to reduce erroneous elements while image processing, we used the probabilistic tracking algorithm and brain normalization method. Our results showed that hand fibers were located anteromedial to foot fibers, and the separation angle between them was 45.00-78.69. In conclusion, we confirmed the relative location of hand and foot fibers and the separation angle in the internal capsule. These data are useful information for neuroscience researchers.

Anhedonia is a condition in which the capacity to experience pleasure is totally or partially lost. Although anhedonia is a feature of major depressive disorder according to DSM IV criteria for major depression diagnosis, so far it has received relatively little attention. The scale that is most commonly used in the measurement of anhedonia is the Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale (SHAPS), a brief 14-item self-report questionnaire designed to measure hedonic tone and its absence. Two studies have described the efficacy of agomelatine in the treatment of anhedonia: an open-label study and a comparative trial versus the antidepressant venlafaxine XR. In both studies agomelatine significantly reduced anhedonia, as indicated using the SHAPS. This reduction was observed after the first week of treatment (P&lt;0.05) and at different times until the end of the trial. Moreover, in the comparative trial, a significant difference between groups was observed in favor of agomelatine, after 1 (P&lt;0.05), 2 (P&lt;0.01), and 8 weeks (P&lt;0.01). The possible effect of agomelatine on anhedonia may represent a novel area of interest among antidepressant agents and deserves further investigation, with larger samples and double-blind placebo-controlled designs.
Different models of emotion highlight the role of strategic brain regions in emotion identification, response and regulation. Cortical, subcortical and limbic structures constitute the emotional brain. In this short review, we focus on the function of the amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex. Both regions have reciprocal connections and are densely connected with cortical and subcortical structures. Beyond its classical role in fear processing, the amygdala is considered as a region that detects salient and personally relevant stimuli in cooperation with ventral and dorsal medial prefrontal cortex. Amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex are also engaged in the processing of socially relevant stimuli. Our review emphasized the overlap between the emotional and the social brain. Adopting a socio-affective neuroscience perspective is a promising perspective to identify new pathophysiological pathways in the study of emotion and mental disorders, especially major depressive disorder.
Previous meta-analyses of structural MRI studies have shown diffuse cortical and sub-cortical abnormalities in unipolar depression. However, the presence of duplicate publications, recruitment of particular age groups and the selection of specific regions of interest means that there is uncertainty about the balance of current research. Moreover, the lack of systematic exploration of highly significant heterogeneity has prevented the generalisability of finding. A systematic review and random-effects meta-analysis was carried out to estimate effect sizes. Possible publication bias, and the impact of various study design characteristics on the magnitude of the observed effect size were systematically explored. The aim of this study was 1) to include structural MRI studies systematically comparing unipolar depression with bipolar disorder and healthy volunteers; 2) to consider all available structures of interest without specific age limits, avoiding data duplication, and 3) to explore the influence of factors contributing to the measured effect sizes systematically with meta-regression analyses. Unipolar depression was characterised by reduced brain volume in areas involved in emotional processing, including the frontal cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, cingulate cortex, hippocampus and striatum. There was also evidence of pituitary enlargement and an excess of white matter hyperintensity volume in unipolar depression. Factors which influenced the magnitude of the observed effect sizes were differences in methods, clinical variables, pharmacological interventions and sample age.
The relationship between antipsychotic use and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality is controversial. There is a lack of long-term prospective studies investigating changes in cardiometabolic risk in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. We report data from a 4-year prospective study. Patients (89) underwent detailed metabolic and cardiovascular risk assessment at 4-years which included anthropometric assessment, blood pressure, lipid profile, and an oral glucose tolerance test. We used the homeostatic model assessment to determine insulin resistance, and calculated 10-year cardiovascular risk scores. Mean age of subjects was 44.7 ( 11.5) years, and 52% were male. The prevalence of type 2 diabetes was 8%, and 38.4% fulfilled diagnostic criteria for the metabolic syndrome. With the exception of increased central adiposity over the 4-year follow-up period (p &lt; 0.001), other cardiometabolic parameters were generally unchanged. There was a high prevalence of dyslipidaemia, but only 16.9% were prescribed lipid-lowering treatment. Commencing lipid-lowering therapy was associated with a reduction in cardiovascular risk score (OR 7.9, 95% CI = 1.3 to 48.7; p = 0.02). Patients established on longer-term antipsychotic treatment show less dramatic metabolic changes than those occurring in the early stages of treatment, but have a high burden of cardiovascular risk. Lipid-lowering therapy is associated with a significant reduction in cardiovascular risk.
