























































Curculigoside A may be a powerful way of protecting the brain against a wide variety of injury. In the present study, we sought to elucidate whether Curculigoside A contributes to induce angiogenesis and its mechanisms. To this end, we examined the role of Curculigoside A on proliferation, invasion, and tube formation in the human brain microvascular endothelial cell line (HBMEC) in vitro. For studying mechanism, the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) inhibitor 2-naphthol-AS-E-phosphate (KG-501), early growth response 3 (Egr-3) siRNA, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antagonist sFlt-1 and VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2) blocker SU-1498 were used. Human brain microvascular endothelial cell line (HMBEC) proliferation was tested by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT). Scratch adhesion test was used to assess the ability of invasion. A matrigel tube formation assay was performed to test capillary tube formation ability. Vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1)/Egr-3/CREB/VEGF pathway activation in HMBEC was tested by Western blot analysis. Our data suggested that Curculigoside A induced angiogenesis in vitro by enhancing the proliferation, invasion and tube formation. VEGF expression was increased by Curculigoside A and counteracted by the soluble VEGF receptor 1 (sFlt-1, VEGF antagonist) and KG-501 in HMBEC. Tube formation was enhanced by Curculigoside A and counteracted by VEGF receptor blocker-SU1498, KG-501 and Egr-3 siRNA. It may be suggested that Curculigoside A induces angiogenesis in vitro via a programed VCAM-1/Egr-3/CREB/VEGF signaling axis.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive neurological disorder that is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Dopamine, via the oxidative stress that it generates in the cytosol, could contribute to the selective loss of neurons observed in PD. Protein L-isoaspartyl methyltransferase (PIMT) is an enzyme that repairs L-isoaspartyl-containing proteins and possesses anti-apoptotic properties. PIMT expression has been shown to decrease with age. Together, these observations prompted us to investigate whether dopamine can regulate PIMT expression in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Here, we report that dopamine down-regulated PIMT at both gene and protein levels. The same inhibition of PIMT protein level was caused by the electron transport chain inhibitor, rotenone, which was accompanied, in both cases, by an increase in cell death and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. In fact, pre-treatment with the antioxidant N-acetyl cysteine blocked PIMT dopamine-associated down-regulation. PCMT1 promoter mapping experiments allowed the identification of two regions that showed different sensitivity to DA action. A first region localized between 61 and 94bp upstream of transcription start site was very sensitive to dopamine inhibition while a second region between 41 and 61bp appeared more resistant to dopamine inhibitory effect. The inhibition of PCMT1 promoter activity was mediated by dopamine-induced ROS since it was prevented by the hydroxyl radical scavenger N,N'-dimethylthiourea. Conversely, H2O2 inhibited in a dose-dependent manner the transcriptional activity of PCMT1 promoter. Therefore, our findings identified new molecular mechanisms, cytosolic dopamine and its resulting ROS, as inhibitors of PIMT expression. This suggests that ROS generated from cytosolic dopamine could reduce both the PCMT1 gene promoter activity and the PIMT protein level thus decreasing its capacity to repair proteins involved in apoptosis and could contribute to neuronal cell death observed in PD.
Many marine fishes change sex in response to social cues when the dominance hierarchy is perturbed. Arginine-vasotocin (AVT) and the mammalian homolog arginine vasopressin are neuropeptides involved in social and reproductive behaviors across vertebrate taxa. The goal of this study was to determine whether AVT signaling influences aggression and expression of c-Fos, a marker of neuroplasticity, in key brain regions of the social decision circuit in Amphiprion ocellaris clownfish, a species where behavioral dominance precedes gonadal sex change from male to female. In experiment 1, juvenile clownfish (average mass 2.5g) were paired together in a tank (a total of 24 pairs), matched approximately for size with one fish randomly receiving either an intraperitoneal injection of the arginine vasopressin V1a receptor antagonist (Manning compound) or saline vehicle, and evaluated for aggressive and submissive behaviors over a 10-min period. The second experiment was a repeat of the first using five pairs of mature, reproductive males, except the animals interacted for 90-min immediately followed by euthanasia for immunohistochemical detection of c-Fos protein. Numbers of c-Fos-positive cells were quantified in the preoptic area of the hypothalamus (POA), the anterior tuberal nucleus (aTn), and periventricular nucleus of the posterior tuberculum (TPp). Manning compound significantly reduced aggression and the probability of winning the contest relative to saline (vehicle) controls. In experiment 2, saline-treated fish displayed approximately twice as many c-Fos-positive cells in the POA and 25% more in the TPp than the Manning-treated fish, no differences were observed in the aTn. Taken together, results suggest AVT signaling is necessary for aggressive behavior and expression of neuroplasticity in the POA and TPp that likely contributes to behavioral dominance and hence, sex change in A. ocellaris.
The atrial volume receptor reflex arc serves to regulate plasma volume. Atrial volume receptors located in the endocardium of the atrial wall undergo mechanical deformation as blood is returned to the atria of the heart. The mechanosensitive channel(s) responsible for regulating plasma volume remain to be determined. Here we report that the TRP channel family members TRPC1 and TRPV4 were expressed in sensory nerve endings in the atrial endocardium. Furthermore, TRPC1 and TRPV4 were coincident with the nerve ending vesicle marker synaptophysin. Calcitonin gene-related peptide was exclusively confined to the myo- and epicardium of the atria. The small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (SK2 and SK4) were also present, however there was no relationship between SK and TRP channels. SK2 channels were expressed in nerves in the epicardium, while SK4 channels were in some regions of the endocardium but appeared to be present in epithelial cells rather than sensory endings. In conclusion, we have provided the first evidence for TRPC1 and TRPV4 channels as potential contributors to mechanosensation in the atrial volume receptors.
The suggestion of an anatomical and functional relationship between the basal ganglia and cerebellum is recent. Traditionally, these structures were considered as neuronal circuits working separately to organize and control goal-directed movements and cognitive functions. However, several studies in rodents and primates have described an anatomical interaction between cortico-basal and cortico-cerebellar networks. Most importantly, functional changes have been observed in one of these circuits when altering the other one. In this context, we aimed to accomplish an extensive description of cerebellar activation patterns using cFOS expression (cFOS-IR) after acute and chronic manipulation of dopaminergic activity. In the acute study, substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) activity was stimulated or suppressed by intra cerebral administration of picrotoxin or lidocaine, respectively. In addition, we analyzed cerebellar activity after the induction of a parkinsonism model, the tremulous jaw movements. In this model, tremulous jaw movements were induced in male rats by IP chronic administration of the dopamine antagonist haloperidol (1.5mg/kg). Acute stimulation of SNc by picrotoxin increased cFOS-IR in the vermis and cerebellar hemispheres. However, lidocaine did not produce an effect. After 14days of haloperidol treatment, the vermis and cerebellar hemispheres showed an opposite regulation of cFOS expression. Chronic dopaminergic antagonism lessened cFOS expression in the vermis but up-regulated such expression in the cerebellar hemisphere. Overall, the present data indicate a very close functional relationship between the basal ganglia and the cerebellum and they may allow a better understanding of disorders in which there are dopamine alterations.
Respiratory disturbances are a primary phenotype of the neurological disorder, Rett syndrome (RTT), caused by mutations in the X-linked gene encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2). Mouse models generated with null mutations in Mecp2 mimic respiratory abnormalities in RTT girls. Large deletions, however, are seen in only 10% of affected human individuals. Here we characterized respiration in heterozygous females from two mouse models that genetically mimic common RTT point mutations, a missense mutation T158A (Mecp2(T158A/)(+)) or a nonsense mutation R168X (Mecp2(R168X/+)). MeCP2 T158A shows decreased binding to methylated DNA, while MeCP2 R168X retains the capacity to bind methylated DNA but lacks the ability to recruit complexes required for transcriptional repression. We found that both Mecp2(T158A/+) and Mecp2(R168X/+) heterozygotes display augmented hypoxic ventilatory responses and depressed hypercapnic responses, compared to wild-type controls. Interestingly, the incidence of apnea was much greater in Mecp2(R168X/+) heterozygotes, 189 per hour, than Mecp2(T158A/+) heterozygotes, 41 per hour. These results demonstrate that different RTT mutations lead to distinct respiratory phenotypes, suggesting that characterization of the respiratory phenotype may reveal functional differences between MeCP2 mutations and provide insights into the pathophysiology of RTT.
In a previous work we found that nitric oxide (NO) and cyclicGMP (cGMP) inhibit glutamatergic synaptic transmission in trigeminal motoneurons (MnV). Here we study the actions of the NO/cGMP signaling pathway on glycinergic synaptic transmission in trigeminal and hypoglossal motoneurons (MnXII) in brain stem slices of neonatal rats. Glycinergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were recorded in MnV by stimulation of the supratrigeminal nucleus (SuV) and in MnXII by stimulation of the nucleus of Roller. The NO donor DETA/NONOate (DETA/NO) reduced the amplitude of the IPSC to 58.14.2% of control values in MnV. In the presence of YC-1, a modulator of guanylate cyclase that acts as a NO sensitizer, lower and otherwise ineffective concentrations of DETA/NO induced a reduction of the IPSC to 47.215.6%. NO effects were mimicked by 8 bromo cyclicGMP (8BrcGMP). They were accompanied by an increase in the paired pulse facilitation (PPF) and in the failure rate of evoked IPSCs. 8BrcGMP did not modify the glycinergic currents elicited by exogenous glycine. In MnXII the IPSCs were also reduced by NO donors and 8BrcGMP to 52.96.3% and 45.94% of control values, respectively. In these neurons, but not in MnV, we also observed excitatory postsynaptic actions of NO donors. We propose that the differences between the two motor pools may be due to a differential development of the nitrergic system in the two nuclei. Our data show that NO, through its second messenger cGMP, reduces inhibitory glycinergic synaptic transmission in both MnV and MnXII. For MnV, evidence in favor of presynaptic inhibition of glycine release is presented. Given our previous data together with the current results, we propose that the NO/cGMP signaling pathway participates pre- and postsynaptically in the combined regulation of MnV and MnXII activities in motor acts in which they participate.
Though sex differences in pain and analgesia are known, underlying mechanisms remain elusive. This study addresses the selective contribution of membrane estrogen receptors (mERs) and mER-initiated non-genomic signaling mechanisms in our previously reported estrogen-induced attenuation of 2-adrenoceptor-mediated antinociception. By selectively targeting spinal mERs in ovariectomized female rats using -estradiol 6-(O-carboxy-methyl)oxime bovine serum albumin (E2BSA) (membrane impermeant estradiol analog), and ER selective agonist 4,4',4-(4-propyl-[1H]-pyrazole-1,3,5-triyl)trisphenol (PPT), ER selective agonist 2,3-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-propionitrile (DPN), G-protein-coupled estrogen receptor 30 (GPR30) agonist G1 and Gq-coupled mER (Gq-mER) agonist STX, we provide strong evidence that Gq-mER activation may solely contribute to suppressing clonidine (an 2-adrenoceptor agonist)-induced antinociception, using the nociceptive tail-flick test. Increased tail-flick latencies (TFLs) by intrathecal (i.t.) clonidine were not significantly altered by i.t. PPT, DPN, or G1. In contrast, E2BSA or STX rapidly and dose-dependently attenuated clonidine-induced increase in TFL. ICI 182,780, the ER antagonist, blocked this effect. Consistent with findings with the lack of effect of ER and ER agonists that modulate receptor-regulated transcription, inhibition of de novo protein synthesis using anisomycin also failed to alter the effect of E2BSA or STX, arguing against a contribution of genomic mechanisms. Immunoblotting of spinal tissue revealed that mER activation increased levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) but not of protein kinase A (PKA) or C (PKC). In vivo inhibition of ERK with U0126 blocked the effect of STX and restored clonidine antinociception. Although estrogen-induced delayed genomic mechanisms may still exist, data presented here indicate that Gq-mER may solely mediate estradiol-induced attenuation of clonidine antinociception via a rapid, reversible, and ERK-dependent, non-genomic mechanism, suggesting that Gq-mER blockade might provide improved analgesia in females.

Rotenone, which is used as a pesticide and insecticide, has been shown to cause systemic inhibition of mitochondrial complex I activity, with consequent degeneration of dopaminergic neurons within the substantia nigra and striatum, as observed in Parkinson's disease. A novel intrastriatal rotenone model of Parkinson's disease was used to examine the neuroprotective effects of valproic acid (VPA), which is known to upregulate neurotrophic factors and other protective proteins in the brain. Sham or lesioned rats were treated with either vehicle or VPA at a dose of 4mg/mL in drinking water. The right striatum was lesioned by infusion of rotenone at three sites (2g/site) along its rostro-caudal axis. A forelimb asymmetry (cylinder) test indicated a significant (p&lt;0.01) decrease in use of the contralateral forelimb in rotenone-lesioned animals, in the third week post-lesioning, which was abolished by VPA treatment. Similarly, a significant (p&lt;0.01) and persistent increase in use of the ipsilateral forelimb in lesioned animals over the 4weeks of testing, was not seen in animals treated with VPA. Results of the asymmetry test illustrate that intrastriatal infusion of rotenone causes contralateral motor dysfunction, which is blocked by VPA. The significant increase in ipsilateral forelimb use has not been documented previously, and presumably represents a compensatory response in lesioned animals. Six weeks post-surgery, animals were sacrificed by transcardial perfusion. Subsequent immunohistochemical examination revealed a decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity within the striatum and substantia nigra of rotenone-lesioned animals. VPA treatment attenuated the decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase in the striatum and abolished it in the substantia nigra. Stereological cell counting indicated a significant (p&lt;0.05) decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra of rotenone-lesioned animals, which was confirmed by Nissl staining. Importantly, this loss of dopamine neurons in rotenone-lesioned animals, was blocked by chronic VPA treatment. These findings strongly support the therapeutic potential of VPA in Parkinson's disease.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) plays an important role in migraine with aura. The caudate nucleus has crucial functional interactions with brain regions likely to be important in migraine. The aim of the present in vitro study was to investigate the effect of CSD on the neuronal activity of the caudate. Intracellular recording was performed in the head of the caudate nucleus alongside of extracellular recording in Wistar rat somatosensory cortex. CSD was induced by local KCl injection. Changes in the membrane potentials of the caudate neurons began 1.20.2min after CSD. The neurons of the caudate nucleus depolarized first gradually and slightly then it depolarized abruptly at nearly the same point of time of the recovery of the cortical DC potential. Action potentials (APs) reappeared after the cortical DC shift returned to the baseline. Forty-five minutes after CSD, the caudate neurons showed lower frequency of APs and larger amplitude of depolarization prior to APs. The firing pattern of the caudate neurons evoked by injection of intracellular current pulses changed from slow adapting to fast adapting after CSD. Reduced neuronal activity in the caudate after CSD may be assumed to contribute to pain as well as changes in cognition and behavior in patients with migraine.
In stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP/Izm), ischemia induces swelling of astrocytes, a process that subsequently leads to neuronal death. Following ischemic insult, arginine vasopressin (AVP) can induce edema and l-serine released by astrocytes supports the survival of neuronal cells. The purpose of this study was to examine whether AVP contributed to the regulation of l-serine production following ischemic stroke. Here, we used cultured astrocytes from SHRSP/Izm rats and Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY/Izm) to examine whether AVP changed the production of l-serine and/or altered gene expression levels of the neural amino acid transporter (Slc1a4), 3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (Phgdh) and serine racemase (SRR). Furthermore, using astrocytes from the congenic rat SHRpch1_18 strain having quantitative trait loci (QTL) of stroke, we examined expression of those genes under conditions of hypoxia and reoxygenation (H/R). The expression levels of ASCT1 protein, the genes described above and l-serine levels were determined by Western blotting (WB), RT-PCR, real-time quantitative RT-PCR and HPLC. AVP increased the production of l-serine and the expression of Slc1a4 in WKY/Izm and SHRSP/Izm astrocytes. The production of l-serine and the expression of Slc1a4 were lower in SHRSP/Izm than in WKY/Izm cells. This difference was not seen with Phgdh. In the SHRpch1_18 strain, the expression of Slc1a4 and Phgdh significantly decreased after H/R. AVP-mediated enhanced expression of ASCT1 was blocked by the addition of bumetanide. These results suggest that the AVP-mediated attenuated expression of ASCT1 in astrocytes is associated with reduced l-serine production in SHRSP/Izm astrocytes. We hypothesize that reduction of gene expression by AVP might be related to the induction of stroke in the SHRpch1_18 rat strain.
Impaired balance may limit mobility and daily activities, and plays a key role in the elderly falling. Maintaining balance requires a concerted action of the sensory, nervous and motor systems, whereby cause and effect mutually affect each other within a closed loop. Aforementioned systems and their connecting pathways are prone to chronological age and disease-related deterioration. System redundancy allows for compensation strategies, e.g. sensory reweighting, to maintain standing balance in spite of the deterioration of underlying systems. Once those strategies fail, impaired balance and possible falls may occur. Targeted interventions to prevent falling require knowledge of the quality of the underlying systems and the compensation strategies used. As current clinical balance tests only measure the ability to maintain standing balance and cannot distinguish between cause and effect in a closed loop, there is a clear clinical need for new techniques to assess standing balance. A way to disentangle cause-and-effect relations to identify primary defects and compensation strategies is based on the application of external disturbances and system identification techniques, applicable in clinical practice. This paper outlines the multiple deteriorations of the underlying systems that may be involved in standing balance, which have to be detected early to prevent impaired standing balance. An overview of clinically used balance tests shows that early detection of impaired standing balance and identification of causal mechanisms is difficult with current tests, thereby hindering the development of well-timed and target-oriented interventions as described next. Finally, a new approach to assess standing balance and to detect the underlying deteriorations is proposed.
In seeking evidence for the presence and characteristic range of coupled time scale(s) of putative implicit turbulent attractors of dorsal frontal lobe magnetic fields, the recorded nonstationary, nonlinear MEG signals were non-orthogonally decomposed using Huang's Empirical Mode Decomposition, EMD, (Huang and Attoh-Okine, 2005) into 16 Intrinsic Mode Functions, EMDIMFi, i=116. Measures known to be invariant in non-uniformly hyperbolic (turbulent) dynamical systems, topological entropy, hT, metric entropy, hM, non-uniform entropy, hU and power spectral scaling exponent, , were imposed on each of the IMFi which evidenced most clearly an invariant temporal scale zone of IMFi, i=611, for hT, which we have found to be the most robust of invariant measures of MEG's magnetic field turbulent attractors (Mandell et al., 2011a,b; Mandell, 2013). The ergodic theory of dynamical systems (Walters, 1982; Pollicott and Yuri, 1998) allows the inference that an implicit attractor with consistently hT&gt;0 will also evidence at least one positive Lyapounov exponent indicating the presence of a turbulent attractor with exponential separation of nearby initial conditions, exponential convergence of distant points and disordering, mixing, of orbital sequences. It appears that this approach permits the inference of the presence of chaotic, turbulent attractor and its characteristic time scales without the invocation of arbitrary n-dimensional embedding, phase space reconstructions or (inappropriate) orthogonal decompositions.
Our previous study showed that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced brain injury in the neonatal rat is associated with nitrosative and oxidative stress. The present study was conducted to examine whether melatonin, an endogenous molecule with antioxidant properties, reduces systemic LPS-induced nitrosative and oxidative damage in the neonatal rat brain. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of LPS (2mg/kg) was administered to Sprague-Dawley rat pups on postnatal day 5 (P5), and i.p. administration of melatonin (20mg/kg) or vehicle was performed 5min after LPS injection. Sensorimotor behavioral tests were performed 24h after LPS exposure, and brain injury was examined after these tests. The results show that systemic LPS exposure resulted in impaired sensorimotor behavioral performance, and acute brain injury, as indicated by the loss of oligodendrocyte immunoreactivity and a decrease in mitochondrial activity in the neonatal rat brain. Melatonin treatment significantly reduced LPS-induced neurobehavioral disturbances and brain damage in neonatal rats. The neuroprotective effect of melatonin was associated with attenuation of LPS-induced nitrosative and oxidative stress, as indicated by the decreased nitrotyrosine- and 4-hydroxynonenal-positive staining in the brain following melatonin and LPS exposure in neonatal rats. Further, melatonin significantly attenuated LPS-induced increases in the number of activated microglia in the neonatal rat brain. The protection provided by melatonin was also associated with a reduced number of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)+ cells, which were double-labeled with ED1 (microglia). Our results show that melatonin prevents the brain injury and neurobehavioral disturbances induced by systemic LPS exposure in neonatal rats, and its neuroprotective effects are associated with its impact on nitrosative and oxidative stress.
Dimebon (dimebolin or latrepirdine), originally developed as an anti-histaminic drug, has been investigated and proposed as a cognitive enhancer for treating neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Huntington's diseases, and more recently schizophrenia. This study was conducted to evaluate the potential neuroprotective effect of dimebon during brain ischemia using rat hippocampal slices subjected to oxygen and glucose deprivation followed by a reoxygenation period (OGD/Reox) or glutamate excitotoxicity. Dimebon, incubated during the OGD/Reox period, caused a concentration -dependent protective effect of hippocampal slices; maximum protection (85%) was achieved at 30M. Mitochondrial membrane depolarization, reactive oxygen species of oxygen (ROS) production, nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) induction and translocation of p65 to the nucleus induced by OGD/Reox were significantly reduced in dimebon-treated hippocampal slices. In the glutamate-induced excitotoxicity model, dimebon also afforded a concentration-dependent protective effect that was significantly higher than that obtained with memantine, a non-competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist. When changes in the intracellular calcium concentration were evaluated in Fluo-4-loaded rat hippocampal neurons, glutamate-induced calcium transients were reduced by 20% with dimebon. These results suggest that dimebon could counteract different pathophysiological processes during ischemic brain damage and, could therefore, be considered as a novel therapeutic strategy for cerebral ischemia-reoxygenation injury.
Homer protein, a member of the post-synaptic density protein family, plays an important role in the neuronal synaptic activity and is extensively involved in neurological disorders. The present study investigates the role of Homer1b/c in modulating neuronal survival by using an in vitro traumatic neuronal injury model, which was achieved by using a punch device that consisted of 28 stainless steel blades joined together and produced 28 parallel cuts. Downregulation of Homer1b/c by specific siRNA significantly (p&lt;0.05) alleviated the cytoplasmic calcium levels and neuron lactate dehydrogenase release, and ultimately decreased the apoptotic rate after traumatic neuronal injury compared with non-targeting siRNA control treatment in cultured rat cortical neurons. Moreover, the expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1a (mGluR1a) was significantly (p&lt;0.05) reduced in the Homer1b/c siRNA-transfected neurons after injury. Therefore, Homer1b/c not only modulated the mGluR1a-inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptors-Ca(2+) signal transduction pathway, but also regulated the expression of mGluR1a in mechanical neuronal injury. These findings indicate that the suppression of Homer1b/c expression potentially protects neurons from glutamate excitotoxicity after injury and might be an effective intervention target in traumatic brain injury.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes 10-20% of acquired epilepsy in humans, resulting in an ictogenic region that is often located in the cerebral cortex. The thalamus provides heavy projections to the cortex and the activity of thalamocortical pathways is controlled by GABAergic afferents from the reticular nucleus of the thalamus (RT). As rats with TBI induced by lateral fluid-percussion injury (FPI) undergo epileptogenesis, we hypothesized that damage to the parvalbumin (PARV)-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the RT is associated with seizure susceptibility after lateral FPI. To address this hypothesis, adult Sprague-Dawley rats (n=13) were injured with lateral FPI. At 6months post-TBI, each animal underwent a pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) seizure susceptibility test and 2weeks of continuous video-electroencephalography (EEG) monitoring for detection of the occurrence of spontaneous seizures. Thereafter, the brain was processed for PARV immunohistochemistry. We (a) estimated the total number of PARV-ir neurons in the RT using unbiased stereology, (b) measured the volume of the ventroposteromedial (VPM) and ventroposterolateral (VPL) nuclei of the thalamus, which receive PARV-ir inputs from the RT and project to the perilesional cortex, (c) quantified the density of PARV-ir terminals in the VPM-VPL, and (d) studied the expression of GABAA receptor subunits in a separate group of rats using laser-dissection of the thalamus followed by Real-Time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) array studies. At 6months post-TBI, only 64% of PARV-ir neurons were remaining in the RT ipsilaterally (p&lt;0.001 as compared to controls) and 84% contralaterally (p&lt;0.05). Accordingly, the volume of the ipsilateral RT was 58% of that in controls ipsilaterally (p&lt;0.001) and 90% contralaterally (p&gt;0.05). Also, the volume of the VPM-VPL was only 51% of that in controls ipsilaterally (p&lt;0.001) and 91% contralaterally (p&lt;0.05). The density of PARV-ir axonal labeling was remarkably increased in the lateral aspects of the VPM and VPL (both p&lt;0.001). Expression of the - and -subunits of the GABAA receptor was down-regulated (0.152, p&lt;0.01 and 0.302, p&lt;0.05, respectively), which could relate to the inclusion of the hypothalamus into the tissue analyzed with RT-PCR arrays. In controls, the lower the number of PARV-ir neurons in the RT, the higher the seizure susceptibility in the PTZ test. Rats with TBI showed seizure susceptibility comparable to that in controls with the lowest number of PARV-ir neurons in the RT. Our data show that the RT and VPM-VPL undergo remarkable degeneration after lateral-FPI which results in reorganization of PARV-ir terminals in the VPM-VPL. The contribution of RT damage to seizure susceptibility and post-traumatic epileptogenesis deserves further studies.
Hypoxia evokes a regulated decrease in the body core temperature (Tc) in a variety of animals. The neuronal mechanisms of this response include, at least in part, glutamatergic activation in the lateral preoptic area (LPO) of the hypothalamus. As the sympathetic premotor neurons in the medulla oblongata constitute a cardinal relay station in the descending neuronal pathway from the hypothalamus for thermoregulation, their inhibition can also be critically involved in the mechanisms of the hypoxia-induced hypothermia. Here, I examined the hypothesis that hypoxia-induced hypothermia is mediated by glutamate-responsive neurons in the LPO that activate GABAergic transmission in the rostral raphe pallidus (rRPa) and neighboring parapyramidal region (PPy) of the medulla oblongata in urethane-chloralose-anesthetized, neuromuscularly blocked, artificially ventilated rats. Unilateral microinjection of GABA (15nmol) into the rRPa and PPy regions elicited a prompt increase in tail skin temperature (Ts) and decreases in Tc, oxygen consumption rate (VO2), and heart rate. Next, when the GABAA receptor blocker bicuculline methiodide (bicuculline methiodide (BMI), 10pmol) alone was microinjected into the rRPa, it elicited unexpected contradictory responses: simultaneous increases in Ts, VO2 and heart rate and a decrease in Tc. Then, when BMI was microinjected bilaterally into the PPy, no direct effect on Ts was seen; and thermogenic and tachycardic responses were slight. However, pretreatment of the PPy with BMI, but not vehicle saline, greatly attenuated the hypothermic responses evoked by hypoxic (10%O2-90%N2, 5min) ventilation or bilateral microinjections of glutamate (5nmol, each side) into the LPO. The results suggest that hypoxia-induced hypothermia was mediated, at least in part, by the activation of GABAA receptors in the PPy.
Obesity and eating disorders are prevailing health concerns worldwide. It is important to understand the regulation of food intake and energy metabolism. Thiamine (vitamin B1) is an essential nutrient. Thiamine deficiency (TD) can cause a number of disorders in humans, such as Beriberi and Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. We demonstrated here that TD caused anorexia in C57BL/6 mice. After feeding a TD diet for 16days, the mice displayed a significant decrease in food intake and an increase in resting energy expenditure (REE), which resulted in a severe weight loss. At the 22nd day, the food intake was reduced by 69% and 74% for male and female mice, respectively in TD group. The REE increased by ninefolds in TD group. The loss of body weight (17-24%) was similar between male and female animals and mainly resulted from the reduction of fat mass (49% decrease). Re-supplementation of thiamine (benfotiamine) restored animal's appetite, leading to a total recovery of body weight. The hypothalamic adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a critical regulator of food intake. TD inhibited the phosphorylation of AMPK in the arcuate nucleus (ARN) and paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus without affecting its expression. TD-induced inhibition of AMPK phosphorylation was reversed once thiamine was re-supplemented. In contrast, TD increased AMPK phosphorylation in the skeletal muscle and upregulated the uncoupling protein (UCP)-1 in brown adipose tissues which was consistent with increased basal energy expenditure. Re-administration of thiamine stabilized AMPK phosphorylation in the skeletal muscle as well as energy expenditure. Taken together, TD may induce anorexia by inhibiting hypothalamic AMPK activity. With a simultaneous increase in energy expenditure, TD caused an overall body weight loss. The results suggest that the status of thiamine levels in the body may affect food intake and body weight.
Neuropathologic processes such as cerebral ischemia can enhance neurogenesis. Angiopoietin-1 (Ang1) emerges as a critical regulator of physiological and pathological angiogenesis during embryonic and postnatal life. Although Ang1 could protect peripheral vasculature from vascular leakage following ischemic injury, the role of Ang1 in long-term neurological recovery after ischemic stroke remains elusive. This study aims to examine whether Ang1 overexpression via lentivirus-mediated gene transfer enhances neurovascular remodeling and improves functional outcome in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemia. Our results demonstrated that lentivirus-mediated Ang1 gene transfer led to improved neurological behavior and reduced infarction volume, and protected against blood-brain barrier (BBB) leakage in the ischemic rats. In addition, we revealed that these effects of Ang1 are related to the ability of Ang1 to increase vascular density and accelerate endogenous neuronal differentiation. These findings suggest that Ang1 is a promising agent for the treatment of cerebral ischemia.
We have examined the functional expression of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in adult male rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells in culture by studying changes in pro-inflammatory cytokines and cyclooxygenase (COX)-dependent prostanoid production. In the mixed population of DRG neurons and glial cells, only DRG neurons expressed cell surface TLR4 along with MD-2 and CD14. This classical TLR4 signaling complex on DRG neurons responded to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) with a TLR4-dependent and time-dependent increase in interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor- mRNA expression which was entirely dependent on NF-B activity. In contrast, after 2-h incubation with DRG cells, LPS-stimulated COX-2 was regulated by both NF-B and transactivation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) with potential downstream activation of ERK1/2 and p38 kinase. In contrast to this evidence for myeloid differentiation primary response gene-88 (MyD88)-dependent signaling, no evidence was obtained for TIR-domain-containing adaptor-inducing interferon- (TRIF)-dependent signaling from TLR4 in DRG neurons. LPS surprisingly produced a time-dependent decrease in COX-1 protein which likely facilitates the COX-2-dependent production of prostaglandin E2 and prostacyclin. Our study is the first to demonstrate the activation of TLR4-dependent production of prostaglandin E2 and prostacyclin in DRG cell cultures. Our findings support the concept that the activation of TLR4 on primary sensory neurons by endogenous ligands may underlie neuropathic and inflammatory pain states.
The pontine Klliker-Fuse nucleus (KF) has established functions in the regulation of inspiratory-expiratory phase transition and the regulation of upper airway patency via laryngeal valving mechanisms. Here we studied the role of the KF in the gating and modulation of eupneic hypoglossal motor activity (HNA) using the in situ perfused brainstem preparation, which displays robust inspiratory HNA. Microinjection of glutamate into the KF area triggered complex and often biphasic modulation (excitation/inhibition or inhibition/excitation) of HNA. Subsequent transient pharmacological inhibition of KF by unilateral microinjection of GABA-A receptor agonist isoguvacine reduced HNA and while bilateral microinjections completely abolished HNA. Our results indicate that mixed and overlapping KF pre-motor neurons provide eupneic drive for inspiratory HNA and postinspiratory vagal nerve activity. Both motor activities have important functions in the regulation of upper airway patency during eupnea but also during various oro-pharyngeal behaviors. These results have potential implications in the contribution of state-dependent modulation of KF hypoglossal pre-motor neurons during sleep-wake cycle to obstructive sleep apnea.
Autism is a developmental disorder defined by the presence of a triad of communication, social and stereo typical behavioral characteristics with onset before 3years of age. In spite of the fact that there are potential environmental factors for autistic behavior, the dysfunction of serotonin during early development of the brain could be playing a role in this prevalence rise. Serotonin can modulate a number of developmental events, including cell division, neuronal migration, cell differentiation and synaptogenesis. Hyperserotonemia during fetal development results in the loss of serotonin terminals through negative feedback. The increased serotonin causes a decrease of oxytocin in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and an increase in calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the central nucleus of the amygdale, which are associated with social interactions and vital in autism. However, hyposerotonemia may be also relevant to the development of sensory as well as motor and cognitive faculties. And the paucity of placenta-derived serotonin should have potential importance when the pathogenesis of autism is considered. This review briefly summarized the developmental disruptions of serotonin signaling involved in the pathogenesis of autism during early development of the brain.
Although extensively investigated in socio-cognitive neuroscience, empathy is difficult to study. The first difficulty originates in its multifaceted nature. According to the multidimensional model, empathy combines emotional, automatic (simulation), cognitive (mentalizing) and regulatory (executive functions) processes. Substantial functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data demonstrated that co-activations in the mirror neuron system (MNS) and mentalizing network (MENT) sustain this co-recruitment of so-called first- and second-person-like processes. Because of the poor temporal resolution of fMRI techniques, we currently lack evidence about the precise timing of the MNS-MENT combination. An important challenge is, thus, to disentangle how MNS and MENT dynamically work together along time in empathy. Moreover, the role of the executive functions in the MNS-MENT combination time course is still unknown. Second, empathy - feeling into - is closely related to sympathy - feeling with - and both phenomena are often conflated in experimental studies on intersubjectivity. In this electrical neuroimaging (EEG) pilot-study, we tested whether the egocentered vs. heterocentered visuo-spatial mechanisms respectively associated with sympathy and empathy differentially modulate the dynamic combination of the MNS-MENT activations in their respective neural time course. For that, we employed our newly developed behavioral paradigm assessing the visuo-spatial - but not emotional - features of empathy and sympathy. Using a data-driven approach, we report that empathy and sympathy are underlied by sequential activations in the MNS from the insula to the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) between 63ms and 424ms. However, at 333-424ms, empathy triggered greater co-activations in the right IFG and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) (executive functions). Linking together our present and prior (Thirioux et al., 2010) findings from the same dataset, we suggest that this greater recruitment of the right dlPFC monitors the shift from egocentered and first-person-like mechanisms in the MNS to heterocentered and second-person-like mechanisms in the left temporo-parietal junction within the MENT, i.e., reflecting the onset of perspective-change processes in the neural time course of empathy. Contrasting with sympathy, this recruitment of the executive functions could modulate the output end of the mirroring processing in the premotor and sensorimotor cortices.
Opiate analgesia in the spinal cord is impaired during neuropathic pain. We hypothesized that this is caused by a decrease in -opioid receptor inhibition of neurotransmitter release from primary afferents. To investigate this possibility, we measured substance P release in the spinal dorsal horn as neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1R) internalization in rats with chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve. Noxious stimulation of the paw with CCI produced inconsistent NK1R internalization, suggesting that transmission of nociceptive signals by the injured nerve was variably impaired after CCI. This idea was supported by the fact that CCI produced only small changes in the ability of exogenous substance P to induce NK1R internalization or in the release of substance P evoked centrally from site of nerve injury. In subsequent experiments, NK1R internalization was induced in spinal cord slices by stimulating the dorsal root ipsilateral to CCI. We observed a complete loss of the inhibition of substance P release by the -opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2), NMe-Phe(4), Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin (DAMGO) in CCI rats but not in sham-operated rats. In contrast, DAMGO still inhibited substance P release after inflammation of the hind paw with complete Freund's adjuvant and in nave rats. This loss of inhibition was not due to -opioid receptor downregulation in primary afferents, because their colocalization with substance P was unchanged, both in dorsal root ganglion neurons and primary afferent fibers in the dorsal horn. In conclusion, nerve injury eliminates the inhibition of substance P release by -opioid receptors, probably by hindering their signaling mechanisms.
Visceral hypersensitivity is a hallmark of many clinical conditions and remains an ongoing medical challenge. Although the central neural mechanisms that regulate visceral hypersensitivity are incompletely understood, it has been suggested that stress and anxiety often act as initiating or exacerbating factors. Dysfunctional corticolimbic structures have been implicated in disorders of visceral hypersensitivity such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Moreover, the pattern of altered physiological responses to psychological and visceral stressors reported in IBS patients is also observed in the maternally separated (MS) rat model of IBS. However, the relative contribution of various divisions within the cortex to the altered stress responsivity of MS rats remains unknown. The aim of this study was to analyze the cellular activation pattern of the prefrontal cortex and amygdala in response to an acute psychological stressor (open field) and colorectal distension (CRD) using c-fos immunohistochemistry. Several corticoamygdalar structures were analyzed for the presence of c-fos-positive immunoreactivity including the prelimbic cortex, infralimbic cortex, the anterior cingulate cortex (both rostral and caudal) and the amygdala. Our data demonstrate distinct activation patterns within these corticoamygdalar regions including differential activation in basolateral versus central amygdala following exposure to CRD but not the open field stress. The identification of this neuronal activation pattern may provide further insight into the neurochemical pathways through which therapeutic strategies for IBS could be derived.





Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is useful to determine molecular structure in tissues grown in vitro only if their fidelity, relative to native tissue, can be established. Here, we use multidimensional NMR spectra of animal and in vitro model tissues as fingerprints of their respective molecular structures, allowing us to compare the intact tissues at atomic length scales. To obtain spectra from animal tissues, we developed a heavy mouse enriched by about 20% in the NMR-active isotopes carbon-13 and nitrogen-15. The resulting spectra allowed us to refine an in vitro model of developing bone and to probe its detailed structure. The identification of an unexpected molecule, poly(adenosine diphosphate ribose), that may be implicated in calcification of the bone matrix, illustrates the analytical power of this approach.





Exoenzyme Y (ExoY) is a Pseudomonas aeruginosa toxin that is introduced into host cells through the type 3 secretion system (T3SS). Once inside the host cell cytoplasm, ExoY generates cyclic nucleotides that cause tau phosphorylation and microtubule breakdown. Microtubule breakdown causes interendothelial cell gap formation and tissue edema. Although ExoY transiently induces interendothelial cell gap formation, it remains unclear whether ExoY prevents repair of the endothelial cell barrier. Here, we test the hypothesis that ExoY intoxication impairs recovery of the endothelial cell barrier following gap formation, decreasing migration, proliferation, and lung repair. Pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMVECs) were infected with P. aeruginosa strains for 6 h, including one possessing an active ExoY (PA103 exoUexoT::Tc pUCPexoY; ExoY(+)), one with an inactive ExoY (PA103exoUexoT::Tc pUCPexoY(K81M); ExoY(K81M)), and one that lacks PcrV required for a functional T3SS (PcrV). ExoY(+) induced interendothelial cell gaps, whereas ExoY(K81M) and PcrV did not promote gap formation. Following gap formation, bacteria were removed and endothelial cell repair was examined. PMVECs were unable to repair gaps even 3-5 days after infection. Serum-stimulated growth was greatly diminished following ExoY intoxication. Intratracheal inoculation of ExoY(+) and ExoY(K81M) caused severe pneumonia and acute lung injury. However, whereas the pulmonary endothelial cell barrier was functionally improved 1 wk following ExoY(K81M) infection, pulmonary endothelium was unable to restrict the hyperpermeability response to elevated hydrostatic pressure following ExoY(+) infection. In conclusion, ExoY is an edema factor that chronically impairs endothelial cell barrier integrity following lung injury.
When exploring biological determinants of spontaneous physical activity (SPA), it is critical to consider whether methodological factors differentially affect rodents and the measured SPA. We determined whether acclimation time, sensory stimulation, vendor, or chamber size affected measures in rodents with varying propensity for SPA. We used principal component analysis to determine which SPA components (ambulatory and vertical counts, time in SPA, and distance traveled) best described the variability in SPA measurements. We compared radiotelemetry and infrared photobeams used to measure SPA and exploratory activity. Acclimation time, sensory stimulation, vendor, and chamber size independently influenced SPA, and the effect was moderated by the propensity for SPA. A 24-h acclimation period prior to SPA measurement was sufficient for habituation. Principal component analysis showed that ambulatory and vertical measurements of SPA describe different dimensions of the rodent's SPA behavior. Smaller testing chambers and a sensory attenuation cubicle around the chamber reduced SPA. SPA varies between rodents purchased from different vendors. Radiotelemetry and infrared photobeams differ in their sensitivity to detect phenotypic differences in SPA and exploratory activity. These data highlight methodological considerations in rodent SPA measurement and a need to standardize SPA methodology.

Overactivation of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 is implicated as a pathogenic factor in chronic kidney diseases (CKD). However, controversy exists regarding the roles of HIF-1 in CKD. Additionally, although hypoxia and HIF-1 activation are observed in various CKD and HIF-1 has been shown to stimulate fibrogenic factors, there is no direct evidence whether HIF-1 is an injurious or protective factor in chronic renal hypoxic injury. The present study determined whether knocking down the HIF-1 gene can attenuate or exaggerate kidney damage using a chronic renal ischemic model. Chronic renal ischemia was induced by unilaterally clamping the left renal artery for 3 wk in Sprague-Dawley rats. HIF-1 short hairpin (sh) RNA or control vectors were transfected into the left kidneys. Experimental groups were sham+control vector, clip+control vector, and clip+HIF-1 shRNA. Enalapril was used to normalize blood pressure 1 wk after clamping the renal artery. HIF-1 protein levels were remarkably increased in clipped kidneys, and this increase was blocked by shRNA. Morphological examination showed that HIF-1 shRNA significantly attenuated injury in clipped kidneys: glomerular injury indices were 0.71  0.04, 2.50  0.12, and 1.34  0.11, and the percentage of globally damaged glomeruli was 0.02, 34.3  5.0, and 6.3  1.6 in sham, clip, and clip+shRNA groups, respectively. The protein levels of collagen and -smooth muscle actin also dramatically increased in clipped kidneys, but this effect was blocked by HIF-1 shRNA. In conclusion, long-term overactivation of HIF-1 is a pathogenic factor in chronic renal injury associated with ischemia/hypoxia.


FRET was used to investigate the structural and kinetic effects that PKC phosphorylations exert on Ca(2+) and myosin subfragment-1 dependent conformational transitions of the cardiac thin filament. PKC phosphorylations of cTnT were mimicked by glutamate substitution. Ca(2+) and S1-induced distance changes between the central linker of cTnC and the switch region of cTnI (cTnI-Sr) were monitored in reconstituted thin filaments using steady state and time resolved FRET, while kinetics of structural transitions were determined using stopped flow. Thin filament Ca(2+) sensitivity was found to be significantly blunted by the presence of the cTnT(T204E) mutant, whereas pseudo-phosphorylation at additional sites increased the Ca(2+)-sensitivity. The rate of Ca(2+)-dissociation induced structural changes was decreased in the C-terminal end of cTnI-Sr in the presence of pseudo-phosphorylations while remaining unchanged at the N-terminal end of this region. Additionally, the distance between cTnI-Sr and cTnC was decreased significantly for the triple and quadruple phosphomimetic mutants cTnT(T195E/S199E/T204E) and cTnT(T195E/S199E/T204E/T285E), which correlated with the Ca(2+)-sensitivity increase seen in these same mutants. We conclude that significant changes in thin filament Ca(2+)-sensitivity, structure and kinetics are brought about through PKC phosphorylation of cTnT. These changes can either decrease or increase Ca(2+)-sensitivity and likely play an important role in cardiac regulation.


It is yet unclear if ethanol-induced motor stimulation in the open field (OF) merely reflects psychomotor stimulating effects of the drug or if this stimulation is driven or modulated by ethanol's antianxiety properties. In the present study, adolescent rats were administered with different ethanol doses or remained untreated. They were sequentially assessed in the OF, elevated plus maze (EPM), and light-dark box (LDB) and then assessed for ethanol intake. The aims were to assess the relationship between measures of ethanol-induced activity and anxiolysis, analyze ethanol intake as a function of prior ethanol exposure, and associate behavioral responsiveness in these apparatus with ethanol intake during adolescence. The results suggested that the enhanced exploration of the OF observed after 2.5 and 3.25 g/kg ethanol reflected a motor-stimulating effect that appeared to be relatively independent of anxiolysis. The 1.25 g/kg dose induced motor stimulation in the OF and anti-anxiety effects in the EPM, but these effects were relatively independent. The 0.5 g/kg ethanol dose exerted significant anxiolytic effects in the EPM in the absence of stimulating effects in the OF. A multivariate regression analysis indicated that adolescents with a higher frequency of rearing behavior in the OF, higher percentage of open arm entries in the EPM, and lower propensity to enter the central area of the OF exhibited greater ethanol intake. These results indicate that the OF is a valid procedure for the measurement of ethanol-induced stimulation, and provide information toward characterizing subpopulations of adolescents at risk for initiating alcohol drinking.
The majority of experiments exploring context-dependent extinction learning employ Pavlovian fear conditioning in rodents. Since mechanisms of appetitive and aversive learning are known to differ at the neuronal level, we sought to investigate extinction learning in an appetitive setting. Working with pigeons, we established a within-subject ABA renewal paradigm based on Rescorla (Q J Exp Psychol 61:1793) and combined it with pharmacological interventions during extinction. From the fear conditioning literature, it is known that both prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus are core structures for context-specific extinction learning. Accordingly, we transiently inactivated the nidopallium caudolaterale (NCL, a functional analogue of mammalian prefrontal cortex) and the hippocampus in separate experiments by intracranial infusion of the sodium-channel blocker tetrodotoxin immediately before extinction training. We find that TTX in both structures non-specifically suppresses conditioned responding, as revealed by a reduction of response rate to both the extinguished conditioned stimulus and a control stimulus which remained reinforced throughout the experiment. Furthermore, TTX during extinction training impaired later extinction retrieval assessed under drug-free conditions. This was true when responding to the extinguished stimulus was assessed in the context of extinction but not when tested in the context of acquisition, although both contexts were matched with respect to their history of conditioning. These results indicate that both NCL and hippocampus are involved in extinction learning under appetitive conditions or, more specifically, in the consolidation of extinction memory, and that their contribution to extinction is context-specific.
Methamphetamine (METH) indirectly stimulates the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT) acetylcholine (ACh) neurons to increase ACh within the ventral tegmental area (VTA). LDT ACh inhibition attenuates METH and saline locomotor activity. The aim of these experiments was to determine whether LDT ACh contributes to METH conditioned place preference (CPP). C57BL/6J mice received a bilateral electrolytic or sham lesion of the LDT. After recovery, mice received alternating pairings of METH (0.5 mg/kg) and saline with distinct tactile floor cues over 8 days. During preference tests, mice were given access to both floor types and time spent on each was recorded. Mice were tested again after exposure to both extinction and reconditioning trials. Brains were then processed for choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry to label LDT ACh neurons. Lesioned mice had significantly fewer LDT ACh neurons and showed increased saline and METH locomotor activity during the first conditioning trial compared to sham mice. Locomotor activity (saline and METH) was negatively correlated with the number of LDT ACh neurons. Lesioned and sham mice showed similar METH CPP following conditioning, extinction and reconditioning trials. LDT ACh neurons are not necessary for METH reward as indexed by CPP, but may be important for basal and METH-induced locomotor activity.
Social relationships are essential for many fundamental aspects of life while bond disruption can be detrimental to mental and physical health. Male prairie voles form enduring social bonds with their female partners, allowing the evaluation of partner loss on behavior, physiology, and neurochemistry. Males were evaluated for partner preference formation induced by 24h of mating, and half were separated from their partner for 4 wk. In Experiment 1, partner loss significantly increased anxiety-like behaviors in the elevated plus maze and light-dark box tests and marginally increased depressive-like behaviors in the forced swim test. In addition, while intruder-directed aggression is common in pair bonded prairie voles, separated males were affiliative and lacked aggression toward an unfamiliar female and an intruding male conspecific. Partner loss increased the density of oxytocin-immunoreactivity (-ir), vasopressin-ir, and corticotrophin-releasing hormone-ir cells in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and oxytocin-ir cells in the supraoptic nucleus. Tyrosine hydroxylase-ir was not affected. In Experiment 2, partner preference was observed after 2 wk of partner loss but eliminated after 4 wk partner loss. Body weight gain and plasma corticosterone concentrations were elevated throughout the 4 wk. No effects were observed for plasma oxytocin or vasopressin. Together, partner loss elicits anxiety-like and depression-like behaviors, disrupts bond-related behaviors, and alters neuropeptide systems that regulate such behaviors. Thus, partner loss in male prairie voles may provide a model to better understand the behavior, pathology, and neurobiology underlying partner loss and grief.





A localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR) effect was used to distinguish cell concentration on ordered arrays of Au nanoparticles (NPs) on glass substrates. Human-derived retinal pigment epithelial RPE-1 cells with flatter bodies and higher confluency were compared with breast cancer MCF-7 cells. Nanosphere lithography was used to form Au NPs with average diameters of 500 and 60 nm in order to compare cell detection range, resonance peak shift, and cell concentration sensitivity. A larger cell concentration range was detected on the larger 500 nm Au NPs compared to 60 nm Au NPs (8.56  10(3)-1.09  10(6) vs. 3.43  10(4)-2.73  10(5)cells/ml). Resonance peak shift could distinguish RPE-1 from MCF-7 cells on both Au NPs. RPE-1 cells consistently displayed larger resonance peak shifts compared to MCF-7 cells until the detection became saturated at higher concentration. For both types of cells, higher concentration sensitivity in the range of ~10(4)-10(6)cells/ml was observed on 500 nm compared to 60 nm Au NPs. Our results show that cells on Au NPs can be detected in a large range and at low concentration. Optimal cell sensing can be achieved by altering the dimensions of Au NPs according to different cell characteristics and concentrations.








Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and functional dyspepsia (FD) are both functional gastrointestinal disorders and frequently co-occur in patients. While one cause of FD appears to be gastric hypersensitivity, whether the hypersensitivity is affected by IBS treatments remains unclear, given the lack of appropriate animal models for testing. Here, we established an experimental model of duodenal acidification-induced gastric hypersensitivity in conscious rats. The model involved duodenal acidification induced by the infusion of hydrochloric acid into the proximal duodenum, with the nociceptive response being determined as the change in mean arterial pressure (MAP) during gastric distension via an indwelling latex balloon. Using our model we evaluated the effects of duodenal acidification, increased distension pressure, and orally administered therapeutic agents for IBS with diarrhea (IBS-D). Duodenal acidification enhanced the pressor response during gastric distension, and pretreatment with the opioid -receptor agonist fedotozine (10mg/kg, intra-arterial) inhibited the pressor response. Pressure levels of 15-60 mm Hg increased MAP in response to gastric distension. The serotonin 5-HT3 receptor antagonist ramosetron (30 g/kg) inhibited MAP increase induced by duodenal acidification, with no other IBS-D therapeutic agents showing any effect. In contrast, the serotonin 5-HT3 receptor agonist m-chlorophenylbiguanide (1mg/kg) significantly enhanced the pressor response during gastric distension. These findings indicate that the serotonin 5-HT3 receptor plays a key role in duodenal acidification-induced gastric hypersensitivity in rats, suggesting that ramosetron may reduce FD symptoms by ameliorating sensitized gastric perception.
Rnd proteins comprise a branch of the Rho family of small GTP-binding proteins, which have been implicated in rearrangements of the actin cytoskeleton and microtubule dynamics. Particularly in the nervous system, Rnd family proteins regulate neurite formation, dendrite development and axonal branching. A secreted form of the co-chaperone Stress-Inducible Protein 1 (STI1) has been described as a prion protein partner that is involved in several processes of the nervous system, such as neurite outgrowth, neuroprotection, astrocyte development, and the self-renewal of neural progenitor cells. We show that cytoplasmic STI1 directly interacts with the GTPase Rnd1. This interaction is specific for the Rnd1 member of the Rnd family. In the COS collapse assay, overexpression of STI1 prevents Rnd1-plexin-A1-mediated cytoskeleton retraction. In PC-12 cells, overexpression of STI1 enhances neurite outgrowth in cellular processes initially established by Rnd1. Therefore, we propose that STI1 participates in Rnd1-induced signal transduction pathways that are involved in the dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton.





Seasonal patterns in behavior and biological parameters are widespread. Here, we examined seasonal changes in whole blood gene expression profiles of 233 healthy subjects. Using weighted gene co-expression network analysis, we identified three co-expression modules showing circannual patterns. Enrichment analysis suggested that this signal stems primarily from red blood cells and blood platelets. Indeed, a large clinical database with 51 142 observations of blood cell counts over 3 years confirmed a corresponding seasonal pattern of counts of red blood cells, reticulocytes and platelets. We found no direct evidence that these changes are linked to genes known to be key players in regulating immune function or circadian rhythm. It is likely, however, that these seasonal changes in cell counts and gene expression profiles in whole blood represent biological and clinical relevant phenomena. Moreover, our findings highlight possible confounding factors relevant to the study of gene expression profiles in subjects collected at geographical locations with disparaging seasonality patterns.
The hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs) are a heterogeneous group of motorneuron diseases characterized by progressive spasticity and paresis of the lower limbs. Mutations in Spastic Gait 4 (SPG4), encoding spastin, are the most frequent cause of HSP. To understand how mutations in SPG4 affect human neurons, we generated human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) from fibroblasts of two patients carrying a c.1684C&gt;T nonsense mutation and from two controls. These SPG4 and control hiPSCs were able to differentiate into neurons and glia at comparable efficiency. All known spastin isoforms were reduced in SPG4 neuronal cells. The complexity of SPG4 neurites was decreased, which was paralleled by an imbalance of axonal transport with less retrograde movement. Prominent neurite swellings with disrupted microtubules were present in SPG4 neurons at an ultrastructural level. While some of these swellings contain acetylated and detyrosinated tubulin, these tubulin modifications were unchanged in total cell lysates of SPG4 neurons. Upregulation of another microtubule-severing protein, p60 katanin, may partially compensate for microtubuli dynamics in SPG4 neurons. Overexpression of the M1 or M87 spastin isoforms restored neurite length, branching, numbers of primary neurites and reduced swellings in SPG4 neuronal cells. We conclude that neurite complexity and maintenance in HSP patient-derived neurons are critically sensitive to spastin gene dosage. Our data show that elevation of single spastin isoform levels is sufficient to restore neurite complexity and reduce neurite swellings in patient cells. Furthermore, our human model offers an ideal platform for pharmacological screenings with the goal to restore physiological spastin levels in SPG4 patients.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by abnormal expansion of glutamine repeats in the protein huntingtin. In HD brain, mutant huntingtin undergoes proteolytic processing, and its N-terminal fragment containing poly-glutamine repeats accumulate as insoluble aggregates leading to the defect in cellular protein quality control system and heat shock response (HSR). Here we demonstrate that the defective HSR in the brain is due to the down-regulation of heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) in both mice and fly models of HD. Interestingly, treatment of dexamethasone (a synthetic glucocorticoid) to HD mice or flies significantly increased the expression and transactivation of HSF1 and induction of HSR and these effects are mediated through the down-regulation of HSP90. Dexamethasone treatment also significantly decreased the aggregate load and transient recovery of HD-related behavioural phenotypes in both disease models. These results suggest that dexamethasone could be a potential therapeutic molecule for the treatment of HD and related poly-glutamine disorders.
We previously demonstrated that the Alzheimer's disease (AD) associated risk allele, rs3865444(C), results in a higher surface density of CD33 on monocytes. Here, we find alternative splicing of exon 2 to be the primary mechanism of the genetically driven differential expression of CD33 protein. We report that the risk allele, rs3865444(C), is associated with greater cell surface expression of CD33 in both subjects of European and African-American ancestry and that there is a single haplotype influencing CD33 surface expression. A meta-analysis of the two populations narrowed the number of significant SNPs in high linkage disequilibrium (LD) (r(2) &gt; 0.8) with rs3865444 to just five putative causal variants associated with increased protein expression. Using gene expression data from flow-sorted CD14(+)CD16(-) monocytes from 398 healthy subjects of three populations, we show that the rs3865444(C) risk allele is strongly associated with greater expression of CD33 exon 2 (pMETA = 2.36  10(-60)). Western blotting confirms increased protein expression of the full-length CD33 isoform containing exon 2 relative to the rs3865444(C) allele (P &lt; 0.0001). Of the variants in strong LD with rs3865444, rs12459419, which is located in a putative SRSF2 splice site of exon 2, is the most likely candidate to mediate the altered alternative splicing of CD33's Immunoglobulin V-set domain 2 and ultimately influence AD susceptibility.
Dominant mutations in GARS, encoding the essential enzyme glycyl-tRNA synthetase (GlyRS), result in a form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, type 2D (CMT2D), predominantly characterized by lower motor nerve degeneration. GlyRS charges the amino acid glycine with its cognate tRNA and is therefore essential for protein translation. However, the underlying mechanisms linking toxic gain-of-function GARS mutations to lower motor neuron degeneration remain unidentified. The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) appears to be an early target for pathology in a number of peripheral nerve diseases and becomes denervated at later stages in two mouse models of CMT2D. We therefore performed a detailed longitudinal examination of NMJs in the distal lumbrical muscles and the proximal transversus abdominis (TVA) muscles of wild-type and Gars mutant mice. We determined that mutant lumbrical NMJs display a persistent defect in maturation that precedes a progressive, age-dependent degeneration. Conversely, the TVA remains relatively unaffected, with only a subtle, short-lived impairment in pre- and post-synaptic development and no reduction in lower motor neuron connectivity to muscle. Together, these observations suggest that mutant Gars is associated with compromised development of the NMJ prior to synaptic degeneration and highlight the neuromuscular synapse as an important site of early, selective pathology in CMT2D mice.



The purpose of this study was to investigate the in-depth pharmaceutical properties and in vivo behavior of a novel lyophilized rapidly dissolving solid ocular matrix (RD-SOM) as a 'solid eye drop' formulation comprising timolol maleate as the model drug. Thermal and molecular transition analysis displayed similar findings with no incompatibility between formulation components. Porositometric studies confirmed the presence of interconnecting pores across the matrix surface. The HETCAM test indicated an irritation score of 0 with the inference of good tolerability for the RD-SOM in the New Zealand White albino rabbit eye model. Ex vivo permeation across excised rabbit cornea showed an improved steady state drug flux (0.00052 mg cm(-2)min(-1)) and permeability co-efficient (1.7  10(-4)cmmin(-1)) for the RD-SOM compared to pure drug and a marketed eye drop preparation. UPLC analysis quantitatively separated timolol maleate and the internal standard (diclofenac sodium) and gamma irradiation was used as a terminal sterilization procedure. In vivo results revealed a peak concentration of timolol was reached at 104.9 min. In the case of a typical eye drop formulation a lower Cmax was obtained (1.97 ug/mL). Level A point-to-point IVIVC plots via the Wagner-Nelson method revealed a satisfactory R(2) value of 0.84. In addition, the biodegradability and ocular compatibility of the RD-SOM was confirmed by histopathological toxicity studies.

Phosphoinositides are spatially restricted membrane signaling molecules. Phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P2] - a phosphoinositide that is highly enriched in, and present throughout, the plasma membrane - has been implicated in endocytosis. Trypanosoma brucei has one of the highest known rates of endocytosis, a process it uses to evade the immune system. To determine whether phosphoinositides play a role in endocytosis in this organism, we have identified and characterized one of the enzymes that is responsible for generating PI(4,5)P2. Surprisingly, this phosphoinositide was found to be highly concentrated in the flagellar pocket, the only site of endocytosis and exocytosis in this organism. The enzyme (designated TbPIPKA, annotated as Tb927.10.1620) was present at the neck of the pocket, towards the anterior-end of the parasite. Depletion of TbPIPKA led to depletion of PI(4,5)P2 and enlargement of the pocket, the result of impaired endocytosis. Taken together, these data suggest that TbPIPKA and its product PI(4,5)P2 are important for endocytosis and, consequently, for homeostasis of the flagellar pocket.


Encephalitis associated with anti--aminobutyric acid-B (GABAB) receptor antibodies has been identified recently. However, only a few cases have been reported to date and its clinical manifestations and prognosis have not been investigated systematically. We identified five cases of GABAB encephalitis in Korea. Here we present the clinical features, treatment responses, and brain positron emission tomography findings of the cases. The patients had a clinical triad of memory changes, seizure, and association with small-cell lung cancer. Early diagnosis and comprehensive immune modulation may provide a good outcome.
Chronic-inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is an immune-mediated disease with no known biomarkers for diagnosing the disease or assessing its prognosis. We performed transcriptional profiling microarray analysis on skin punch biopsies from 20 CIDP patients and 17 healthy controls to identify disease-associated gene expression changes. We demonstrate changes in expression of genes involved in immune and chemokine regulation, growth and repair. We also found a combination of two upregulated genes that can be proposed as a novel biomarker of the disorder.
The cerebrospinal fluid levels of interleukin-1 beta and structural magnetic resonance parameters of cortical damage, i.e., cortical lesion number and volume, and global cortical thickness, were analysed in multiple sclerosis patients at clinical onset. Cerebrospinal fluid interleukin-1 beta levels strongly correlated with cortical lesion load and cortical thickness, while correlation with white matter lesion load was modest. Interleukin-1 beta, intrathecally produced by infiltrating lymphocytes and activated microglia, may constitute a possible link between inflammation and neurodegeneration in multiple sclerosis.
Double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) regulates antiviral activity, immune responses, apoptosis and neurotoxicity. Gliatropic coronavirus infection induced PKR activation in infected as well uninfected cells within the central nervous system (CNS). However, PKR deficiency only modestly increased viral replication and did not affect IFN-/ or IL-1 expression. Despite reduced Il-6, Ccl5, and Cxcl10 mRNA, protein levels remained unaltered. Furthermore, PKR deficiency selectively reduced IL-10 production in CD4, but not CD8 T cells, without affecting CNS pathology. The results demonstrate the ability of PKR to balance neuroinflammation by selectively modulating key cytokines and chemokines in CNS resident and CD4 T cells.





The underlying etiology of parkinsonian anterocollis has been the subject of recent debate. The purpose of this study is to test the hypothesis that anterocollis in parkinsonian syndromes is associated with dystonia of the deep cervical flexors (longus colli and capitis). Eight patients with anterocollis, six in the setting of parkinsonism and two primary cervical dystonia control subjects with anterocollis underwent prospective structured clinical evaluations (interview, examination and rating scales), systematic electromyography of the cervical extensor musculature and (18)F-FDG PET/CT studies of cervical muscles to examine evidence of hypermetabolism or overactivity of deep cervical flexors. Subjects with parkinsonian anterocollis were found to have hypermetabolism of the extensor and sub-occipital muscles but not in the cervical flexors (superficial or deep). EMG abnormalities were observed in all evaluated patients, but only one patient was definitely myopathic. Meanwhile, both dystonia controls exhibited hypermetabolism of cervical flexors (including the longus colli). In conclusion, we were able to demonstrate hypermetabolism of superficial and deep cervical flexors with muscle (18)F-FDG PET/CT in dystonic anterocollis patients, but not in parkinsonian anterocollis patients. The hypermetabolic changes seen in parkinsonian anterocollis patients in posterior muscles may be compensatory. Alternative explanations for anterocollis include myopathy of the cervical extensors, or unbalanced rigidity of the cervical flexors, but this remains to be proven.
Inflammation causes upregulation of NaV1.7 sodium channels in the associated dorsal root ganglia (DRG). The resultant increase in sodium influx must be countered to maintain osmotic homeostasis. The primary mechanism to pump sodium out of neurons is Na(+), K(+)-ATPase. To test whether there is a compensatory upregulation of Na(+), K(+)-ATPase after inflammation, rats received an injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into one hindpaw and saline into the contralateral hindpaw. Three days later, L4-L6 DRGs were extracted and analyzed using gel electrophoresis and immunohistochemistry. Immunoreactivity for both the -1 and -3 subunits were increased in DRG associated with CFA-treatment, compared to saline-treatment. To test whether dysregulation of Na(+), K(+)-ATPase may cause cell death after inflammation, we produced a pharmacological blockade with ouabain (10mg/kg, s.c.) three days after CFA injection and paws were stimulated or not. Twenty-four hours later, DRG were removed and stained with cresyl violet. Greater cell death was seen in DRG from ouabain-treated animals on the CFA treated side than the saline-treated side. Paw stimulation doubled this difference. Control DRG showed little neuronal death. These results are evidence that regulation of Na(+), K(+)-ATPase during major inflammatory disease states is critical for homeostatic protection of primary afferent neurons.
Smoke-induced upper airway damage and Parkinson's disease (PD) can be considered independent risk factors for smell impairment. Interestingly, cigarette smoking has been strongly associated with reduced risk of PD and, therefore, has been suggested to have neuroprotective effects. Our pilot study aimed to evaluate the relationship between smoking and olfaction in PD patients and matched controls. Sixty-eight PD patients and 61 healthy controls were categorized in relation to PD diagnosis and current smoking status, and evaluated by means of the Italian version of the University of Pennsylvania 40-item Smell Identification Test (UPSIT-40). ANOVA analysis with post-hoc Bonferroni correction showed that non-smoker controls presented a higher UPSIT-40 total score than smoker controls (p&lt;0.001), non-smoker PD patients (p&lt;0.001) and smoker PD patients (p&lt;0.001). In this view, smoking seems to affect olfaction in controls but not in PD patients, and no significant differences were found when comparing smoker controls, smoker PD patients and non-smoker PD patients. Several epidemiological studies showed a negative effect of smoking on olfaction in the general population. Otherwise the sense of smell is similar in smoker and non-smoker PD patients. These results suggest that PD and smoking are not independent risk factors for impairment of sense of smell, but they might variably interact.
A boy, who had shown muscle weakness and hypotonia from early childhood and fiber type disproportion (FTD) with no dystrophic changes on muscle biopsy, was initially diagnosed as having congenital fiber type disproportion (CFTD). Subsequently, he developed cardiac conduction blocks. We reconsidered the diagnosis as possible LMNA-myopathy and found a heterozygous mutation in the LMNA gene. This encouraged us to search for LMNA mutations on 80 patients who met the diagnostic criteria of CFTD with unknown cause. Two patients including the above index case had heterozygous in-frame deletion mutations of c.367_369delAAG and c.99_101delGGA in LMNA, respectively. Four of 23 muscular dystrophy patients with LMNA mutation also showed fiber type disproportion (FTD). Importantly, all FTD associated with LMNA-myopathy were caused by hypertrophy of type 2 fibers as compared with age-matched controls, whereas CFTD with mutations in ACTA1 or TPM3 showed selective type 1 fiber atrophy but no type 2 fiber hypertrophy. Although FTD is not a constant pathological feature of LMNA-myopathy, we should consider the possibility of LMNA-myopathy whenever a diagnosis of CFTD is made and take steps to prevent cardiac insufficiency.
McLeod syndrome is one subtype of rare neuroacanthocytosis syndromes characterized by misshapen red blood cells and progressive degeneration of the basal ganglia. It is an X-linked recessive disorder with mutation in the XK gene of the Kell blood group system with multisystem involvements. Concerning the movement disorders, its dyskinesias are various and difficult to differentiate from those in Huntington's disease or other hyperkinetic movement disorders. In this report, we described a 62-year-old male patient presenting with insidious myalgia and muscle fatigue. Progressive motor restlessness and toes choreoathetosis were noted. Previously, he had chronic psychotic disorder with irregular treatment for 14 years. The laboratory tests revealed elevated creatine phosphokinase and acanthocytes (36.3%). The electrophysiological test demonstrated an axonal type polyneuropathy. The neuroimaging of brain showed striatal degeneration. Genetic analysis revealed a nonsense hemizygous mutation c.154C&gt;T (p.Gln52X) at exon 1 of XK gene. The genetic counseling of his family revealed one elder brother carrying the same mutation and showing a similar but very mild syndrome. Several offspring were the asymptomatic carriers. We suggest that for a patient with multiple system disorders including dyskinetic movement disorders, psychiatric symptoms, polyneuropathy, and elevated CPK, a genetic test for XK gene mutation is highly indicated to confirm the McLeod syndrome and to guide the possible therapy.

The olfactory tubercle (OT), a trilaminar structure located in the basal forebrain of mammals, is thought to play an important role in olfaction. While evidence has accumulated regarding the contributions of the OT to odor information processing, studies exploring the role of the OT in olfaction in awake animals remain unavailable. In the present study, we begin to address this void through multiday recordings of local field potential (LFP) activity within the OT of awake, freely exploring Long-Evans rats. We observed spontaneous OT LFP activity consisting of theta- (2-12 Hz), beta- (15-35 Hz) and gamma- (40-80 Hz) band activity, characteristic of previous reports of LFPs in other principle olfactory structures. Beta- and gamma-band powers were enhanced upon odor presentation. Simultaneous recordings of OT and upstream olfactory bulb (OB) LFPs revealed odor-evoked LFP power at statistically similar levels in both structures. Strong spectral coherence was observed between the OT and OB during both spontaneous and odor-evoked states. Furthermore, the OB theta rhythm more strongly cohered with the respiratory rhythm, and respiratory-coupled theta cycles in the OT occurred following theta cycles in the OB. Finally, we found that the animal's internal state modulated LFP activity in the OT. Together, these data provide initial insights into the network activity of the OT in the awake rat, including spontaneous rhythmicity, odor-evoked modulation, connectivity with upstream sensory input, and state-dependent modulation.
Complex olfactory-discrimination (OD) learning results in a series of intrinsic and excitatory synaptic modifications in piriform cortex pyramidal neurons that enhance the circuit excitability. Such overexcitation must be balanced to prevent runway activity while maintaining the efficient ability to store memories. We showed previously that OD learning is accompanied by enhancement of the GABAA-mediated inhibition. Here we show that GABAB-mediated inhibition is also enhanced after learning and study the mechanism underlying such enhancement and explore its functional role. We show that presynaptic, GABAB-mediated synaptic inhibition is enhanced after learning. In contrast, the population-average postsynaptic GABAB-mediated synaptic inhibition is unchanged, but its standard deviation is enhanced. Learning-induced reduction in paired pulse facilitation in the glutamatergic synapses interconnecting pyramidal neurons was abolished by application of the GABAB antagonist CGP55845 but not by blocking G protein-gated inwardly rectifying potassium channels only, indicating enhanced suppression of excitatory synaptic release via presynaptic GABAB-receptor activation. In addition, the correlation between the strengths of the early (GABAA-mediated) and late (GABAB-mediated) synaptic inhibition was much stronger for each particular neuron after learning. Consequently, GABAB-mediated inhibition was also more efficient in controlling epileptic-like activity induced by blocking GABAA receptors. We suggest that complex OD learning is accompanied by enhancement of the GABAB-mediated inhibition that enables the cortical network to store memories, while preventing uncontrolled activity.
Many approaches that use viral vectors to deliver transgenes have limited transduction efficiency yet require high levels of transgene expression. In particular, infection via axon terminals is relatively inefficient but is a powerful means of achieving infection of specific neuron types. Combining this with optogenetic approaches requires high gene expression levels that are not typically achieved with nontoxic retrogradely infecting vectors. We generated rabies glycoprotein-pseudotyped lentiviral vectors that use a positive feedback loop composed of a Tet promoter driving both its own tetracycline-dependent transcription activator (tTA) (&quot;TLoop&quot;) and channelrhodopsin-2-YFP (ChR2YFP). We show that TLoop vectors strongly express proteins in a drug-controllable manner in neurons that project to injection sites within the mouse brain. After initial infection, the virus travels retrogradely, stably integrates into the host genome, and expresses gene products. The expression is robust and allows optogenetic studies of neurons projecting to the location of virus injection, as demonstrated by fluorescence-targeted intracellular recordings. ChR2YFP expression did not cause observable signs of toxicity and continued for up to 6 mo after infection. Expression can be reversibly blocked by administration of doxycycline, if necessary, for expression of gene products that might be more toxic. Overall, we present a system that will allow researchers to achieve high levels of gene expression even in the face of inefficient viral transduction. The particular vectors that we demonstrate may enhance efforts to gain a precise understanding of the contributions of specific types of projection neurons to brain function.
Neurons in the spinal cord and motor cortex (M1) are partially phase-locked to cycles of physiological tremor, but with opposite phases. Convergence of spinal and cortical activity onto motoneurons may thus produce phase cancellation and a reduction in tremor amplitude. The mechanisms underlying this phase difference are unknown. We investigated coherence between spinal and M1 activity with sensory input. In two anesthetized monkeys, we electrically stimulated the medial, ulnar, deep radial, and superficial radial nerves; stimuli were timed as independent Poisson processes (rate 10 Hz). Single units were recorded from M1 (147 cells) or cervical spinal cord (61 cells). Ninety M1 cells were antidromically identified as pyramidal tract neurons (PTNs); M1 neurons were additionally classified according to M1 subdivision (rostral/caudal, M1r/c). Spike-stimulus coherence analysis revealed significant coupling over a broad range of frequencies, with the strongest coherence at &lt;50 Hz. Delays implied by the slope of the coherence phase-frequency relationship were greater than the response onset latency, reflecting the importance of late response components for the transmission of oscillatory inputs. The spike-stimulus coherence phase over the 6-13 Hz physiological tremor band differed significantly between M1 and spinal cells (phase differences relative to the cord of 2.72  0.29 and 1.72  0.37 radians for PTNs from M1c and M1r, respectively). We conclude that different phases of the response to peripheral input could partially underlie antiphase M1 and spinal cord activity during motor behavior. The coordinated action of spinal and cortical feedback will act to reduce tremulous oscillations, possibly improving the overall stability and precision of motor control.
Electrophysiology in primates has implicated long-range neural coherence as a potential mechanism for enhancing sensory detection. To test whether local synchronization and long-range neural coherence support detection performance in rats, we recorded local field potentials (LFPs) in frontal and parietal cortex while rats performed an auditory detection task. We observed significantly elevated power at multiple low frequencies (&lt;15 Hz) preceding the target beep when the animal failed to respond to the signal (misses), in both frontal and parietal cortex. In terms of long-range coherence, we observed significantly more frontal-parietal coherence in the beta band (15-30 Hz) before the signal on misses compared with hits. This effect persisted after regressing away linear trends in the coherence values during a session, showing that the excess frontal-parietal beta coherence prior to misses cannot be explained by slow motivational changes during a session. In addition, a trend toward higher low-frequency (&lt;15 Hz) coherence prior to miss trials compared with hits became highly significant when we rereferenced the LFPs to the mean voltage on each recording array, suggesting that the results are specific to our frontal and parietal areas. These results do not support a role for long-range frontal-parietal coherence or local synchronization in facilitating the detection of external stimuli. Rather, they extend to long-range frontal-parietal coherence previous findings that correlate local synchronization of low-frequency (&lt;15 Hz) oscillations with inattention to external stimuli and synchronization of beta rhythms (15-30 Hz) with voluntary or involuntary prolongation of the current cognitive or motor state.
Neurons throughout the mammalian central auditory pathway respond selectively to stimulus frequency and amplitude, and some are also selective for stimulus duration. First found in the auditory midbrain or inferior colliculus (IC), these duration-tuned neurons (DTNs) provide a potential neural mechanism for encoding temporal features of sound. In this study, we investigated how having an additional neural response filter, one selective to the duration of an auditory stimulus, influences frequency tuning and neural organization by recording single-unit responses and measuring the dorsal-ventral position and spectral-temporal tuning properties of auditory DTNs from the IC of the awake big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus). Like other IC neurons, DTNs were tonotopically organized and had either V-shaped, U-shaped, or O-shaped frequency tuning curves (excitatory frequency response areas). We hypothesized there would be an interaction between frequency and duration tuning in DTNs, as electrical engineering theory for resonant filters dictates a trade-off in spectral-temporal resolution: sharp tuning in the frequency domain results in poorer resolution in the time domain and vice versa. While the IC is a more complex signal analyzer than an electrical filter, a similar operational trade-off could exist in the responses of DTNs. Our data revealed two patterns of spectro-temporal sensitivity and spatial organization within the IC: DTNs with sharp frequency tuning and broad duration tuning were located in the dorsal IC, whereas cells with wide spectral tuning and narrow temporal tuning were found in the ventral IC.
Mice with a single copy of the peptide amidating monooxygenase (Pam) gene (PAM(+/-)) are impaired in contextual and cued fear conditioning. These abnormalities coincide with deficient long-term potentiation (LTP) at excitatory thalamic afferent synapses onto pyramidal neurons in the lateral amygdala. Slice recordings from PAM(+/-) mice identified an increase in GABAergic tone (Gaier ED, Rodriguiz RM, Ma XM, Sivaramakrishnan S, Bousquet-Moore D, Wetsel WC, Eipper BA, Mains RE. J Neurosci 30: 13656-13669, 2010). Biochemical data indicate a tissue-specific deficit in Cu content in the amygdala; amygdalar expression of Atox-1 and Atp7a, essential for transport of Cu into the secretory pathway, is reduced in PAM(+/-) mice. When PAM(+/-) mice were fed a diet supplemented with Cu, the impairments in fear conditioning were reversed, and LTP was normalized in amygdala slice recordings. A role for endogenous Cu in amygdalar LTP was established by the inhibitory effect of a brief incubation of wild-type slices with bathocuproine disulfonate, a highly selective, cell-impermeant Cu chelator. Interestingly, bath-applied CuSO4 had no effect on excitatory currents but reversibly potentiated the disynaptic inhibitory current. Bath-applied CuSO4 was sufficient to potentiate wild-type amygdala afferent synapses. The ability of dietary Cu to affect signaling in pathways that govern fear-based behaviors supports an essential physiological role for Cu in amygdalar function at both the synaptic and behavioral levels. This work is relevant to neurological and psychiatric disorders in which disturbed Cu homeostasis could contribute to altered synaptic transmission, including Wilson's, Menkes, Alzheimer's, and prion-related diseases.
Brain oscillations are increasingly the subject of electrophysiological studies probing their role in the functioning and dysfunction of the human brain. In recent years this research area has seen rapid and significant changes in the experimental approaches and analysis methods. This article reviews these developments and provides a structured overview of experimental approaches, spectral analysis techniques and methods to establish relationships between brain oscillations and behaviour.
Abstract The goal of this study was to compare the effects of minocycline and simvastatin on functional recovery and brain gene expression after a cortical contusion impact (CCI) injury. Dosage regimens were designed to provide serum concentrations in a rat model in the range obtained with clinically approved doses; minocycline 60mg/kg q12h and simvastatin 10mg/kg q12h for 72h. Functional recovery was assessed using motor and spatial learning tasks and neuropathological measurements. Microarray-based transcriptional profiling was used to determine the effect on gene expression at 24h, 72h, and 7 days post-CCI. Gene Ontology analysis (GOA) was used to evaluate the effect on relevant biological pathways. Both minocycline and simvastatin improved fine motor function, but not gross motor or cognitive function. Minocycline modestly decreased lesion size with no effect of simvastatin. At 24h post-CCI, GOA identified a significant effect of minocycline on chemotaxis, blood circulation, immune response, and cell to cell signaling pathways. Inflammatory pathways were affected by minocycline only at the 72h time point. There was a minimal effect of simvastatin on gene expression 24h after injury, with increasing effects at 72h and 7 days. GOA identified a significant effect of simvastatin on inflammatory response at 72h and 7 days. In conclusion, treatment with minocycline and simvastatin resulted in significant effects on gene expression in the brain reflecting adequate brain penetration without producing significant neurorestorative effects.

Native NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are tetrameric channels formed by two GluN1 and two GluN2 subunits. So far, seven NMDARs subunits have been identified and they can form diheteromeric or triheteromeric NMDARs (more than one type of GluN2 subunit). Extracellular Mg(2+) is an important regulator of NMDARs, and particularly the voltage dependence of Mg(2+) block is crucial to the roles of NMDARs in synaptic plasticity and the integration of synaptic activity with neuronal activity. Although the Mg(2+) block properties of diheteromeric NMDARs are fully investigated, properties of triheteromeric NMDARs are still not clear. Our previous data suggested that dopaminergic neurones expressed triheteromeric GluN1-GluN2B-GluN2D NMDARs. Here, using NMDARs in dopaminergic neurones from postnatal day 7 (P7) rats as a model system, we characterize the voltage-dependent Mg(2+) block properties of triheteromeric NMDARs. In control conditions, external Mg(2+) significantly inhibits the whole cell NMDA-evoked current in a voltage-dependent manner with IC50 values of 20.9m, 53.3m and 173m at -90mV, -70mV and -50mV, respectively. When the GluN2B-selective antagonist ifenprodil was applied, the Mg(2+) sensitivity of the residual NMDA-mediated currents (which is mainly carried by GluN1-GluN2B-GluN2D NMDARs) is reduced to IC50 values of 45.9m (-90mV), 104m (-70mV) and 276m (-50mV), suggesting that triheteromeric GluN1-GluN2B-GluN2D NMDARs have less affinity for external Mg(2+) than GluN1-GluN2B receptors. In addition, fitting INMDA-V curves with a trapping Mg(2+) block model shows the triheteromeric GluN1-GluN2B-GluN2D NMDARs have weaker voltage-dependent Mg(2+) block (=0.56) than GluN1-GluN2B NMDARs. Finally, our concentration jump and single channel recordings suggest that GluN1-GluN2B-GluN2D rather than GluN1-GluN2D NMDARs are present. These data provide information relevant to Mg(2+) block characteristics of triheteromeric NMDARs and may help to better understand synaptic plasticity, which is dependent on these triheteromeric NMDARs.
In mammals, eupnoeic breathing is periodically interrupted by spontaneous augmented breaths (sighs) that include a larger-amplitude inspiratory effort, typically followed by a post-sigh apnoea. Previous in vitro studies in newborn rodents have demonstrated that the respiratory oscillator of the pre-Btzinger complex (preBtC) can generate the distinct inspiratory motor patterns for both eupnoea- and sigh-related behaviour. During mouse embryonic development, the preBtC begins to generate eupnoeic rhythmicity at embryonic day (E) 15.5, but the network's ability to also generate sigh-like activity remains unexplored at prenatal stages. Using transverse brainstem slice preparations we monitored the neuronal population activity of the preBtC at different embryonic ages. Spontaneous sigh-like rhythmicity was found to emerge progressively, being expressed in 0/32 slices at E15.5, 7/30 at E16.5, 9/22 at E17.5 and 23/26 at E18.5. Calcium imaging showed that the preBtC cell population that participates in eupnoeic-like discharge was also active during fictive sighs. However, patch-clamp recordings revealed the existence of an additional small subset of neurons that fired exclusively during sigh activity. Changes in glycinergic inhibitory synaptic signalling, either by pharmacological blockade, functional perturbation or natural maturation of the chloride co-transporters KCC2 or NKCC1 selectively, and in an age-dependent manner, altered the bi-phasic nature of sigh bursts and their coordination with eupnoeic bursting, leading to the generation of an atypical monophasic sigh-related event. Together our results demonstrate that the developmental emergence of a sigh-generating capability occurs after the onset of eupnoeic rhythmogenesis and requires the proper maturation of chloride-mediated glycinergic synaptic transmission.
Recent methods in DNA nanotechnology are enabling the creation of intricate nanostructures through the use of programmable, bottom-up self-assembly. However, structures consisting only of DNA are limited in their ability to act on other biomolecules. Proteins, on the other hand, perform a variety of functions on biological materials, but directed control of the self-assembly process remains a challenge. While DNA-protein hybrids have the potential to provide the best-of-both-worlds, they can be difficult to create as many of the conventional techniques for linking proteins to DNA render proteins dysfunctional. We present here a sortase-based protocol for covalently coupling proteins to DNA with minimal disturbance to protein function. To accomplish this we have developed a two-step process. First, a small synthetic peptide is bioorthogonally and covalently coupled to a DNA oligo using click chemistry. Next, the DNA-peptide chimera is covalently linked to a protein of interest under protein-compatible conditions using the enzyme sortase. Our protocol allows for the simple coupling and purification of a functional DNA-protein hybrid. We use this technique to form oligos bearing cadherin-23 and protocadherin-15 protein fragments. Upon incorporation into a linear M13 scaffold, these protein-DNA hybrids serve as the gate to a binary nanoswitch. The outlined protocol is reliable and modular, facilitating the construction of libraries of oligos and proteins that can be combined to form functional DNA-protein nanostructures. These structures will enable a new class of functional nanostructures, which could be used for therapeutic and industrial processes.

Many neurons receive synapses in stereotypic proportions from converging but functionally distinct afferents. However, developmental mechanisms regulating synaptic convergence are not well understood. Here we describe a heterotypic mechanism by which one afferent controls synaptogenesis of another afferent, but not vice versa. Like other CNS circuits, zebrafish retinal H3 horizontal cells (HC) undergo an initial period of remodelling, establishing synapses with ultraviolet and blue cones while eliminating red and green cone contacts. As development progresses, the HCs selectively synapse with ultraviolet cones to generate a 5:1 ultraviolet-to-blue cone synapse ratio. Blue cone synaptogenesis increases in mutants lacking ultraviolet cones, and when transmitter release or visual stimulation of ultraviolet cones is perturbed. Connectivity is unaltered when blue cone transmission is suppressed. Moreover, there is no cell-autonomous regulation of cone synaptogenesis by neurotransmission. Thus, biased connectivity in this circuit is established by an unusual activity-dependent, unidirectional control of synaptogenesis exerted by the dominant input.
How does the mammalian retina detect motion? This classic problem in visual neuroscience has remained unsolved for 50 years. In search of clues, here we reconstruct Off-type starburst amacrine cells (SACs) and bipolar cells (BCs) in serial electron microscopic images with help from EyeWire, an online community of 'citizen neuroscientists'. On the basis of quantitative analyses of contact area and branch depth in the retina, we find evidence that one BC type prefers to wire with a SAC dendrite near the SAC soma, whereas another BC type prefers to wire far from the soma. The near type is known to lag the far type in time of visual response. A mathematical model shows how such 'space-time wiring specificity' could endow SAC dendrites with receptive fields that are oriented in space-time and therefore respond selectively to stimuli that move in the outward direction from the soma.

The ability to perceive causality is a central human ability constructed from elemental spatial and temporal information present in the environment. Although the nature of causality has captivated philosophers and scientists since antiquity, the neural correlates of causality remain poorly understood. In the present study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to generate hypotheses for candidate brain regions related to component processes important for perceptual causality in the human brain: elemental space perception, elemental time perception, and decision-making (Experiment 1; n=16). We then used transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to test neural hypotheses generated from the fMRI experiment (Experiment 2; n=16). In both experiments, participants judged causality in billiard-ball style launching events; a blue ball approaches and contacts a red ball. Spatial and temporal contributions to causal perception were assessed by parametrically varying the spatial linearity and the temporal delays of the movement of the balls. Experiment 1 demonstrated unique patterns of activation correlated with spatial, temporal, and decision-making components of causality perception. Using tDCS, we then tested hypotheses for the specific roles of the parietal and frontal cortices found in the fMRI experiment. Parietal stimulation only decreased participants' perception of causality based on spatial violations, while frontal stimulation made participants less likely to perceive causality based on violations of space and time. Converging results from fMRI and tDCS indicate that parietal cortices contribute to causal perception because of their specific role in processing spatial relations, while the frontal cortices contribute more generally, consistent with their role in decision-making.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging measures signal increases arising from a variety of interrelated effects and physiological sources. Recently there has been some success in disentangling this signal in order to quantify baseline physiological parameters, including the resting oxygen extraction fraction (OEF), cerebral blood volume (CBV) and mean vessel size. However, due to the complicated nature of the signal, each of these methods relies on certain physiological assumptions to derive a solution. In this work we present a framework for the simultaneous, voxelwise measurement of these three parameters. The proposed method removes the assumption of a fixed vessel size from the quantification of OEF and CBV, while simultaneously removing the need for an assumed OEF in the calculation of vessel size. The new framework is explored through simulations and validated with a pilot study in healthy volunteers. The MRI protocol uses a combined hyperoxia and hypercapnia paradigm with a modified spin labelling sequence collecting multi-slice gradient echo and spin echo data.
A current debate in memory research is whether and how the access to source information depends not only on recollection, but on fluency-based processes as well. In three experiments, we used event-related brain potentials (ERPs) to examine influences of fluency on source memory for famous names. At test, names were presented visually throughout, whereas visual or auditory presentation was used at learning. In Experiment 1, source decisions following old/new judgments were more accurate for repeated relative to non-repeated visually and auditorily learned names. ERPs were more positive between 300 and 600 ms for visually learned as compared to both auditorily learned and new names, resembling an N400 priming effect. In Experiment 2, we omitted the old/new decision to more directly test fast-acting fluency effects on source memory. We observed more accurate source judgments for repeated versus non-repeated visually learned names, but no such effect for repeated versus non-repeated auditorily learned names. Again, an N400 effect (300-600 ms) differentiated between visually and auditorily learned names. Importantly, this effect occurred for correct source decisions only. We interpret it as indexing fluency arising from within-modality priming of visually learned names at test. This idea was further supported in Experiment 3, which revealed an analogous pattern of results in older adults, consistent with the assumption of spared fluency processes in older age. In sum, our findings suggest that fluency affects person-related source memory via within-modality repetition priming in both younger and older adults.
We used fMRI-informed EEG source-imaging in humans to characterize the dynamics of cortical responses during a disparity-discrimination task. After the onset of a disparity-defined target, decision-related activity was found within an extended cortical network that included several occipital regions of interest (ROIs): V4, V3A, hMT+ and the Lateral Occipital Complex (LOC). By using a response-locked analysis, we were able to determine the timing relationships in this network of ROIs relative to the subject's behavioral response. Choice-related activity appeared first in the V4 ROI almost 200 ms before the button press and then subsequently in the V3A ROI. Modeling of the responses in the V4 ROI suggests that this area provides an early contribution to disparity discrimination. Choice-related responses were also found after the button-press in ROIs V4, V3A, LOC and hMT+. Outside the visual cortex, choice-related activity was found in the frontal and temporal poles before the button-press. By combining the spatial resolution of fMRI-informed EEG source imaging with the ability to sort out neural activity occurring before, during and after the behavioral manifestation of the decision, our study is the first to assign distinct functional roles to the extra-striate ROIs involved in perceptual decisions based on disparity, the primary cue for depth.
Adenosine A1 receptors (A1Rs) are implied in the modulation of neuroinflammation. Activation of cerebral A1Rs acts as a brake on the microglial response after traumatic brain injury and has neuroprotective properties in animal models of Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis. Neuroinflammatory processes in turn may affect the expression of A1Rs, but the available data is limited and inconsistent. Here, we applied an animal model of encephalitis to assess how neuroinflammation affects the expression of A1Rs. Two groups of animals were studied: Infected rats (n=7) were intranasally inoculated with herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1, 1  10(7) plaque forming units), sham-infected rats (n=6) received only phosphate-buffered saline. Six or seven days later, microPET scans (60 min with arterial blood sampling) were made using the tracer 8-dicyclopropyl-1-(11)C-methyl-3-propyl-xanthine ((11)C-MPDX). Tracer clearance from plasma and partition coefficient (K/k estimated from a 2-tissue compartment model fit) were not significantly altered after virus infection. PET tracer distribution volume calculated from a Logan plot was significantly increased in the hippocampus (+37%) and medulla (+27%) of virus infected rats. Tracer binding potential (k/k estimated from the model fit) was significantly increased in the cerebellum (+87%) and the medulla (+148%) which may indicate increased A1R expression. This was confirmed by immunohistochemical analysis showing a strong increase of A1R immunoreactivity in the cerebellum of HSV-1-infected rats. Both the quantitative PET data and immunohistochemical analysis indicate that A1Rs are upregulated in brain areas where active virus is present.
Converging electrophysiological evidence suggests that the alpha rhythm plays an important and active role in cognitive processing. Here, we systematically studied variability in posterior alpha peak frequency both between and within subjects. We recorded brain activity using MEG in 51 healthy human subjects under three experimental conditions - rest, passive visual stimulation and an N-back working memory paradigm, using source reconstruction methods to separate alpha activity from parietal and occipital sources. We asked how alpha peak frequency differed within subjects across cognitive conditions and regions of interest, and looked at the distribution of alpha peak frequency between subjects. In both regions we observed an increase of alpha peak frequency from resting state and passive visual stimulation conditions to the N-back paradigm, with a significantly higher alpha peak frequency in the 2-back compared to the 0-back condition. There was a trend for a greater increase in alpha peak frequency during the N-back task in the occipital vs. parietal cortex. The average alpha peak frequency across all subjects, conditions, and regions of interest was 10.3 Hz with a within-subject SD of 0.9 Hz and a between-subject SD of 2.8 Hz. We also measured beta peak frequencies, and except in the parietal cortex during rest, found no indication of a strictly harmonic relationship with alpha peak frequencies. We conclude that alpha peak frequency in posterior regions increases with increasing cognitive demands, and that the alpha rhythm operates across a wider frequency range than the 8-12 Hz band many studies tend to include in their analysis. Thus, using a fixed and limited alpha frequency band might bias results against certain subjects and conditions.
Diffusion MRI is used widely to probe microstructural alterations in neurological and psychiatric disease. However, ageing and neurodegeneration are also associated with atrophy, which leads to artefacts through partial volume effects due to cerebrospinal-fluid contamination (CSFC). The aim of this study was to explore the influence of CSFC on apparent microstructural changes in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) at several spatial levels: individually reconstructed tracts; at the level of a whole white matter skeleton (tract-based spatial statistics); and histograms derived from all white matter. 25 individuals with MCI and 20 matched controls underwent diffusion MRI. We corrected for CSFC using a post-acquisition voxel-by-voxel approach of free-water elimination. Tracts varied in their susceptibility to CSFC. The apparent pattern of tract involvement in disease shifted when correction was applied. Both spurious group differences, driven by CSFC, and masking of true differences were observed. Tract-based spatial statistics were found to be robust across much of the skeleton but with some localised CSFC effects. Diffusivity measures were affected disproportionately in MCI, and group differences in fornix microstructure were exaggerated. Group differences in white matter histogram measures were also partly driven by CSFC. For diffusivity measures, up to two thirds of observed group differences were due to CSFC. Our results demonstrate that CSFC has an impact on quantitative differences between MCI and controls. Furthermore, it affects the apparent spatial pattern of white matter involvement. Free-water elimination provides a step towards disentangling intrinsic and volumetric alterations in individuals prone to atrophy.
Compressed sensing (CS) may be useful for accelerating data acquisitions in high-resolution fMRI. However, due to the inherent slow temporal dynamics of the hemodynamic signals and concerns of potential statistical power loss, the CS approach for fMRI (CS-fMRI) has not been extensively investigated. To evaluate the utility of CS in fMRI application, we systematically investigated the properties of CS-fMRI using computer simulations and in vivo experiments of rat forepaw sensory and odor stimulations with gradient-recalled echo (GRE) and echo planar imaging (EPI) sequences. Various undersampling patterns along the phase-encoding direction were studied and k-t FOCUSS was used as the CS reconstruction algorithm, which exploits the temporal redundancy of images. Functional sensitivity, specificity, and time courses were compared between fully-sampled and CS-fMRI with reduction factors of 2 and 4. CS-fMRI with GRE, but not with EPI, improves the statistical sensitivity for activation detection over the fully sampled data when the ratio of the fMRI signal change to noise is low. CS improves the temporal resolution and reduces temporal noise correlations. While CS reduces the functional response amplitudes, the noise variance is also reduced to make the overall activation detection more sensitive. Consequently, CS is a valuable fMRI acceleration approach, especially for GRE fMRI studies.
Using high-density electrocorticographic recordings - from awake-behaving monkeys - and dynamic causal modelling, we characterised contrast dependent gain control in visual cortex, in terms of synaptic rate constants and intrinsic connectivity. Specifically, we used neural field models to quantify the balance of excitatory and inhibitory influences; both in terms of the strength and spatial dispersion of horizontal intrinsic connections. Our results allow us to infer that increasing contrast increases the sensitivity or gain of superficial pyramidal cells to inputs from spiny stellate populations. Furthermore, changes in the effective spatial extent of horizontal coupling nuance the spatiotemporal filtering properties of cortical laminae in V1 - effectively preserving higher spatial frequencies. These results are consistent with recent non-invasive human studies of contrast dependent changes in the gain of pyramidal cells elaborating forward connections - studies designed to test specific hypotheses about precision and gain control based on predictive coding. Furthermore, they are consistent with established results showing that the receptive fields of V1 units shrink with increasing visual contrast.
Prismatic adaptation (PA) has been shown to affect left-to-right spatial representations of temporal durations. A leftward aftereffect usually distorts time representation toward an underestimation, while rightward aftereffect usually results in an overestimation of temporal durations. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study the neural mechanisms that underlie PA effects on time perception. Additionally, we investigated whether the effect of PA on time is transient or stable and, in the case of stability, which cortical areas are responsible of its maintenance. Functional brain images were acquired while participants (n=17) performed a time reproduction task and a control-task before, immediately after and 30 min after PA inducing a leftward aftereffect, administered outside the scanner. The leftward aftereffect induced an underestimation of time intervals that lasted for at least 30 min. The left anterior insula and the left superior frontal gyrus showed increased functional activation immediately after versus before PA in the time versus the control-task, suggesting these brain areas to be involved in the executive spatial manipulation of the representation of time. The left middle frontal gyrus showed an increase of activation after 30 min with respect to before PA. This suggests that this brain region may play a key role in the maintenance of the PA effect over time.
White matter (WM) continues to mature through adolescence in parallel with gains in cognitive ability. To date, developmental changes in human WM microstructure have been inferred using analyses of cross-sectional or two time-point follow-up studies, limiting our understanding of individual developmental trajectories. The aims of the present longitudinal study were to characterize the timing of WM growth and investigate how sex and behavior are associated with different developmental trajectories. We utilized diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in 128 individuals aged 8-28, who received annual scans for up to 5 years and completed motor and cognitive tasks. Flexible nonlinear growth curves indicated a hierarchical pattern of WM development. By late childhood, posterior cortical-subcortical connections were similar to adults. During adolescence, WM microstructure reached adult levels, including frontocortical, frontosubcortical and cerebellar connections. Later to mature in adulthood were major corticolimbic association tracts and connections at terminal gray matter sites in cortical and basal ganglia regions. These patterns may reflect adolescent maturation of frontal connectivity supporting cognitive abilities, particularly the protracted refinement of corticolimbic connectivity underlying cognition-emotion interactions. Sex and behavior also played a large role. Males showed continuous WM growth from childhood through early adulthood, whereas females mainly showed growth during mid-adolescence. Further, earlier WM growth in adolescence was associated with faster and more efficient responding and better inhibitory control whereas later growth in adulthood was associated with poorer performance, suggesting that the timing of WM growth is important for cognitive development.

















Family environmental variables are risk factors for recurrent courses of mood disorder in adolescents. The present study examined the association between parental expressed emotion (EE)-critical, hostile and/or emotionally overinvolved attitudes toward a concurrently ill offspring-and suicidal ideation in adolescents with bipolar disorder. The sample consisted of 95 adolescents with a bipolar I or II diagnosis who had experienced a mood episode in the prior 3 months. Participants (mean age=15.54 years, S.D.=1.4) were interviewed and completed questionnaires regarding current and past suicidal ideation prior to their participation in a treatment trial. Parents completed five-minute speech samples from which levels of EE were assessed. High EE attitudes in parents were associated with current suicidal ideation in adolescents. This relationship was independent of the effects of age, gender, current depressive or manic symptoms, comorbid diagnoses, bipolar I/II subtypes, family adaptability, and family cohesion. These results underscore the importance of addressing the emotional reactivity of caregivers in treating adolescents with bipolar disorder who have suicidal ideation.
Very few studies have examined physical and social anhedonia across the spectrum of schizophrenia. In the present study, we recruited three groups of participants (n=84 in each group): patients with schizophrenia, schizotypy and non-schizotypy as assessed by the Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ). All participants completed the self-reported trait anhedonia scales (the Revised Physical Anhedonia Scale and the Social Anhedonia Scale). The clinical symptoms of schizophrenia patients were assessed using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and the Scale for Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS). We found that the three groups differed in both physical and social anhedonia. The schizotypy group reported higher levels of physical anhedonia than the non-schizotypy group, and the patient group reported higher levels of physical anhedonia than the schizotypy group. For social anhedonia, the non-schizotypy group differed significantly from both the schizotypy and the patient group, while no significant difference was found between the last two groups. Our findings show that individuals with schizotypy exhibits similar social but not physical anhedonia compared with patients with schizophrenia, which further suggests that decreased pleasure experiences in the social environment may be a valuable target for identification and early intervention in high-risk populations.
Bipolar disorder (BD) and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults share clinical symptoms. Both disorders present with executive functioning impairment. The detection of executive dysfunction usually requires the administration of an extensive neuropsychological battery. The Institute of Cognitive Neurology (INECO) Frontal Screening (IFS) is an efficient tool, which has been demonstrated to be useful for the detection of executive deficits in other diseases involving the prefrontal cortex. This study assessed the usefulness of the IFS in detecting the executive dysfunction of BD and ADHD adults, by means of a receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis and a multigroup discriminant function analysis. Twenty-four BD, 25 ADHD patients and 25 controls were assessed with a battery that included the IFS and other measures of executive functioning. Our results showed that both patient groups performed significantly lower than controls on the IFS total score. Using a 27.5 point cut-off score, the IFS showed good sensitivity and acceptable specificity to detect executive impairments in BD and ADHD patients. The IFS discriminated between controls and each patient group more reliably than other executive functions measures. Our results suggest that this tool could be a useful instrument to assess executive functions in BD and ADHD patients.
Assessing clinically meaningful change is valuable for treatment planning, monitoring course of illness and evaluating outcome. Although DSM eating disorder (ED) diagnoses have been criticized for poor clinical utility, instability, and uncertainty, remission/change of diagnosis is often the standard for evaluating outcome. We tested the validity of the clinically significant reliable change index (CS/RCI) compared to change in DSM-IV ED-diagnoses. We investigated if CS/RCI was concordant to diagnostic change and compared explained variance on measures at follow-up. Using a database for specialized ED treatment in Sweden the sample contained 1042 female patients (246 adolescents/796 adults). CS/RCI was calculated for the Clinical Impairment Assessment (CIA) and the Eating Disorder Examination Questionnaire (EDE-Q). CS/RCI explained more variance in gain scores for psychopathology measures than diagnostic change (DSM-IV). Average agreement between diagnostic change and CS/RCI was 62% and 60% for CIA and EDE-Q, respectively. Diagnostic change always resulted in more positive outcome than CS/RCI. Together with clinical judgment, CS/RCI is a valuable method for determining clinically significant changes in clinical practice and research. It is economically sound and results are easily interpreted and communicated to patients.
Dissociative symptoms may be the by-products of a labile sleep-wake cycle (Koffel and Watson, 2009a). This may help to explain why dissociation overlaps with fantasy proneness and cognitive failures. Using path analysis, we tested to what extent data gathered in a nonclinical, predominantly female sample (N=139) supported two conceptual models. The first model assumes that unusual sleep experiences increase fantasy proneness and cognitive failures, which in turn encourage trait dissociation and reports of trauma. The second model assumes that trauma leads to dissociative experiences both directly and through its influence on sleep. In this cross-sectional design, the data were reasonably well described by both models. Importantly, in both models, unusual sleep experiences serve as antecedents of trait dissociation. Our analysis underlines the importance of unusual sleep experiences and may inspire treatment intervention focusing on sleep normalization.

Inhibition of Nogo-66 receptor (NgR) can promote recovery following spinal cord injury. The ecto-domain of NgR can be phosphorylated by protein kinase A (PKA), which blocks activation of the receptor. Here, we found that infusion of PKA plus ATP into the damaged spinal cord can promote recovery of locomotor function. While significant elongation of cortical-spinal axons was not detectable even in the rats showing enhanced recovery, neuronal precursor cells were observed in the region where PKA plus ATP were directly applied. NgR1 was expressed in neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPs) derived from the adult spinal cord. Both an NgR1 antagonist NEP1-40 and ecto-domain phosphorylation of NgR1 promote neuronal cell production of the NSPs, in vitro. Thus, inhibition of NgR1 in NSPs can promote neuronal cell production, which could contribute to the enhanced recovery of locomotor function following infusion of PKA and ATP.



Collagen induced arthritis (CIA) is the most studied and used rheumatoid arthritis (RA) model in animals, as it shares many pathological and immunological features of the human disease. The aim of this study was to characterize clinical and immunological aspects of the ovine CIA model, and develop lameness and histopathological scoring systems, in order to validate this model for use in therapeutic trials. Sheep were sensitized to bovine type II collagen (BCII), arthritis was induced by injection of bovine collagen type II into the hock joint and the response was followed for two weeks. Clinical signs of lameness and swelling were evident in all sheep and gross thickening of the synovium surrounding the tibiotarsal joint and erosion on the cartilage surface in the arthritic joints. Leucocyte cell counts were increased in synovial fluid and there was synovial hyperplasia, thickening of the intimal layer, inflammation and marked angiogenesis in the synovial tissue. There was a large influx of monocytes and lymphocytes into the synovial tissue, and increased expression of TNF- and IL-1 in arthritic intima, angiogenesis and upregulation of VCAM-1. CIA in sheep appears to be an excellent large animal model of RA and has the potential for testing biological therapeutics for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
Greater than 160 missense mutations in copper-zinc superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) can cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). These mutations produce conformational changes that reveal novel antibody binding epitopes. A monoclonal antibody, clone C4F6 - raised against the ALS variant G93A of SOD1, has been identified as specifically recognizing a conformation shared by many ALS mutants of SOD1. Attempts to determine whether non-mutant SOD1 adopts a C4F6-reactive conformation in spinal tissues of sporadic ALS (sALS) patients has produced inconsistent results. To define the epitope recognized by C4F6, we tested its binding to a panel of recombinant ALS-SOD1 proteins expressed in cultured cells, producing data to suggest that the C4F6 epitope minimally contains amino acids 90-93, which are normally folded into a tight hairpin loop. Multiple van der Waals interactions between the 90-93 loop and a loop formed by amino acids 37-42, particularly a leucine at position 38, form a stable structure termed the -plug. Based on published modeling predictions, we suggest that the binding of C4F6 to multiple ALS mutants of SOD1 occurs when the local structure within the -plug, including the loop at 90-93, is destabilized. In using the antibody to stain tissues from transgenic mice or humans, the specificity of the antibody for ALS mutant SOD1 was influenced by antigen retrieval protocols. Using conditions that showed the best discrimination between normal and misfolded mutant SOD1 in cell and mouse models, we could find no obvious difference in C4F6 reactivity to spinal motor neurons between sALS and controls tissues.
In this review we provide evidence linking relational memory to the hippocampus, as well as examples of sensitive relational memory tasks that may help characterize the subtle effects of nutrition on learning and memory. Research into dietary effects on cognition is in its nascent stages, and many studies have cast a wide net with respect to areas of cognition to investigate. However, it may be that nutrition will have a disproportionate effect on particular cognitive domains. Thus, researchers interested in nutrition-cognition interactions may wish to apply a more targeted approach when selecting cognitive domains. We suggest that hippocampus-based relational memory may be extraordinarily sensitive to the effects of nutrition. The hippocampus shows unique plastic capabilities, making its structure and function responsive to an array of lifestyle factors and environmental conditions, including dietary intake. A major function of the hippocampus is relational memory, defined as learning and memory for the constituent elements and facts that comprise events. Here we identify several sensitive tests of relational memory that may be used to examine what may be subtle effects of nutrition on hippocampus and memory. We then turn to the literature on aerobic exercise and cognition to provide examples of translational research programs that have successfully applied this targeted approach centering on the hippocampus and sensitive relational memory tools. Finally, we discuss selected findings from animal and human research on nutrition and the hippocampus and advocate for the role of relational memory tasks in future research.






We investigated the effects of a cell-permeable superoxide dismutase mimetic, manganese(III) tetrakis(1-methyl-4-pyridyl)porphyrin (MnTMPyP) on blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity following pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-induced seizures in experimental preeclampsia symptoms induced by N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME) in pregnant rats. To show the functional and morphological alterations in BBB integrity, quantitative analysis of sodium fluorescein (NaFlu) extravasation, immunohistochemistry and electron microscopic assessment of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) permeability were performed. Varying degrees of proteinuria were seen and arterial blood pressure increased in l-NAME-treated pregnant rats (p&lt;0.01). MnTMPyP pretreatment and convulsive PTZ challenge significantly decreased the immunoreactivity of occludin in hippocampal capillaries in l-NAME-treated pregnant rats (p&lt;0.01). BBB permeability to NaFlu significantly increased in pregnant rats treated with l-NAME plus PTZ (p&lt;0.01), but MnTMPyP pretreatment did not significantly decrease NaFlu penetration into the brain parenchyma in these animals. Ultrastructurally, frequent vesicles containing HRP reaction products were observed in the capillary endothelial cells in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of pregnant rats treated with l-NAME and l-NAME plus PTZ with the abundance being more in the latter group. MnTMPyP pretreatment caused a marked reduction in the frequency of HRP reaction product containing vesicles in both experimental settings. In conclusion, the results of the present study provide evidence that MnTMPyP plays an important role in limiting the enhanced vesicle-mediated transcellular transport in BBB endothelium in a rat model of preeclampsia and the differences in the way of transports of NaFlu and HRP might be responsible for the different effects of MnTMPyP on the BBB permeability to these two tracers.
















G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) oligomerization has emerged as a vital characteristic of receptor structure. Substantial experimental evidence supports the existence of GPCR-GPCR interactions in a coordinated and cooperative manner. However, despite the current development of experimental techniques for large-scale detection of GPCR heteromers, in order to understand their connectivity it is necessary to develop novel tools to study the global heteroreceptor networks. To provide insight into the overall topology of the GPCR heteromers and identify key players, a collective interaction network was constructed. Experimental interaction data for each of the individual human GPCR protomers was obtained manually from the STRING and SCOPUS databases. The interaction data were used to build and analyze the network using Cytoscape software. The network was treated as undirected throughout the study. It is comprised of 156 nodes, 260 edges and has a scale-free topology. Connectivity analysis reveals a significant dominance of intrafamily versus interfamily connections. Most of the receptors within the network are linked to each other by a small number of edges. DRD2, OPRM, ADRB2, AA2AR, AA1R, OPRK, OPRD and GHSR are identified as hubs. In a network representation 10 modules/clusters also appear as a highly interconnected group of nodes. Information on this GPCR network can improve our understanding of molecular integration. GPCR-HetNet has been implemented in Java and is freely available at http://www.iiia.csic.es/~ismel/GPCR-Nets/index.html.














Neurotensin (NT) is a tridecapeptide distributed in the CNS, including the entorhinal cortex (EC), a structure that is crucial for learning and memory and undergoes the earliest pathological alterations in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Whereas NT has been implicated in modulating cognition, the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which NT modifies cognitive processes and the potential therapeutic roles of NT in AD have not been determined. Here we examined the effects of NT on neuronal excitability and spatial learning in the EC, which expresses high density of NT receptors. Brief application of NT induced persistent increases in action potential firing frequency, which could last for at least 1 h. NT-induced facilitation of neuronal excitability was mediated by downregulation of TREK-2 K(+) channels and required the functions of NTS1, phospholipase C, and protein kinase C. Microinjection of NT or NTS1 agonist, PD149163, into the EC increased spatial learning as assessed by the Barnes Maze Test. Activation of NTS1 receptors also induced persistent increases in action potential firing frequency and significantly improved the memory status in APP/PS1 mice, an animal model of AD. Our study identifies a cellular substrate underlying learning and memory and suggests that NTS1 agonists may exert beneficial actions in an animal model of AD.
Many animals exhibit flexible behaviors that they can adjust to increase reward or avoid harm (learning by positive or aversive reinforcement). But what neural mechanisms allow them to restore their original behavior (motor program) after reinforcement is withdrawn? One possibility is that motor restoration relies on brain areas that have a role in memorization but no role in either motor production or in sensory processing relevant for expressing the behavior and its refinement. We investigated the role of a higher auditory brain area in the songbird for modifying and restoring the stereotyped adult song. We exposed zebra finches to aversively reinforcing white noise stimuli contingent on the pitch of one of their stereotyped song syllables. In response, birds significantly changed the pitch of that syllable to avoid the aversive reinforcer. After we withdrew reinforcement, birds recovered their original song within a few days. However, we found that large bilateral lesions in the caudal medial nidopallium (NCM, a high auditory area) impaired recovery of the original pitch even several weeks after withdrawal of the reinforcing stimuli. Because NCM lesions spared both successful noise-avoidance behavior and birds' auditory discrimination ability, our results show that NCM is not needed for directed motor changes or for auditory discriminative processing, but is implied in memorizing or recalling the memory of the recent song target.
Previous studies on perceptual decision-making have often emphasized a tight link between decisions and motor intentions. Human decisions, however, also depend on memories or experiences that are not closely tied to specific motor responses. Recent neuroimaging findings have suggested that, during episodic retrieval, parietal activity reflects the accumulation of evidence for memory decisions. It is currently unknown, however, whether these evidence accumulation signals are functionally linked to signals for motor intentions coded in frontoparietal regions and whether activity in the putative memory accumulator tracks the amount of evidence for only previous experience, as reflected in &quot;old&quot; reports, or for both old and new decisions, as reflected in the accuracy of memory judgments. Here, human participants used saccadic-eye and hand-pointing movements to report recognition judgments on pictures defined by different degrees of evidence for old or new decisions. A set of cortical regions, including the middle intraparietal sulcus, showed a monotonic variation of the fMRI BOLD signal that scaled with perceived memory strength (older &gt; newer), compatible with an asymmetrical memory accumulator. Another set, including the hippocampus and the angular gyrus, showed a nonmonotonic response profile tracking memory accuracy (higher &gt; lower evidence), compatible with a symmetrical accumulator. In contrast, eye and hand effector-specific regions in frontoparietal cortex tracked motor intentions but were not modulated by the amount of evidence for the effector outcome. We conclude that item recognition decisions are supported by a combination of symmetrical and asymmetrical accumulation signals largely segregated from motor intentions.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) activation in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) core is pharmacologically and physiologically relevant for regulating palatable food intake. Here, we assess whether GLP-1R signaling in the NAc core of rats modulates GABAergic medium spiny neurons (MSNs) through presynaptic-glutamatergic and/or presynaptic-dopaminergic signaling to control feeding. First, ex vivo fast-scan cyclic voltammetry showed that the GLP-1R agonist exendin-4 (Ex-4) does not alter dopamine release in the NAc core. Instead, support for a glutamatergic mechanism was provided by ex vivo electrophysiological analyses showing that Ex-4 activates presynaptic GLP-1Rs in the NAc core to increase the activity of MSNs via a glutamatergic, AMPA/kainate receptor-mediated mechanism, indicated by increased mEPSC frequency and decreased paired pulse ratio in core MSNs. Only a small, direct excitatory effect on MSNs by Ex-4 was observed, suggesting that the contribution of postsynaptic GLP-1R to MSN activity is minimal. The behavioral relevance of the electrophysiological data was confirmed by the finding that intracore injection of the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist CNQX attenuated the ability of NAc core GLP-1R activation by Ex-4 microinjection to suppress food intake and body weight gain; in contrast, intracore NMDA receptor blockade by AP-5 did not inhibit the energy balance effects of NAc core Ex-4. Together, these data provide evidence for a novel glutamatergic, but not dopaminergic, mechanism by which NAc core GLP-1Rs promote negative energy balance.
Currently, 65% of Americans are overweight, which leads to well-supported cardiovascular and cognitive declines. Little, however, is known concerning obesity's impact on sensory systems. Because olfaction is linked with ingestive behavior to guide food choice, its potential dysfunction during obesity could evoke a positive feedback loop to perpetuate poor ingestive behaviors. To determine the effect of chronic energy imbalance and reveal any structural or functional changes associated with obesity, we induced long-term, diet-induced obesity by challenging mice to high-fat diets: (1) in an obesity-prone (C57BL/6J) and obesity-resistant (Kv1.3(-/-)) line of mice, and compared this with (2) late-onset, genetic-induced obesity in MC4R(-/-) mice in which diabetes secondarily precipitates after disruption of the hypothalamic axis. We report marked loss of olfactory sensory neurons and their axonal projections after exposure to a fatty diet, with a concomitant reduction in electro-olfactogram amplitude. Loss of olfactory neurons and associated circuitry is linked to changes in neuronal proliferation and normal apoptotic cycles. Using a computer-controlled, liquid-based olfactometer, mice maintained on fatty diets learn reward-reinforced behaviors more slowly, have deficits in reversal learning demonstrating behavioral inflexibility, and exhibit reduced olfactory discrimination. When obese mice are removed from their high-fat diet to regain normal body weight and fasting glucose, olfactory dysfunctions are retained. We conclude that chronic energy imbalance therefore presents long-lasting structural and functional changes in the operation of the sensory system designed to encode external and internal chemical information and leads to altered olfactory- and reward-driven behaviors.
A novel, salient event in the environment powerfully captures attention. This stimulus-driven attentional capture not only includes orienting of attention toward the event, but also an evaluative process to determine the behavioral significance and appropriate response to the event. Whereas a network of human brain regions composed of prefrontal and temporoparietal regions have been associated with stimulus-driven attention, the neural substrates of orienting have never been teased apart from those of evaluative processes. Here we used fMRI to measure the human brain's response to the temporally extended presentations of salient, task-irrelevant stimuli, and found a clear functional dissociation in the stimulus-driven attention network; the anterior insula and cingulate cortex showed transient orienting responses to the onsets and offsets of the stimuli, whereas the temporoparietal cortex exhibited sustained activity throughout event evaluation. The lateral prefrontal cortex was implicated in both attentional and evaluative processes, pointing to its central, integrative role in stimulus-driven attention.
Monoamine neurotransmitters are stored in both synaptic vesicles (SVs), which are required for release at the synapse, and large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs), which mediate extrasynaptic release. The contributions of each type of vesicular release to specific behaviors are not known. To address this issue, we generated mutations in the C-terminal trafficking domain of the Drosophila vesicular monoamine transporter (DVMAT), which is required for the vesicular storage of monoamines in both SVs and LDCVs. Deletion of the terminal 23 aa (DVMAT-3) reduced the rate of endocytosis and localization of DVMAT to SVs, but supported localization to LDCVs. An alanine substitution mutation in a tyrosine-based motif (DVMAT-Y600A) also reduced sorting to SVs and showed an endocytic deficit specific to aminergic nerve terminals. Redistribution of DVMAT-Y600A from SV to LDCV fractions was also enhanced in aminergic neurons. To determine how these changes might affect behavior, we expressed DVMAT-3 and DVMAT-Y600A in a dVMAT null genetic background that lacks endogenous dVMAT activity. When expressed ubiquitously, DVMAT-3 showed a specific deficit in female fertility, whereas DVMAT-Y600A rescued behavior similarly to DVMAT-wt. In contrast, when expressed more specifically in octopaminergic neurons, both DVMAT-3 and DVMAT-Y600A failed to rescue female fertility, and DVMAT-Y600A showed deficits in larval locomotion. DVMAT-Y600A also showed more severe dominant effects than either DVMAT-wt or DVMAT-3. We propose that these behavioral deficits result from the redistribution of DVMAT from SVs to LDCVs. By extension, our data suggest that the balance of amine release from SVs versus that from LDCVs is critical for the function of some aminergic circuits.
Exaggerated intracellular Ca(2+) signaling is a robust proximal phenotype observed in cells expressing familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD)-causing mutant presenilins (PSs). The mechanisms that underlie this phenotype are controversial and their in vivo relevance for AD pathogenesis is unknown. Here, we used a genetic approach to identify the mechanisms involved and to evaluate their role in the etiology of AD in two FAD mouse models. Genetic reduction of the type 1 inositol trisphosphate receptor (InsP3R1) by 50% normalized exaggerated Ca(2+) signaling observed in cortical and hippocampal neurons in both animal models. In PS1M146V knock-in mice, reduced InsP3R1 expression restored normal ryanodine receptor and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB)-dependent gene expression and rescued aberrant hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). In 3xTg mice, reduced InsP3R1 expression profoundly attenuated amyloid  accumulation and tau hyperphosphorylation and rescued hippocampal LTP and memory deficits. These results indicate that exaggerated Ca(2+) signaling, which is associated with FAD PS, is mediated by InsP3R and contributes to disease pathogenesis in vivo. Targeting the InsP3 signaling pathway could be considered a potential therapeutic strategy for patients harboring mutations in PS linked to AD.
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a neuropeptide produced in neurons sparsely distributed in the lateral hypothalamic area. Recent studies have reported that MCH neurons are active during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, but their physiological role in the regulation of sleep/wakefulness is not fully understood. To determine the physiological role of MCH neurons, newly developed transgenic mouse strains that enable manipulation of the activity and fate of MCH neurons in vivo were generated using the recently developed knockin-mediated enhanced gene expression by improved tetracycline-controlled gene induction system. The activity of these cells was controlled by optogenetics by expressing channelrhodopsin2 (E123T/T159C) or archaerhodopsin-T in MCH neurons. Acute optogenetic activation of MCH neurons at 10 Hz induced transitions from non-REM (NREM) to REM sleep and increased REM sleep time in conjunction with decreased NREM sleep. Activation of MCH neurons while mice were in NREM sleep induced REM sleep, but activation during wakefulness was ineffective. Acute optogenetic silencing of MCH neurons using archaerhodopsin-T had no effect on any vigilance states. Temporally controlled ablation of MCH neurons by cell-specific expression of diphtheria toxin A increased wakefulness and decreased NREM sleep duration without affecting REM sleep. Together, these results indicate that acute activation of MCH neurons is sufficient, but not necessary, to trigger the transition from NREM to REM sleep and that MCH neurons also play a role in the initiation and maintenance of NREM sleep.
Animal studies have shown that substantia nigra (SN) dopaminergic (DA) neurons strengthen action-reward associations during reinforcement learning, but their role in human learning is not known. Here, we applied microstimulation in the SN of 11 patients undergoing deep brain stimulation surgery for the treatment of Parkinson's disease as they performed a two-alternative probability learning task in which rewards were contingent on stimuli, rather than actions. Subjects demonstrated decreased learning from reward trials that were accompanied by phasic SN microstimulation compared with reward trials without stimulation. Subjects who showed large decreases in learning also showed an increased bias toward repeating actions after stimulation trials; therefore, stimulation may have decreased learning by strengthening action-reward associations rather than stimulus-reward associations. Our findings build on previous studies implicating SN DA neurons in preferentially strengthening action-reward associations during reinforcement learning.
Theta burst stimulation (TBS), a specific protocol of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), induces changes in cortical excitability that last beyond stimulation. TBS-induced aftereffects, however, vary between subjects, and the mechanisms underlying these aftereffects to date remain poorly understood. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate whether increasing the number of pulses of intermittent TBS (iTBS) (1) increases cortical excitability as measured by motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) and (2) alters functional connectivity measured using resting-state fMRI, in a dose-dependent manner. Sixteen healthy, human subjects received three serially applied iTBS blocks of 600 pulses over the primary motor cortex (M1 stimulation) and the parieto-occipital vertex (sham stimulation) to test for dose-dependent iTBS effects on cortical excitability and functional connectivity (four sessions in total). iTBS over M1 increased MEP amplitudes compared with sham stimulation after each stimulation block. Although the increase in MEP amplitudes did not differ between the first and second block of M1 stimulation, we observed a significant increase after three blocks (1800 pulses). Furthermore, iTBS enhanced resting-state functional connectivity between the stimulated M1 and premotor regions in both hemispheres. Functional connectivity between M1 and ipsilateral dorsal premotor cortex further increased dose-dependently after 1800 pulses of iTBS over M1. However, no correlation between changes in MEP amplitudes and functional connectivity was detected. In summary, our data show that increasing the number of iTBS stimulation blocks results in dose-dependent effects at the local level (cortical excitability) as well as at a systems level (functional connectivity) with a dose-dependent enhancement of dorsal premotor cortex-M1 connectivity.
Sound encoding is mediated by Ca(2+) influx-evoked release of glutamate at the ribbon synapse of inner hair cells. Here we studied the role of ATP in this process focusing on Ca(2+) current through CaV1.3 channels and Ca(2+) homeostasis in mouse inner hair cells. Patch-clamp recordings and Ca(2+) imaging demonstrate that hydrolyzable ATP is essential to maintain synaptic Ca(2+) influx in inner hair cells via fueling Ca(2+)-ATPases to avoid an increase in cytosolic [Ca(2+)] and subsequent Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent inactivation of CaV1.3 channels.
Current evidence strongly supports the central involvement of the human medial temporal lobes (MTL) in storing and retrieving memories for recently experienced events. However, a critical remaining question regards exactly how the hippocampus and surrounding cortex represents spatiotemporal context defining an event in memory. Competing accounts suggest that this process may be accomplished by the following: (1) an overall increase in neural similarity of representations underlying spatial and temporal context, (2) a differentiation of competing spatiotemporal representations, or (3) a combination of the two processes, with different subregions performing these two functions within the MTL. To address these competing proposals, we used high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging targeting the MTL along with a multivariate pattern similarity approach with 19 participants. While undergoing imaging, participants performed a task in which they retrieved spatial and temporal contextual representations from a recently learned experience. Results showed that successfully retrieving spatiotemporal context defining an episode involved a decrease in pattern similarity between putative spatial and temporal contextual representations in hippocampal subfields CA2/CA3/DG, whereas the parahippocampal cortex (PHC) showed the opposite pattern. These findings could not be accounted for by differences in univariate activations for complete versus partial retrieval nor differences in correlations for correct or incorrect retrieval. Together, these data suggest that the CA2/CA3/DG serves to differentiate competing contextual representations, whereas the PHC stores a comparatively integrated trace of scene-specific context, both of which likely play important roles in successful episodic memory retrieval.
Neural circuits that translate sensory information into motor commands are organized in a feedforward manner converting sensory information into motor output. The superior colliculus (SC) follows this pattern as it plays a role in converting visual information from the retina and visual cortex into motor commands for rapid eye movements (saccades). Feedback from movement to sensory regions is hypothesized to play critical roles in attention, visual image stability, and saccadic suppression, but in contrast to feedforward pathways, motor feedback to sensory regions has received much less attention. The present study used voltage imaging and patch-clamp recording in slices of rat SC to test the hypothesis of an excitatory synaptic pathway from the motor layers of the SC back to the sensory superficial layers. Voltage imaging revealed an extensive depolarization of the superficial layers evoked by electrical stimulation of the motor layers. A pharmacologically isolated excitatory synaptic potential in the superficial layers depended on stimulus strength in the motor layers in a manner consistent with orthodromic excitation. Patch-clamp recording from neurons in the sensory layers revealed excitatory synaptic potentials in response to glutamate application in the motor layers. The location, size, and morphology of responsive neurons indicated they were likely to be narrow-field vertical cells. This excitatory projection from motor to sensory layers adds an important element to the circuitry of the SC and reveals a novel feedback pathway that could play a role in enhancing sensory responses to attended targets as well as visual image stabilization.
The integration of emotional information from the face and voice of other persons is known to be mediated by a number of &quot;multisensory&quot; cerebral regions, such as the right posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS). However, whether multimodal integration in these regions is attributable to interleaved populations of unisensory neurons responding to face or voice or rather by multimodal neurons receiving input from the two modalities is not fully clear. Here, we examine this question using functional magnetic resonance adaptation and dynamic audiovisual stimuli in which emotional information was manipulated parametrically and independently in the face and voice via morphing between angry and happy expressions. Healthy human adult subjects were scanned while performing a happy/angry emotion categorization task on a series of such stimuli included in a fast event-related, continuous carryover design. Subjects integrated both face and voice information when categorizing emotion-although there was a greater weighting of face information-and showed behavioral adaptation effects both within and across modality. Adaptation also occurred at the neural level: in addition to modality-specific adaptation in visual and auditory cortices, we observed for the first time a crossmodal adaptation effect. Specifically, fMRI signal in the right pSTS was reduced in response to a stimulus in which facial emotion was similar to the vocal emotion of the preceding stimulus. These results suggest that the integration of emotional information from face and voice in the pSTS involves a detectable proportion of bimodal neurons that combine inputs from visual and auditory cortices.
A hallmark of working memory is the ability to maintain graded representations of both the spatial location and amplitude of a memorized stimulus. Previous work has identified a neural correlate of spatial working memory in the persistent maintenance of spatially specific patterns of neural activity. How such activity is maintained by neocortical circuits remains unknown. Traditional models of working memory maintain analog representations of either the spatial location or the amplitude of a stimulus, but not both. Furthermore, although most previous models require local excitation and lateral inhibition to maintain spatially localized persistent activity stably, the substrate for lateral inhibitory feedback pathways is unclear. Here, we suggest an alternative model for spatial working memory that is capable of maintaining analog representations of both the spatial location and amplitude of a stimulus, and that does not rely on long-range feedback inhibition. The model consists of a functionally columnar network of recurrently connected excitatory and inhibitory neural populations. When excitation and inhibition are balanced in strength but offset in time, drifts in activity trigger spatially specific negative feedback that corrects memory decay. The resulting networks can temporally integrate inputs at any spatial location, are robust against many commonly considered perturbations in network parameters, and, when implemented in a spiking model, generate irregular neural firing characteristic of that observed experimentally during persistent activity. This work suggests balanced excitatory-inhibitory memory circuits implementing corrective negative feedback as a substrate for spatial working memory.
Thalamus is a potent driver of cortical activity even though cortical synapses onto excitatory layer 4 neurons outnumber thalamic synapses 10 to 1. Previous in vitro studies have proposed that thalamocortical (TC) synapses are stronger than corticocortical (CC) synapses. Here, we investigated possible anatomical and physiological differences between these inputs in the rat in vivo. We developed a high-throughput light microscopy method, validated by electron microscopy, to completely map the locations of synapses across an entire dendritic tree. This demonstrated that TC synapses are slightly more proximal to the soma than CC synapses, but detailed compartmental modeling predicted that dendritic filtering does not appreciably favor one synaptic class over another. Measurements of synaptic strength in intact animals confirmed that both TC and CC synapses are weak and approximately equivalent. We conclude that thalamic effectiveness does not rely on enhanced TC strength, but rather on coincident activation of converging inputs.




THE BINOCULAR ADVANTAGE IN READING PERFORMANCE IS TYPICALLY SMALL ON THE OTHER HAND RESEARCH SHOWS BINOCULAR READING TO BE REMARKABLY ROBUST TO DEGRADED STIMULUS PROPERTIES WE HYPOTHESIZED THAT THIS ROBUSTNESS MAY STEM FROM AN INCREASING BINOCULAR CONTRIBUTION THE MAIN OBJECTIVE WAS TO COMPARE MONOCULAR AND BINOCULAR PERFORMANCE AT DIFFERENT STIMULUS CONTRASTS AND ASSESS THE LEVEL OF BINOCULAR SUPERIORITY A SECONDARY OBJECTIVE WAS TO ASSESS ANY ASYMMETRY IN PERFORMANCE RELATED TO OCULAR DOMINANCE IN A BALANCED REPEATED MEASURES EXPERIMENT 18 SUBJECTS READ TEXTS AT THREE LEVELS OF CONTRAST MONOCULARLY AND BINOCULARLY WHILE THEIR EYE MOVEMENTS WERE RECORDED THE BINOCULAR ADVANTAGE INCREASED WITH REDUCED CONTRAST PRODUCING A 7% SLOWER MONOCULAR READING AT 40% CONTRAST, 9% SLOWER AT 20% CONTRAST, AND 21% SLOWER AT 10% CONTRAST A STATISTICALLY SIGNIFICANT INTERACTION EFFECT WAS FOUND IN FIXATION DURATION DISPLAYING A MORE ADVERSE EFFECT IN THE MONOCULAR CONDITION AT LOWEST CONTRAST NO SIGNIFICANT EFFECTS OF OCULAR DOMINANCE WERE OBSERVED THE OUTCOME SUGGESTS THAT BINOCULARITY CONTRIBUTES INCREASINGLY TO READING PERFORMANCE AS STIMULUS CONTRAST DECREASES THE STRONGEST DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MONOCULAR AND BINOCULAR PERFORMANCE WAS DUE TO FIXATION DURATION THE FINDINGS MAY POSE A CLINICAL POINT THAT IT MAY BE NECESSARY TO CONSIDER TESTS AT DIFFERENT CONTRAST LEVELS WHEN ESTIMATING READING PERFORMANCE :
Convection-enhanced delivery (CED) has been proposed as a treatment option for a wide range of neurological diseases. Neuroinfusion catheter CED allows for positive pressure bulk flow to deliver greater quantities of therapeutics to an intracranial target than traditional drug delivery methods. The clinical utility of real time MRI guided CED (rCED) lies in the ability to accurately target, monitor therapy, and identify complications. With training, rCED is efficient and complications may be minimized. The agarose gel model of the brain provides an accessible tool for CED testing, research, and training. Simulated brain rCED allows practice of the mock surgery while also providing visual feedback of the infusion. Analysis of infusion allows for calculation of the distribution fraction (Vd/Vi) allowing the trainee to verify the similarity of the model as compared to human brain tissue. This article describes our agarose gel brain phantom and outlines important metrics during a CED infusion and analysis protocols while addressing common pitfalls faced during CED infusion for the treatment of neurological disease.



















Photoacoustic microscopy (PAM) is emerging as a powerful technique for imaging microvasculature at depths beyond the ~1mm depth limit associated with confocal microscopy, two-photon microscopy and optical coherence tomography. PAM, however, is currently qualitative in nature and cannot quantitatively measure important functional parameters including oxyhemoglobin (HbO2), deoxyhemoglobin (HbR), oxygen saturation (sO2), blood flow (BF) and rate of oxygen metabolism (MRO2). Here we describe a new photoacoustic microscopic method, termed photoacoustic computed microscopy (PACM) that combines current PAM technique with a model-based inverse reconstruction algorithm. We evaluate the PACM approach using tissue-mimicking phantoms and demonstrate its in vivo imaging ability of quantifying HbO2, HbR, sO2, cerebral BF and cerebral MRO2 at the small vessel level in a rodent model. This new technique provides a unique tool for neuroscience research and for visualizing microvasculature dynamics involved in tumor angiogenesis and in inflammatory joint diseases.




2,3-Benzodiazepine derivatives, also known as GYKI compounds, represent a group of the most promising synthetic inhibitors of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors. Here we investigate the mechanism of inhibition of the GluA1 channel opening and the site of inhibition by GYKI 52466 and its N-3 methyl-carbamoyl derivative, which we term as BDZ-f. GluA1 is a key AMPA receptor subunit involved in the brain function. Excessive activity and elevated expression of GluA1, however, has been implicated in a number of neurological disorders. Using a laser-pulse photolysis technique, which provides 60 s resolution, we measured the effect of these inhibitors on the rate of GluA1 channel opening and the amplitude of the glutamate-induced whole-cell current. We found that both compounds inhibit GluA1 channel noncompetitively. Addition of an N-3 methyl-carbamoyl group to the diazepine ring with the azomethine feature (i.e., GYKI 52466) improves the potency of the resulting compound or BDZ-f without changing the site of binding. This site, which we previously termed as the &quot;M&quot; site on the GluA2 AMPA receptor subunit, therefore favorably accommodates an N-3 acylating group. On the basis of the magnitude of the inhibition constants for the same inhibitors but different receptors, the &quot;M&quot; sites on GluA1 and GuA2 are different. Overall, the &quot;M&quot; site or the binding environment on GluA2 accommodates the same compounds better, or the same inhibitors show stronger potency on GluA2, as we have reported previously [ Wang et al. Biochemistry ( 2011 ) 50 , 7284 - 7293 ]. However, acylating the N-3 position to occupy the N-3 side pocket of the &quot;M&quot; site can significantly narrow the difference and improve the potency of a resulting compound on GluA1.
Indolethylamine-N-methyltransferase (INMT) is a Class 1 transmethylation enzyme known for its production of N,N-dimethyltryptamine (DMT), a hallucinogen with affinity for various serotonergic, adrenergic, histaminergic, dopaminergic, and sigma-1 receptors. DMT is produced via the action of INMT on the endogenous substrates tryptamine and S-adenosyl-l-methionine (SAM). The biological, biochemical, and selective small molecule regulation of INMT enzyme activity remain largely unknown. Kinetic mechanisms for inhibition of rabbit lung INMT (rabINMT) by the product, DMT, and by a new novel tryptamine derivative were determined. After Michaelis-Menten and Lineweaver-Burk analyses had been applied to study inhibition, DMT was found to be a mixed competitive and noncompetitive inhibitor when measured against tryptamine. The novel tryptamine derivative, N-[2-(1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]-N',N'-dimethylpropane-1,3-diamine (propyl dimethyl amino tryptamine or PDAT), was shown to inhibit rabINMT by a pure noncompetitive mechanism when measured against tryptamine with a Ki of 84 M. No inhibition by PDAT was observed at 2 mM when it was tested against structurally similar Class 1 methyltransferases, such as human phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (hPNMT) and human nicotinamide-N-methyltransferase (hNNMT), indicating selectivity for INMT. The demonstration of noncompetitive mechanisms for INMT inhibition implies the presence of an inhibitory allosteric site. In silico analyses using the computer modeling software Autodock and the rabINMT sequence threaded onto the human INMT (hINMT) structure (Protein Data Bank entry 2A14 ) identified an N-terminal helix-loop-helix non-active site binding region of the enzyme. The energies for binding of DMT and PDAT to this region of rabINMT, as determined by Autodock, were -6.34 and -7.58 kcal/mol, respectively. Assessment of the allosteric control of INMT may illuminate new biochemical pathway(s) underlying the biology of INMT.







































The neuropeptide galanin (GAL) is widely distributed in the central and peripheral nervous systems. It is a modulator of various physiological and pathological processes, and it mediates its effects via three G protein-coupled receptors (GAL1-3 receptors). A role for GAL as a modulator of mood and anxiety was suggested, because GAL and its receptors are highly expressed in limbic brain structures of rodents. In recent years, numerous studies of animal models have suggested an involvement of GAL and GAL1 and GAL2 receptors in anxiety- and depression-related behavior. However, to date, there is sparse literature implicating GAL3 receptors in behavioral functions. Therefore, we studied the behavior of GAL3 receptor-deficient (GAL3-KO) mice to elucidate whether GAL3 receptors are involved in mediating behavior-associated actions of GAL. The GAL3-KO mouse line exhibited normal breeding and physical development. In addition to behavioral tests, phenotypic characterization included analysis of hematology, amino acid profiles, metabolism, and sudomotor function. In contrast to WT littermates, male GAL3-KO mice exhibited an anxiety-like phenotype in the elevated plus maze, open field, and light/dark box tests, and they were less socially affiliated than WT animals to a stranger mouse in a social interaction test. In conclusion, our data suggest involvement of GAL3 receptors in GAL-mediated effects on mood, anxiety, and behavior, making it a possible target for alternative treatment strategies for mood disorders.
Neurosteroids are synthesized within the brain and act as endogenous anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, hypnotic, and sedative agents, actions that are principally mediated via their ability to potentiate phasic and tonic inhibitory neurotransmission mediated by -aminobutyric acid type A receptors (GABAARs). Although neurosteroids are accepted allosteric modulators of GABAARs, here we reveal they exert sustained effects on GABAergic inhibition by selectively enhancing the trafficking of GABAARs that mediate tonic inhibition. We demonstrate that neurosteroids potentiate the protein kinase C-dependent phosphorylation of S443 within 4 subunits, a component of GABAAR subtypes that mediate tonic inhibition in many brain regions. This process enhances insertion of 4 subunit-containing GABAAR subtypes into the membrane, resulting in a selective and sustained elevation in the efficacy of tonic inhibition. Therefore, the ability of neurosteroids to modulate the phosphorylation and membrane insertion of 4 subunit-containing GABAARs may underlie the profound effects these endogenous signaling molecules have on neuronal excitability and behavior.

Objective: To conduct the first systematic literature review of clinical trials of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) for the treatment of substance abuse disorders and addictive behaviors. Methods: A search of the MEDLINE, Embase and PsycINFO databases was conducted. The inclusion criteria for the review were clinical trials that used NAC in the treatment of a disorder related to substance use and/or addictive behaviors, limited to texts in English, Spanish, or French. The selected studies were evaluated with respect to type of trial, sample size, diagnostic input, intervention, length of follow-up, outcome variables, and results. Results: Nine studies analyzing a total of 165 patients met the eligibility criteria and were included in qualitative analysis. These studies evaluated the role of NAC in cocaine dependence (three studies), cannabis dependence (two studies), nicotine dependence (two studies), methamphetamine addiction (one study), and pathological gambling (one study). Five of these trials were double-blind, randomized, and placebo-controlled. Conclusions: The studies analyzed suggest a potential role for NAC in the treatment of addiction, especially of cocaine and cannabis dependence. These results are concordant with the hypothesis of the involvement of glutamatergic pathways in the pathophysiology of addiction.
Objective: To propose and evaluate the psychometric properties of a multidimensional measure of activities of daily living (ADLs) based on the Katz and Lawton indices for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Methods: In this study, 85 patients with MCI and 93 with AD, stratified by age ( 74 years, &gt; 74 years), completed the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Geriatric Depression Scale, and their caregivers completed scales for ADLs. Construct validity (factor analysis), reliability (internal consistency), and criterion-related validity (receiver operating characteristic analysis and logistic regression) were assessed. Results: Three factors of ADL (self-care, domestic activities, and complex activities) were identified and used for item reorganization and for the creation of a new inventory, called the General Activities of Daily Living Scale (GADL). The components showed good internal consistency (&gt; 0.800) and moderate (younger participants) or high (older participants) accuracy for the distinction between MCI and AD. An additive effect was found between the GADL complex ADLs and global ADLs with the MMSE for the correct classification of younger patients. Conclusion: The GADL showed evidence of validity and reliability for the Brazilian elderly population. It may also play an important role in the differential diagnosis of MCI and AD.
Objective: As obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a relatively common psychiatric disorder with a significant suicide risk, the individuation of potential biomarkers of suicidality, such as cholesterol levels, may enable recognition of at-risk subjects. Therefore, the aims of this study were to: 1) evaluate potential differences in clinical and laboratory parameters between patients with and without alexithymia and compare them with healthy controls; and 2) investigate which clinical and laboratory variables were associated with suicidal ideation. Methods: 79 drug-nave adult outpatients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of OCD were recruited. Alexithymia was measured with the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20), suicidal ideation was assessed with the Scale for Suicide Ideation, and depressive symptoms were evaluated with the Montgomery-sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Serum lipid levels of 40 healthy controls were also evaluated. Results: Alexithymic patients had altered serum lipid levels in comparison with non-alexithymics and healthy controls. Using a linear regression model, the presence of symmetry/ordering obsessions and compulsions, lower HDL-C levels, and difficulty in identifying feelings dimension of the TAS-20 were associated with higher suicidal ideation. Conclusions: Alexithymic individuals with OCD may exhibit dysregulation of the cholesterol balance, which in turn may be linked to suicidal ideation. Further prospective studies are required to elucidate this potential association.
Antigen-mediated stimulation of the T cell receptor (TCR) triggers activation of nuclear factor B (NF-B), a key transcriptional regulator of T cell proliferation and effector cell differentiation. TCR signaling to NF-B requires both the Carma1-Bcl10-Malt1 (CBM) complex and the inhibitor of B (IB) kinase (IKK) complex; however, the molecular mechanisms connecting the CBM complex to activation of IKK are incompletely defined. We found that the active IKK complex is a component of a TCR-dependent cytosolic Bcl10-Malt1 signalosome containing the adaptor protein p62, which forms in effector T cells. Phosphorylated IB and NF-B were transiently recruited to this signalosome before NF-B translocated to the nucleus. Inhibiting the activity of the kinase TAK1 or IKK blocked the phosphorylation of IKK, but not the formation of p62-Bcl10-Malt1 clusters, suggesting that activation of IKK occurs after signalosome assembly. Furthermore, analysis of T cells from p62-deficient mice demonstrated that the p62-dependent clustering of signaling components stimulated activation of NF-B in effector T cells. Thus, TCR-stimulated activation of NF-B requires the assembly of cytosolic p62-Bcl10-Malt1-IKK signalosomes, which may ensure highly regulated activation of NF-B in response to TCR engagement.












Antenatal stress disturbs the development of the fetal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and adrenal steroidogenesis. We investigated the effect of brief maternal exposure to high glucocorticoids (dexamethasone (DEX)) at mid- and late-pregnancy on adrenal structure and production of steroids in spiny mouse. Pregnant spiny mice were treated for 60h with 125g/kg DEX or saline s.c. by osmotic minipump at day 20 (0.5) or 30 (0.75) of gestation. Immunohistochemical expression of steroidogenic acute regulatory-protein (StAR), 3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3HSD), 17-hydroxylase,17-20lyase (P450C17), and cytochromeb5 (CYTB5) was determined in adrenals on postnatal (P) day 17020. DHEA, testosterone, and cortisol were measured by RIA. Maternal DEX at 20 days significantly reduced the expression of STAR, P450C17 (CYP17A1), and CYTB5 in the adrenal zona reticularis (ZR) of adult offspring, with greater change in male vs female offspring (P&lt;0.05). Plasma DHEA was decreased in male offspring from DEX-treated (6.841.24ng/ml) vs saline-treated (130.06ng/ml; P=0.01) dams, and the DHEA:cortisol ratio was lower in males (P&lt;0.05). Testosterone levels increased in male offspring from DEX (266.0350.75pg/ml) vs saline (83.4732.3pg/ml, P&lt;0.05)-treated dams. DEX treatment at 0.75 gestation had no significant effect on any parameters measured. This study shows that brief exposure to excess glucocorticoid has long-term impacts on the ZR and adrenal steroidogenesis, affecting the secretion of DHEA and testosterone in male offspring, an effect produced at 0.5 but not at 0.75 gestation. DHEA is important for brain development, and its suppression in adult life might contribute to the neurobehavioral pathologies that can arise after illness and stress during pregnancy.



Direct lineage-reprogramming of non-neuronal cells into induced neurons (iNs) may provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying neurogenesis and enable new strategies for in vitro modeling or repairing the diseased brain. Identifying brain-resident non-neuronal cell types amenable to direct conversion into iNs might allow for launching such an approach in situ, i.e. within the damaged brain tissue. Here we describe a protocol developed in the attempt of identifying cells derived from the adult human brain that fulfill this premise. This protocol involves: (1) the culturing of human cells from the cerebral cortex obtained from adult human brain biopsies; (2) the in vitro expansion (approximately requiring 2-4 weeks) and characterization of the culture by immunocytochemistry and flow cytometry; (3) the enrichment by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) using anti-PDGF receptor- and anti-CD146 antibodies; (4) the retrovirus-mediated transduction with the neurogenic transcription factors sox2 and ascl1; (5) and finally the characterization of the resultant pericyte-derived induced neurons (PdiNs) by immunocytochemistry (14 days to 8 weeks following retroviral transduction). At this stage, iNs can be probed for their electrical properties by patch-clamp recording. This protocol provides a highly reproducible procedure for the in vitro lineage conversion of brain-resident pericytes into functional human iNs.
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) is an effective method for establishing a causal link between a cortical area and cognitive/neurophysiological effects. Specifically, by creating a transient interference with the normal activity of a target region and measuring changes in an electrophysiological signal, we can establish a causal link between the stimulated brain area or network and the electrophysiological signal that we record. If target brain areas are functionally defined with prior fMRI scan, TMS could be used to link the fMRI activations with evoked potentials recorded. However, conducting such experiments presents significant technical challenges given the high amplitude artifacts introduced into the EEG signal by the magnetic pulse, and the difficulty to successfully target areas that were functionally defined by fMRI. Here we describe a methodology for combining these three common tools: TMS, EEG, and fMRI. We explain how to guide the stimulator's coil to the desired target area using anatomical or functional MRI data, how to record EEG during concurrent TMS, how to design an ERP study suitable for EEG-TMS combination and how to extract reliable ERP from the recorded data. We will provide representative results from a previously published study, in which fMRI-guided TMS was used concurrently with EEG to show that the face-selective N1 and the body-selective N1 component of the ERP are associated with distinct neural networks in extrastriate cortex. This method allows us to combine the high spatial resolution of fMRI with the high temporal resolution of TMS and EEG and therefore obtain a comprehensive understanding of the neural basis of various cognitive processes.
One of the most distinctive and defining features of coleoid cephalopods-squid, cuttlefish and octopus-is their inking behavior. Their ink, which is blackened by melanin, but also contains other constituents, has been used by humans in various ways for millennia. This review summarizes our current knowledge of cephalopod ink. Topics include: (1) the production of ink, including the functional organization of the ink sac and funnel organ that produce it; (2) the chemical components of ink, with a focus on the best known of these-melanin and the biochemical pathways involved in its production; (3) the neuroecology of the use of ink in predator-prey interactions by cephalopods in their natural environment; and (4) the use of cephalopod ink by humans, including in the development of drugs for biomedical applications and other chemicals for industrial and other commercial applications. As is hopefully evident from this review, much is known about cephalopod ink and inking, yet more striking is how little we know. Towards closing that gap, future directions in research on cephalopod inking are suggested.










Current technologies for studying ion channels are fundamentally limited because of their inability to functionally link ion channel activity to cellular pathways. Herein, we report the use of label-free cell phenotypic profiling to decode the composition and signaling of an endogenous ATP-sensitive potassium ion channel (KATP) in HepG2C3A, a hepatocellular carcinoma cell line. Label-free cell phenotypic agonist profiling showed that pinacidil triggered characteristically similar dynamic mass redistribution (DMR) signals in A431, A549, HT29 and HepG2C3A, but not in HepG2 cells. Reverse transcriptase PCR, RNAi knockdown, and KATP blocker profiling showed that the pinacidil DMR is due to the activation of SUR2/Kir6.2 KATP channels in HepG2C3A cells. Kinase inhibition and RNAi knockdown showed that the pinacidil activated KATP channels trigger signaling through Rho kinase and Janus kinase-3, and cause actin remodeling. The results are the first demonstration of a label-free methodology to characterize the composition and signaling of an endogenous ATP-sensitive potassium ion channel.




Although a number of in vitro studies have demonstrated the antiproliferative, anti-invasive, and antimetastatic effects of metformin in multiple cancer cell types, its cellular and molecular mechanisms of anti-cancer action in the endometrium of women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) have not yet been fully elucidated. Organic cation transporters (OCTs) and multidrug and toxin extrusion proteins (MATEs) are known to be involved in metformin uptake and excretion in cells. In this article, we discuss the novel therapeutic possibilities for early-stage endometrial carcinoma (EC) in women with PCOS focusing on metformin, which might have a direct effect in the endometrium through the OCTs and MATEs. We then review the molecular mechanism(s) of the action of metformin in the endometrium and highlight possible mechanistic insights into the inhibition of cell proliferation and tumor growth and, ultimately, the reversal of early-stage EC into normal endometria in women with PCOS.































According to Greene et al.'s dual-process theory, the differential involvement of emotional processes would explain the different patterns of moral judgments people typically produce when faced with Trolley- and Footbridge-type dilemmas. As a relevant factor, dispositional empathy is known to motivate prosocial behaviors, thus playing a central role in moral judgment and behavior. The present study was aimed at investigating how behavioral and neural correlates of moral decision-making are modulated by the cognitive and affective dimensions of empathy. Thirty-seven participants were presented with 30 Footbridge-type and 30 Trolley-type dilemmas. Participants were required to decide between two options: letting some people die (non-utilitarian) vs. killing one person to save more people (utilitarian). Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded stimulus-locked to a &quot;decision slide&quot;. Response choices and ratings of valence and arousal were also collected. Trait empathy was measured through the Interpersonal Reactivity Index (IRI), assessing both the cognitive and affective dimensions. Scores on the Empathic Concern affective subscale of the IRI positively predicted unpleasantness experienced during decision-making for all dilemmas. On the other hand, for Footbridge-type dilemmas only, scores on the Personal Distress affective subscale predicted negatively the mean percentages of utilitarian choices and positively the mean amplitudes of the P260, an ERP component reflecting an immediate emotional reaction during decision-making. It is concluded that &quot;self-oriented&quot; feelings of anxiety and unease, rather than &quot;other-oriented&quot; feelings of concern, affect behavioral choices and emotion-related cortical activity in Footbridge-type moral dilemmas.
Sex differences exist in the regulation of energy homeostasis in response to calorie scarcity or excess. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is one of the anorexigenic neuropeptides regulating energy homeostasis. Expression of Bdnf mRNA in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH) is closely associated with energy and reproductive status. We hypothesized that Bdnf expression in the VMH was differentially regulated by altered energy balance in male and female rats. Using dietary intervention, including fasting-induced negative energy status and high-fat diet (HFD) feeding-induced positive energy status, along with low-fat diet (LFD) feeding and HFD pair-feeding (HFD-PF), effects of diets and changes in energy status on VMH Bdnf expression were compared between male and female rats. Fasted males but not females had lower VMH Bdnf expression than their fed counterparts following 24-hour fasting, suggesting that fasted males reduced Bdnf expression to drive hyperphagia and body weight gain. Male HFD obese and HFD-PF non-obese rats had similarly reduced expression of Bdnf compared with LFD males, indicating that dampened Bdnf expression was associated with feeding a diet high in fat instead of increased adiposity. Decreased BDNF signaling during HFD feeding would increase a drive to eat and may contribute to diet-induced obesity in males. In contrast, VMH Bdnf expression was stably maintained in females when energy homeostasis was disturbed. These results suggest sex-distinct regulation of central Bdnf expression by diet and energy status.
Morphine-3-d-glucuronide (M3G), a primary morphine metabolite, evokes hyperalgesia in mice and rats and putatively mediates hyperalgesia associated with morphine (MOR) administration. However, M3G does not act via opioid receptors and its locus of activity in the CNS is unknown. Here we assessed the density of neurons immunoreactive for c-Fos, an immediate early gene regulated by neuronal activity, in the periaqueductal gray (PAG), a midbrain region critical to pain modulation, in male CD-1 mice after MOR and M3G exposure. Mice were injected with acute doses of MOR or M3G following a pre-injection of saline (SAL) or the opioid antagonist naltrexone (NTX), perfused 3h later, and labeled for c-Fos using immunohistochemistry. Labeled image stacks taken from the PAG were then analyzed on a confocal microscope for the number of neurons showing c-Fos expression. Relative to controls, significant but similar increases in the mean density of PAG c-Fos immunoreactive neurons were observed in mice pre-injected with SAL then M3G or morphine. However, NTX pre-injection blocked this increase in MOR but not M3G injected mice. The data demonstrate for the first time a CNS locus for M3G activity. Consistent with previous observations, this M3G activity is not mediated by opioid receptors.





























Precursor mRNA encoding CNGA3 subunits of cone photoreceptor cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels undergoes alternative splicing, generating isoforms differing in the N-terminal cytoplasmic region of the protein. In humans, four variants arise from alternative splicing, but the functional significance of these changes has been a persistent mystery. Heterologous expression of the four possible CNGA3 isoforms alone or with CNGB3 subunits did not reveal significant differences in basic channel properties. However, inclusion of optional exon 3, with or without optional exon 5, produced heteromeric CNGA3 + CNGB3 channels exhibiting an 2-fold greater shift in K1/2,cGMP after phosphatidylinositol 4,5-biphosphate or phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate application compared with channels lacking the sequence encoded by exon 3. We have previously identified two structural features within CNGA3 that support phosphoinositides (PIPn) regulation of cone CNG channels: N- and C-terminal regulatory modules. Specific mutations within these regions eliminated PIPn sensitivity of CNGA3 + CNGB3 channels. The exon 3 variant enhanced the component of PIPn regulation that depends on the C-terminal region rather than the nearby N-terminal region, consistent with an allosteric effect on PIPn sensitivity because of altered N-C coupling. Alternative splicing of CNGA3 occurs in multiple species, although the exact variants are not conserved across CNGA3 orthologs. Optional exon 3 appears to be unique to humans, even compared with other primates. In parallel, we found that a specific splice variant of canine CNGA3 removes a region of the protein that is necessary for high sensitivity to PIPn. CNGA3 alternative splicing may have evolved, in part, to tune the interactions between cone CNG channels and membrane-bound phosphoinositides.



















































Although neuronal spikes can be readily detected from extracellular recordings, synaptic and subthreshold activity remains undifferentiated within the local field potential (LFP). In the hippocampus, neurons discharge selectively when the rat is at certain locations, while LFPs at single anatomical sites exhibit no such place-tuning. Nonetheless, because the representation of position is sparse and distributed, we hypothesized that spatial information can be recovered from multiple-site LFP recordings. Using high-density sampling of LFP and computational methods, we show that the spatiotemporal structure of the theta rhythm can encode position as robustly as neuronal spiking populations. Because our approach exploits the rhythmicity and sparse structure of neural activity, features found in many brain regions, it is useful as a general tool for discovering distributed LFP codes.
Throughout life, new neurons are continuously added to the dentate gyrus. As this continuous addition remodels hippocampal circuits, computational models predict that neurogenesis leads to degradation or forgetting of established memories. Consistent with this, increasing neurogenesis after the formation of a memory was sufficient to induce forgetting in adult mice. By contrast, during infancy, when hippocampal neurogenesis levels are high and freshly generated memories tend to be rapidly forgotten (infantile amnesia), decreasing neurogenesis after memory formation mitigated forgetting. In precocial species, including guinea pigs and degus, most granule cells are generated prenatally. Consistent with reduced levels of postnatal hippocampal neurogenesis, infant guinea pigs and degus did not exhibit forgetting. However, increasing neurogenesis after memory formation induced infantile amnesia in these species.




In connection with a program directed at potent and balanced dual NK1/NK3 receptor ligands, a focused exploration of an original class of peptidomimetic derivatives was performed. The rational design and molecular hybridization of a novel phenylalanine core series was achieved to maximize the in vitro affinity and antagonism at both human NK1 and NK3 receptors. This study led to the identification of a new potent dual NK1/NK3 antagonist with pK i values of 8.6 and 8.1, respectively.








The circadian nature of mood and its dysfunction in affective disorders is well recognized, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are still unclear. Here, we show that the circadian nuclear receptor REV-ERB, which is associated with bipolar disorder, impacts midbrain dopamine production and mood-related behavior in mice. Genetic deletion of the Rev-erb gene or pharmacological inhibition of REV-ERB activity in the ventral midbrain induced mania-like behavior in association with a central hyperdopaminergic state. Also, REV-ERB repressed tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene transcription via competition with nuclear receptor-related 1 protein (NURR1), another nuclear receptor crucial for dopaminergic neuronal function, thereby driving circadian TH expression through a target-dependent antagonistic mechanism. In conclusion, we identified a molecular connection between the circadian timing system and mood regulation, suggesting that REV-ERB could be targeting in the treatment of circadian rhythm-related affective disorders.
Mapping synaptic connections and projections is crucial for understanding brain dynamics and function. In a recent issue of Nature, Oh etal. present a wiring diagram of the whole mouse brain, where standardized labeling, tracing, and imaging of axonal connections reveal new details in the network organization of neuronal connectivity.
Oxidative stress serves as an important regulator of both apoptosis and metabolic reprogramming in tumor cells. Chaetocin, a histone methyltransferase inhibitor, is known to induce ROS generation. As elevating basal ROS level sensitizes glioma cells to apoptosis, the ability of Chaetocin in regulating apoptotic and metabolic adaptive responses in glioma was investigated. Chaetocin induced glioma cell apoptosis in a ROS-dependent manner. Increased intracellular ROS induced (i) Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) expression independent of the canonical Hippo pathway as well as (ii) ATM and JNK activation. Increased interaction of YAP1 with p73 and p300 induced apoptosis in an ATM-dependent manner. Chaetocin induced JNK modulated several metabolic parameters like glucose uptake, lactate production, ATP generation, and activity of glycolytic enzymes hexokinase and pyruvate kinase. However, JNK had no effect on ATM or YAP1 expression. Coherent with the in vitro findings, Chaetocin reduced tumor burden in heterotypic xenograft glioma mouse model. Chaetocin-treated tumors exhibited heightened ROS, pATM, YAP1 and pJNK levels. Our study highlights the coordinated control of glioma cell proliferation and metabolism by ROS through (i) ATM-YAP1-driven apoptotic pathway and (ii) JNK-regulated metabolic adaptation. The elucidation of these newfound connections and the roles played by ROS to simultaneously shift metabolic program and induce apoptosis could provide insights toward the development of new anti-glioma strategies.

Stem cells reside within specialized microenvironments, or niches, that control many aspects of stem cell behavior. Somatic hub cells in the Drosophila testis regulate the behavior of cyst stem cells (CySCs) and germline stem cells (GSCs) and are a primary component of the testis stem cell niche. The shutoff (shof) mutation, characterized by premature loss of GSCs and CySCs, was mapped to a locus encodingthe evolutionarily conserved transcription factor Escargot (Esg). Hub cells depleted of Esg acquire CySC characteristics and differentiate as cyst cells, resulting in complete loss of hub cells and eventually CySCs and GSCs, similar to the shof mutant phenotype. We identified Esg-interacting proteins and demonstrate an interaction between Esg and the corepressor C-terminal binding protein (CtBP), which was also required for maintenance of hub cell fate. Our results indicate that niche cells can acquire stem cellproperties upon removal of a single transcription factor invivo.
Vertebrate circadian rhythms are organized by thehypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Despite its physiological importance, SCN development is poorly understood. Here, we show that Lim homeodomain transcription factor 1 (Lhx1) is essential for terminal differentiation and function of the SCN. Deletion of Lhx1 in the developing SCN results in loss of SCN-enriched neuropeptides involved insynchronization and coupling to downstream oscillators, among other aspects of circadian function. Intact, albeit damped, clock gene expression rhythms persist in Lhx1-deficient SCN; however, circadian activity rhythms are highly disorganized and susceptible to surprising changes in period, phase, and consolidation following neuropeptide infusion. Our results identify a factor required for SCN terminal differentiation. In addition, our invivo study of combinatorial SCN neuropeptide disruption uncovered synergies among SCN-enriched neuropeptides in regulating normal circadian function. These animals provide a platform for studying the central oscillator's role in physiology and cognition.
Botch promotes embryonic neurogenesis by inhibiting the initial S1 furin-like cleavage step of Notch maturation. The biochemical process by which Botch inhibits Notch maturation is not known. Here, we show that Botch has -glutamyl cyclotransferase (GGCT) activity that deglycinates Notch, which prevents the S1 furin-like cleavage. Moreover, Notch is monoglycinated on the -glutamyl carbon of glutamate 1,669. The deglycinase activity of Botch is required for inhibition of Notch signaling both invitro and invivo. When the -glutamyl-glycine at position 1,669 of Notch is degylcinated, it is replaced by 5-oxy-proline. These results reveal that Botch regulates Notch signaling through deglycination and identify a posttranslational modification of Notch that plays an important role in neurogenesis.
Stable wakefulness requires orexin/hypocretin neurons (OHNs) and OHR2 receptors. OHNs sense diverse environmental cues and control arousal accordingly. For unknown reasons, OHNs contain multiple excitatory transmitters, including OH peptides and glutamate. To analyze their cotransmission within computational frameworks for control, we optogenetically stimulated OHNs and examined resulting outputs (spike patterns) in a downstream arousal regulator, the histamine neurons (HANs). OHR2s were essential for sustained HAN outputs. OHR2-dependent HAN output increased linearly during constant OHN input, suggesting that the OHNHAN(OHR2) module may function as an integral controller. OHN stimulation evoked OHR2-dependent slow postsynaptic currents, similar to midnanomolar OH concentrations. Conversely, glutamate-dependent output transiently communicated OHN input onset, peaking rapidly then decaying alongside OHNHAN glutamate currents. Blocking glutamate-driven spiking did not affect OH-driven spiking and vice versa, suggesting isolation (low cross-modulation) of outputs. Therefore, in arousal regulators, cotransmitters may translate distinct features of OHN activity into parallel, nonredundant control signals for downstream effectors.
Ribosome biosynthesis is a major intracellular energy-consuming process. We previously identified a nucleolar factor, nucleomethylin (NML), which regulates intracellular energy consumption by limiting rRNA transcription. Here, we show that, in livers of obese mice, the recruitment of NML to rRNA gene loci is increased to repress rRNA transcription. To clarify the relationship between obesity and rRNA transcription, we generated NML-null (NML-KO) mice. NML-KO mice show elevated rRNA level, reduced ATP concentration, and reduced lipid accumulation in the liver. Furthermore, in high-fat-diet (HFD)-fed NML-KO mice, hepatic rRNA levels are not decreased. Both weight gain and fat accumulation in HFD-fed NML-KO mice are significantly lower than those in HFD-fed wild-type mice. These findings indicate that rRNA transcriptional activation promotes hepatic energy consumption, which alters hepatic lipid metabolism. Namely, hepatic rRNA transcriptional repression by HFD feeding is essential for energy storage.
Light is a crucial input for circadian clocks. In Drosophila, short light exposure can robustly shift the phase of circadian behavior. The model for this resetting posits that circadian photoreception is cell autonomous: CRYPTOCHROME senses light, binds to TIMELESS (TIM), and promotes its degradation, which is mediated by JETLAG (JET). However, it was recently proposed that interactions between circadian neurons are also required for phase resetting. We identify two groups of neurons critical for circadian photoreception: the morning (M) and the evening (E) oscillators. These neurons work synergistically to reset rhythmic behavior. JET promotes acute TIM degradation cell autonomously in M and E oscillators but also nonautonomously in E oscillators when expressed in M oscillators. Thus, upon light exposure, the M oscillators communicate with the E oscillators. Because the M oscillators drive circadian behavior, they must also receive inputs from the E oscillators. Hence, although photic TIM degradation is largely cell autonomous, neural cooperation between M and E oscillators is critical for circadian behavioral photoresponses.
Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA) is caused by the polyglutamine androgen receptor (polyQ-AR), a protein expressed by both lower motor neurons and skeletal muscle. Although viewed as a motor neuronopathy, data from patients and mouse models suggest that muscle contributes to disease pathogenesis. Here, we tested this hypothesis using AR113Q knockin and human bacterial artificial chromosome/clone (BAC) transgenic mice that express the full-length polyQ-AR and display androgen-dependent weakness, muscle atrophy, and early death. We developed antisense oligonucleotides that suppressed AR gene expression in the periphery but not the CNS after subcutaneous administration. Suppression of polyQ-AR in the periphery rescued deficits in muscle weight, fiber size, and grip strength, reversed changes in muscle gene expression, and extended the lifespan of mutant males. We conclude that polyQ-AR expression in the periphery is an important contributor to pathology in SBMA mice and that peripheral administration of therapeutics should be explored for SBMA patients.




Changes in temperature affect biochemical reaction rates and, consequently, neural processing. The nervous systems of poikilothermic animals must have evolved mechanisms enabling them to retain their functionality under varying temperatures. Auditory receptor neurons of grasshoppers respond to sound in a surprisingly temperature-compensated manner: firing rates depend moderately on temperature, with average Q10 values around 1.5. Analysis of conductance-based neuron models reveals that temperature compensation of spike generation can be achieved solely relying on cell-intrinsic processes and despite a strong dependence of ion conductances on temperature. Remarkably, this type of temperature compensation need not come at an additional metabolic cost of spike generation. Firing rate-based information transfer is likely to increase with temperature and we derive predictions for an optimal temperature dependence of the tympanal transduction process fostering temperature compensation. The example of auditory receptor neurons demonstrates how neurons may exploit single-cell mechanisms to cope with multiple constraints in parallel.DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.02078.001.
Complexins play activating and inhibitory functions in neurotransmitter release. The complexin accessory helix inhibits release and was proposed to insert into SNARE complexes to prevent their full assembly. This model was supported by 'superclamp' and 'poor-clamp' mutations that enhanced or decreased the complexin-I inhibitory activity in cell-cell fusion assays, and by the crystal structure of a superclamp mutant bound to a synaptobrevin-truncated SNARE complex. NMR studies now show that the complexin-I accessory helix does not insert into synaptobrevin-truncated SNARE complexes in solution, and electrophysiological data reveal that superclamp mutants have slightly stimulatory or no effects on neurotransmitter release, whereas a poor-clamp mutant inhibits release. Importantly, increasing or decreasing the negative charge of the complexin-I accessory helix inhibits or stimulates release, respectively. These results suggest a new model whereby the complexin accessory helix inhibits release through electrostatic (and perhaps steric) repulsion enabled by its location between the vesicle and plasma membranes.DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.02391.001.







Astrocytes, the most abundant cells in the central nervous system, promote synapse formation and help to refine neural connectivity. Although they are allocated to spatially distinct regional domains during development, it is unknown whether region-restricted astrocytes are functionally heterogeneous. Here we show that postnatal spinal cord astrocytes express several region-specific genes, and that ventral astrocyte-encoded semaphorin 3a (Sema3a) is required for proper motor neuron and sensory neuron circuit organization. Loss of astrocyte-encoded Sema3a leads to dysregulated -motor neuron axon initial segment orientation, markedly abnormal synaptic inputs, and selective death of - but not of adjacent -motor neurons. In addition, a subset of TrkA(+) sensory afferents projects to ectopic ventral positions. These findings demonstrate that stable maintenance of a positional cue by developing astrocytes influences multiple aspects of sensorimotor circuit formation. More generally, they suggest that regional astrocyte heterogeneity may help to coordinate postnatal neural circuit refinement.
The formation of precise connections between retina and lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) involves the activity-dependent elimination of some synapses, with strengthening and retention of others. Here we show that the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecule H2-D(b) is necessary and sufficient for synapse elimination in the retinogeniculate system. In mice lacking both H2-K(b) and H2-D(b) (K(b)D(b)(-/-)), despite intact retinal activity and basal synaptic transmission, the developmentally regulated decrease in functional convergence of retinal ganglion cell synaptic inputs to LGN neurons fails and eye-specific layers do not form. Neuronal expression of just H2-D(b) in K(b)D(b)(-/-) mice rescues both synapse elimination and eye-specific segregation despite a compromised immune system. When patterns of stimulation mimicking endogenous retinal waves are used to probe synaptic learning rules at retinogeniculate synapses, long-term potentiation (LTP) is intact but long-term depression (LTD) is impaired in K(b)D(b)(-/-) mice. This change is due to an increase in Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA (-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) receptors. Restoring H2-D(b) to K(b)D(b)(-/-) neurons renders AMPA receptors Ca(2+) impermeable and rescues LTD. These observations reveal an MHC-class-I-mediated link between developmental synapse pruning and balanced synaptic learning rules enabling both LTD and LTP, and demonstrate a direct requirement for H2-D(b) in functional and structural synapse pruning in CNS neurons.
In the mammalian cerebral cortex, neural responses are highly variable during spontaneous activity and sensory stimulation. To explain this variability, the cortex of alert animals has been proposed to be in an asynchronous high-conductance state in which irregular spiking arises from the convergence of large numbers of uncorrelated excitatory and inhibitory inputs onto individual neurons. Signatures of this state are that a neuron's membrane potential (Vm) hovers just below spike threshold, and its aggregate synaptic input is nearly Gaussian, arising from many uncorrelated inputs. Alternatively, irregular spiking could arise from infrequent correlated input events that elicit large fluctuations in Vm (refs 5, 6). To distinguish between these hypotheses, we developed a technique to perform whole-cell Vm measurements from the cortex of behaving monkeys, focusing on primary visual cortex (V1) of monkeys performing a visual fixation task. Here we show that, contrary to the predictions of an asynchronous state, mean Vm during fixation was far from threshold (14mV) and spiking was triggered by occasional large spontaneous fluctuations. Distributions of Vm values were skewed beyond that expected for a range of Gaussian input, but were consistent with synaptic input arising from infrequent correlated events. Furthermore, spontaneous fluctuations in Vm were correlated with the surrounding network activity, as reflected in simultaneously recorded nearby local field potential. Visual stimulation, however, led to responses more consistent with an asynchronous state: mean Vm approached threshold, fluctuations became more Gaussian, and correlations between single neurons and the surrounding network were disrupted. These observations show that sensory drive can shift a common cortical circuitry from a synchronous to an asynchronous state.




Adiponectin, adipose-specific secretory protein, abundantly circulates in bloodstream and its concentration is around 1000-fold higher than that of other cytokines and hormones. Hypoadiponectinemia is a risk factor for atherosclerosis. There is little or no information on ultrastructural localization of adiponectin in the vasculature. Herein we investigated the localization of vascular adiponectin in the aorta using the immunoelectron microscopic technique. In wild-type (WT) mice, adiponectin was mainly detected on the luminal surface membrane of endothelial cells (ECs) and also found intracellularly in the endocytic vesicles of ECs. In the atherosclerotic lesions of apolipoprotein E-knockout (ApoE-KO) mice, adiponectin was detected in ECs, on the cell surface membrane of synthetic smooth muscle cells, and on the surface of monocytes adherent to ECs. Changes in adiponectin localization within the wall of the aorta may provide novel insight into the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.










The basal forebrain cholinergic system modulates neuronal excitability and vascular tone throughout the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. This system is severely affected in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and drug treatment to enhance cholinergic signaling is widely used as symptomatic therapy in AD. Defining the full morphologies of individual basal forebrain cholinergic neurons has, until now, been technically beyond reach due to their large axon arbor sizes. Using genetically-directed sparse labeling, we have characterized the complete morphologies of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the mouse. Individual arbors were observed to span multiple cortical columns, and to have &gt;1000 branch points and total axon lengths up to 50 cm. In an AD model, cholinergic axons were slowly lost and there was an accumulation of axon-derived material in discrete puncta. Calculations based on published morphometric data indicate that basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in humans have a mean axon length of 100 meters.DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.02444.001.
Neurosphere formation is commonly used as a surrogate for neural stem cell (NSC) function but the relationship between neurosphere-initiating cells (NICs) and NSCs remains unclear. We prospectively identified, and isolated by flow cytometry, adult mouse lateral ventricle subventricular zone (SVZ) NICs as Glast(mid)EGFR(high)PlexinB2(high)CD24(-/low)O4/PSA-NCAM(-/low)Ter119/CD45(-) (GEPCOT) cells. They were highly mitotic and short-lived in vivo based on fate-mapping with Ascl1(CreERT2) and Dlx1(CreERT2). In contrast, pre-GEPCOT cells were quiescent, expressed higher Glast, and lower EGFR and PlexinB2. Pre-GEPCOT cells could not form neurospheres but expressed the stem cell markers Slc1a3-CreER(T), GFAP-CreER(T2), Sox2(CreERT2), and Gli1(CreERT2) and were long-lived in vivo. While GEPCOT NICs were ablated by temozolomide, pre-GEPCOT cells survived and repopulated the SVZ. Conditional deletion of the Bmi-1 polycomb protein depleted pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells, though pre-GEPCOT cells were more dependent upon Bmi-1 for Cdkn2a (p16(Ink4a)) repression. Our data distinguish quiescent NSCs from NICs and make it possible to study their properties in vivo.DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.02669.001.




The study investigated the mediolateral control of upright stance in 16 healthy, young adults. The model analyzed the body weight distribution and center of pressure location mechanisms under three stance width conditions (feet close, under standard condition, and apart). Our first objective was to discuss some methodological requirements to investigate the contribution of both mechanisms by means of two platforms. It is proposed that both the amplitude contribution (in variability analyses) and active contribution (in cross-correlation analyses) need to be studied distinctively. These analyses may be concerned with the strength and the degree of active contributions, respectively. Based on this theoretical proposition, we expected and found that the amplitude contribution of both mechanisms was higher and lower in wide and narrow stances compared with that in the standard stance, respectively. Indeed, the closer the two reaction forces, the lower their mechanical contribution. As expected, the active contribution of both mechanisms was significantly lower and higher in wide and narrow stances, respectively. Indeed, the further the feet apart, the less active both mechanisms needed to be to control mediolateral stance. Overall, only the center of pressure location mechanism really changed its significant contribution to control mediolateral stance under the three conditions. The result is important because this mechanism is known to be secondary, weaker than the body weight distribution mechanism to control mediolateral stance. In practical terms, these findings may explain why the mediolateral variability of center of pressure displacement was significantly higher in narrow stance but not lower in wide stance.



It is widely accepted that action and perception in humans functionally interact on multiple levels. Moreover, areas originally suggested to be predominantly motor-related, as the cerebellum, are also involved in action observation. However, as yet, few studies provided unequivocal evidence that the cerebellum is involved in the action perception coupling (APC), specifically in the integration of motor and multisensory information for perception. We addressed this question studying patients with focal cerebellar lesions in a virtual-reality paradigm measuring the effect of action execution on action perception presenting self-generated movements as point lights. We measured the visual sensitivity to the point light stimuli based on signal detection theory. Compared with healthy controls cerebellar patients showed no beneficial influence of action execution on perception indicating deficits in APC. Applying lesion symptom mapping, we identified distinct areas in the dentate nucleus and the lateral cerebellum of both hemispheres that are causally involved in APC. Lesions of the right ventral dentate, the ipsilateral motor representations (lobules V/VI), and most interestingly the contralateral posterior cerebellum (lobule VII) impede the benefits of motor execution on perception. We conclude that the cerebellum establishes time-dependent multisensory representations on different levels, relevant for motor control as well as supporting action perception. Ipsilateral cerebellar motor representations are thought to support the somatosensory state estimate of ongoing movements, whereas the ventral dentate and the contralateral posterior cerebellum likely support sensorimotor integration in the cerebellar-parietal loops. Both the correct somatosensory as well as the multisensory state representations are vital for an intact APC.
Electric fish image their environments and communicate by generating electric organ discharges through the simultaneous action potentials (APs) of electric organ cells (electrocytes) in the periphery. Steatogenys elegans generates a biphasic electrocyte discharge by the precisely regulated timing and waveform of APs generated from two excitable membranes present in each electrocyte. Current-clamp recordings of electrocyte APs reveal that the posterior membrane fires first, followed 30 s later by an AP on the anterior membrane. This delay was maintained even as the onset of the first AP was advanced &gt;5 ms by increasing stimulus intensity and across multiple spikes during bursts of APs elicited by prolonged stimulation. Simultaneous cell-attached loose-patch recordings of Na(+) currents on each membrane revealed that activation voltage for Na(+) channels on the posterior membrane was 10 mV hyperpolarized compared with Na(+) channels on the anterior membrane, with no differences in activation or inactivation kinetics. Computational simulations of electrocyte APs demonstrated that this difference in Na(+) current activation voltage was sufficient to maintain the proper firing order and the interspike delay. A similar difference in activation threshold has been reported for the Na(+) currents of the axon initial segment compared with somatic Na(+) channels of pyramidal neurons, suggesting convergent evolution of spike initiation and timing mechanisms across different systems of excitable cells.
The nature of neuroadaptations in the genesis of escalated cocaine taking remains a topic of considerable interest. Intermittent social defeat stress induces both locomotor and dopaminergic cross-sensitization to cocaine, as well as escalated cocaine self-administration. The current study examines the role of corticotropin releasing factor receptor subtypes 1 and 2 (CRFR1, CRFR2) within the ventral tegmental area (VTA) during social defeat stress. This study investigated whether injecting either a CRFR1 or CRFR2 antagonist directly into the VTA before each social defeat would prevent the development of later (1) locomotor sensitization, (2) dopaminergic sensitization, and (3) escalated cocaine self-administration in rats. CRFR1 antagonist CP376395 (50 or 500 ng/side), CRFR2 antagonist Astressin2-B (100 or 1000 ng/side), or vehicle (aCSF) was microinjected into the VTA 20 min before social defeat stress (or handling) on days 1, 4, 7, and 10. Ten days later, rats were injected with cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) and assessed for either locomotor sensitization, measured by walking activity, or dopaminergic sensitization, measured by extracellular dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcSh) through in vivo microdialysis. Locomotor sensitization testing was followed by intravenous cocaine self-administration. Intra-VTA antagonism of CRFR1, but not CRFR2, inhibited the induction of locomotor cross-sensitization to cocaine, whereas both prevented dopaminergic cross-sensitization and escalated cocaine self-administration during a 24 h &quot;binge.&quot; This may suggest dissociation between locomotor sensitization and cocaine taking. These data also suggest that interactions between CRF and VTA DA neurons projecting to the NAcSh are essential for the development of dopaminergic cross-sensitization to cocaine.
Despite substantial research on attentional modulations of visual alpha activity, doubts remain as to the existence and functional relevance of auditory cortical alpha-band oscillations. It has been argued that auditory cortical alpha does not exist, cannot be measured noninvasively, or that it is dependent on visual alpha generators. This study aimed to address these remaining doubts concerning auditory cortical alpha. A magnetoencephalography study was conducted using a combined audiovisual spatial cueing paradigm. In each trial, a cue indicated the side (left or right) and the modality (auditory or visual) to attend, followed by a short lateralized auditory or visual stimulus. Participants were instructed to respond to the stimuli by a button press. Results show that auditory cortical alpha power is selectively modulated by the audiospatial, but not the visuospatial, attention task. These findings provide further evidence for a distinct auditory cortical alpha generator, which can be measured noninvasively.
The discrete arrangement of voltage-gated K(+) (Kv) channels in axons may impart functional advantages in action potential (AP) signaling yet, in compact cell types, the organization of Kv channels is poorly understood. We find that in cerebellar stellate cell interneurons of mice, the composition and influence of Kv channels populating the axon is diverse and depends on location allowing axonal compartments to differentially control APs in a local manner. Kv1 channels determine AP repolarization at the spike initiation site but not at more distal sites, limiting the expression of use-dependent spike broadening to the most proximal axon region, likely a key attribute informing spiking phenotype. Local control of AP repolarization at presynaptic boutons depends on Kv3 channels keeping APs brief, thus limiting Ca(2+) influx and synaptic strength. These observations suggest that AP repolarization is tuned by the local influence of distinct Kv channel types, and this organization enhances the functional segregation of axonal compartments.
Retrieving information from long-term memory can result in the episodic forgetting of related material. One influential account states that this retrieval-induced forgetting (RIF) phenomenon reflects inhibitory mechanisms called into play to decrease retrieval competition. Recent neuroimaging studies suggested that the prefrontal cortex, which is critically engaged in inhibitory processing, is also involved in retrieval competition situations. Here, we used transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to address whether inhibitory processes could be causally linked to RIF. tDCS was administered over the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during the retrieval-practice phase in a standard retrieval-practice paradigm. Sixty human participants were randomly assigned to anodal, cathodal, or sham-control groups. The groups showed comparable benefits for practiced items. In contrast, unlike both the sham and anodal groups, the cathodal group exhibited no RIF. This pattern is interpreted as evidence for a causal role of inhibitory mechanisms in episodic retrieval and forgetting.
The fovea dominates primate vision, and its anatomy and perceptual abilities are well studied, but its physiology has been little explored because of limitations of current physiological methods. In this study, we adapted a novel in vivo imaging method, originally developed in mouse retina, to explore foveal physiology in the macaque, which permits the repeated imaging of the functional response of many retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) simultaneously. A genetically encoded calcium indicator, G-CaMP5, was inserted into foveal RGCs, followed by calcium imaging of the displacement of foveal RGCs from their receptive fields, and their intensity-response functions. The spatial offset of foveal RGCs from their cone inputs makes this method especially appropriate for fovea by permitting imaging of RGC responses without excessive light adaptation of cones. This new method will permit the tracking of visual development, progression of retinal disease, or therapeutic interventions, such as insertion of visual prostheses.
The human brain is fragile in the face of oxygen deprivation. Even a brief interruption of metabolic supply at birth challenges an otherwise healthy neonatal cortex, leading to a cascade of homeostatic responses. During recovery from hypoxia, cortical activity exhibits a period of highly irregular electrical fluctuations known as burst suppression. Here we show that these bursts have fractal properties, with power-law scaling of burst sizes across a remarkable 5 orders of magnitude and a scale-free relationship between burst sizes and durations. Although burst waveforms vary greatly, their average shape converges to a simple form that is asymmetric at long time scales. Using a simple computational model, we argue that this asymmetry reflects activity-dependent changes in the excitatory-inhibitory balance of cortical neurons. Bursts become more symmetric following the resumption of normal activity, with a corresponding reorganization of burst scaling relationships. These findings place burst suppression in the broad class of scale-free physical processes termed crackling noise and suggest that the resumption of healthy activity reflects a fundamental reorganization in the relationship between neuronal activity and its underlying metabolic constraints.
Motor activity is often initiated by a population of command-like interneurons. Command-like interneurons that reliably drive programs have received the most attention, so little is known about how less reliable command-like interneurons may contribute to program generation. We study two electrically coupled interneurons, cerebral-buccal interneuron-2 (CBI-2) and CBI-11, which activate feeding motor programs in the mollusk Aplysia californica. Earlier work indicated that, in rested preparations, CBI-2, a powerful activator of programs, can trigger ingestive and egestive programs. CBI-2 reliably generated ingestive patterns only when it was repeatedly stimulated. The ability of CBI-2 to trigger motor activity has been attributed to the two program-promoting peptides it contains, FCAP and CP2. Here, we show that CBI-11 differs from CBI-2 in that it contains FCAP but not CP2. Furthermore, it is weak in its ability to drive programs. On its own, CBI-11 is therefore less effective as a program activator. When it is successful, however, CBI-11 is an effective specifier of motor activity; that is, it drives mostly ingestive programs. Importantly, we found that CBI-2 and CBI-11 complement each other's actions. First, prestimulation of CBI-2 enhanced the ability of CBI-11 to drive programs. This effect appears to be partly mediated by CP2. Second, coactivation of CBI-11 with CBI-2 makes CBI-2 programs immediately ingestive. This effect may be mediated by specific actions that CBI-11 exerts on pattern-generating interneurons. Therefore, different classes of command-like neurons in a motor network may make distinct, but potentially complementary, contributions as either activators or specifiers of motor activity.
The sleep disorder narcolepsy results from loss of hypothalamic orexin/hypocretin neurons. Although narcolepsy onset is usually postpubertal, current mouse models involve loss of either orexin peptides or orexin neurons from birth. To create a model of orexin/hypocretin deficiency with closer fidelity to human narcolepsy, diphtheria toxin A (DTA) was expressed in orexin neurons under control of the Tet-off system. Upon doxycycline removal from the diet of postpubertal orexin-tTA;TetO DTA mice, orexin neurodegeneration was rapid, with 80% cell loss within 7 d, and resulted in disrupted sleep architecture. Cataplexy, the pathognomic symptom of narcolepsy, occurred by 14 d when 5% of the orexin neurons remained. Cataplexy frequency increased for at least 11 weeks after doxycycline. Temporary doxycycline removal followed by reintroduction after several days enabled partial lesion of orexin neurons. DTA-induced orexin neurodegeneration caused a body weight increase without a change in food consumption, mimicking metabolic aspects of human narcolepsy. Because the orexin/hypocretin system has been implicated in the control of metabolism and addiction as well as sleep/wake regulation, orexin-tTA; TetO DTA mice are a novel model in which to study these functions, for pharmacological studies of cataplexy, and to study network reorganization as orexin input is lost.
-Hydroxybutyrate (GHB) is an approved therapeutic for the excessive sleepiness and sudden loss of muscle tone (cataplexy) characteristic of narcolepsy. The mechanism of action for these therapeutic effects is hypothesized to be GABAB receptor dependent. We evaluated the effects of chronic administration of GHB and the GABAB agonist R-baclofen (R-BAC) on arousal state and cataplexy in two models of narcolepsy: orexin/ataxin-3 (Atax) and orexin/tTA; TetO diphtheria toxin mice (DTA). Mice were implanted for EEG/EMG monitoring and dosed with GHB (150 mg/kg), R-BAC (2.8 mg/kg), or vehicle (VEH) bid for 15 d-a treatment paradigm designed to model the twice nightly GHB dosing regimen used by human narcoleptics. In both models, R-BAC increased NREM sleep time, intensity, and consolidation during the light period; wake bout duration increased and cataplexy decreased during the subsequent dark period. GHB did not increase NREM sleep consolidation or duration, although NREM delta power increased in the first hour after dosing. Cataplexy decreased from baseline in 57 and 86% of mice after GHB and R-BAC, respectively, whereas cataplexy increased in 79% of the mice after VEH. At the doses tested, R-BAC suppressed cataplexy to a greater extent than GHB. These results suggest utility of R-BAC-based therapeutics for narcolepsy.
Different doses of an adenosine A2A receptor antagonist MSX-3 [3,7-dihydro-8-[(1E)-2-(3-ethoxyphenyl)ethenyl]-7 methyl-3-[3-(phosphooxy)propyl-1-(2 propynil)-1H-purine-2,6-dione] were found previously to either decrease or increase self-administration of cannabinoids delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) or anandamide in squirrel monkeys. It was hypothesized that the decrease observed with a relatively low dose of MSX-3 was related to blockade of striatal presynaptic A2A receptors that modulate glutamatergic neurotransmission, whereas the increase observed with a higher dose was related to blockade of postsynaptic A2A receptors localized in striatopallidal neurons. This hypothesis was confirmed in the present study by testing the effects of the preferential presynaptic and postsynaptic A2A receptor antagonists SCH-442416 [2-(2-furanyl)-7-[3-(4-methoxyphenyl)propyl]-7H-pyrazolo[4,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5-amine] and KW-6002 [(E)-1, 3-diethyl-8-(3,4-dimethoxystyryl)-7-methyl-3,7-dihydro-1H-purine-2,6-dione], respectively, in squirrel monkeys trained to intravenously self-administer THC. SCH-442416 produced a significant shift to the right of the THC self-administration dose-response curves, consistent with antagonism of the reinforcing effects of THC. Conversely, KW-6002 produced a significant shift to the left, consistent with potentiation of the reinforcing effects of THC. These results show that selectively blocking presynaptic A2A receptors could provide a new pharmacological approach to the treatment of marijuana dependence and underscore corticostriatal glutamatergic neurotransmission as a possible main mechanism involved in the rewarding effects of THC.
Hippocampal place-cell replay has been proposed as a fundamental mechanism of learning and memory, which might support navigational learning and planning. An important hypothesis of relevance to these proposed functions is that the information encoded in replay should reflect the topological structure of experienced environments; that is, which places in the environment are connected with which others. Here we report several attributes of replay observed in rats exploring a novel forked environment that support the hypothesis. First, we observed that overlapping replays depicting divergent trajectories through the fork recruited the same population of cells with the same firing rates to represent the common portion of the trajectories. Second, replay tended to be directional and to flip the represented direction at the fork. Third, replay-associated sharp-wave-ripple events in the local field potential exhibited substructure that mapped onto the maze topology. Thus, the spatial complexity of our recording environment was accurately captured by replay: the underlying neuronal activities reflected the bifurcating shape, and both directionality and associated ripple structure reflected the segmentation of the maze. Finally, we observed that replays occurred rapidly after small numbers of experiences. Our results suggest that hippocampal replay captures learned information about environmental topology to support a role in navigation.
In the developing brain, initial neuronal projections are formed through extensive growth and branching of developing axons, but many branches are later pruned to sculpt the mature pattern of connections. Despite its widespread occurrence, the mechanisms controlling pruning remain incompletely characterized. Based on pharmacological and biochemical analysis in vitro and initial genetic analysis in vivo, prior studies implicated a pathway involving binding of the Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP) to Death Receptor 6 (DR6) and activation of a downstream caspase cascade in axonal pruning. Here, we further test their involvement in pruning in vivo and their mechanism of action through extensive genetic and biochemical analysis. Genetic deletion of DR6 was previously shown to impair pruning of retinal axons in vivo. We show that genetic deletion of APP similarly impairs pruning of retinal axons in vivo and provide evidence that APP and DR6 act cell autonomously and in the same pathway to control pruning. Prior analysis had suggested that -secretase cleavage of APP and binding of an N-terminal fragment of APP to DR6 is required for their actions, but further genetic and biochemical analysis reveals that -secretase activity is not required and that high-affinity binding to DR6 requires a more C-terminal portion of the APP ectodomain. These results provide direct support for the model that APP and DR6 function cell autonomously and in the same pathway to control pruning in vivo and raise the possibility of alternate mechanisms for how APP and DR6 control pruning.
Recent studies implicate death receptor 6 (DR6) in an amyloid precursor protein (APP)-dependent pathway regulating developmental axon pruning, and in a pruning pathway operating during plastic rearrangements in adult brain. DR6 has also been suggested to mediate toxicity in vitro of A peptides derived from APP. Given the link between APP, A, and Alzheimer's disease (AD), these findings have raised the possibility that DR6 contributes to aspects of neurodegeneration in AD. To test this possibility, we have used mouse models to characterize potential function(s) of DR6 in the adult CNS and in AD-related pathophysiology. We show that DR6 is broadly expressed within the adult CNS and regulates the density of excitatory synaptic connections onto pyramidal neurons in a genetic pathway with APP. DR6 knock-out also gives rise to behavioral abnormalities, some of which are similar to those previously documented in APP knock-out animals. However, in two distinct APP transgenic models of AD, we did not observe any alteration in the formation of amyloid plaques, gliosis, synaptic loss, or cognitive behavioral deficits with genetic deletion of DR6, though we did observe a transient reduction in the degree of microglial activation in one model. Our results support the view that DR6 functions with APP to modulate synaptic density in the adult CNS, but do not provide evidence for a role of DR6 in the pathophysiology of AD.

Clustering is typically measured by the ratio of triangles to all triples regardless of whether open or closed. Generating clustered networks, and how clustering affects dynamics on networks, is reasonably well understood for certain classes of networks (Volz et al., 2011; Karrer and Newman, 2010), e.g. networks composed of lines and non-overlapping triangles. In this paper we show that it is possible to generate networks which, despite having the same degree distribution and equal clustering, exhibit different higher-order structure, specifically, overlapping triangles and other order-four (a closed network motif composed of four nodes) structures. To distinguish and quantify these additional structural features, we develop a new network metric capable of measuring order-four structure which, when used alongside traditional network metrics, allows us to more accurately describe a networks topology. Three network generation algorithms are considered: a modified configuration model and two rewiring algorithms. By generating homogeneous networks with equal clustering we study and quantify their structural differences, and using SIS (Susceptible-Infected-Susceptible) and SIR (Susceptible-Infected-Recovered) dynamics we investigate computationally how differences in higher-order structure impact on epidemic threshold, final epidemic or prevalence levels and time evolution of epidemics. Our results suggest that characterising and measuring higher-order network structure is needed to advance our understanding of the impact of network topology on dynamics unfolding on the networks.




Exocytic transmitter release is regulated by the SNARE complex, which contains a vesicular protein, synaptobrevin2 (Sb2). However, Sb2 vesicular arrangement is unclear. Here we use super-resolution fluorescence microscopy to study the prevalence and distribution of endogenous and exogenous Sb2 in single vesicles of astrocytes, the most abundant glial cells in the brain. We tag Sb2 protein at C- and N termini with a pair of fluorophores, which allows us to determine the Sb2 length and geometry. To estimate total number of Sb2 proteins per vesicle and the quantity necessary for the formation of fusion pores, we treat cells with ATP to stimulate Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, increase intracellular alkalinity to enhance the fluorescence presentation of yellow-shifted pHluorin (YpH), appended to the vesicle lumen domain of Sb2, and perform photobleaching of YpH fluorophores. Fluorescence intensity analysis reveals that the total number of endogenous Sb2 units or molecules per vesicle is 25.
In sensory systems, peripheral organs convey sensory inputs to relay networks where information is shaped by local microcircuits before being transmitted to cortical areas. In the olfactory system, odorants evoke specific patterns of sensory neuron activity that are transmitted to output neurons in olfactory bulb (OB) glomeruli. How sensory information is transferred and shaped at this level remains still unclear. Here we employ mouse genetics, 2-photon microscopy, electrophysiology and optogenetics, to identify a novel population of glutamatergic neurons (VGLUT3(+)) in the glomerular layer of the adult mouse OB as well as several of their synaptic targets. Both peripheral and serotoninergic inputs control VGLUT3(+) neurons firing. Furthermore, we show that VGLUT3(+) neuron photostimulation in vivo strongly suppresses both spontaneous and odour-evoked firing of bulbar output neurons. In conclusion, we identify and characterize here a microcircuit controlling the transfer of sensory information at an early stage of the olfactory pathway.






The traditional view on visual processing emphasizes a hierarchy: local line segments are first linked into global contours, which in turn are assembled into more complex forms. Distinct from this bottom-up viewpoint, here we provide evidence for a theoretical framework whereby objects and their parts are processed almost concurrently in a bidirectional cortico-cortical loop. By simultaneous recordings from V1 and V4 in awake monkeys, we found that information about global contours in a cluttered background emerged initially in V4, started 40ms later in V1, andcontinued to develop in parallel in both areas. Detailed analysis of neuronal response properties implicated contour integration to emerge from bothbottom-up and reentrant processes. Our results point to an incremental integration mechanism: feedforward assembling accompanied by feedback disambiguating to define and enhance the global contours and to suppress background noise. The consequence is a parallel accumulation of contour information over multiple cortical areas.
The subcellular pathways that regulate G protein-gated inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK or Kir3) channels are important for controlling the excitability of neurons. Sorting nexin 27 (SNX27) is a PDZ-containing protein known to bind GIRK2c/GIRK3 channels, but its function invivo is poorly understood. Here, we investigated the role of SNX27 in regulating GIRK currents in dopamine (DA) neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Mice lacking SNX27 in DA neurons exhibited reduced GABABR-activated GIRK currents but had normal Ih currents and DA D2R-activated GIRK currents. Expression of GIRK2a, an SNX27-insensitive splice variant, restored GABABR-activated GIRK currents in SNX27-deficient DA neurons. Remarkably, mice with significantly reduced GABABR-activated GIRK currents in only DA neurons were hypersensitive to cocaine and could be restored to a normal locomotor response with GIRK2a expression. These results identify a pathway for regulating excitability of VTA DA neurons, highlighting SNX27 as a promising target for treating addiction.

In central mammalian neurons, activation of metabotropic glutamate receptor type1 (mGluR1) evokes a complex synaptic response consisting of IP3 receptor-dependent Ca(2+) release from internal Ca(2+) stores and a slow depolarizing potential involving TRPC3 channels. It is largely unclear how mGluR1 is linked to its downstream effectors. Here, we explored the role of stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1) in regulating neuronal Ca(2+) signaling and mGluR1-dependent synaptic transmission. By analyzing mouse cerebellar Purkinje neurons, we demonstrate that STIM1 is an essential regulator of the Ca(2+) level in neuronal endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) stores. Both mGluR1-dependent synaptic potentials and IP3 receptor-dependent Ca(2+) signals are strongly attenuated in the absence of STIM1. Furthermore, the Purkinje neuron-specific deletion of Stim1 causes impairments in cerebellar motor behavior. Together, our results demonstrate that in the mammalian nervous system STIM1 is a key regulator of intracellular Ca(2+) signaling, metabotropic glutamate receptor-dependent synaptic transmission, and motor coordination.
Miniature neurotransmission is the transsynaptic process where single synaptic vesicles spontaneously released from presynaptic neurons induce miniature postsynaptic potentials. Since their discovery over 60 years ago, miniature events have been found at every chemical synapse studied. However, the invivo necessity for these small-amplitude events has remained enigmatic. Here, we show that miniature neurotransmission is required for the normal structural maturation of Drosophila glutamatergic synapses in a developmental role that is not shared by evoked neurotransmission. Conversely, we find that increasing miniature events is sufficient to induce synaptic terminal growth. We show that miniature neurotransmission acts locally at terminals to regulate synapse maturation via a Trio guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) and Rac1 GTPase molecular signaling pathway. Our results establish that miniature neurotransmission, a universal but often-overlooked feature of synapses, has unique and essential functions invivo.
Primary nociceptors relay painful touch information from the periphery to the spinal cord. Although it is established that signals generated by receptor tyrosine kinases TrkA and Ret coordinate the development of distinct nociceptive circuits, mechanisms modulating TrkA or Ret pathways in developing nociceptors are unknown. We have identified tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor 1 (TNFR1) as a critical modifier of TrkA and Ret signaling in peptidergic and nonpeptidergic nociceptors. Specifically, TrkA+ peptidergic nociceptors require TNF--TNFR1 forward signaling to suppress nerve growth factor (NGF)-mediated neurite growth, survival, excitability, and differentiation. Conversely, TNFR1-TNF- reverse signaling augments the neurite growth and excitability of Ret+ nonpeptidergic nociceptors. The developmental and functional nociceptive defects associated with loss of TNFR1 signaling manifest behaviorally as lower pain thresholds caused by increased sensitivity to NGF. Thus, TNFR1 exerts a dual role in nociceptor information processing by suppressing TrkA and enhancing Ret signaling inpeptidergic and nonpeptidergic nociceptors, respectively.
Adult neurogenic niches harbor quiescent neural stem cells; however, their invivo identity has been elusive. Here, we prospectively isolate GFAP(+)CD133(+) (quiescent neural stem cells [qNSCs]) and GFAP(+)CD133(+)EGFR(+) (activated neural stem cells [aNSCs]) from the adult ventricular-subventricular zone. aNSCs are rapidly cycling, highly neurogenic in vivo, and enriched in colony-forming cells in vitro. In contrast, qNSCs are largely dormant in vivo, generate olfactorybulb interneurons with slower kinetics, and only rarelyform colonies invitro. Moreover, qNSCs are Nestin negative, a marker widely used for neural stem cells.Upon activation, qNSCs upregulate Nestin and EGFR and become highly proliferative. Notably, qNSCs and aNSCs can interconvert invitro. Transcriptome analysis reveals that qNSCs share features with quiescent stem cells from other organs. Finally, small-molecule screening identified the GPCR ligands, S1P and PGD2, as factors that actively maintain the quiescent state of qNSCs.

Neurogenic niches in the adult mammalian brain are composed of heterogeneous populations of neural stemcells. In this issue of Neuron, Codega etal. (2014) isolate quiescent neural stem cells from the adult subventricular zone and demonstrate their stem cell characteristics.
Previous work has hinted that prospective and retrospective coding modes exist in hippocampus. Prospective coding is believed to reflect memory retrieval processes, whereas retrospective coding is thought to be important for memory encoding. Here, we show in rats that separate prospective and retrospective modes exist in hippocampal subfield CA1 and that slow and fast gamma rhythms differentially coordinate place cells during the two modes. Slow gamma power and phase locking of spikes increased during prospective coding; fast gamma power and phase locking increased during retrospective coding. Additionally, slow gamma spikes occurred earlier in place fields than fast gamma spikes, and cell ensembles retrieved upcoming positions during slow gamma and encoded past positions during fast gamma. These results imply that alternating slow and fast gamma states allow the hippocampus to switch between prospective and retrospective modes, possibly to prevent interference between memory retrieval and encoding.
Menthol and other counterstimuli relieve itch, resulting in an antipruritic state that persists for minutes to hours. However, the neural basis for this effect is unclear, and the underlying neuromodulatory mechanisms are unknown. Previous studies revealed that Bhlhb5(-/-) mice, which lack a specific population of spinal inhibitory interneurons (B5-I neurons), develop pathological itch. Here we characterize B5-I neurons and show that they belong to a neurochemically distinct subset. We provide cause-and-effect evidence that B5-I neurons inhibit itch and show that dynorphin, which is released from B5-I neurons, is a key neuromodulator of pruritus. Finally, we show that B5-I neurons are innervated by menthol-, capsaicin-, and mustard oil-responsive sensory neurons and are required for the inhibition of itch by menthol. These findings provide a cellular basis for the inhibition of itch by chemical counterstimuli and suggest that kappa opioids may be a broadly effective therapy for pathological itch.
Prenatal exposure of the developing brain to various environmental challenges increases susceptibility tolate onset of neuropsychiatric dysfunction; still, the underlying mechanisms remain obscure. Here we show that exposure of embryos to a variety of environmental factors such as alcohol, methylmercury, and maternal seizure activates HSF1 in cerebral cortical cells. Furthermore, Hsf1 deficiency in the mouse cortex exposed in utero to subthreshold levels of these challenges causes structural abnormalities and increases seizure susceptibility after birth. In addition, we found that human neural progenitor cells differentiated from induced pluripotent stem cells derived from schizophrenia patients show higher variability in the levels of HSF1 activation induced by environmental challenges compared to controls. We propose that HSF1 plays a crucial role in the response of brain cells to prenatal environmental insults and may be a key component in the pathogenesis of late-onset neuropsychiatric disorders.


Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a form of dementia characterized by a profound alteration in personality and social behavior and is associated with atrophy in the frontal and temporal brain regions. Despite recent advances, diagnosis of FTLD remains challenging. In the last decade, different studies have combined EEG analysis with mathematical models and theories that consider EEG signals as the result of nonlinear chaotic activity. The aim of the present study was to determine whether new nonlinear dynamic analysis can provide useful information on brain activity in FTLD patients. 19-lead EEG was recorded in patients with clinical diagnosis of FTLD and in healthy controls under two different conditions: closed eyes and open eyes. A nonlinear measure of complexity, correlation dimension (D2), was calculated. Our results show an increase in D2 in healthy individuals when the eyes are open, in keeping with an increase in information processing. Conversely, in FTLD patients, no increase in D2 occurred in the open eyes condition, and D2 was significantly lower than that observed in controls. Our results suggest that the dynamic processes underlying the EEG are less chaotic and complex in FTLD patients compared with normal individuals, thus providing important information on both brain functioning and possible clinical diagnostic applications.
Traumatic brain injury is a leading cause of acquired epilepsy. Initially described in 1989, lateral fluid percussion injury (LFPI) has since become the most extensively used and well-characterized rodent traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic epilepsy model. Universal findings, particularly seizures that reliably develop after an initial latent period, are evident across studies from multiple laboratories. However, the LFPI procedure is a two-stage process, requiring initial surgical attachment of a skull fluid cannula and then reanesthesia for delivery of the epidural fluid pressure wave. We now describe a modification of the original technique, termed 'rapid lateral fluid percussion injury' (rLFPI), which allows for a one-stage procedure and thus shorter operating time and reduced anesthesia exposure. Anesthetized male Long-Evans rats were subjected to rLFPI through a length of plastic tubing fitted with a pipette tip cannula with a 4-mm aperture. The cannula opening was positioned over a craniectomy of slightly smaller diameter and exposed dura such that the edges of the cannula fit tightly when pressed to the skull with a micromanipulator. Fluid percussion was then delivered immediately thereafter, in the same surgery session. rLFPI resulted in nonlethal focal cortical injury in all animals. We previously demonstrated that the rLFPI procedure resulted in post-traumatic seizures and regional gliosis, but had not examined other histopathologic elements. Now, we show apoptotic cell death confined to the perilesional cortex and chronic pathologic changes such as ipsilesional ventriculomegaly that are seen in the classic model. We conclude that the rLFPI method is a viable alternative to classic LFPI, and--being a one-stage procedure--has the advantage of shorter experiment turnaround and reduced exposure to anesthetics.
Sex stereotypes consider women to be superior in terms of voice sensitivity. However, whether such sex differences are driven by voice perception per se or by low-level acoustic attributes remains unclear. Using a passive auditory oddball paradigm, we studied the emotionally spoken meaningless syllables 'dada' (neutral, happy, fearful) along with corresponding nonvocal sounds in female and male adults. Mismatch negativity (MMN) and P3a were identified in the waveforms obtained by subtraction of the responses to standard stimuli from the deviant stimuli. Results showed that MMN in response to fearful syllables was stronger in women, whereas MMN elicited by nonvocal sounds was comparable between sexes. This sex effect was specifically found in MMN, but not in P3a. These findings suggest that sex differences in voice sensitivity are selectively driven by voice perception. The sex effect in preattentive processing of emotional voices may further implicate possible etiological pathways for mental disorders characterized by disturbance in emotional processes as well as disparities in the prevalence between sexes.
Hypothalamic orexin/hypocretin (Orx/Hcrt) peptides participate in the regulation of a wide range of physiological processes and are recruited by drugs of abuse. To advance our understanding of the potential of the Orx/Hcrt receptor-1 (Hcrt-r1) as a treatment target for cocaine addiction, the effect of SB334867 [N-(2-methyl-6-benzoxazolyl)-N'-1,5-n-aphthyridin-4-yl urea], a specific Hcrt-r1 antagonist, on reinstatement elicited by cocaine-associated stimuli versus stimuli associated with a highly palatable conventional reinforcer [sweetened condensed milk (SCM)] was tested. Two separate groups of male Wistar rats were trained to associate a discriminative stimulus (S) with the response-contingent availability of cocaine (0.25 mg/0.1 ml/infusion) or SCM [2/1 (v/v)] and subjected to reinstatement tests following extinction of cocaine-reinforced or SCM-reinforced behavior, during which the reinforcers and S were withheld. Following extinction, presentation of the cocaine or SCM S produced comparable recovery of responding. Hcrt-r1 blockade by SB334867 (1-10 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) dose-dependently and selectively reversed conditioned reinstatement induced by cocaine-related stimuli, without interfering with reward seeking produced by the same stimulus when conditioned to SCM. The findings suggest an important role for Hcrt-r1 in appetitive behavior controlled by reward-related stimuli with selectivity for cocaine seeking and identify Hcrt-r1 as a potential treatment target for cocaine relapse prevention.
Long-term propagation of inner ear-derived progenitor/stem cells beyond the third generation and differentiation into inner ear cell types has been shown to be feasible, but challenging. We investigated whether the known neuroprotective guanidine compound creatine (Cr) promotes propagation of inner ear progenitor/stem cells as mitogen-expanded neurosphere cultures judged from the formation of spheres over passages. In addition, we studied whether Cr alone or in combination with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promotes neuronal differentiation of inner ear progenitors. For this purpose, early postnatal rat spiral ganglia, utricle, and organ of Corti-derived progenitors were grown as floating spheres in the absence (controls) or presence of Cr (5 mM) from passage 3 onward. Similarly, dissociated sphere-derived cultures were differentiated for 14 days in the presence or absence of Cr (5 mM) and spiral ganglia sphere-derived cultures in a combination of Cr with the neurotrophin BDNF (50 ng/ml). We found that the cumulative total number of spheres over all passages was significantly higher after Cr supplementation as compared with controls in all the three inner ear cultures. In contrast, sphere sizes were not affected by the administration of Cr. Administration of Cr during differentiation of spiral ganglia cells resulted in a significantly higher density of -III-tubulin-positive cells compared with controls, whereas densities of myosin VIIa-positive cells in cultures of utricle and organ of Corti were not affected by the treatment. Importantly, a combination of Cr with the neurotrophin BDNF resulted in further significantly increased densities of -III-tubulin-positive cells in cultures of spiral ganglia cells as compared with single treatments. In sum, Cr promoted continuing propagation of rat inner ear-derived progenitor cells and supported specifically in combination with BDNF the differentiation of neuronal cell types from spiral ganglion-derived spheres.
Many gene expression studies have examined postmortem brain tissues of patients with schizophrenia. However, only a few expression studies of the genes identified in genome-wide association study (GWAS) have been published to date. We measured the expression levels of the genes identified in GWAS (ZNF804A, OPCML, RPGRIP1L, NRGN, and TCF4) of the postmortem brain tissues of patients with schizophrenia and controls from two separate sample sets (i.e., the Australian Tissue Resource Center and Stanley Medical Research Institute). We also determined whether the single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) identified in the GWAS were related to the gene expression changes in the prefrontal cortex. No difference was observed between the patients with schizophrenia and controls from the Australian Tissue Resource Center samples in the mRNA levels of ZNF804A, OPCML, RPGRIP1L, NRGN, or TCF4. The lack of mRNA change for these five transcripts was also found in the brain samples from the Stanley Medical Research Institute. In addition, no relationship between the schizophrenia-associated SNPs identified in the GWAS and the corresponding gene expression was observed in either sample set. Our results suggest that major changes in the transcript levels of the five candidate genes identified in the GWAS may not occur in adult patients with schizophrenia. The lack of linkage between the risk gene polymorphisms and the expression levels of their major transcripts suggests that the control of pan mRNA levels may not be a prominent mechanism by which the genes identified in the GWAS contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Further studies are needed to examine how the genes identified in the GWAS contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
The Parkinson's disease (PD) gene, PARK6, encodes the PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) mitochondrial kinase, which provides protection against oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. Given the link between glucose metabolism, mitochondrial function and insulin secretion in -cells, and the reported association of PD with type 2 diabetes, we investigated the response of PINK1-deficient -cells to glucose stimuli to determine whether loss of PINK1 affected their function. We find that loss of PINK1 significantly impairs the ability of mouse pancreatic -cells (MIN6 cells) and primary intact islets to take up glucose. This was accompanied by higher basal levels of intracellular calcium leading to increased basal levels of insulin secretion under low glucose conditions. Finally, we investigated the effect of PINK1 deficiency in vivo and find that PINK1 knockout mice have improved glucose tolerance. For the first time, these combined results demonstrate that loss of PINK1 function appears to disrupt glucose-sensing leading to enhanced insulin release, which is uncoupled from glucose uptake, and suggest a key role for PINK1 in -cell function.

Being able to judge another person's visuo-spatial perspective is an essential social skill, hence we investigated the generalizability of the involved mechanisms across cultures and genders. Developmental, cross-species, and our own previous research suggest that two different forms of perspective taking can be distinguished, which are subserved by two distinct mechanisms. The simpler form relies on inferring another's line-of-sight, whereas the more complex form depends on embodied transformation into the other's orientation in form of a simulated body rotation. Our current results suggest that, in principle, the same basic mechanisms are employed by males and females in both, East-Asian (EA; Chinese) and Western culture. However, we also confirmed the hypothesis that Westerners show an egocentric bias, whereas EAs reveal an other-oriented bias. Furthermore, Westerners were slower overall than EAs and showed stronger gender differences in speed and depth of embodied processing. Our findings substantiate differences and communalities in social cognition mechanisms across genders and two cultures and suggest that cultural evolution or transmission should take gender as a modulating variable into account.








Superresolution fluorescence microscopy permits the study of biological processes at scales small enough to visualize fine subcellular structures that are unresolvable by traditional diffraction-limited light microscopy. Many superresolution techniques, including those applicable to live cell imaging, utilize genetically encoded photocontrollable fluorescent proteins. The fluorescence of these proteins can be controlled by light of specific wavelengths. In this review, we discuss the biochemical and photophysical properties of photocontrollable fluorescent proteins that are relevant to their use in superresolution microscopy. We then describe the recently developed photoactivatable, photoswitchable, and reversibly photoswitchable fluorescent proteins, and we detail their particular usefulness in single-molecule localization-based and nonlinear ensemble-based superresolution techniques. Finally, we discuss recent applications of photocontrollable proteins in superresolution imaging, as well as how these applications help to clarify properties of intracellular structures and processes that are relevant to cell and developmental biology, neuroscience, cancer biology and biomedicine.
The itch-scratch reflex serves as a protective mechanism in everyday life. However, chronic persistent itching can be devastating. Despite the clinical importance of the itch sensation, its mechanism remains elusive. In the past decade, substantial progress has been made to uncover the mystery of itching. Here, we review the molecules, cells, and circuits known to mediate the itch sensation, which, coupled with advances in understanding the pathophysiology of chronic itching conditions, will hopefully contribute to the development of new anti-itch therapies.
Any bilayer lipid membrane can support a membrane voltage. The combination of optical perturbation and optical readout of membrane voltage opens the door to studies of electrophysiology in a huge variety of systems previously inaccessible to electrode-based measurements. Yet, the application of optogenetic electrophysiology requires careful reconsideration of the fundamentals of bioelectricity. Rules of thumb appropriate for neuroscience and cardiology may not apply in systems with dramatically different sizes, lipid compositions, charge carriers, or protein machinery. Optogenetic tools are not electrodes; thus, optical and electrode-based measurements have different quirks. Here we review the fundamental aspects of bioelectricity with the aim of laying a conceptual framework for all-optical electrophysiology.
Axonal transport is indispensable for the distribution of vesicles, organelles, messenger RNAs (mRNAs), and signaling molecules along the axon. This process is mediated by kinesins and dyneins, molecular motors that bind to cargoes and translocate on microtubule tracks. Tight modulation of motor protein activity is necessary, but little is known about the molecules and mechanisms that regulate transport. Moreover, evidence suggests that transport impairments contribute to the initiation or progression of neurodegenerative diseases, or both, but the mechanisms by which motor activity is affected in disease are unclear. In this review, we discuss some of the physical and biophysical properties that influence motor regulation in healthy neurons. We further discuss the evidence for the role of transport in neurodegeneration, highlighting two pathways that may contribute to transport impairment-dependent disease: genetic mutations or variation, and protein aggregation. Understanding how and when transport parameters change in disease will help delineate molecular mechanisms of neurodegeneration.








7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonists are promising therapeutic candidates for the treatment of cognitive impairment. As a follow up of our internal medicinal chemistry program we investigated a novel series of 7 nAChR agonists. Starting from molecular docking studies on two series of molecules recently developed in our laboratories, an alternative scaffold was designed attempting to combine the optimal features of these previously identified urea and pyrazole compounds. Based on our previous SAR knowledge and on predicted drug-like properties, a small library was synthesized in parallel manner, affording compounds with excellent 7 nAChR activity, selectivity and preliminary ADME profile.

Fish use olfaction to detect a variety of nonvolatile chemical signals, and thus, this sense is key to survival and communication. However, the contribution of the olfactory sense to social-especially reproductive-interactions in cichlids is still controversial. To obtain insights into this issue, we investigated the genes encoding V1Rs-possible candidates for reproductive pheromone receptors-among East-African cichlids. Interestingly, we found an excess of nonsynonymous over synonymous substitutions in four of six V1R genes in multiple cichlid lineages. First, we found that highly dimorphic V1R2 allele groups were shared among the cichlids inhabiting all East-African Great Lakes emerged through the episodic accumulation of the nonsynonymous substitutions prior to the radiation of the Lake Tanganyika species flock. We further detected such episodic events in V1R1 of the tribe Tropheini, and in V1R3 and V1R6 of the tribe Trematocarini. The excess of nonsynonymous substitutions in these examples were indicated as dN/dS &gt; 1, which were all statistically significant by Fisher's exact test. Furthermore, we speculate that the amino acid changes in these episodic events are likely functional switch because they occurred in the putative ligand-binding pocket. Our finding of the occurrence of multiple episodic events and the unexpected gene diversity in one unique gene family is suggestive of the contribution of the V1R to the species diversification and the social interaction in cichlids.













A current challenge in Alzheimer disease (AD) research is to identify the sequence of pathologic changes that occurs during preclinical stages of disease in advance of cognitive decline. The timing of appearance of the 2 pathologic hallmarks of AD-amyloid deposition and tau-mediated neurodegeneration-is a particular topic of debate, with researchers drawing on a broad range of genetic, neuroimaging, fluid biomarker, animal, and autopsy studies to piece together the series of events ultimately leading to the plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and cognitive deficits that define AD.





To address the hotly debated question of motor system involvement in language comprehension, we recorded neuromagnetic responses elicited in the human brain by unattended action-related spoken verbs and nouns and scrutinized their timecourse and neuroanatomical substrates. We found that already very early on, from 80 ms after disambiguation point when the words could be identified from the available acoustic information, both verbs and nouns produced characteristic somatotopic activations in the motor strip, with words related to different body parts activating the corresponding body representations. Strikingly, along with this category-specific activation, we observed suppression of motor-cortex activation by competitor words with incompatible semantics, documenting operation of the neurophysiological principles of lateral/surround inhibition in neural word processing. The extremely early onset of these activations and deactivations, their emergence in the absence of attention, and their similar presence for words of different lexical classes strongly suggest automatic involvement of motor-specific circuits in the perception of action-related language.
Parkinson disease (PD) is characterized by the selective loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Although growing evidence indicates that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is a hallmark of PD, its exact contribution to the disease process is not well understood. Here we report that developmental ablation of X-Box binding protein 1 (XBP1) in the nervous system, a key regulator of the unfolded protein response (UPR), protects dopaminergic neurons against a PD-inducing neurotoxin. This survival effect was associated with a preconditioning condition that resulted from induction of an adaptive ER stress response in dopaminergic neurons of the SNpc, but not in other brain regions. In contrast, silencing XBP1 in adult animals triggered chronic ER stress and dopaminergic neuron degeneration. Supporting this finding, gene therapy to deliver an active form of XBP1 provided neuroprotection and reduced striatal denervation in animals injected with 6-hydroxydopamine. Our results reveal a physiological role of the UPR in the maintenance of protein homeostasis in dopaminergic neurons that may help explain the differential neuronal vulnerability observed in PD.
Dystroglycan (DG), a cell adhesion molecule well known to be essential for skeletal muscle integrity and formation of neuromuscular synapses, is also present at inhibitory synapses in the central nervous system. Mutations that affect DG function not only result in muscular dystrophies, but also in severe cognitive deficits and epilepsy. Here we demonstrate a role of DG during activity-dependent homeostatic regulation of hippocampal inhibitory synapses. Prolonged elevation of neuronal activity up-regulates DG expression and glycosylation, and its localization to inhibitory synapses. Inhibition of protein synthesis prevents the activity-dependent increase in synaptic DG and GABAA receptors (GABAARs), as well as the homeostatic scaling up of GABAergic synaptic transmission. RNAi-mediated knockdown of DG blocks homeostatic scaling up of inhibitory synaptic strength, as does knockdown of like-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (LARGE)-a glycosyltransferase critical for DG function. In contrast, DG is not required for the bicuculline-induced scaling down of excitatory synaptic strength or the tetrodotoxin-induced scaling down of inhibitory synaptic strength. The DG ligand agrin increases GABAergic synaptic strength in a DG-dependent manner that mimics homeostatic scaling up induced by increased activity, indicating that activation of this pathway alone is sufficient to regulate GABAAR trafficking. These data demonstrate that DG is regulated in a physiologically relevant manner in neurons and that DG and its glycosylation are essential for homeostatic plasticity at inhibitory synapses.
Halogenated inhaled general anesthetic agents modulate voltage-gated ion channels, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are not understood. Many general anesthetic agents regulate voltage-gated Na(+) (NaV) channels, including the commonly used drug sevoflurane. Here, we investigated the putative binding sites and molecular mechanisms of sevoflurane action on the bacterial NaV channel NaChBac by using a combination of molecular dynamics simulation, electrophysiology, and kinetic analysis. Structural modeling revealed multiple sevoflurane interaction sites possibly associated with NaChBac modulation. Electrophysiologically, sevoflurane favors activation and inactivation at low concentrations (0.2 mM), and additionally accelerates current decay at high concentrations (2 mM). Explaining these observations, kinetic modeling suggests concurrent destabilization of closed states and low-affinity open channel block. We propose that the multiple effects of sevoflurane on NaChBac result from simultaneous interactions at multiple sites with distinct affinities. This multiple-site, multiple-mode hypothesis offers a framework to study the structural basis of general anesthetic action.
A major synaptic input to the thalamus originates from neurons in cortical layer 6 (L6); however, the function of this cortico-thalamic pathway during sensory processing is not well understood. In the mouse whisker system, we found that optogenetic stimulation of L6 in vivo results in a mixture of hyperpolarization and depolarization in the thalamic target neurons. The hyperpolarization was transient, and for longer L6 activation (&gt;200 ms), thalamic neurons reached a depolarized resting membrane potential which affected key features of thalamic sensory processing. Most importantly, L6 stimulation reduced the adaptation of thalamic responses to repetitive whisker stimulation, thereby allowing thalamic neurons to relay higher frequencies of sensory input. Furthermore, L6 controlled the thalamic response mode by shifting thalamo-cortical transmission from bursting to single spiking. Analysis of intracellular sensory responses suggests that L6 impacts these thalamic properties by controlling the resting membrane potential and the availability of the transient calcium current IT, a hallmark of thalamic excitability. In summary, L6 input to the thalamus can shape both the overall gain and the temporal dynamics of sensory responses that reach the cortex.


Abnormalities in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/trkB signaling have been implicated in the etiology of schizophrenia and mood disorders. Patients with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder (BPD) and major depression (MDD) have reduced levels of neurotrophins in their brains when compared with normal unaffected individuals; however, only a few brain areas have been examined to date. Owing to the broad range of symptoms manifested in these disorders, we hypothesized that multiple associative areas of the neocortex may be implicated and that the degree of change in BDNF and trkB-TK+ mRNA expression and the cortical region or layers involved may vary according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) diagnosis. We compared BDNF and trkB-TK+ mRNA levels across all layers of the prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, DLPFC), orbital frontal cortex (OFC), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), inferior temporal gyrus (ITG) and superior temporal gyrus (STG) in four groups: schizophrenia, BPD, MDD and unaffected controls (n=60). BDNF mRNA levels were significantly decreased in layers IV and V of DLPFC in schizophrenia patients, in layer VI of ACC in schizophrenia and MDD and in layer VI of ITG in schizophrenia, BPD and MDD. BDNF mRNA levels were also significantly decreased in layer V and/or VI of STG in schizophrenia, BPD and MDD. TrkB-TK+ mRNA levels were only significantly decreased in the cortical layer VI of OFC in BPD. The shared and distinct patterns of neurotrophin transcript reductions, with some specific to each group, may compromise the function and plasticity of distinct cortical areas to various degrees in the different groups and contribute to the range and overlap of symptoms manifested across the diagnoses.









The role of the thalamus in high-level cognition-attention, working memory (WM), rule-based learning, and decision making-remains poorly understood, especially in comparison to that of cortical frontoparietal networks [1-3]. Studies of visual thalamus have revealed important roles for pulvinar and lateral geniculate nucleus in visuospatial perception and attention [4-10] and for mediodorsal thalamus in oculomotor control [11]. Ventrolateral thalamus contains subdivisions devoted to action control as part of a circuit involving the basal ganglia [12, 13] and motor, premotor, and prefrontal cortices [14], whereas anterior thalamus forms a memory network in connection with the hippocampus [15]. This connectivity profile suggests that ventrolateral and anterior thalamus may represent a nexus between mnemonic and control functions, such as action or attentional selection. Here, we characterize the role of thalamus in the interplay between memory and visual attention. We show that ventrolateral lesions impair the influence of WM representations on attentional deployment. A subsequent fMRI study in healthy volunteers demonstrates involvement of ventrolateral and, notably, anterior thalamus in biasing attention through WM contents. To further characterize the memory types used by the thalamus to bias attention, we performed a second fMRI study that involved learning of stimulus-stimulus associations and their retrieval from long-term memory to optimize attention in search. Responses in ventrolateral and anterior thalamic nuclei tracked learning of the predictiveness of these abstract associations and their use in directing attention. These findings demonstrate a key role for human thalamus in higher-level cognition, notably, in mnemonic biasing of attention.
Personally experienced events include multiple elements, such as locations, people, and objects. These events are thought to be stored in episodic memory as coherent representations [1] that allow the retrieval of all elements from a partial cue (&quot;pattern completion&quot; [2-6]). However, direct evidence for coherent multielement representations is lacking. Their presence would predict that retrieval of one element from an event should be dependent on retrieval of the other elements from that event. If we remember where we were, we should be more likely to remember who we met and what object they gave us. Here we provide evidence for this type of dependency in remembering three-element events. Dependency was seen when all three elements were encoded simultaneously, or when the three overlapping pairwise associations comprising an event were learned on separate trials. However, dependency was only seen in the separated encoding condition when all possible within-event associations were encoded. These results suggest that episodic memories are stored as coherent representations in which associations between all within-event elements allow retrieval via pattern completion. Theyalso show that related experiences encountered at different times can be flexibly integrated into these coherent representations.

Overactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis has been linked to affective disorders such as anxiety and depression. Dampening HPA activity has, therefore, been considered as a possible means of treating affective disorders. Given the important role of vasopressin in modulating the HPA axis, one strategy has focused on inhibiting activity of the vasopressin 1b (V1b) receptor. In animals, V1b receptor antagonists reduce plasma stress hormone levels and have been shown to have an anxiolytic-like effect. Recently, V1B-30N was identified as a highly potent V1b receptor antagonist with selectivity over other vasopressin receptors, which is evaluated here in rodent models of anxiety-like and depression-like behaviors. V1B-30N (1-30mg/kg, IP) dose-dependently reduced separation-induced vocalizations in rat pups without producing any sedative effects in the animals. Similarly, V1B-30N (3-30mg/kg, IP) dose-dependently reduced separation-induced vocalizations in guinea pig pups. In a conflict assay, conditioned lick suppression, V1B-30N (3-30mg/kg, IP) increased punished licking. To assess antidepressive-like properties, V1B-30N (1-30mg/kg) was tested in the mouse and rat forced-swim tests but was found to be inactive. These results are consistent with previous findings with other V1b antagonists, which suggest that acute pharmacological antagonism of the V1b receptor has anxiolytic-like but not antidepressant-like properties.
Muscular dystrophies comprise an heterogeneous group of diseases characterised by primary wasting of skeletal muscle, in the most severe forms leading to progressive paralysis and death. Current therapies for these conditions are extremely limited and based on corticosteroids that bear significant side effects. Several studies have proposed possible alternative strategies, ranging from cell and gene therapy to more classical pharmacological approaches. Nitric oxide is a gaseous messenger involved in many mechanisms responsible for preserving muscle function and stimulating muscle repair. We herein review the most recent pre-clinical and clinical findings that open new prospective for the development of nitric oxide as a therapeutic tool for muscular dystrophies.
































Dendritic spines are protrusions emerging from the dendrite of a neuron and represent the primary postsynaptic targets of excitatory inputs in the brain. Technological advances have identified these structures as key elements in neuron connectivity and synaptic plasticity. The quantitative analysis of spine morphology using light microscopy remains an essential problem due to technical limitations associated with light's intrinsic refraction limit. Dendritic spines can be readily identified by confocal laser-scanning fluorescence microscopy. However, measuring subtle changes in the shape and size of spines is difficult because spine dimensions other than length are usually smaller than conventional optical resolution fixed by light microscopy's theoretical resolution limit of 200 nm. Several recently developed super resolution techniques have been used to image cellular structures smaller than the 200 nm, including dendritic spines. These techniques are based on classical far-field operations and therefore allow the use of existing sample preparation methods and to image beyond the surface of a specimen. Described here is a working protocol to apply super resolution structured illumination microscopy (SIM) to the imaging of dendritic spines in primary hippocampal neuron cultures. Possible applications of SIM overlap with those of confocal microscopy. However, the two techniques present different applicability. SIM offers higher effective lateral resolution, while confocal microscopy, due to the usage of a physical pinhole, achieves resolution improvement at the expense of removal of out of focus light. In this protocol, primary neurons are cultured on glass coverslips using a standard protocol, transfected with DNA plasmids encoding fluorescent proteins and imaged using SIM. The whole protocol described herein takes approximately 2 weeks, because dendritic spines are imaged after 16-17 days in vitro, when dendritic development is optimal. After completion of the protocol, dendritic spines can be reconstructed in 3D from series of SIM image stacks using specialized software.






















The aim of the study was to investigate the sensitivity of the visual mismatch negativity (vMMN) component of event-related potentials (ERPs) to the perceptual experience of brightness changes. The percept could be based on either real contrast or illusory brightness changes. In the illusory condition, we used Craik-Cornsweet-OBrien (CCOB) stimuli. CCOB stimuli comprised of grey, equiluminant areas and Cornsweet-edges that separated the areas. These specific edges, containing opposing darkening and ligthening gradients, modify the perceived brigthness of the flanking areas. Areas next to the darkening part (of the edges) perceived darker while areas next to the lightening part perceived lighter. Reversing the gradients induces illusory brigthness changes. The normal and reversed stimuli were delivered according to a passive oddball paradigm. In another condition (REAL condition), we used stimuli with real contrast difference. The perceived brightness of the stimuli applied in this sequence was fitted to the normal and reversed CCOB stimuli. In a third condition (CONTROL condition), we tested the ERP effect of the reversing of Cornsweet-edge. In this condition, the changes did not induce illusory brightness changes. We obtained vMMN with double peaks to both real and illusory brigthness changes, furthermore, no vMMN emerged in the CONTROL condition. vMMNs fell in the same latency range in the two conditions, nevertheless the components slightly differed in terms of scalp distribution. Since the perceptual experience (i.e. brightness changes) was similar in the two conditions, we argue that the vMMN is primarily sensitive to the perceptual experience and the physical attributes of the stimulation has only a moderate effect in the elicitation of the vMMN.





The Cre/LoxP system is a well-established approach to spatially and temporally control genetic inactivation. The calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II alpha subunit (CaMKII) promoter limits expression to specific regions of the forebrain and thus has been utilized for the brain-specific inactivation of the genes. Here, we show that CaMKII-Cre can be utilized for simultaneous inactivation of genes in the adult brain and in male germ cells. Double transgenic Rosa26(+/stop-lacZ)::CaMKII-Cre(+/Cre) mice generated by crossing CaMKII-Cre(+/Cre) mice with floxed ROSA26 lacZ reporter (Rosa26(+/stop-lacZ)) mice exhibited lacZ expression in the brain and testis. When these mice were mated to wild-type females, about 27% of the offspring were whole body blue by X-gal staining without inheriting the Cre transgene. These results indicate that recombination can occur in the germ cells of male Rosa26(+/stop-lacZ)::CaMKII-Cre(+/Cre) mice. Similarly, when double transgenic Gnao(+/f)::CaMKII-Cre(+/Cre) mice carrying a floxed Go-alpha gene (Gnao(f/f)) were backcrossed to wild-type females, approximately 22% of the offspring carried the disrupted allele (Gnao()) without inheriting the Cre transgene. The Gnao(/) mice closely resembled conventional Go-alpha knockout mice (Gnao(-/-)) with respect to impairment of their behavior. Thus, we conclude that CaMKII-Cre mice afford recombination for both tissue- and time-controlled inactivation of floxed target genes in the brain and for their permanent disruption. This work also emphasizes that extra caution should be exercised in utilizing CaMKII-Cre mice as breeding pairs.








Decreasing luminal pH is thought to play a role in the entry of newly synthesized and endocytosed membrane proteins into secretory granules. The two catalytic domains of peptidylglycine -amidating monooxygenase (PAM), a type I integral membrane protein, catalyze the sequential reactions that convert peptidyl-Gly substrates into amidated products. We explored the hypothesis that a conserved His-rich cluster (His-Gly-His-His) in the linker region connecting its two catalytic domains senses pH and affects PAM trafficking by mutating these His residues to Ala (Ala-Gly-Ala-Ala; H3A). Purified recombinant wild-type and H3A linker peptides were examined using circular dichroism and tryptophan fluorescence; mutation of the His cluster largely eliminated its pH sensitivity. An enzymatically active PAM protein with the same mutations (PAM-1/H3A) was expressed in HEK293 cells and AtT-20 corticotrope tumor cells. Metabolic labeling followed by immunoprecipitation revealed more rapid loss of newly synthesized PAM-1/H3A than PAM-1; although release of newly synthesized monofunctional PHM/H3A was increased, release of soluble bifunctional PAM/H3A, a product of the endocytic pathway, was decreased. Surface biotinylation revealed rapid loss of PAM-1/H3A, with no detectable return of the mutant protein to secretory granules. Consistent with its altered endocytic trafficking, little PAM-1/H3A was subjected to regulated intramembrane proteolysis followed by release of a small nuclear-targeted cytosolic fragment. AtT-20 cells expressing PAM-1/H3A adopted the morphology of wild-type AtT-20 cells; secretory products no longer accumulated in the trans-Golgi network and secretory granule exocytosis was more responsive to secretagogue.










Marine invertebrates produce a plethora of bioactive compounds, which serve as inspiration for marine biotechnology, particularly in drug discovery programs and biomaterials development. This review aims to summarize the potential of drugs derived from marine invertebrates in the field of neuroscience. Therefore, some examples of neuroprotective drugs and neurotoxins will be discussed. Their role in neuroscience research and development of new therapies targeting the central nervous system will be addressed, with particular focus on neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. In addition, the neuronal growth promoted by marine drugs, as well as the recent advances in neural tissue engineering, will be highlighted.











Mild blast-induced traumatic brain injury (mbTBI) poses special diagnostic challenges due to its overlapping symptomatology with other neuropsychiatric conditions and the lack of objective outcome measures. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) can potentially provide clinically relevant information toward a differential diagnosis. In this study, we aimed to determine if single and repeated (5 total; administered on consecutive days) mild blast overpressure exposure results in detectable structural changes in the brain, especially in the hippocampus. Fixed rat brains were analyzed by ex vivo DTI at 2h and 42 days after blast (or sham) exposure(s). An anatomy-based region of interest analysis revealed significant interactions in axial and radial diffusivity in a number of subcortical structures at 2h only. Differences between single- and multiple-injured rats were largely in the thalamus but not the hippocampus. Our findings demonstrate the value and the limitations of DTI in providing a better understanding of mbTBI pathobiology.
c-Abl is activated in the brain of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-intoxicated mice where it inhibits parkin through tyrosine phosphorylation leading to the accumulation of parkin substrates, and neuronal cell death. In the present study, we evaluated the in vivo efficacy of nilotinib, a brain penetrant c-Abl inhibitor, in the acute MPTP-induced model of PD. Our results show that administration of nilotinib reduces c-Abl activation and the levels of the parkin substrate, PARIS, resulting in prevention of dopamine (DA) neuron loss and behavioral deficits following MPTP intoxication. On the other hand, we observe no reduction in the tyrosine phosphorylation of parkin and the parkin substrate, AIMP2 suggesting that the protective effect of nilotinib may, in part, be parkin-independent or to the pharmacodynamics properties of nilotinib. This study provides a strong rationale for testing other brain permeable c-Abl inhibitors as potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of PD.
To extend our understanding of the genetic basis of human immune function and dysfunction, we performed an expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) study of purified CD4(+) T cells and monocytes, representing adaptive and innate immunity, in a multi-ethnic cohort of 461 healthy individuals. Context-specific cis- and trans-eQTLs were identified, and cross-population mapping allowed, in some cases, putative functional assignment of candidate causal regulatory variants for disease-associated loci. We note an over-representation of T cell-specific eQTLs among susceptibility alleles for autoimmune diseases and of monocyte-specific eQTLs among Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease variants. This polarization implicates specific immune cell types in these diseases and points to the need to identify the cell-autonomous effects of disease susceptibility variants.



The disproportionately large number of traffic accidents of young novice drivers highlights the need for an effective driver education program. The Goals for Driving Education (GDE) matrix shows that driver education must target both lower and higher levels of driver competences. Research has indicated that current education programs do not emphasize enough the higher levels, for example awareness and insight. This has raised the importance of insight programs. On the Road (OtR), a Flemish post-license driver education program, is such an insight program that aims to target these higher levels. The program focus is on risky driving behavior like speeding and drink driving. In addition, the program addresses risk detection and risk-related knowledge. The goal of the study was to do an effect evaluation of this insight program at immediate post-test and 2 months follow-up. In addition, the study aimed to generalize the results of this program to comparable programs in order to make usable policy recommendations. A questionnaire based on the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) was used in order to measure participants' safety consciousness of speeding and drink driving. Moreover, we focused on risk detection and risk-related knowledge. Participants (N=366) were randomly assigned to a baseline-follow-up group or a post-test-follow-up group. Regarding speeding and driving, we found OtR to have little effect on the TPB variables. Regarding risk detection, we found no significant effect, even though participants clearly needed substantial improvement when stepping into the program. Regarding risk-related knowledge, the program did result in a significant improvement at post-test and follow-up. It is concluded that the current program format is a good starting point, but that it requires further attention to enhance high level driving skills. Program developers are encouraged to work in a more evidence-based manner when they select target variables and methods to influence these variables.
A practical approach was developed to assess and compare the effects of five short road safety education (RSE) programmes for young adolescents that does not rely on injury or crash data but uses self reported behaviour. Questionnaires were administered just before and about one month after participation in the RSE programmes, both to youngsters who had participated in a RSE programme, the intervention group, and to a comparable reference group of youngsters who had not, the reference group. For each RSE programme, the answers to the questionnaires in the pre- and post-test were checked for internal consistency and then condensed into a single safety score using categorical principal components analysis. Next, an analysis of covariance was performed on the obtained safety scores in order to compare the post-test scores of the intervention and reference groups, corrected for their corresponding pre-test scores. It was found that three out of five RSE programmes resulted in significantly improved self-reported safety behaviour. However, the proportions of participants that changed their behaviour relative to the reference group were small, ranging from 3% to 20%. Comparisons among programme types showed cognitive approaches not to differ in effect from programmes that used fear-appeal approaches. The method used provides a useful tool to assess and compare the effects of different education programmes on self-reported behaviour.




Senile plaques comprised of A aggregates and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) composed of hyperphosphorylated tau filaments are the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A number of amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic (Tg) mice harboring APP mutations have been generated as animal models of AD. These mice successfully display amyloid plaque formation and subsequent tau hyperphosphorylation, but seldom induce NFT formations. We have demonstrated that the APPOSK-Tg mice, which possess the E693 (Osaka) mutation in APP and thereby accumulate A oligomers without plaques, exhibit tau hyperphosphorylation at 8 months, but not NFT formation even at 24 months. We assumed that APP-Tg mice, including ours, failed to form NFTs because NFT formation requires human tau. To test this hypothesis, we crossbred APPOSK-Tg mice with tau-Tg mice (tau264), which express low levels of 3-repeat and 4-repeat wild-type human tau without any pathology. The resultant double Tg mice displayed tau hyperphosphorylation at 6 months and NFT formation at 18 months in the absence of tau mutations. Importantly, these NFTs contained both 3-repeat and 4-repeat human tau, similar to those in AD. Furthermore, the double Tg mice exhibited A oligomer accumulation, synapse loss, and memory impairment at 6 months and neuronal loss at 18 months, all of which appeared earlier than in the parent APPOSK-Tg mice. These results suggest that A and human tau synergistically interact to accelerate each other's pathology, that the presence of human tau is critical for NFT formation, and that A oligomers can induce NFTs in the absence of amyloid plaques.
The trafficking of cytotoxic CD8(+) T lymphocytes across the lining of the cerebral vasculature is key to the onset of the chronic neuro-inflammatory disorder multiple sclerosis. However, the mechanisms controlling their final transmigration across the brain endothelium remain unknown. Here, we describe that CD8(+) T lymphocyte trafficking into the brain is dependent on the activity of the brain endothelial adenosine triphosphate-binding cassette transporter P-glycoprotein. Silencing P-glycoprotein activity selectively reduced the trafficking of CD8(+) T cells across the brain endothelium in vitro as well as in vivo. In response to formation of the T cell-endothelial synapse, P-glycoprotein was found to regulate secretion of endothelial (C-C motif) ligand 2 (CCL2), a chemokine that mediates CD8(+) T cell migration in vitro. Notably, CCL2 levels were significantly enhanced in microvessels isolated from human multiple sclerosis lesions in comparison with non-neurological controls. Endothelial cell-specific elimination of CCL2 in mice subjected to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis also significantly diminished the accumulation of CD8(+) T cells compared to wild-type animals. Collectively, these results highlight a novel (patho)physiological role for P-glycoprotein in CD8(+) T cell trafficking into the central nervous system during neuro-inflammation and illustrate CCL2 secretion as a potential link in this mechanism.
The first time the retinal vessels were seen in man in vivo was reported in 1819 by Purkinje as an entoptic view. This was understood to show the shadow of the vessels, an interpretation objected to in 1834 by Brewster. Mller in 1855 (ber die entoptische wahrnehmung der netzhautgefsse, insbesondere als beweismittel fr die lichtperception durch die nach hinten gelegenen netzhautelemente, Stahel, Wrzburg) used the phenomenon to deduce the location of the photoreceptive layer of the retina, and his conclusion is accepted as true today. Because the phenomenon has some characteristics of an afterimage, it touches on the question of what is subjective and what is objective physical reality. It was recently used clinically to measure potential visual acuity and in the diagnoses of diabetic retinopathy and macular degeneration.








Many recent studies have examined the association between number acuity, which is the ability to rapidly and non-symbolically estimate the quantity of items appearing in a scene, and symbolic math performance. However, various contradictory results have been reported. To comprehensively evaluate the association between number acuity and symbolic math performance, we conduct a meta-analysis to synthesize the results observed in previous studies. First, a meta-analysis of cross-sectional studies (36 samples, N = 4705) revealed a significant positive correlation between these skills (r = 0.20, 95% CI = [0.14, 0.26]); the association remained after considering other potential moderators (e.g., whether general cognitive abilities were controlled). Moreover, a meta-analysis of longitudinal studies revealed 1) that number acuity may prospectively predict later math performance (r = 0.24, 95% CI = [0.11, 0.37]; 6 samples) and 2) that number acuity is retrospectively correlated to early math performance as well (r = 0.17, 95% CI = [0.07, 0.26]; 5 samples). In summary, these pieces of evidence demonstrate a moderate but statistically significant association between number acuity and math performance. Based on the estimated effect sizes, power analyses were conducted, which suggested that many previous studies were underpowered due to small sample sizes. This may account for the disparity between findings in the literature, at least in part. Finally, the theoretical and practical implications of our meta-analytic findings are presented, and future research questions are discussed.
Previous studies have shown that using a tool modifies in a short time-scale both near-body space perception and arm-length representation in the body schema. However, to date no research has specifically investigated the effect of tool-use on an action-related perceptual task. We report here a study assessing the effect of tool-use on the perception of reachable space for perceptual estimates made in reference to either the tool or the hand. Using the tool on distal objects resulted in an extension of perceived reachable space with the tool and reduced the variability of reachability estimates. Tool use also extended perceived reachable space with the hand, but with a concomitant increase of the variability of reachability estimates. These findings suggest that tool incorporation into the represented arm following tool-use improves the anticipation of action possibilities with the tool, while hand representation becomes less accurate.

To understand the molecular and neural mechanisms underlying alcohol addiction, many models ranging from vertebrates to invertebrates have been developed. In Drosophila melanogaster, behavioral paradigms from assaying acute responses to alcohol and to behaviors more closely modeling addiction have emerged in recent years. However, both the CAF assay, similar to a two-bottle choice consumption assay, as well as conditioned odor preference, where ethanol is used as the reinforcer, are labor intensive and have low throughput. To address this limitation, we have established a novel ethanol consumption preference assay, called FRAPP, which allows for fast, high throughput measurement of consumption in individual flies, using a fluorescence plate reader. We show that nave flies do not prefer to consume ethanol, but various pre-exposures, such as ethanol vapor or voluntary ethanol consumption, induce ethanol preference. This ethanol-primed preference is long lasting and is not driven by calories contained in ethanol during the consumption choice. Our novel experience-dependent model of ethanol preference in Drosophila-a highly genetically tractable organism-therefore recapitulates salient features of human alcohol abuse and will facilitate the molecular understanding of the development of alcohol preference.
In rats, reexposure to heroin-paired contexts after extinction of lever responding in a different context reinstates heroin seeking. Previous reports indicate that ventral hippocampus/Ca1 region plays a critical role in cocaine-, cue- and context-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Here, we examined whether ventral subiculum, the output region of ventral hippocampus, is involved in context-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. We found that reversible inactivation of ventral subiculum, but not posterior Ca1, with the gamma-aminobutyric acid agonists muscimol+baclofen decreased context-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. Our findings, together with previous studies on cocaine seeking, indicate a critical role of ventral subiculum in context-induced relapse across drug classes.
There has been little investigation of genetic factors and associated mechanisms that influence risk for development of methamphetamine (MA) dependence. Selectively bred mouse lines that exhibit high (MAHDR) or low (MALDR) levels of MA intake in a two-bottle choice MA drinking (MADR) procedure provide a genetic tool for this purpose. These lines were used to determine whether opioid sensitivity and MA intake are genetically associated, because opioid-mediated pathways influence some effects of MA. Sensitivity to the analgesic effects of the -opioid receptor (MOP-r) agonist fentanyl (0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.4mg/kg) was examined using two acute thermal tests (hot plate and tail flick) and one chronic pain test (magnesium sulfate abdominal constriction). Locomotor stimulant responses to fentanyl (0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.4mg/kg) and morphine (10, 20, 30mg/kg) were also examined. In addition, MADR was measured in the progenitor strains [(C57BL/6J (B6), DBA/2J (D2)] of the F2 population from which the selected lines were generated. The MADR lines did not differ in sensitivity to the analgesic effects of fentanyl; however, MALDR mice exhibited greater locomotor activation than MAHDR mice to both fentanyl and morphine. D2 mice consumed more MA than B6 mice. The line differences for MA consumption and morphine activation recapitulated B6 and D2 strain differences for these two traits, but not strain differences previously found for opioid analgesic responses. These results support a negative genetic correlation between MA consumption and sensitivity to the stimulant effects of opioids and suggest the involvement of MOP-r regulated systems in MA intake.











Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats have been selectively bred for high alcohol preference and consumption using the standard 2-bottle &quot;alcohol (10%, v/v) vs. water&quot; choice regimen with unlimited access; under this regimen, sP rats daily consume 6-7g/kg alcohol. The present study assessed a new paradigm of alcohol intake in which sP rats were exposed to the 4-bottle &quot;alcohol (10%, 20%, and 30%, v/v) vs. water&quot; choice regimen during one of the 12h of the dark phase of the daily light/dark cycle; the time of alcohol exposure was changed daily in a semi-random order and was unpredictable to rats. Alcohol intake was highly positively correlated with the time of the drinking session and averaged approximately 2g/kg when the drinking session occurred during the 12th hour of the dark phase. Alcohol drinking during the 12th hour of the dark phase resulted in (a) blood alcohol levels averaging approximately 100mg% and (b) severe signs of alcohol intoxication (e.g., impaired performance at a Rota-Rod task). The results of a series of additional experiments indicate that (a) both singular aspects of this paradigm (i.e., unpredictability of alcohol exposure and concurrent availability of multiple alcohol concentrations) contributed to this high alcohol intake, (b) alcohol intake followed a circadian rhythm, as it decreased progressively over the first 3h of the light phase and then maintained constant levels until the beginning of the dark phase, and (c) sensitivity to time schedule was specific to alcohol, as it did not generalize to a highly palatable chocolate-flavored beverage. These results demonstrate that unpredictable, limited access to multiple alcohol concentrations may result in exceptionally high intakes of alcohol in sP rats, modeling - to some extent - human binge drinking. A progressively increasing emotional &quot;distress&quot; associated to rats' expectation of alcohol might be the neurobehavioral basis of this drinking behavior.




Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a recognized international public health crisis. There is an urgent need for public and private funding agencies around the world to coordinate funding strategies and leverage existing resources to enhance and expand support of AD research. To capture and compare their existing investments in AD research and research-related resources, major funding organizations are starting to utilize the Common Alzheimer's Disease Research Ontology (CADRO) to categorize their funding information. This information is captured in the International Alzheimer's Disease Research Portfolio (IADRP) for further analysis. As of January, 2014, over fifteen organizations from the US, Canada, Europe and Australia have contributed their information. The goal of the IADRP project is to enable funding organizations to assess the changing landscape of AD research and coordinate strategies, leverage resources, and avoid duplication of effort.

The development of validated, qualified, and standardized biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) that allow for an early presymptomatic diagnosis and discrimination (classification) from other types of dementia and neurodegenerative diseases is warranted to accelerate the successful development of novel disease-modifying therapies. Here, we focus on the value of the 42-residue-long amyloid  isoform (A1-42) peptide in the cerebrospinal fluid as the core, feasible neurobiochemical marker for the amyloidogenic mechanisms in early-onset familial and late-onset sporadic AD. We discuss the role and use of A1-42 in combination with evolving neuroimaging biomarkers in AD detection and diagnosis. Multimodal neuroimaging techniques, directly providing structural-functional-metabolic aspects of brain pathophysiology, are supportive to predict and monitor the progression of the disease. Advances in multimodal neuroimaging provide new insights into brain organization and enable the detection of specific proteins and/or protein aggregates associated with AD. The combination of biomarkers from different methodologies is believed to be of incrementally added risk-value to accurately identify asymptomatic and prodromal individuals who will likely progress to dementia and represent rational biomarker candidates for preventive and symptomatic pharmacological intervention trials.




Background: Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) 4 genotype is the most clearly documented risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Epidemiological studies demonstrate an accelerated rate of progression to dementia and AD in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We assessed the ApoE allele and genotypes frequencies in Cuban patients with MCI. Methods: We performed ApoE genotyping of 74 Cuban patients more than 65 years old. Cognitive assessments included the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and a cognitive battery for evaluating memory, attention, perception, and executive function. Results: Cognitive impairments were characterized by amnesia and executive deficits in patients with MCI. The Apo 4 allele frequency was 0.196 in patients with MCI, 10-fold higher than that in the controls. Patients carrying the 4 allele exhibited poorer performance in MMSE and tests assessing executive function and short-term memory than noncarriers. Conclusions: The patients exhibited amnestic MCI multiple domains. Cognitive performance was worse in patients who carried the ApoE 4 allele.



In a subset of inherited retinal degenerations (including cone, cone-rod, and macular dystrophies), cone photoreceptors are more severely affected than rods; ABCA4 mutations are the most common cause of this heterogeneous class of disorders. To identify retinal-disease-associated genes, we performed exome sequencing in 28 individuals with &quot;cone-first&quot; retinal disease and clinical features atypical for ABCA4 retinopathy. We then conducted a gene-based case-control association study with an internal exome data set as the control group. TTLL5, encoding a tubulin glutamylase, was highlighted as the most likely disease-associated gene; 2 of 28 affected subjects harbored presumedloss-of-function variants: c.[1586_1589delAGAG];[1586_1589delAGAG], p.[Glu529Valfs()2];[Glu529Valfs()2], and c.[401delT(;)3354G&gt;A], p.[Leu134Argfs()45(;)Trp1118()]. We then inspected previously collected exome sequence data from individuals with related phenotypes and found two siblings with homozygous nonsense variant c.1627G&gt;T (p.Glu543()) in TTLL5. Subsequently, we tested a panel of 55 probands with retinal dystrophy for TTLL5 mutations; one proband had a homozygous missense change (c.1627G&gt;A [p.Glu543Lys]). The retinal phenotype was highly similar in three of four families; the sibling pair had a more severe, early-onset disease. In human and murine retinae, TTLL5 localized to the centrioles at the base of the connecting cilium. TTLL5 has been previously reported to be essential for the correct function of sperm flagella in mice and play a role in polyglutamylation of primary cilia invitro. Notably, genes involved in the polyglutamylation and deglutamylation of tubulin have been associated with photoreceptor degeneration in mice. The electrophysiological and fundus autofluorescence imaging presented here should facilitate the molecular diagnosis in further families.
Rare copy-number variation (CNV) is an important source of risk for autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). We analyzed 2,446 ASD-affected families and confirmed an excess of genic deletions and duplications in affected versus control groups (1.41-fold, p = 1.0 10(-5)) and an increase in affected subjects carrying exonic pathogenic CNVs overlapping known loci associated with dominant or X-linked ASD and intellectual disability (odds ratio = 12.62, p = 2.7 10(-15), 3% of ASD subjects). Pathogenic CNVs, often showing variable expressivity, included rare de novo and inherited events at 36 loci, implicating ASD-associated genes (CHD2, HDAC4, and GDI1) previously linked to other neurodevelopmental disorders, as well as other genes such as SETD5, MIR137, and HDAC9. Consistent with hypothesized gender-specific modulators, females with ASD were more likely to have highly penetrant CNVs (p = 0.017) and were also overrepresented among subjects with fragile X syndrome protein targets (p = 0.02). Genes affected by de novo CNVs and/or loss-of-function single-nucleotide variants converged on networks related to neuronal signaling and development, synapse function, and chromatin regulation.
Gordon syndrome (GS), or distal arthrogryposis type 3, is a rare, autosomal-dominant disorder characterized by cleft palate and congenital contractures of the hands and feet. Exome sequencing of five GS-affected families identified mutations in piezo-type mechanosensitive ion channel component 2 (PIEZO2) in each family. Sanger sequencing revealed PIEZO2 mutations in five of seven additional families studied (for a total of 10/12 [83%] individuals), and nine families had an identical c.8057G&gt;A (p.Arg2686His) mutation. The phenotype of GS overlaps with distal arthrogryposis type 5 (DA5) and Marden-Walker syndrome (MWS). Using molecular inversion probes for targeted sequencing to screen PIEZO2, we found mutations in 24/29 (82%) DA5-affected families and one of two MWS-affected families. The presence of cleft palate was significantly associated with c.8057G&gt;A (Fisher's exact test, adjusted p value &lt; 0.0001). Collectively, although GS, DA5, and MWS have traditionally been considered separate disorders, our findings indicate that they are etiologically related and perhaps represent variable expressivity of the same condition.
Recently, we identified in two individuals with intellectual disability (ID) different de novo mutations in DEAF1, which encodes a transcription factor with an important role in embryonic development. To ascertain whether these mutations in DEAF1 are causative for the ID phenotype, we performed targeted resequencing of DEAF1 in an additional cohort of over 2,300 individuals with unexplained ID and identified two additional individuals with de novo mutations in this gene. All four individuals had severe ID with severely affected speech development, and three showed severe behavioral problems. DEAF1 is highly expressed in the CNS, especially during early embryonic development. All four mutations were missense mutations affecting the SAND domain of DEAF1. Altered DEAF1 harboring any of the four amino acid changes showed impaired transcriptional regulation of the DEAF1 promoter. Moreover, behavioral studies in mice with a conditional knockout of Deaf1 in the brain showed memory deficits and increased anxiety-like behavior. Our results demonstrate that mutations in DEAF1 cause ID and behavioral problems, most likely as a result of impaired transcriptional regulation by DEAF1.
Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome comprises congenital vascular malformations of the capillary (nevus flammeus), venous (varicosities) or lymphatic systems and disturbed (usually over-) growth of one or more extremities and adjacent parts of the trunk. In some individuals the affected body area may show reduced rather than increased growth. Such patients have been described inverse Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome and included within the spectrum of the syndrome. We report on a 3-year-old boy with vascular malformation of the nevus flammeus type extending from the right buttock to the sole of the right foot with clinical and radiological evidence of leg varicosities and underlying deficiency of the soft tissues and bone. In addition, he had macrodactyly of the first, second, and third toes with small nails, and cutaneous syndactyly of the second and third toes of the ipsilateral foot. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging showed high signal lesions in the peritrigonal areas with normal spinal images. This mosaic phenotype demonstrates that decreased and increased growth can coexist in the same body area of an individual with Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome.


Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma (HLRCC) syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder in which germline mutations of fumarate hydratase (FH) gene confer an increased risk of cutaneous and uterine leiomyomas and renal cancer. HLRCC-associated renal cancer is highly aggressive and frequently presents as a solitary mass. We reviewed the clinicopathologic features of 9 patients with renal tumors presenting as sporadic cases but who were later proven to have FH germline mutations. Histologically, all tumors showed mixed architectural patterns, with papillary as the dominant pattern in only 3 cases. Besides papillary, tubular, tubulopapillary, solid, and cystic elements, 6 of 9 tumors contained collecting duct carcinoma-like areas with infiltrating tubules, nests, or individual cells surrounded by desmoplastic stroma. Prominent tubulocystic carcinoma-like component and sarcomatoid differentiation were identified. Although all tumors exhibited the proposed hallmark of HLRCC (large eosinophilic nucleolus surrounded by a clear halo), this feature was often not uniformly present throughout the tumor. Prior studies have shown that a high level of fumarate accumulated in HLRCC tumor cells causes aberrant succination of cellular proteins by forming a stable chemical modification, S-(2-succino)-cysteine (2SC), which can be detected by immunohistochemistry. We thus explored the utility of detecting 2SC by immunohistochemistry in the differential diagnosis of HLRCC tumors and other high-grade renal tumors and investigated the correlation between 2SC staining and FH molecular alterations. All confirmed HLRCC tumors demonstrated diffuse and strong nuclear and cytoplasmic 2SC staining, whereas all clear cell (184/184, 100%), most high-grade unclassified (93/97, 96%), and the large majority of &quot;type 2&quot; papillary (35/45, 78%) renal cell carcinoma cases showed no 2SC immunoreactivity. A subset of papillary (22%) and rare unclassified (4%) tumors showed patchy or diffuse cytoplasmic staining without nuclear labeling, unlike the pattern seen with confirmed HLRCC tumors. Sequencing revealed no germline or somatic FH alterations in 14 tumors that either exhibited only cytoplasmic 2SC staining (n=5) or were negative for 2SC (n=9), despite their HLRCC-like morphologic features. Our results emphasize the pivotal role of pathologic examination in the diagnosis of HLRCC patients and indicate immunohistochemical detection of 2SC as a useful ancillary tool in the differentiation of HLRCC renal tumors from other high-grade renal cell carcinomas.
Aripiprazole, due to its partial agonist activity at the D2 receptors, is often recommended as the drug of choice in patients who develop antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia. We report a case of a female patient who developed hyperprolactinemia while on treatment with aripiprazole. This partial D2 agonistic activity of aripiprazole could be dose related, and hence, at higher doses, aripiprazole by itself can have dopamine antagonistic properties and hence cause prolactin system abnormalities.
Near-peer teaching involves more experienced students acting as tutors and has been widely used in anatomy education. This approach has many advantages for the learner due to the social and cognitive congruence they share with the teacher, however, the influence of distance between the teacher and learner on these congruences has yet to be explored. The aim of this study was to compare the attitudes and perceptions of the student learner towards neuroanatomy review sessions taught by either a senior medical student or a junior doctor. The students were randomly assigned to an allocated tutor. All tutors used standardized material and had access to identical resources. The type of allocated tutor was swapped between the two teaching sessions and 99 student feedback forms were collected in total. The rating for the overall quality of the teaching session was not significantly different between the junior doctors and senior medical students (P = 0.11). However, criteria closely relating to social and cognitive congruence such as &quot;enjoyment of the session,&quot; &quot;delivery of the teaching,&quot; and &quot;was it a good use of time&quot; were all rated significantly higher for the senior medical students (P &lt; 0.05). The results of this study suggest that small increases in distance along the near-peer teaching spectrum have an impact upon the student's perception of their learning experience. While all teachers were suitable role models it appears that junior doctors are too far removed from their own undergraduate experiences to share congruences with pre-clinical medical students.
Conscious and unconscious cognitive processes contribute independently to human behavior and can be dissociated. For example, humans report failing to see objects clearly in the periphery while simultaneously being able to grasp those objects accurately (Milner in Proc R Soc B Biol Sci 279:2289-2298, 2012). Knowing whether similar dissociations are present in nonverbal species is critical to our understanding of comparative psychology and the evolution of brains. However, such dissociations are difficult to detect in nonhumans because verbal reports of experience are the main way we discriminate putative conscious from unconscious processing. We trained monkeys in a localization task in which they responded to the location where a target appeared, and a matched detection task in which they reported the presence or absence of the same target. We used masking to manipulate the visibility of targets. Accuracy was high in both tasks when stimuli were unmasked and was attenuated by visual masking. At the strongest level of masking, performance in the detection task was at chance, while localization remained significantly above chance. Critically, errors in the detection task were predominantly misses, indicating that the monkeys' behavior remained under stimulus control, but that the monkeys did not detect the target despite above-chance localization. While these results cannot establish the existence of phenomenal vision in monkeys, the dissociation of visually guided action from detection parallels the dissociation of conscious and unconscious vision seen in humans.
Predation can exert strong selective pressure on the evolution of behavioral and morphological traits in birds. Because predator avoidance is key to survival and birds rely heavily on visual perception, predation may have shaped avian visual systems as well. To address this question, we examined the role of visual attention in antipredator behavior in peacocks (Pavo cristatus). Peacocks were exposed to a model predator while their gaze was continuously recorded with a telemetric eye-tracker. We found that peacocks spent more time looking at and made more fixations on the predator compared to the same spatial location before the predator was revealed. The duration of fixations they directed toward conspecifics and environmental features decreased after the predator was revealed, indicating that the peacocks were rapidly scanning their environment with their eyes. Maximum eye movement amplitudes and amplitudes of consecutive saccades were similar before and after the predator was revealed. In cases where conspecifics detected the predator first, peacocks appeared to learn that danger was present by observing conspecifics' antipredator behavior. Peacocks were faster to detect the predator when they were fixating closer to the area where the predator would eventually appear. In addition, pupil size increased after predator exposure, consistent with increased physiological arousal. These findings demonstrate that peacocks selectively direct their attention toward predatory threats and suggest that predation has influenced the evolution of visual orienting systems.
We investigated the precision of the approximate number system (ANS) in three lemur species (Lemur catta, Eulemur mongoz, and Eulemur macaco flavifrons), one Old World monkey species (Macaca mulatta) and humans (Homo sapiens). In Experiment 1, four individuals of each nonhuman primate species were trained to select the numerically larger of two visual arrays on a touchscreen. We estimated numerical acuity by modeling Weber fractions (w) and found quantitatively equivalent performance among all four nonhuman primate species. In Experiment 2, we tested adult humans in a similar procedure, and they outperformed the four nonhuman species but showed qualitatively similar performance. These results indicate that the ANS is conserved over the primate order.

The current ubiquity of functional neuroimaging studies, and the importance they have had in elucidating brain function, obscures the fact that much of what we know about brain-behavior relationships derives largely from the study of single- and multiple-patient cases. A major goal of the present review is to describe how single cases continue to uniquely and critically contribute to cognitive neuroscience theory. With several recent examples from the literature, we demonstrate that single cases can both challenge accepted dogma and generate hypotheses and theories that steer the field in new directions. We discuss recent findings from case studies that specify critical functions of the hippocampus in episodic memory and recollection, and clarify its role in nonmnemonic abilities. Although we focus on the hippocampus, we discuss other regions and the occurrence of new associative learning, as well as the involvement of the ventromedial prefrontal and parietal cortices in memory encoding and retrieval. We also describe ways of dealing with the shortcomings of case studies, and emphasize the partnership of patient and neuroimaging methods in constraining neurocognitive models of memory.
Vitamin D seems to be implicated in the pathophysiology of autoimmune disorders as a natural immune modulator. Beneficial effects of vitamin D have been associated with different cells of the immune system; however, thus far, Bcells seem to be somewhat neglected. In this paper, we describe the possible direct effects of vitamin D on Bcells, with a focus on antibody production and the more recently identified regulatory B (Breg ) cells. Bcells upregulate the vitamin D receptor (VDR) upon activation. Furthermore, due to regulated expression of the metabolizing enzymes CYP27B1 and CYP24A1, Bcells have the potential to control the local availability of active vitamin D. Bcells, therefore, may participate in vitamin D-mediated immune homeostasis, including plasma cell generation. Whether or not other Bcell subsets, such as Breg cells, are equally responsive to vitamin D remains to be established.
Diverse mutations in the gene encoding the copper transporter ATP7A lead to X-linked recessive Menkes disease or occipital horn syndrome. Recently, two unique ATP7A missense mutations, T994I and P1386S, were shown to cause isolated adult-onset distal motor neuropathy. These mutations induce subtle defects in ATP7A intracellular trafficking resulting in preferential accumulation at the plasma membrane compared to wild-type ATP7A. Immunoprecipitation assays revealed abnormal interaction between ATP7A(T994I) and p97/VCP, a protein mutated in two autosomal dominant forms of motor neuron disease. Small-interfering RNA knockdown of valosin-containing protein corrected ATP7A(T994I) mislocalization. For ATP7A(P1386S) , flow cytometry documented that nonpermeabilized fibroblasts bound a C-terminal ATP7A antibody, suggesting unstable insertion of the eighth transmembrane segment due to a helix-breaker effect of the amino acid substitution. This could sabotage interaction of ATP7A(P1386S) with adaptor protein complexes. These molecular events appear to selectively disturb normal motor neuron function and lead to neurologic illness that takes years and sometimes decades to develop.
MEDNIK (mental retardation, enteropathy, deafness, neuropathy, ichthyosis, and keratodermia) syndrome has been recently described as a new disorder of copper metabolism. This multisystem disease combines clinical and biochemical signs of both Menkes and Wilson's diseases, in which liver copper overload is treatable using zinc acetate therapy. MEDNIK syndrome is caused by mutation of the AP1S1 gene, which codes for the 1A subunit of adaptor protein complex 1, and directs intracellular trafficking of copper pumps ATP7A and ATP7B. Adaptor protein complexes regulate clathrin-coated vesicle assembly, protein cargo sorting, and vesicular trafficking between organelles in eukaryotic cells. A growing number of diseases have been associated with mutations in genes coding for adaptor protein complexes subunits and we propose for them the term adaptinopathies, as a new organic category of disorders of intracellular trafficking, which offers the opportunity to dissect the mechanisms involved in the crosstalk between the Golgi apparatus and the other organelles.
In more than 40 years since copper deficiency was delineated in pediatric subjects with Menkes disease, remarkable advances in our understanding of the clinical, biochemical, and molecular aspects of the human copper transporter ATP7A have emerged. Mutations in the gene encoding this multitasking molecule are now implicated in at least two other distinctive phenotypes: occipital horn syndrome and ATP7A-related isolated distal motor neuropathy. Several other novel inherited disorders of copper metabolism have been identified in the past several years, aided by advances in human gene mapping and automated DNA sequencing. In this paper, I review the history and evolution of our understanding of disorders caused by impaired ATP7A function, and outline future challenges.
The human attention system helps us cope with a complex environment by supporting the selective processing of information relevant to our current goals. Understanding the perceptual, cognitive, and neural mechanisms that mediate selective attention is a core issue in cognitive neuroscience. One prominent model of selective attention, known as load theory, offers an account of how task demands determine when information is selected and an account of the efficiency of the selection process. However, load theory has several critical weaknesses that suggest that it is time for a new perspective. Here we review the strengths and weaknesses of load theory and offer an alternative biologically plausible computational account that is based on the neural theory of visual attention. We argue that this new perspective provides a detailed computational account of how bottom-up and top-down information is integrated to provide efficient attentional selection and allocation of perceptual processing resources.
Copper (Cu) is an essential element with many biological roles, but its roles in the mammalian nervous system are poorly understood. Mice deficient in the cuproenzyme peptidylglycine -amidating monooxygenase (Pam(+/-) mice) were initially generated to study neuropeptide amidation. Pam(+/-) mice exhibit profound deficits in a few behavioral tasks, including enhancements in innate fear along with deficits in acquired fear. Interestingly, several Pam(+/-) phenotypes were recapitulated in Cu-restricted wild-type mice and rescued in Cu-supplemented Pam(+/-) mice. These behaviors correspond to enhanced excitability and deficient synaptic plasticity in the amygdala of Pam(+/-) mice, which are also rescued by Cu supplementation. Cu and ATP7A are present at synapses, in key positions to respond to and influence synaptic activity. Further study demonstrated that extracellular Cu is necessary for wild-type synaptic plasticity and sufficient to induce long-term potentiation. These experiments support roles for PAM in Cu homeostasis and for synaptic Cu in amygdalar function.
Though only a decade has elapsed since the default network (DN) was first defined as a large-scale brain system, recent years have brought great insight into the network's adaptive functions. A growing theme highlights the DN as playing a key role in internally directed or self-generated thought. Here, we synthesize recent findings from cognitive science, neuroscience, and clinical psychology to focus attention on two emerging topics as current and future directions surrounding the DN. First, we present evidence that self-generated thought is a multifaceted construct whose component processes are supported by different subsystems within the network. Second, we highlight the dynamic nature of the DN, emphasizing its interaction with executive control systems when regulating aspects of internal thought. We conclude by discussing clinical implications of disruptions to the integrity of the network, and consider disorders when thought content becomes polarized or network interactions become disrupted or imbalanced.
Friendship pervades the human social landscape. These bonds are so important that disrupting them leads to health problems, and difficulties forming or maintaining friendships attend neuropsychiatric disorders like autism and depression. Other animals also have friends, suggesting that friendship is not solely a human invention but is instead an evolved trait. A neuroethological approach applies behavioral, neurobiological, and molecular techniques to explain friendship with reference to its underlying mechanisms, development, evolutionary origins, and biological function. Recent studies implicate a shared suite of neural circuits and neuromodulatory pathways in the formation, maintenance, and manipulation of friendships across humans and other animals. Health consequences and reproductive advantages in mammals additionally suggest that friendship has adaptive benefits. We argue that understanding the neuroethology of friendship in humans and other animals brings us closer to knowing fully what it means to be human.

The present work reports the effects of caspofungin, a -1,3-glucan synthase inhibitor, and nikkomycin Z, an inhibitor of chitin synthases, on two strains of Alternaria infectoria, a melanized fungus involved in opportunistic human infections and respiratory allergies. One of the strains tested, IMF006, bore phenotypic traits that conferred advantages in resisting antifungal treatment. First, the resting cell wall chitin content was higher and in response to caspofungin, the chitin level remained constant. In the other strain, IMF001, the chitin content increased upon caspofungin treatment to values similar to basal IMF006 levels. Moreover, upon caspofungin treatment, the FKS1 gene was upregulated in IMF006 and downregulated in IMF001. In addition, the resting -glucan content was also different in both strains, with higher levels in IMF001 than in IMF006. However, this did not provide any advantage with respect to echinocandin resistance. We identified eight different chitin synthase genes and studied relative gene expression when the fungus was exposed to the antifungals under study. In both strains, exposure to caspofungin and nikkomycin Z led to modulation of the expression of class V and VII chitin synthase genes, suggesting its importance in the robustness of A. infectoria. The pattern of A. infectoria phagocytosis and activation of murine macrophages by spores was not affected by caspofungin. Monotherapy with nikkomycin Z and caspofungin provided only fungistatic inhibition, while a combination of both led to fungal cell lysis, revealing a strong synergistic action between the chitin synthase inhibitor and the -glucan synthase inhibitor against this fungus.

The purpose of this study was to understand the cognitive processes underlying nurses' decision to interrupt other nurses. The Institute of Medicine (2000) reported that interruptions are likely contributors to medical errors. Unfortunately, the research to date has been quite homogenous, focusing only on the healthcare provider being interrupted, ignoring the true complexities of interruptions. This study took a socio-technical approach being the first to examine interruptions from the viewpoint of the interrupting nurse. Over 15h of observations and 10 open-ended interviews with expert nurses in a Neuroscience Surgical Intensive Care Unit were conducted. It was found that nurses conduct a quick cost-benefit assessment to determine the interruptibility of other nurses and whether an interruption is value-added vs. non-value added. To complete the assessment, nurses consider several conditional factors related to the interruptee, the interrupter, and the nature of the interruption content, and different potential consequences of the interruption.
Career visual searchers such as radiologists and airport security screeners strive to conduct accurate visual searches, but despite extensive training, errors still occur. A key difference between searches in radiology and airport security is the structure of the search task: Radiologists typically scan a certain number of medical images (fixed objective), and airport security screeners typically search X-rays for a specified time period (fixed duration). Might these structural differences affect accuracy? We compared performance on a search task administered either under constraints that approximated radiology or airport security. Some displays contained more than one target because the presence of multiple targets is an established source of errors for career searchers, and accuracy for additional targets tends to be especially sensitive to contextual conditions. Results indicate that participants searching within the fixed objective framework produced more multiple-target search errors; thus, adopting a fixed duration framework could improve accuracy for career searchers.
Inhibition, the ability to suppress inappropriate cognitions or behaviors, can be measured using computer tasks and questionnaires. Inhibition depends on the frontal cortex, but the role of the underlying white matter (WM) is unclear. We assessed the specific impact of frontal WM damage on inhibition in 29 children with moderate-to-severe traumatic brain injury (15 with and 14 without frontal WM damage), 21 children with orthopedic injury, and 29 population controls. We used the Stop Signal Task to measure response inhibition, the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function to assess everyday inhibition, and T2 fluid-attenuated inversion recovery magnetic resonance imaging to identify lesions. Children with frontal WM damage had impaired response inhibition compared with all other groups and poorer everyday inhibition than the orthopedic injury group. Frontal WM lesions most often affected the superior frontal gyrus. These results provide evidence for the critical role of frontal WM in inhibition.
The aim of this study was to analyze the long-term effect of the two health-promoting and disease-preventive interventions, preventive home visits and senior meetings, with respect to morbidity, symptoms, self-rated health and satisfaction with health. The study was a three-armed randomized, single-blind, and controlled trial, with follow-ups at one and two years after interventions. A total of 459 persons aged 80 years or older and still living at home were included in the study. Participants were independent in ADL and without overt cognitive impairment. An intention-to-treat analysis was performed. The result shows that both interventions delayed a progression in morbidity, i.e. an increase in CIRS-G score (OR=0.44 for the PHV and OR=0.61 for senior meetings at one year and OR=0.60 for the PHV and OR=0.52 for the senior meetings at two years) and maintained satisfaction with health (OR=0.49 for PHV and OR=0.57 for senior meetings at one year and OR=0.43 for the PHV and OR=0.28 for senior meetings after two years) for up to two years. The intervention senior meetings prevented a decline in self-rated health for up to one year (OR=0.55). However, no significant differences were seen in postponing progression of symptoms in any of the interventions. This study shows that it is possible to postpone a decline in health outcomes measured as morbidity, self-rated health and satisfaction with health in very old persons at risk of frailty. Success factors might be the multi-dimensional and the multi-professional approach in both interventions. Trial registration: NCT0087705.
An active life style can postpone the aging process, prevent many aspects of functional decline and improve health and quality of life. The aim of this study was to compare elderly people who walked at least 30 min a day with others who walked less, from a gender perspective, regarding perceived health and fitness, physiological capacity and functional performance. A representative sample of 75-year-olds born 1932-33 and living in Tehran, in 2007-2008 was included by randomly selecting 1100 subjects from the latest Iranian census records (1996) by the Statistical Centre of Iran using computerized methods. Participants answered questions regarding health status and physical activity and performed functional tests. Better results for Walkers were observed in most subjective and objective outcome measures. Walkers were less likely to feel generally tired, more likely to have better physical fitness and to have the maximum score on the Falls Efficacy Scale, less likely to feel unstable during walking outdoors and less likely to be dependent or unsafe in ADL. Walkers of both genders performed better in the following tests: chair stand, one leg stance, maximal walking speed and six min walking. The difference between Walkers and Non-Walkers was greater in men. In general, older women and men who walked at least 30 min daily/almost daily showed better results in most health-related outcomes, ADL and functional performance than people who walked less. This study showed gender differences in the level of physical activity and functioning that must be taken into account when planning intervention programs.


The content of aromatic hydrocarbons in solvent mixtures, such as white spirits (WS), has been assumed a major contributor to the neurotoxic effects of these compounds. Hence, dearomatized WS have been introduced to the market rapidly in the last decade. Studies investigating other aromatic hydrocarbons (toluene) and animal models have supported the aforementioned assumption, but the current study is the first one to compare acute neurobehavioral effects of exposure to aromatic and dearomatized WS (aWS, daWS) content in human volunteers at current occupational exposure limit values. In a pseudo-randomized crossover design, six female and six male healthy volunteers were exposed to aWS and daWS at two concentrations (100 and 300mg/m(3)) and to clean air for 4h at rest. During each of the five exposure conditions, volunteers performed five neurobehavioral tasks that were selected following a multidisciplinary approach that accounted for findings from the cognitive neurosciences and mechanisms of solvent toxicity. Two of the tasks indicated performance changes during aromatic WS exposure, the working memory (WM) and the response shifting task, but both effects are difficult to interpret due to low mean accuracy in the WM task and due to a lack of dose-response relationship in the response shifting task. Healthy human volunteers showed weak and inconsistent neurobehavioral impairment after 4-h exposures to 100 and 300mg/m(3) aromatic or dearomatized WS. Our multidisciplinary approach of selecting neurobehavioral test methods may guide the test selection strategies in future studies.

Heliothine moths perceive acoustic information via two auditory sensory neurons only. Previous cobalt staining experiments have described the projection pattern of the two auditory neurons, called the A1 and the A2 cell, plus one additional neuron, the so-called B cell, up to the prothorax. We have obtained new and improved data about the projection pattern of the three sensory afferents by means of fluorescent staining experiments combined with scanning confocal microscopy. The present data show the fine structure of each sensory axon that arises from the moth ear and its ascending pathway relative to that of the others. In accordance with the previous data, the A2 auditory cell was found to extend projections in the pterothorax only. A novel finding is that terminal branches of the A2 cell cross the midline. The staining pattern of the two remaining neurons, the A1 and B cell, which project tightly together in the thoracic ganglia, differ somewhat from that previously described. As demonstrated here, one of these two neurons, the A1 cell, terminates in the prothoracic ganglion whereas the other, the B cell, projects further on via the cervical connectives to the subesophageal ganglion. The current data, therefore, indicate that none of the auditory afferents in the heliothine moth projects to the brain.


Following a peripheral nerve injury, a sterile inflammation develops in sympathetic and dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) with axons that project in the damaged nerve trunk. Macrophages and T-lymphocytes invade these ganglia where they are believed to release cytokines that lead to hyperexcitability and ectopic discharge, possibly contributing to neuropathic pain. Here, we examined the role of the sympathetic innervation in the inflammation of L5 DRGs of Wistar rats following transection of the sciatic nerve, comparing the effects of specific surgical interventions 10-14 days prior to the nerve lesion with those of chronic administration of adrenoceptor antagonists. Immunohistochemistry was used to define the invading immune cell populations 7 days after sciatic transection. Removal of sympathetic activity in the hind limb by transecting the preganglionic input to the relevant lumbar sympathetic ganglia (ipsi- or bilateral decentralization) or by ipsilateral removal of these ganglia with degeneration of postganglionic axons (denervation), caused less DRG inflammation than occurred after a sham sympathectomy. By contrast, denervation of the lymph node draining the lesion site potentiated T-cell influx. Systemic treatment with antagonists of 1-adrenoceptors (prazosin) or -adrenoceptors (propranolol) led to opposite but unexpected effects on infiltration of DRGs after sciatic transection. Prazosin potentiated the influx of macrophages and CD4(+) T-lymphocytes whereas propranolol tended to reduce immune cell invasion. These data are hard to reconcile with many in vitro studies in which catecholamines acting mainly via 2-adrenoceptors have inhibited the activation and proliferation of immune cells following an inflammatory challenge.
The sympathetic innervation of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract regulates motility, secretion and blood flow by inhibiting the activity of the enteric nervous system (ENS) and direct vasoconstrictor innervation of the gut microvasculature. In addition to these well-established roles, there is evidence that the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) can modulate GI inflammation. Postganglionic sympathetic neurons innervate lymphoid tissues and immune cells within the GI tract. Furthermore, innate and adaptive immune cells express receptors for sympathetic neurotransmitters. Activation of these receptors can affect a variety of important immune cell functions, including cytokine release and differentiation of helper T lymphocyte subsets. This review will consider the neuroanatomical evidence of GI immune cell innervation by sympathetic axons, the effects of blocking or enhancing SNS activity on GI inflammation, and the converse modulation of sympathetic neuroanatomy and function by GI inflammation.
From a critical review of the evidence on the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway and its mode of action, the following conclusions were reached. (1) Both local and systemic inflammation may be suppressed by electrical stimulation of the peripheral cut end of either vagus. (2) The spleen mediates most of the systemic inflammatory response (measured by TNF- production) to systemic endotoxin and is also the site where that response is suppressed by vagal stimulation. (3) The anti-inflammatory effect of vagal stimulation depends on the presence of noradrenaline-containing nerve terminals in the spleen. (4) There is no disynaptic connection from the vagus to the spleen via the splenic sympathetic nerve: vagal stimulation does not drive action potentials in the splenic nerve. (5) Acetylcholine-synthesizing T lymphocytes provide an essential non-neural link in the anti-inflammatory pathway from vagus to spleen. (6) Alpha-7 subunit-containing nicotinic receptors are essential for the vagal anti-inflammatory action: their critical location is uncertain, but is suggested here to be on splenic sympathetic nerve terminals. (7) The vagal anti-inflammatory pathway can be activated electrically or pharmacologically, but it is not the efferent arm of the inflammatory reflex response to endotoxemia.
Many pulmonary diseases are characterized by inflammatory pathologies which in turn are responsible for obstruction, mucus hypersecretion, dyspnea, cough and other clinical symptoms of lung disease. Understanding processes that regulate inflammation will therefore provide insights into mechanisms that contribute to pulmonary dysfunction. The airways and lungs are densely innervated by autonomic and sensory nerves which might regulate aspects of pulmonary inflammation. In this review we provide a critical appraisal of the available literature on the topic of neuro-immune interactions in the airways and ask the question 'how strong is the evidence that pulmonary nerves regulate inflammation?'
Neuronal autophagy is increased in numerous excitotoxic conditions including neonatal cerebral hypoxia-ischemia (HI). However, the role of this HI-induced autophagy remains unclear. To clarify this role we established an in vitro model of excitotoxicity combining kainate treatment (Ka, 30 M) with hypoxia (Hx, 6% oxygen) in primary neuron cultures. KaHx rapidly induced excitotoxic death that was completely prevented by MK801 or EGTA. KaHx also stimulated neuronal autophagic flux as shown by a rise in autophagosome number (increased levels of LC3-II and punctate LC3 labeling) accompanied by increases in lysosomal abundance and activity (increased SQSTM1/p62 degradation, and increased LC3-II levels in the presence of lysosomal inhibitors) and fusion (shown using an RFP-GFP-LC3 reporter). To determine the role of the enhanced autophagy we applied either pharmacological autophagy inhibitors (3-methyladenine or pepstatinA/E64) or lentiviral vectors delivering shRNAs targeting Becn1 or Atg7. Both strategies reduced KaHx-induced neuronal death. A prodeath role of autophagy was also confirmed by the enhanced toxicity of KaHx in cultures overexpressing BECN1 or ATG7. Finally, in vivo inhibition of autophagy by intrastriatal injection of a lentiviral vector expressing a Becn1-targeting shRNA increased the volume of intact striatum in a rat model of severe neonatal cerebral HI. These results clearly show a death-mediating role of autophagy in hypoxic-excitotoxic conditions and suggest that inhibition of autophagy should be considered as a neuroprotective strategy in HI brain injuries.
Exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) in rodents was shown to induce obesity, yet the mechanism by which BPA might induce obesity is still unclear. We employed the genetically tractable model organism, Drosophila melanogaster, to test the effects of raising them on food containing various concentrations of BPA. Of note, raising males on food containing BPA were susceptible to starvation, possibly by inhibiting their ability to perform lipolysis during starvation, leading to significantly increased lipid content after 24hr of fasting. Furthermore, feeding males with BPA significantly inhibited the expression of insulin-like peptides. From these results, we conclude that BPA may inhibit lipid recruitment during starvation in Drosophila.
In rodents, the disruption of social-rearing conditions before normal weaning induces emotional behavioral abnormalities, such as anxiety, motor activity dysregulation, and stress vulnerability. The beneficial effects of exercise after normal weaning on emotional regulation have been well documented. However, effects of exercise before normal weaning on emotion have not been reported. We examined whether voluntary wheel running (R) during social isolation after early weaning (early weaning/isolation; EI) from postnatal day (PD) 14-30 could prevent EI-induced emotional behavioral abnormalities in Sprague-Dawley rats. Compared with control rats reared with their dam and siblings until PD30, rats performed R during EI (EI+R) and EI rats demonstrated greater locomotion and lower grooming activity in the open-field test (OFT) during the juvenile period. Juvenile EI  R rats showed greater learned helplessness (LH) after exposure to inescapable stress (IS; electric foot shock) than IS-exposed control and EI rats. In contrast, EI rats showed increased locomotion in the OFT and LH after exposure to IS compared with control rats during adulthood; this was not observed in EI  R rats. Both EI and EI  R rats exhibited greater rearing activity in the OFT than controls during adulthood. EI did not increase anxiety in the OFT and elevated plus-maze. These results suggested that R during EI until normal weaning prevented some of the EI-induced behavioral abnormalities, including hyperlocomotor activity and greater LH, during adulthood but not in the juvenile period.
Ghrelin, a hormone implicated in the regulation of feeding and energy balance, has also been associated with neural function underlying learning and memory. These effects are thought to be mediated by ghrelin targeting receptors at extra hypothalamic sites such as the hippocampus. Exogenous ghrelin administration increases dendritic spine density in the hippocampal CA1 region and neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG), while improving memory in rats. In the present study, we sought to determine whether rats lacking the ghrelin receptor would show early neural or cognitive decline measured via hippocampal integrity (spine density and neurogenesis) and spatial learning and memory. As such, we used young and middle-aged adult rats with mutations to the gene encoding for the ghrelin receptor (GHS-R KO) and wildtype (WT) littermates to determine differences in performance on hippocampal-dependent tasks (the water maze and radial arm maze). In addition, we examined the hippocampal dentate gyrus of these rats for differences in dendritic spine density and cell proliferation (doublecortin). Overall, results demonstrated that spine density and doublecortin staining in the dentate gyrus of the young GHS-R KO group was similar to that seen in middle-aged groups (both KO and WT) and lower than the young WT group. Middle-aged GHS-R KO and WT groups showed deficits on the radial arm maze food-motivated task but not the water maze task. These data suggest that impaired ghrelin signaling leads to an early onset decrement in hippocampal structural integrity that may manifest in non- spatial-related behavioral deficits.
Serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) are organized in anatomically distinct subregions that form connections with specific brain structures to modulate diverse behaviors, including anxiety-like behavior. It is unclear if the functional heterogeneity of these neurons is coupled to their developmental heterogeneity, and if abnormal development of specific DR serotonergic subregions can permanently impact anxiety circuits and behavior. The goal of this study was to examine if deficiencies in different components of fibroblast growth factor (Fgf) signaling could preferentially impact the development of specific populations of DR serotonergic neurons to alter anxiety-like behavior in adulthood. Wild-type and heterozygous male mice globally hypomorphic for Fgf8, Fgfr1, or both (Fgfr1/Fgf8) were tested in an anxiety-related behavioral battery. Both Fgf8- and Fgfr1/Fgf8-deficient mice display increased anxiety-like behavior as measured in the elevated plus-maze and the open-field tests. Immunohistochemical staining of a serotonergic marker, tryptophan hydroxylase (Tph), revealed reductions in specific populations of serotonergic neurons in the ventral, interfascicular, and ventrolateral/ventrolateral periaqueductal gray subregions of the DR in all Fgf-deficient mice, suggesting a neuroanatomical basis for increased anxiety-like behavior. Overall, this study suggests Fgf signaling selectively modulates the development of different serotonergic neuron subpopulations. Further, it suggests anxiety-like behavior may stem from developmental disruption of these neurons, and individuals with inactivating mutations in Fgf signaling genes may be predisposed to anxiety disorders.
Huntington's disease (HD), an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative movement disorder in which striatal and cortical neurons are mostly affected, has no effective cure existing. A fungal neurotoxin and a potent inhibitor of mitochondrial electron transport chain complex II inhibitor, 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) is known to cause HD pathology, including lesions in the striatum and the cortex, and several behavioural syndromes in experimental animals. In the present study we examined the effect of melatonin on motor activities, neuronal morphology as revealed by Nissl and rapid Golgi staining, as well as GABA, glutamate and biogenic amine neurotransmitter levels in 3-NP-induced HD in rats. We found that melatonin (10, 20mg/kg, i.p.) administered 1h prior to 3-NP dose (20mg/kg; daily for 4 days) restored motor coordination ability as shown in gait, beam balancing, swim ability and performance on rotarod. However it failed to reduce 3-NP-induced striatal lesion core area, neuronal damage and the elevated levels of striatal dopamine. Melatonin administration partially restored 3-NP-induced loss of dendritic spines in the striatum and the cortex, and the reduction in cerebellar granule cell, but not hippocampal CA1 neuronal arborization. These findings collectively suggest that melatonin offers beneficial effects in correction of learning related fine motor adjustments, but not in behaviours unrelated to learning, by the restoration of striatal and cortical spines, and cerebellar granule cell arborization.
Addiction is a common psychiatric disease and stress has an important role in the drug seeking and relapse behaviors. The involvement of basolateral amygdala (BLA) in the effects of stress on reward pathway is discussed in several studies. In this study, we tried to find out the involvement of glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) in the BLA in stress-induced reinstatement of extinguished morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. The CPP paradigm was done in adult male Wistar rats weighing 220-320 g, and conditioning score and locomotor activity were recorded by Ethovision software. Animals received effective dose of morphine (5mg/kg) daily, during the 3-day conditioning phase. In extinction phase, rats were put in the CPP box for 30 min a day for 8 days. After extinction, animals were injected by corticosterone (10 m/kg) or exposed to forced swim stress (FSS) 10 min before subcutaneous administration of ineffective dose of morphine (0.5mg/kg) in order to reinstate the extinguished morphine-CPP. To block the glucocorticoid receptors in the BLA, after stereotaxic surgery and placing two cannulae in this area bilaterally, animals received GR antagonist mifepristone (RU38486; 0.3, 3 and 30 ng/0.3 l DMSO per side) prior to exposure to FSS then each animal received ineffective dose of morphine (0.5mg/kg) as drug-induced reinstatement. The results revealed that physical stress (FSS) but not exogenous corticosterone can significantly induce reinstatement of extinguished morphine-CPP, and intra-BLA mifepristone prevents the stress-induced reinstatement. It can be proposed that stress partially exerts its effect on the reward pathway via glucocorticoid receptors in the BLA.
Excessive checking is a common, debilitating symptom of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). In an established rodent model of OCD checking behaviour, quinpirole (dopamine D2/3-receptor agonist) increased checking in open-field tests, indicating dopaminergic modulation of checking-like behaviours. We designed a novel operant paradigm for rats (observing response task (ORT)) to further examine cognitive processes underpinning checking behaviour and clarify how and why checking develops. We investigated i) how quinpirole increases checking, ii) dependence of these effects on D2/3 receptor function (following treatment with D2/3 receptor antagonist sulpiride) and iii) effects of reward uncertainty. In the ORT, rats pressed an 'observing' lever for information about the location of an 'active' lever that provided food reinforcement. High- and low-checkers (defined from baseline observing) received quinpirole (0.5mg/kg, 10 treatments) or vehicle. Parametric task manipulations assessed observing/checking under increasing task demands relating to reinforcement uncertainty (variable response requirement and active-lever location switching). Treatment with sulpiride further probed the pharmacological basis of long-term behavioural changes. Quinpirole selectively increased checking, both functional observing lever presses (OLPs) and non-functional extra OLPs (EOLPs). The increase in OLPs and EOLPs was long-lasting, without further quinpirole administration. Quinpirole did not affect the immediate ability to use information from checking. Vehicle and quinpirole-treated rats (VEH and QNP respectively) were selectively sensitive to different forms of uncertainty. Sulpiride reduced non-functional EOLPs in QNP rats but had no effect on functional OLPs. These data have implications for treatment of compulsive checking in OCD, particularly for serotonin-reuptake-inhibitor treatment-refractory cases, where supplementation with dopamine receptor antagonists may be beneficial.
Human facial attractiveness and facial sexual dimorphism (masculinity-femininity) are important facets of mate choice and are hypothesized to honestly advertise genetic quality. However, it is unclear whether genes influencing facial attractiveness and masculinity-femininity have similar, opposing, or independent effects across sex, and the heritability of these phenotypes is poorly characterized. To investigate these issues, we assessed facial attractiveness and facial masculinity-femininity in the largest genetically informative sample (n=1,580 same- and opposite-sex twin pairs and siblings) to assess these questions to date. The heritability was ~0.50-0.70 for attractiveness and ~0.40-0.50 for facial masculinity-femininity, indicating that, despite ostensible selection on genes influencing these traits, substantial genetic variation persists in both. Importantly, we found evidence for intralocus sexual conflict, whereby alleles that increase masculinity in males have the same effect in females. Additionally, genetic influences on attractiveness were shared across the sexes, suggesting that attractive fathers tend to have attractive daughters and attractive mothers tend to have attractive sons.

The main aims of this study were to describe change in psychological outcomes for adolescents with anorexia nervosa across two treatments, and to explore predictors of change, including baseline demographic and clinical characteristics, as well as weight gain over time. Participants were 121 adolescents with anorexia nervosa from a two-site (Chicago and Stanford) randomized controlled trial who received either family-based treatment or individual adolescent supportive psychotherapy. Psychological symptoms (i.e., eating disorder psychopathology, depressive symptoms, and self-esteem) were assessed at baseline, end of treatment, 6-month, and 12-month follow-up. Conditional multilevel growth models were used to test for predictors of slope for each outcome. Most psychological symptoms improved significantly from baseline to 12 month follow-up, regardless of treatment type. Depressive symptoms and dietary restraint were most improved, weight and shape concerns were least improved, and self-esteem was not at all improved. Weight gain emerged as a significant predictor of improved eating disorder pathology, with earlier weight gain having a greater impact on symptom improvement than later weight gain. Adolescents who presented with more severe, complex, and enduring clinical presentations (i.e.,longer duration of illness, greater eating disorder pathology, binge-eating/purging subtype) also appeared to benefit more psychologically from treatment.
PRRXL1 [paired related homeobox-like 1; also known as DRG11 (dorsal root ganglia 11)] is a paired-like homeodomain transcription factor expressed in DRG and dSC (dorsal spinal cord) nociceptive neurons. PRRXL1 is crucial for the establishment and maintenance of nociceptive circuitry, as Prrxl1(-/-) mice present neuronal loss, reduced pain sensitivity and failure to thrive. In the present study, we show that PRRXL1 is highly phosphorylated in vivo, and that its multiple band pattern on electrophoretic analysis is the result of different phosphorylation states. PRRXL1 phosphorylation appears to be differentially regulated along the dSC and DRG development and it is mapped to two functional domains. One region comprises amino acids 107-143, whereas the other one encompasses amino acids 227-263 and displays repressor activity. Using an immunoprecipitation-MS approach, two phosphorylation sites were identified, Ser and Ser. Phosphorylation at Ser is shown to be determinant for PRRXL1 conformation and transcriptional activity. Ser phosphorylation is thus proposed as a mechanism for regulating PRRXL1 function and conformation during nociceptive system development.

The environment can have a long-lasting influence on an individual's physiology and behavior. While some environmental conditions can be beneficial and result in adaptive responses, others can lead to pathological behaviors. Many studies have demonstrated that changes induced by the environment are expressed not only by the individuals directly exposed, but also by the offspring sometimes across multiple generations. Epigenetic alterations have been proposed as underlying mechanisms for such transmissible effects. Here, we review the most relevant literature on these changes and the developmental stages they affect the most. We discuss current evidence for transgenerational effects of prenatal and postnatal factors on bodily functions and behavioral responses, and the potential epigenetic mechanisms involved. We also discuss the need for a careful evaluation of the evolutionary importance with respect to health and disease, and possible directions for future research in the field.
Many non-human primates have been observed to reciprocate and to understand reciprocity in one-to-one social exchanges. A recent study demonstrated that capuchin monkeys are sensitive to both third-party reciprocity and violation of reciprocity; however, whether this sensitivity is a function of general intelligence, evidenced by their larger brain size relative to other primates, remains unclear. We hypothesized that highly pro-social primates, even with a relatively smaller brain, would be sensitive to others' reciprocity. Here, we show that common marmosets discriminated between human actors who reciprocated in social exchanges with others and those who did not. Monkeys accepted rewards less frequently from non-reciprocators than they did from reciprocators when the non-reciprocators had retained all food items, but they accepted rewards from both actors equally when they had observed reciprocal exchange between the actors. These results suggest that mechanisms to detect unfair reciprocity in third-party social exchanges do not require domain-general higher cognitive ability based on proportionally larger brains, but rather emerge from the cooperative and pro-social tendencies of species, and thereby suggest this ability evolved in multiple primate lineages.







This study investigated the association between diurnal salivary cortisol profile and perceived stress at work and at home. Healthy participants (N=180, 52% women) collected saliva cortisol samples immediately after waking up, 15min later, 30min later, and at 9:00, 12:00, 15:00, 18:00 and 21:00. The area under the cortisol awakening curve with respect to ground (AUCgCAR) and increase (AUCiCAR), and diurnal slope between 9:00 and 21:00 were analyzed. Perceived stress at work and at home was measured with the Stress-Energy Questionnaire. Participants reporting stress at home had significantly lower AUCgCAR and a flatter diurnal slope. When performing separate analyses for men and women, this association was only significant among women. Perceived stress at work was not associated with any cortisol measure. This study highlights the importance of stress outside the workplace. The sex differences may indicate an increased vulnerability to non-work stress in women.
The present study examined the influence of trait anxiety on the early stages of emotional face processing. In order to test if such early effect of anxiety could appear in response to positive as well as to negative stimuli, we recorded event-related potentials in response to both happy and fearful faces - contrasted with neutral faces - during a task where attention was explicitly directed to the emotion, in two groups differing by their anxiety level. We observed an amplification of the occipital P1 peak (90-120ms) in response to happy compared to neutral faces in high trait anxious participants but not in the low trait anxious ones. Additionally, the N170 and EPN components were enhanced for the negative (fearful) faces, with no impact of trait anxiety. Our results provide evidence for an early bias towards positive stimuli in trait anxiety.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) ensues reduced goal-directed cognition and behaviour. Cognitive and emotional flexibility to disengage and adapt future responses was examined in the error processing system (error-related negativity/ERN, error-positivity/Pe event-related potentials) of 58 depressed patients (21 current, 37 remitted) vs. 27 controls undergoing cognitive and affective Go/NoGo paradigms. ERN was equivalent between patient and controls for the cognitive task, albeit amplitude attenuated in patients during the affective task. Blunted ERN amplitudes were evident between patients and controls in males compared to females, plausibly underpinned by disparities in dopaminergic pathways. Patients displayed enhanced Pe amplitudes for both cognitive and affective tasks. Abberations in cortical error processing in MDD appear specific to affective systems for the pre-attentive ERN, opposed to cognitive and affective processing for the consciously-integrated Pe. Heightened Pe, observed in both current and remitted patients, advocates the possibility of the Pe waveform as a candidate intermediate phenotype of depression.
Although many studies have elucidated the neurocognitive mechanisms supporting the processing of externally generated sensory signals, less is known about the processing of interoceptive signals related to the viscera. Drawing a parallel with research on agency and the perception of self-generated action effects, in the present EEG study we report a reduced auditory N1 component when participants listened to heartbeat-related sounds compared to externally generated sounds. The auditory suppression for heartbeat sounds was robust and persisted after controlling for ECG-related artifacts, the number of trials involved and the phase of the cardiac cycle. In addition, the auditory N1 suppression for heartbeat-related sounds had a comparable scalp distribution as the N1 suppression observed for actively generated sounds. This finding indicates that the brain automatically differentiates between heartbeat-related and externally generated sounds through a process of sensory suppression, suggesting that a comparable predictive mechanism may underlie the processing of heartbeat and action-related information. Extending recent behavioral data about cardio-visual integration, the present cardio-auditory EEG data reveal that the processing of sounds in auditory cortex is systematically modulated by an interoceptive cardiac signal. The findings are discussed with respect to theories of interoceptive awareness, emotion, predictive coding, and their relevance to bodily self-consciousness.

Instinctively responding to maternal face is an evolutionary function of enhancing survival and development. However, because of the confounding nature of familiarity, little is known concerning the neural mechanism involved in maternal face recognition. We had a rare opportunity to examine Mosuo preschool children who were raised in a matrilineal society in which mothers and aunts represent equally familiar faces to the children. The participants were exposed to photographs of their mother's face, aunt's face, and an unfamiliar female's faces during electroencephalography (EEG) recording. The EEG results showed that the mother's face elicited a more negative N1 component, a larger left N170 component, and a larger P300 component; both the mother's and aunt's faces elicited a larger right N170 component. These results suggest that the emotional attachment between mother and child has neural ramifications across three successive face processing stages that are distinguished from the neural effects of facial familiarity.
The tendency to approach or avoid novel people is a fundamental human behavior and is a core dimension of social anxiety. Resting state fMRI was used to test for an association between social inhibition and intrinsic connectivity in 40 young adults ranging from low to high in social inhibition. Higher levels of social inhibition were associated with specific patterns of reduced amygdala-cingulate cortex connectivity. Connectivity was reduced between the superficial amygdala and the rostral cingulate cortex and between the centromedial amygdala and the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. Social inhibition also modulated connectivity in several well-established intrinsic networks; higher social inhibition correlated with reduced connectivity with default mode and dorsal attention networks and enhanced connectivity in salience and executive control networks. These findings provide important preliminary evidence that social inhibition reflects differences in the underlying intrinsic connectivity of the brain in the absence of social stimuli or stressors.
Biomaterial-supported culture methods, allowing for directed three-dimensional differentiation of stem cells are an alternative to canonical two-dimensional cell cultures. In this paper, we evaluate the suitability of alginate for three-dimensional cultures to enhance differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) towards neural lineages. We tested whether encapsulation of mESCs within alginate beads could support and/or enhance neural differentiation with respect to two-dimensional cultures. We encapsulated cells in beads of alginate with or without modification by fibronectin (Fn) or hyaluronic acid (HA). Gene expression analysis showed that cells grown in alginate and alginate-HA present increased differentiation toward neural lineages with respect to the two-dimensional control and to Fn group. Immunocytochemistry analyses confirmed these results, further showing terminal differentiation of neurons as seen by the expression of synaptic markers and markers of different neuronal subtypes. Our data show that alginate, alone or modified, is a suitable biomaterial to promote invitro differentiation of pluripotent cells toward neural fates.
Knockout studies suggest that PTEN limits the regenerative capacities of CNS axons as a dominant antagonist of PI3 kinase, but the transgenic approach is not feasible for treating patients. Although application of bisperoxovanadium may block PTEN function, it is a general inhibitor of phosphotyrosine phosphatases and may target enzymes other than PTEN, causing side effects and preventing firm conclusions about PTEN inhibition on regulating neuronal growth. A pharmacological method to selectively suppress PTEN post-injury could be a valuable strategy for promoting CNS axon regeneration. We identified PTEN antagonist peptides (PAPs) by targeting PTEN critical functional domains and evaluated their efficacy for promoting axon growth. Four PAPs (PAP 1-4) bound to PTEN protein expressed in COS7 cells and blocked PTEN signaling invivo. Subcutaneous administration of PAPs initiated two days after dorsal over-hemisection injury significantly stimulated growth of descending serotonergic fibers in the caudal spinal cord of adult mice. Systemic PAPs induce significant sprouting of corticospinal fibers in the rostral spinal cord and limited growth of corticospinal axons in the caudal spinal cord. More importantly, PAP treatment enhanced recovery of locomotor function in adult rodents with spinal cord injury. This study may facilitate development of effective therapeutic agents for CNS injuries.
Numerous in-vitro techniques exist for investigating the influence of 3D substrate topography on sensory axon growth. However, simple and cost-effective methods for studying post-natal motor axon interactions with such substrates are lacking. Here, spinal cord organotypic slice cultures (OSC) from post-natal day 7-9 rat pups were presented with spinal nerve roots, or blocks of fibrin hydrogel or 3D microporous collagen scaffolds to investigate motor axon-substrate interactions. By 7-14 days, axons from motor neuronal pools extended into the explanted nerve roots, growing along Schwann cell processes and demonstrating a full range of axon-Schwann cell interactions, from simple ensheathment to concentric wrapping by Schwann cell processes and the formation of compact myelin within a basal lamina sheath. Extensive motor axon regeneration and all stages of axon-Schwann interactions were also supported within the longitudinally orientated microporous framework of the 3D collagen scaffold. In stark contrast, the simple fibrin hydrogel only supported axon growth and cell migration over its surface. The relative ease of demonstrating such motor axon regeneration through the microporous 3D framework by immunofluorescence, two-photon microscopy and transmission electron microscopy strongly supports the adoption of this technique for assaying the influence of substrate topography and functionalization in regenerative bioengineering.
In laser-scanning microscopy often an off-the-shelf achromatic doublet is used as a scan lens which can reduce the available diffraction-limited field-of-view (FOV) by a factor of 3 and introduce chromatic aberrations that are scan angle dependent. Here we present several simple lens designs of superior quality that fully make use of high-NA low-magnification objectives, offering diffraction-limited imaging over a large FOV and wavelength range. We constructed a two-photon laser-scanning microscope with optimized custom lenses which had a near diffraction limit point-spread-function (PSF) with less than 3.6% variation over a 400 m FOV and less than 0.5 m lateral color between 750 and 1050 nm.
Collagen is the main structural protein and the key determinant of mechanical and functional properties of tissues and organs. Proper balance between synthesis and degradation of collagen molecules is critical for maintaining normal physiological functions. In addition, collagen influences tumor development and drug delivery, which makes it a potential cancer therapy target. Using second harmonic generation, two-photon excited fluorescence microscopy, and spectrofluorimetry, we show that the natural pigment hypericin induces photosensitized destruction of collagen-based tissues. We demonstrate that hypericin-mediated processes in collagen fibers are irreversible and may be used for the treatment of cancer and collagen-related disorders.
Beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) inhibitors hold great potential as disease modifying anti-Alzheimer's drugs. This digest provides an overview of the amidine containing class of BACE1 inhibitors, of which multiple examples are now progressing through clinical trials. The various structural modifications highlight the struggle to combine potency with the optimal properties for a brain penetrant BACE1 inhibitor, and illustrate the crowded competitive landscape. This overview concludes with a summary of potential issues including substrate and target selectivity and a synopsis of the status of the current and past clinical assets.
Recent clinical studies have demonstrated that dual orexin receptor antagonists (OX1R and OX2R antagonists or DORAs) represent a novel treatment option for insomnia patients. Previously we have disclosed several compounds in the diazepane amide DORA series with excellent potency and both preclinical and clinical sleep efficacy. Additional SAR studies in this series were enabled by the expansion of the acetonitrile-assisted, diphosgene-mediated 2,4-dichloropyrimidine synthesis to novel substrates providing an array of Western heterocycles. These heterocycles were utilized to synthesize analogs in short order with high levels of potency on orexin 1 and orexin 2 receptors as well as in vivo sleep efficacy in the rat.



How to respond optimally following traumatic events remains a Holy Grail. A number of early interventions lack evidence of effect. Practical, pragmatic support provided in an empathic manner is likely to be an appropriate initial response and complement the high levels of resilience shown by individuals exposed to traumatic events.
Although beta-amyloid, anxiety and depression have linked cross-sectionally to reduced memory function in healthy older adults without dementia, prospective data evaluating these associations are lacking. Using data an observational cohort study of 178 healthy older adults without dementia followed for 3 years, we found that anxiety symptoms significantly moderated the relationship between beta-amyloid level and decline in verbal (Cohen's d = 0.65) and episodic (Cohen's d = 0.38) memory. Anxiety symptoms were additionally linked to greater decline in executive function, irrespective of beta-amyloid and other risk factors. These findings suggest that interventions to mitigate anxiety symptoms may help delay memory decline in otherwise healthy older adults with elevated beta-amyloid.


In Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, -synuclein aggregates to form oligomers and fibrils; however, the precise nature of the toxic -synuclein species remains unclear. A number of synthetic -synuclein mutations were recently created (E57K and E35K) that produce species of -synuclein that preferentially form oligomers and increase -synuclein-mediated toxicity. We have shown that acute lentiviral expression of -synuclein E57K leads to the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons; however, the effects of chronic expression of oligomer-prone -synuclein in synapses throughout the brain have not been investigated. Such a study could provide insight into the possible mechanism(s) through which accumulation of -synuclein oligomers in the synapse leads to neurodegeneration. For this purpose, we compared the patterns of neurodegeneration and synaptic damage between a newly generated mThy-1 -synuclein E57K transgenic mouse model that is prone to forming oligomers and the mThy-1 -synuclein wild-type mouse model (Line 61), which accumulates various forms of -synuclein. Three lines of -synuclein E57K (Lines 9, 16 and 54) were generated and compared with the wild-type. The -synuclein E57K Lines 9 and 16 were higher expressings of -synuclein, similar to -synuclein wild-type Line 61, and Line 54 was a low expressing of -synuclein compared to Line 61. By immunoblot analysis, the higher-expressing -synuclein E57K transgenic mice showed abundant oligomeric, but not fibrillar, -synuclein whereas lower-expressing mice accumulated monomeric -synuclein. Monomers, oligomers, and fibrils were present in -synuclein wild-type Line 61. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural analyses demonstrated that -synuclein accumulated in the synapses but not in the neuronal cells bodies, which was different from the -synuclein wild-type Line 61, which accumulates -synuclein in the soma. Compared to non-transgenic and lower-expressing mice, the higher-expressing -synuclein E57K mice displayed synaptic and dendritic loss, reduced levels of synapsin 1 and synaptic vesicles, and behavioural deficits. Similar alterations, but to a lesser extent, were seen in the -synuclein wild-type mice. Moreover, although the oligomer-prone -synuclein mice displayed neurodegeneration in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, the -synuclein wild-type only displayed neuronal loss in the hippocampus. These results support the hypothesis that accumulating oligomeric -synuclein may mediate early synaptic pathology in Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies by disrupting synaptic vesicles. This oligomer-prone model might be useful for evaluating therapies directed at oligomer reduction.
The aim of our study was to investigate two inter-related hypotheses about the role of the subthalamic nucleus. First that the subthalamic nucleus plays a role in adjusting response thresholds and speed-accuracy trade-offs and second that it is involved in reactive and proactive inhibition and conflict resolution. These were addressed by comparing the performance of 10 patients with Parkinson's disease treated with right subthalamotomy and 12 patients with left subthalamotomy, to 14 unoperated patients with Parkinson's disease and 23 age-matched healthy control participants on a conditional stop signal task and applying the drift diffusion model. Unilateral subthalamotomy significantly improved Parkinson's disease motor signs. Patients with right subthalamotomy had significantly faster Go reaction times with their contra-lesional hand than the unoperated patients and did not differ from the control participants, indicating their speed of response initiation was 'normalized'. However, operated patients made significantly more discrimination errors than unoperated patients and controls, suggesting that subthalamotomy influenced speed-accuracy trade-offs. This was confirmed by the drift diffusion model, revealing that while the unoperated patients had significantly lower drift rate and higher response thresholds than the control participants, the response thresholds for the operated groups did not differ from the controls and the patients with right subthalamotomy had a significantly higher drift rate than unoperated patients and similar to that of controls. The drift diffusion model further established that unlike the control participants, operated patients failed to show context-dependent strategic modulation of response thresholds. The patients with right subthalamotomy could not engage in late phase, fast inhibition of the response and showed minimal proactive inhibition when tested with the contra-lesional hand. These results provide strong evidence that the subthalamic nucleus is involved in response inhibition, in modulating the rate of information accumulation and the response threshold and influencing the balance between speed and accuracy of performance. Accordingly, the subthalamic nucleus can be considered a key component of the cerebral inhibitory network.
Recent studies suggest that subcortical structures, including striatum, are vulnerable to amyloid- accumulation and other neuropathological features in familial Alzheimer's disease due to autosomal dominant mutations. We explored differences between familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease that might shed light on their respective pathogenic mechanisms. To this end, we analysed 12 brain regions, including neocortical, limbic and subcortical areas, from post-mortem brains of familial Alzheimer's disease (n = 10; age at death: 50.0  8.6 years) with mutations in amyloid precursor protein (APP) or presenilin 1 (PSEN1), sporadic Alzheimer's disease (n = 19; age at death: 84.7  7.8 years), neurologically normal elderly without amyloid- accumulation (normal ageing; n = 13, age at death: 82.9  10.8 years) and neurologically normal elderly with extensive cortical amyloid- deposits (pathological ageing; n = 15; age at death: 92.7  5.9 years). The levels of amyloid-, amyloid-, APP, apolipoprotein E, the synaptic marker PSD95 (now known as DLG4), the astrocyte marker GFAP, other molecules related to amyloid- metabolism, and tau were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. We observed that familial Alzheimer's disease had disproportionate amyloid- accumulation in subcortical areas compared with sporadic Alzheimer's disease, whereas sporadic Alzheimer's disease had disproportionate amyloid- accumulation in cortical areas compared to familial Alzheimer's disease. Compared with normal ageing, the levels of several proteins involved in amyloid- metabolism were significantly altered in both sporadic and familial Alzheimer's disease; however, such changes were not present in pathological ageing. Among molecules related to amyloid- metabolism, the regional distribution of PSD95 strongly correlated with the regional pattern of amyloid- accumulation in sporadic Alzheimer's disease and pathological ageing, whereas the regional distribution of APP as well as -C-terminal fragment of APP were strongly associated with the regional pattern of amyloid- accumulation in familial Alzheimer's disease. Apolipoprotein E and GFAP showed negative regional association with amyloid- (especially amyloid-) accumulation in both sporadic and familial Alzheimer's disease. Familial Alzheimer's disease had greater striatal tau pathology than sporadic Alzheimer's disease. In a retrospective medical record review, atypical signs and symptoms were more frequent in familial Alzheimer's disease compared with sporadic Alzheimer's disease. These results suggest that disproportionate amyloid- accumulation in cortical areas in sporadic Alzheimer's disease may be mediated by synaptic processes, whereas disproportionate amyloid- accumulation in subcortical areas in familial Alzheimer's disease may be driven by APP and its processing. Region-specific amyloid- accumulation might account for differences in the relative amounts of tau pathology and clinical symptoms in familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease.
Little is known about the contributors and physiological responses to white matter hypoperfusion in the human brain. We previously showed the ratio of myelin-associated glycoprotein to proteolipid protein 1 in post-mortem human brain tissue correlates with the degree of ante-mortem ischaemia. In age-matched post-mortem cohorts of Alzheimer's disease (n = 49), vascular dementia (n = 17) and control brains (n = 33) from the South West Dementia Brain Bank (Bristol), we have now examined the relationship between the ratio of myelin-associated glycoprotein to proteolipid protein 1 and several other proteins involved in regulating white matter vascularity and blood flow. Across the three cohorts, white matter perfusion, indicated by the ratio of myelin-associated glycoprotein to proteolipid protein 1, correlated positively with the concentration of the vasoconstrictor, endothelin 1 (P = 0.0005), and negatively with the concentration of the pro-angiogenic protein, vascular endothelial growth factor (P = 0.0015). The activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme, which catalyses production of the vasoconstrictor angiotensin II was not altered. In samples of frontal white matter from an independent (Oxford, UK) cohort of post-mortem brains (n = 74), we confirmed the significant correlations between the ratio of myelin-associated glycoprotein to proteolipid protein 1 and both endothelin 1 and vascular endothelial growth factor. We also assessed microvessel density in the Bristol (UK) samples, by measurement of factor VIII-related antigen, which we showed to correlate with immunohistochemical measurements of vessel density, and found factor VIII-related antigen levels to correlate with the level of vascular endothelial growth factor (P = 0.0487), suggesting that upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor tends to increase vessel density in the white matter. We propose that downregulation of endothelin 1 and upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor in the context of reduced ratio of myelin-associated glycoprotein to proteolipid protein 1 are likely to be protective physiological responses to reduced white matter perfusion. Further analysis of the Bristol cohort showed that endothelin 1 was reduced in the white matter in Alzheimer's disease (P &lt; 0.05) compared with control subjects, but not in vascular dementia, in which endothelin 1 tended to be elevated, perhaps reflecting abnormal regulation of white matter perfusion in vascular dementia. Our findings demonstrate the potential of post-mortem measurement of myelin proteins and mediators of vascular function, to assess physiological and pathological processes involved in the regulation of cerebral perfusion in Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.
Patients with early-onset dementia are a significantly under-recognized subgroup of patients with an increasing prevalence. Epidemiological studies are limited and studies of modifiable risk factors, such as physical fitness, are lacking. We aimed to investigate the associations between cardiovascular fitness individually and in combination with cognitive performance at age 18 and risk of early-onset dementia and mild cognitive impairment later in life. We performed a population-based cohort study of over 1.1 million Swedish, 18-year-old, male conscripts, who underwent conscription exams between 1968 and 2005. These males were then followed for up to 42 years. Objective data on cardiovascular fitness and cognitive performance were collected during conscription exams and were subsequently linked with hospital registries to calculate later risk of early-onset dementia and mild cognitive impairment using Cox proportional hazards models controlling for several confounders. The scores from the exams were divided into tertiles (low, medium, high) for the analyses. The mean follow-up time for the analyses was 25.7 years (standard deviation: 9.3) and the median was 27 years. In total, 30 195 315 person-years of follow-up were included in the study. In fully adjusted models, both low cardiovascular fitness and cognitive performance (compared to high) at age 18 were associated with increased risk for future early-onset dementia (cardiovascular fitness, n = 662 events: hazard ratio 2.49, 95%, confidence interval 1.87-3.32; cognitive performance, n = 657 events: hazard ratio 4.11, 95%, confidence interval 3.19-5.29) and mild cognitive impairment (cardiovascular fitness, n = 213 events: hazard ratio 3.57, 95%, confidence interval 2.23-5.74; cognitive performance, n = 212 events: hazard ratio 3.23, 95%, confidence interval 2.12-4.95). Poor performance on both cardiovascular fitness and cognitive tests was associated with a &gt;7-fold (hazard ratio 7.34, 95%, confidence interval 5.08-10.58) and a &gt;8-fold (hazard ratio 8.44, 95%, confidence interval 4.64-15.37) increased risk of early-onset dementia and early-onset mild cognitive impairment, respectively. In conclusion, lower cardiovascular fitness and cognitive performance in early adulthood were associated with an increased risk of early-onset dementia and mild cognitive impairment later in life, and the greatest risks were observed for individuals with a combination of low cardiovascular fitness and low cognitive performance.
Gaucher disease is caused by mutations in the glucocerebrosidase gene, which encodes the lysosomal hydrolase glucosylceramidase. Patients with Gaucher disease and heterozygous glucocerebrosidase mutation carriers are at increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease. Indeed, glucocerebrosidase mutations are the most frequent risk factor for Parkinson's disease in the general population. Therefore there is an urgent need to understand the mechanisms by which glucocerebrosidase mutations predispose to neurodegeneration to facilitate development of novel treatments. To study this we generated fibroblast lines from skin biopsies of five patients with Gaucher disease and six heterozygous glucocerebrosidase mutation carriers with and without Parkinson's disease. Glucosylceramidase protein and enzyme activity levels were assayed. Oxidative stress was assayed by single cell imaging of dihydroethidium. Glucosylceramidase enzyme activity was significantly reduced in fibroblasts from patients with Gaucher disease (median 5% of controls, P = 0.0001) and heterozygous mutation carriers with (median 59% of controls, P = 0.001) and without (56% of controls, P = 0.001) Parkinson's disease compared with controls. Glucosylceramidase protein levels, assessed by western blot, were significantly reduced in fibroblasts from Gaucher disease (median glucosylceramidase levels 42% of control, P &lt; 0.001) and heterozygous mutation carriers with (median 59% of control, P &lt; 0.001) and without (median 68% of control, P &lt; 0.001) Parkinson's disease. Single cell imaging of dihydroethidium demonstrated increased production of cytosolic reactive oxygen species in fibroblasts from patients with Gaucher disease (dihydroethidium oxidation rate increased by a median of 62% compared to controls, P &lt; 0.001) and heterozygous mutation carriers with (dihydroethidium oxidation rate increased by a median of 68% compared with controls, P &lt; 0.001) and without (dihydroethidium oxidation rate increased by a median of 70% compared with controls, P &lt; 0.001) Parkinson's disease. We hypothesized that treatment with the molecular chaperone ambroxol hydrochloride would improve these biochemical abnormalities. Treatment with ambroxol hydrochloride increased glucosylceramidase activity in fibroblasts from healthy controls, Gaucher disease and heterozygous glucocerebrosidase mutation carriers with and without Parkinson's disease. This was associated with a significant reduction in dihydroethidium oxidation rate of 50% (P &lt; 0.05) in fibroblasts from controls, Gaucher disease and heterozygous mutation carriers with and without Parkinson's disease. In conclusion, glucocerebrosidase mutations are associated with reductions in glucosylceramidase activity and evidence of oxidative stress. Ambroxol treatment significantly increases glucosylceramidase activity and reduces markers of oxidative stress in cells bearing glucocerebrosidase mutations. We propose that ambroxol hydrochloride should be further investigated as a potential treatment for Parkinson's disease.
Immune activation in the brain has been shown to contribute to neurodevelopmental and pathological progression of mental disorders, and microglia play a central role in these processes. But how genetic predisposition and environmental risk factors may act in combination to affect microglial activation and the underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unclear. In this work, we studied the inflammatory profile of microglia across four inbred strains of mice with different anxiety traits: C57BL/6J, FVB/N, DBA/2J, and 129S2/Sv. Importantly, we found that a high-anxiety strain, nave DBA/2J mice, had significantly more M1 (MHCII(+)CD206(-))-polarized microglia, whereas another high-anxiety strain, nave 129S2/Sv mice, expressed significantly more activated (MHCII(+)) perivascular macrophages than the other strains. After a systemic LPS challenge, polarization to M1 microglia in DBA/2J and 129S2/Sv mice was even more prominent than in C57BL/6J and FVB/N mice, and was correlated with their anxiety-like behaviors. Macrophage M1/M2 polarization in the spleen showed a similar pattern in DBA/2J and 129S2/Sv mice in response to LPS stimulation. Furthermore, DBA/2J mice expressed higher mRNA levels of Il1b, Il6, and Tnf, and higher Nos2/Arg1 ratio but lower Chi3l3 level in the hypothalamus before and after LPS stimulation, respectively. In comparison, 129S1/Sv, a sibling line of 129S2/Sv, expressed significantly higher levels of other immune-related genes in the brain. We further discovered a group of myeloid transcription factors that may underpin the strain-specific differences in microglial activation. We conclude that proinflammatory microglial activation reflects anxiety traits in mice, especially after a peripheral innate immune challenge. Our work sheds new light in understanding the potential molecular mechanisms of stress-induced microglial activation and polarization.
Group A -hemolytic streptococcal (GAS) infection is associated with a spectrum of neuropsychiatric disorders. The leading hypothesis regarding this association proposes that a GAS infection induces the production of auto-antibodies, which cross-react with neuronal determinants in the brain through the process of molecular mimicry. We have recently shown that exposure of rats to GAS antigen leads to the production of anti-neuronal antibodies concomitant with the development of behavioral alterations. The present study tested the causal role of the antibodies by assessing the behavior of nave rats following passive transfer of purified antibodies from GAS-exposed rats. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) purified from the sera of GAS-exposed rats was infused directly into the striatum of nave rats over a 21-day period. Their behavior in the induced-grooming, marble burying, food manipulation and beam walking assays was compared to that of nave rats infused with IgG purified from adjuvant-exposed rats as well as of nave rats. The pattern of in vivo antibody deposition in rat brain was evaluated using immunofluorescence and colocalization. Infusion of IgG from GAS-exposed rats to nave rats led to behavioral and motor alterations partially mimicking those seen in GAS-exposed rats. IgG from GAS-exposed rats reacted with D1 and D2 dopamine receptors and 5HT-2A and 5HT-2C serotonin receptors in vitro. In vivo, IgG deposits in the striatum of infused rats colocalized with specific brain proteins such as dopamine receptors, the serotonin transporter and other neuronal proteins. Our results demonstrate the potential pathogenic role of autoantibodies produced following exposure to GAS in the induction of behavioral and motor alterations, and support a causal role for autoantibodies in GAS-related neuropsychiatric disorders.
Significant evidence suggests that exposure to traumatic and/or acute stress in both mice and humans results in compromised immune function that in turn may affect associated brain processes. Additionally, recent studies in mouse models of immune deficiency have suggested that adaptive immunity may play a role during traumatic stress exposure and that impairments in lymphocyte function may contribute to increased susceptibility to various psychogenic stressors. However, rodent studies on the relationship between maladaptive stress responses and lymphocyte deficiency have been complicated by the fact that genetic manipulations in these models may also result in changes in CNS function due to the expression of targeted genes in tissues other than lymphocytes, including the brain. To address these issues we utilized mice with a deletion of recombination-activating gene 2 (Rag2), which has no confirmed expression in the CNS; thus, its loss should result in the absence of mature lymphocytes without altering CNS function directly. Stress responsiveness of immune deficient Rag2(-/-) mice on a BALB/c background was evaluated in three different paradigms: predator odor exposure (POE), fear conditioning (FC) and learned helplessness (LH). These models are often used to study different aspects of stress responsiveness after the exposure to an acute stressor. In addition, immunoblot analysis was used to assess hippocampal BDNF expression under both stressed and non-stressed conditions. Subsequent to POE, Rag2(-/-) mice exhibited a reduced acoustic startle response compared to BALB/c mice; no significant differences in behavior were observed in either FC or LH. Furthermore, analysis of hippocampal BDNF indicated that Rag2(-/-) mice have elevated levels of the mature form of BDNF compared to BALB/c mice. Results from our studies suggest that the absence of mature lymphocytes is associated with increased resilience to stress exposure in the POE and does not affect behavioral responses in the FC and LH paradigms. These findings indicate that lymphocytes play a specific role in stress responsiveness dependent upon the type, nature and intensity of the stressor.
Adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus is impaired in schizophrenic patients and in an animal model of schizophrenia. Amongst a plethora of regulators, the immune system has been shown repeatedly to strongly modulate neurogenesis under physiological and pathological conditions. It is well accepted, that schizophrenic patients have an aberrant peripheral immune status, which is also reflected in the animal model. The microglia as the intrinsic immune competent cells of the brain have recently come into focus as possible therapeutic targets in schizophrenia. We here used a maternal immune stimulation rodent model of schizophrenia in which polyinosinic-polycytidilic acid (Poly I:C) was injected into pregnant rats to mimic an anti-viral immune response. We identified microglia IL-1 and TNF- increase constituting the factors correlating best with decreases in net-neurogenesis and impairment in pre-pulse inhibition of a startle response in the Poly I:C model. Treatment with the antibiotic minocycline (3mg/kg/day) normalized microglial cytokine production in the hippocampus and rescued neurogenesis and behavior. We could also show that enhanced microglial TNF- and IL-1 production in the hippocampus was accompanied by a decrease in the pro-proliferative TNFR2 receptor expression on neuronal progenitor cells, which could be attenuated by minocycline. These findings strongly support the idea to use anti-inflammatory drugs to target microglia activation as an adjunctive therapy in schizophrenic patients.
Preterm infants, especially those that are exposed to prenatal intrauterine infection or inflammation, are at a major risk for adverse neurological outcomes, including cognitive, motor and behavioral disabilities. We have previously shown in a mouse model that there is an acute fetal brain insult associated with intrauterine inflammation. The objectives of this study were: (1) to elucidate long-term (into adolescence and adulthood) neurological outcomes by assessing neurobehavioral development, MRI, immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry of cells of immune origin and (2) to determine whether there are any sex-specific differences in brain development associated with intrauterine inflammation. Our results have shown that prenatal exposure appeared to lead to changes in MRI and behavior patterns throughout the neonatal period and during adulthood. Furthermore, we observed chronic brain inflammation in the offspring, with persistence of microglial activation and increased numbers of macrophages in the brain, ultimately resulting in neuronal loss. Moreover, our study highlights the sex-specific differences in long-term sequelae. This study, while extending the growing literature of adverse neurologic outcomes following exposure to inflammation during early development, presents novel findings in the context of intrauterine inflammation.
The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) plays a crucial role in the course and development of autoimmune disease in Fas-deficient lpr/lpr mice. As regulatory T cells (Tregs) are considered important modulators of autoimmune processes, we analyzed the interaction between the SNS and Tregs in this murine model of lymphoproliferative disease. We found that the percentage of Tregs among CD4(+) T cells is increased in the spleen, lymph nodes, and thymus of lpr/lpr mice as compared to age-matched C57Bl/6J (B6) mice. Furthermore, noradrenaline (NA), the main sympathetic neurotransmitter, induced apoptosis in B6- and lpr/lpr-derived Tregs. NA also reduced the frequency of Foxp3(+) cells and Foxp3 mRNA expression via 2-adrenoceptor (2-AR)-mediated mechanisms in a concentration and time-dependent manner. Destruction of peripheral sympathetic nerves by 6-hydroxydopamine significantly increased the percentage of Tregs in B6 control mice to an extent comparable to aged-matched lpr/lpr mice. The concentration of splenic NA negatively correlated with the frequency of CD4(+)Foxp3(+) Tregs. Additionally, 60days after sympathectomy, a partial recovery of NA concentrations led to Treg percentages comparable to those of intact, vehicle-treated controls. Immunohistochemical analysis of the spleen revealed localization of single Foxp3(+) Tregs in proximity to NA-producing nerve fibers, providing an interface between Tregs and the SNS. Taken together, our data suggest a relation between the degree of splenic sympathetic innervation and the size of the Treg compartment. While there are few examples of endogenous substances capable of affecting Tregs, our results provide a possible explanation of how the magnitude of the Treg compartment in the spleen can be regulated by the SNS.
Circulating 45 and 62kDa antibodies targeting the cerebellum were previously associated with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), lower adaptive/cognitive function and aberrant behaviors. Moreover, 37, 39 and 73kDa maternal antibodies (mAb) targeting the fetal brain were previously correlated with broad autism spectrum, irritability, abnormal brain enlargement and impaired expressive language. The present study aims towards clinically characterizing individuals with brain-targeted IgG and/or exposed to maternal antibrain antibodies in a large sample of Italian autistic children (N=355), their unaffected siblings (N=142) and mothers (N=333). The presence of patient- and mother-produced anti-brain antibodies does not confer increased risk of autism within the same sibship. However, the 45 and 62kDa antibodies are correlated with autism severity: the 45kDa Ab is associated with cognitive impairment and lower scores at the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales, the 62kDa Ab with motor stereotypies, while both correlate with larger head circumference (all P&lt;0.05). On the other hand, maternal 37, 39 and 73kDa antibrain antibodies, either alone or in combination, are correlated with impaired verbal and non-verbal language development, neurodevelopmental delay and sleep/wake cycle disturbances in their autistic children (P&lt;0.05). Presence of the 62kDa autoAb in the child is significantly associated with presence of the 39 and/or 73kDa antibodies in his/her mother. Our results confirm and extend previous observations in an ethnically distinct sample, providing further evidence of a pathomorphic role for anti-brain antibodies in autism while demonstrating their familial clustering.
In recent years, in vivo animal models of prenatal infection have been developed in an attempt to recreate behavioral and neuropathological features associated to a number of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders. However, these models are still in their emerging phase and a better understanding of how these types of infections relate to adult-onset of brain-related disorders is needed. Here, we undertook an extensive behavioral characterization of both pregnant females and their pups following late gestational exposure (from gestational days (GD) 15-17) to either lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 120g/kg i.p.) or polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly I:C; 5mg/kg i.v.). We observed that both LPS and poly I:C treatments produced anxiety-like behaviors in treated pregnant females, although to a lesser extent with LPS. LPS injections, but not poly I:C, led to reduced food intake and consequently decreased weight gain in pregnant dams. In pups, poly I:C treatments triggered a delay in growth and sensorimotor development, as evaluated by righting, geotaxis and grasping reflexes. At the cellular level, both toxins induced an initial inflammatory response while only LPS reduced the expression of brain cell markers in foetuses (GFAP and NeuN), which was no longer observable at postnatal day (PnD) 10. Higher levels of IL-2, IL-5 and IL-6 in plasma and an upregulation of the metabotropic receptor 5 (mGluR5) in foetal brains of 10-day-old offspring prenatally exposed to poly I:C was also observed. Interestingly, the increased mGluR5 expression correlated with impairments of the righting reflex. This study is the first to directly compare reflex development following LPS and poly I:C prenatal immune challenges in mice and sheds light onto the different patterns of behavior and pathology in dams and their offspring.
Functional interactions between the chemokine receptor CXCR4 and opioid receptors have been reported in the brain, leading to a decreased morphine analgesic activity. However the cellular mechanisms responsible for this loss of opioid analgesia are largely unknown. Here we examined whether Src family-kinases (SFK)-linked mechanisms induced by CXCR4 contributed to the loss of acute morphine analgesia and could represent a new physiological anti-opioid signaling pathway. In this way, we showed by immunohistochemistry and western blot that CXCL12 rapidly activated SFK phosphorylation in vitro in primary cultured lumbar rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) but also in vivo in the DRG and the spinal cord. We showed that SFK activation occurred in a sub population of sensory neurons, in spinal microglia but also in spinal nerve terminals expressing mu-(MOR) and delta-opioid (DOR) receptor. In addition we described that CXCR4 is detected in MOR- and DOR-immunoreactive neurons in the DRG and spinal cord. In vivo, we demonstrated that an intrathecal administration of CXCL12 (1g) significantly attenuated the subcutaneous morphine (4mg/kg) analgesia. Conversely, pretreatment with a potent CXCR4 antagonist (5g) significantly enhanced morphine analgesia. Similar effects were obtained after an intrathecal injection of a specific SFK inhibitor, PP2 (10g). Furthermore, PP2 abrogated CXCL12-induced decrease in morphine analgesia by suppressing SFK activation in the spinal cord. In conclusion, our data highlight that CXCL12-induced loss of acute morphine analgesia is linked to Src family kinases activation.
Bilingual listeners comprehend speech-in-noise better in their native than non-native language. This native-language benefit is thought to arise from greater use of top-down linguistic information to assist degraded speech comprehension. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we recently showed that left angular gyrus activation is modulated when semantic context is used to assist native language speech-in-noise comprehension (Golestani, Hervais-Adelman, Obleser, &amp; Scott, 2013). Here, we extend the previous work, by reanalyzing the previous data alongside the results obtained in the non-native language of the same late bilingual participants. We found a behavioral benefit of semantic context in processing speech-in-noise in the native language only, and the imaging results also revealed a native language context effect in the left angular gyrus. We also find a complementary role of lower-level auditory regions during stimulus-driven processing. Our findings help to elucidate the neural basis of the established native language behavioral benefit of speech-in-noise processing.
Abstract This special issue is focused on acetylcholine to mark the hundredth year since its discovery by Dr. Henry Hallett Dale. Some readers may be of the opinion that the available literature on acetylcholine is quite vast and, therefore, there is no scope for more interesting findings. However, when we consider the significance of its physiological roles and discuss its involvement in many severe diseases, acetylcholine remains an intriguing molecule worth to be kept in mind.
Patients with minimal hepatic encephalopathy exhibit early impairments in their ability to shift attentional set. We employed a task-switching protocol to evaluate brain network changes. Strategy switching requires the modification of both the relevant stimulus dimension and the required memory system. Rats were trained in an allocentric (A) and a cue-guided (C) task using a four-arm maze. To examine priming, we changed the order in which the tasks were presented. Five groups of animals were used: a SHAM (sham-operated) A-C group (n=10), a SHAM C-A group (n=8), a PH (portal hypertension) A-C group (n=8), PH C-A group (n=8), and a nave group (n=10). The triple portal vein ligation method was used to create an animal model of the early evolutive phase of PH. The animals were tested in the four-arm radial water maze in a single 10-trial session each day for six days (three days for the allocentric task and three days for the cue-guided task). The metabolic activities of the brains were studied with cytochrome oxidase histochemistry, and brain network changes were assessed with principal component analysis. The behavioural results revealed significant increases in the numbers of correct choices across training days in all groups studied, and facilitation of the acquisition of the second task was present in the C-A groups. Moreover, different brain network activities were found; in the experimental groups, the performance of A-C switch involved the prefrontal cortex, and the key structures involved in the C-A switch in the other groups were the dentate gyrus of the dorsal hippocampus and the basolateral and central amygdala. These networks have a common nucleus of structures (i.e., the parietal cortex and the dorsal and ventral striatum), whereas other structures were specifically involved in each type of strategy, suggesting that these regions are part of both circuits and may interact with one another during learning.











GlyT1 and GlyT2 are the transporters responsible for glycine uptake from the synaptic cleft. The expression and function of these two glycine transporters in rat cortical cultured astrocytes over several maturation stages (10, 18 and 24days in vitro) were herein investigated. Quantitative PCR and western blot showed that both GlyT1 and GlyT2 transcripts and protein were expressed in astrocytes in the examined maturation stages. Double detection of Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and GlyT1/GlyT2 revealed that both transporters were detected in the cell body and in the processes of astrocytes. Furthermore, the double immunofluorescence analysis carried out in P21 rat brain slices corroborated the presence of both transporters in cortical and hippocampal astrocytes. The functional characterization of GlyT1 and GlyT2 in cultured astrocytes performed by [(3)H]glycine uptake experiments revealed that both transporters take up glycine in a concentration-dependent way, but with a very distinct affinity. Kinetic analysis revealed a K m of 51.154.96M and a V max of 379.3010.31pmol/min/mg for GlyT1 and a K m of 1,801148.9M and a V max of 5,730200.2pmol/min/mg for GlyT2. It is concluded that astrocytes express functional GlyT2, which challenge previous findings that those cells would express only GlyT1, whereas GlyT2 was supposed to be restricted to the glycinergic nerve terminals. Therefore, the work herein reported provides new insights about glycinergic neurotransmission in the brain.
The present study investigated the projections from the lateral vestibular nucleus (LVe) to the spinal cord using retrograde and anterograde tracers. Retrogradely labeled neurons were found after fluoro-gold injections into both the cervical and lumbar cord, with a smaller number of labeled neurons seen after lumbar cord injections. Labeled neurons in the LVe were found in clusters at caudal levels of the nucleus, and a small gap separated these clusters from labeled neurons in the spinal vestibular nucleus (SpVe). In the anterograde study, BDA-labeled fiber tracts were found in both the ventral and ventrolateral funiculi on the ipsilateral side. These fibers terminated in laminae 6-9. Some fibers were continuous with boutons in contact with motor neurons in both the medial and lateral motor neuron columns. In the lumbar and sacral segments, some collaterals from the ipsilateral vestibulospinal tracts were found on the contralateral side, and these fibers mainly terminated in laminae 6-8. The present study reveals for the first time the fiber terminations of the lateral vestibular nucleus in the mouse spinal cord and therefore enhances future functional studies of the vestibulospinal system.
The study aimed to examine the association between cadmium (Cd) and the risk of breast cancer according to estrogen receptor (ER) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). A hospital-based case-control study was carried out in 585 cases and 1,170 controls. Information on possible risk factors was collected via a structured questionnaire. Urinary Cd was determined by atomic absorption spectrometry. The ER and HER2 levels in tumor tissue were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Logistic regression was used to calculate odds ratios (ORs) and 95 % confidence intervals (CIs) for breast cancer by creatinine-adjusted urinary Cd. Women with greater creatinine-adjusted urine Cd (3rd quartile: 0.241-0.399 g/g and 4th quartile:  0.4 g/g) experienced 1.6 times higher risk of breast cancer compared with those having Cd concentration lower than 0.147 g/g (1st quartile) [OR = 1.6, (95 % CI 1.19, 2.17) and OR = 1.62 (95 % CI 1.19, 2.21), respectively, P trend = 0.001] after adjustment for age and other confounders. Both ER+ and HER2- cases from the highest quartile of urine Cd exhibited approximately twice the breast cancer risk of those in the lowest quartile [OR = 1.9, (95 % CI 1.31, 2.74) and OR = 1.87, (95 % CI 1.33, 2.62), respectively, P trend &lt;0.001) after adjustment for confounders. The data support cadmium as a risk factor for breast cancer, especially for both ER+ and HER2- cancer patients.
Systematic education based on internationally standardized programs is a well-established practice in Italy, especially in the emergency health care system. However, until recently, a specific program to treat burns was not available to guide emergency physicians, nurses, or volunteers acting as first responders. In 2010, two national faculty members, acting as ABA observers, and one Italian course coordinator, trained and certified in the United States, conducted a week-long training program which fully certified 10 Italian instructors. Authorized ABLS provider courses were conducted in Italy between 2010 and 2012, including one organized prior to the 20th annual meeting of the Italian Society of Burns (SIUst). In order to increase the effectiveness and diffusion of the course in Italy, changes were approved by the ABA to accommodate societal differences, including the translation of the manual into Italian. The ABA has also approved the creation and publication of a bilingual ABLS Italian website for the purpose of promoting the ABLS course in Italy. In response to high demand, a second ABLS Instructor course was organized in 2012 and has been attended by physicians and nurses from several Italian burn centers. In the following discourse the experiences of the first 15 Italian ABLS courses will be discussed.
Herein, updated evidence-based recommendations for the diagnosis, assessment, prevention, and treatment of hypertension in Canadian adults are detailed. For 2014, 3 existing recommendations were modified and 2 new recommendations were added. The following recommendations were modified: (1) the recommended sodium intake threshold was changed from  1500 mg (3.75 g of salt) to approximately 2000 mg (5 g of salt) per day; (2) a pharmacotherapy treatment initiation systolic blood pressure threshold of  160 mm Hg was added in very elderly (age  80 years) patients who do not have diabetes or target organ damage (systolic blood pressure target in this population remains at &lt; 150 mm Hg); and (3) the target population recommended to receive low-dose acetylsalicylic acid therapy for primary prevention was narrowed from all patients with controlled hypertension to only those 50 years of age. The 2 new recommendations are: (1) advice to be cautious when lowering systolic blood pressure to target levels in patients with established coronary artery disease if diastolic blood pressure is  60 mm Hg because of concerns that myocardial ischemia might be exacerbated; and (2) the addition of glycated hemoglobin (A1c) in the diagnostic work-up of patients with newly diagnosed hypertension. The rationale for these recommendation changes is discussed. In addition, emerging data on blood pressure targets in stroke patients are discussed; these data did not lead to recommendation changes at this time. The Canadian Hypertension Education Program recommendations will continue to be updated annually.
Curcumin is known to induce apoptosis of cancer cells by different mechanisms, but its effects on cancer stem cells (CSC) have been less investigated. Here, we report that curcumin promotes the survival of DCLK1-positive colon CSCs, potentially confounding application of its anticancer properties. At optimal concentrations, curcumin greatly reduced expression levels of stem cell markers (DCLK1/CD44/ALDHA1/Lgr5/Nanog) in three-dimensional spheroid cultures and tumor xenografts derived from colon cancer cells. However, curcumin unexpectedly induced proliferation and autophagic survival of a subset of DCLK1-positive CSCs. Spheroid cultures were disintegrated by curcumin in vitro but regrew within 30 to 40 days of treatment, suggesting a survival benefit from autophagy, permitting long-term persistence of colorectal cancer. Notably, RNA interference-mediated silencing of DCLK1 triggered apoptotic cell death of colon cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, and abolished colorectal cancer survival in response to curcumin; combination of DCLK1-siRNA and curcumin dramatically reversed CSC phenotype, contributing to attenuation of the growth of spheroid cultures and tumor xenografts. Taken together, our findings confirm a role of DCLK1 in colon CSCs and highlight DCLK1 as a target to enhance antitumor properties of curcumin.
The actin-binding protein Kelch-like 1 (KLHL1) can modulate voltage-gated calcium channels in vitro. KLHL1 interacts with actin and with the pore-forming subunits of Cav2.1 and CaV3.2 calcium channels, resulting in up-regulation of P/Q and T-type current density. Here we tested whether endogenous KLHL1 modulates voltage gated calcium currents in cultured hippocampal neurons by down-regulating the expression of KLHL1 via adenoviral delivery of shRNA targeted against KLHL1 (shKLHL1). Control adenoviruses did not affect any of the neuronal properties measured, yet down-regulation of KLHL1 resulted in HVA current densities ~68% smaller and LVA current densities 44% smaller than uninfected controls, with a concomitant reduction in (1A) and (1H) protein levels. Biophysical analysis and western blot experiments suggest Ca(V)3.1 and 3.3 currents are also present in shKLHL1-infected neurons. Synapsin I levels, miniature postsynaptic current frequency, and excitatory and inhibitory synapse number were reduced in KLHL1 knockdown. This study corroborates the physiological role of KLHL1 as a calcium channel modulator and demonstrates a novel, presynaptic role.
Unlike normal cells, cancer cells contain amplified centrosomes and rely on centrosome clustering mechanisms to form a pseudobipolar spindle that circumvents potentially fatal spindle multipolarity (MP). Centrosome clustering also promotes low-grade chromosome missegregation, which can drive malignant transformation and tumor progression. Putative 'centrosome declustering drugs' represent a cancer cell-specific class of chemotherapeutics that produces a common phenotype of centrosome declustering and spindle MP. However, differences between individual agents in terms of efficacy and phenotypic nuances remain unexplored. Herein, we have developed a conceptual framework for the quantitative evaluation of centrosome declustering drugs by investigating their impact on centrosomes, clustering, spindle polarity, cell cycle arrest, and death in various cancer cell lines at multiple drug concentrations over time. Surprisingly, all centrosome declustering drugs evaluated in our study were also centrosome-amplifying drugs to varying extents. Notably, all declustering drugs induced spindle MP, and the peak extent of MP positively correlated with the induction of hypodiploid DNA-containing cells. Our data suggest acentriolar spindle pole amplification as a hitherto undescribed activity of some declustering drugs, resulting in spindle MP in cells that may not have amplified centrosomes. In general, declustering drugs were more toxic to cancer cell lines than non-transformed ones, with some exceptions. Through a comprehensive description and quantitative analysis of numerous phenotypes induced by declustering drugs, we propose a novel framework for the assessment of putative centrosome declustering drugs and describe cellular characteristics that may enhance susceptibility to them.
Neurogenesis is the developmental process regulating cell proliferation of neural stem cells, determining their differentiation into glial and neuronal cells, and orchestrating their organization into finely regulated functional networks. Can this complex process be recapitulated in vitro using induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology? Can neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases be modeled using iPSCs? What is the potential of iPSC technology in neurobiology? What are the recent advances in the field of neurological diseases? Since the applications of iPSCs in neurobiology are based on the capacity to regulate in vitro differentiation of human iPSCs into different neuronal subtypes and glial cells, and the possibility of obtaining iPSC-derived neurons and glial cells is based on and hindered by our poor understanding of human embryonic development, we reviewed current knowledge on in vitro neural differentiation from a developmental and cellular biology perspective. We highlight the importance to further advance our understanding on the mechanisms controlling in vivo neurogenesis in order to efficiently guide neurogenesis in vitro for cell modeling and therapeutical applications of iPSCs technology.
Axon development requires membrane addition from the intracellular supply, which has been shown to be mediated by Rab10-positive plasmalemmal precursor vesicles (PPVs). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the membrane trafficking processes of PPVs remain unclear. Here, we show that myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS) mediates membrane targeting of Rab10-positive PPVs, and this regulation is critical for axon development. We found that the GTP-locked active form of Rab10 binds to membrane-associated MARCKS, whose affinity depends on the phosphorylation status of the MARCKS effector domain. Either genetic silencing of MARCKS or disruption of its interaction with Rab10 inhibited axon growth of cortical neurons, impaired docking and fusion of Rab10 vesicles with the plasma membrane, and consequently caused a loss of membrane insertion of axonal receptors responsive to extracellular axon growth factors. Thus, this study has identified a novel function of MARCKS in mediating membrane targeting of PPVs during axon development.
To investigate the cell-intrinsic aging mechanisms that erode the function of somatic stem cells during aging, we have conducted a comprehensive integrated genomic analysis of young and aged cells. We profiled the transcriptome, DNA methylome, and histone modifications of young and old murine hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Transcriptome analysis indicated reduced TGF- signaling and perturbation of genes involved in HSC proliferation and differentiation. Aged HSCs exhibited broader H3K4me3 peaks across HSC identity and self-renewal genes and showed increased DNA methylation at transcription factor binding sites associated with differentiation-promoting genes combined with a reduction at genes associated with HSC maintenance. Altogether, these changes reinforce HSC self-renewal and diminish differentiation, paralleling phenotypic HSC aging behavior. Ribosomal biogenesis emerged as a particular target of aging with increased transcription of ribosomal protein and RNA genes and hypomethylation of rRNA genes. This data set will serve as a reference for future epigenomic analysis of stem cell aging.
Translational control plays a pivotal role in the regulation of the pluripotency network in embryonic stem cells, but its effect on reprogramming somatic cells to pluripotency has not been explored. Here, we show that eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) binding proteins (4E-BPs), which are translational repressors, have a multifaceted effect on the reprogramming of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Loss of 4E-BP expression attenuates the induction of iPSCs at least in part through increased translation of p21, a known inhibitor of somatic cell reprogramming. However, MEFs lacking both p53 and 4E-BPs show greatly enhanced reprogramming resulting from a combination of reduced p21 transcription and enhanced translation of endogenous mRNAs such as Sox2 and Myc and can be reprogrammed through the expression of only exogenous Oct4. Thus, 4E-BPs exert both positive and negative effects on reprogramming, highlighting the key role that translational control plays in regulating this process.
The role Hsp60 might play in various inflammatory and autoimmune diseases is under investigation, but little information exists pertaining to Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT). With the aim to fill this gap, in the present work, we directed our attention to Hsp60 participation in HT pathogenesis. We found Hsp60 levels increased in the blood of HT patients compared to controls. The chaperonin was immunolocalized in thyroid tissue specimens from patients with HT, both in thyrocytes and oncocytes (Hurthle cells) with higher levels compared to controls (goiter). In oncocytes, we found Hsp60 not only in the cytoplasm but also on the plasma membrane, as shown by double immunofluorescence performed on fine needle aspiration cytology. By bioinformatics, we found regions in the Hsp60 molecule with remarkable structural similarity with the thyroglobulin (TG) and thyroid peroxidase (TPO) molecules, which supports the notion that autoantibodies against TG and TPO are likely to recognize Hsp60 on the plasma membrane of oncocytes. This was also supported by data obtained by ELISA, showing that anti-TG and anti-TPO antibodies cross-react with human recombinant Hsp60. Antibody-antigen (Hsp60) reaction on the cell surface could very well mediate thyroid cell damage and destruction, perpetuating inflammation. Experiments with recombinant Hsp60 did not show stimulation of cytokine production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells from HT patients. All together, these results led us to hypothesize that Hsp60 may be an active player in HT pathogenesis via an antibody-mediated immune mechanism.



Repeated processing of the same information is associated with decreased neuronal responses, termed repetition suppression (RS). Although RS effects (i.e., the difference in activity between novel and repeated stimuli) have been demonstrated within several brain regions, such as the medial temporal lobe, their precise neural mechanisms still remain unclear. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging together with psychopharmacology in 48 healthy human subjects, demonstrating that RS effects within the mesolimbic system are differentially modulated by cholinergic and dopaminergic stimulation. The dopamine precursor levodopa (100 mg) attenuated RS within the hippocampus, parahippocampal cortex, and substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area, and the degree of this reduction correlated with recognition memory performance 24 h later. The acetylcholinesterase inhibitor galantamine (8 mg), in contrast, reversed RS into repetition enhancement, showing no relationship to subsequent recognition memory. This suggests that novelty sensitive neural populations of the mesolimbic system can dynamically shift their responses depending on the balance of cholinergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission, and these shifts can influence memory retention.
Research in social neuroscience has uncovered a social knowledge network that is particularly attuned to making social judgments. However, the processes that are being performed by both regions within this network and those outside of this network that are nevertheless engaged in the service of making a social judgment remain unclear. To help address this, we drew upon research in semantic memory, which suggests that making a semantic judgment engages 2 distinct control processes: A controlled retrieval process, which aids in bringing goal-relevant information to mind from long-term stores, and a selection process, which aids in selecting the information that is goal-relevant from the information retrieved. In a neuroimaging study, we investigated whether controlled retrieval and selection for social information engage distinct portions of both the social knowledge network and regions outside this network. Controlled retrieval for social information engaged an anterior ventrolateral portion of the prefrontal cortex, whereas selection engaged both the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and temporoparietal junction within the social knowledge network. These results suggest that the social knowledge network may be more involved with the selection of social information than the controlled retrieval of it and incorporates lateral prefrontal regions in accessing memory for making social judgments.
The striatum acts in conjunction with the cortex to control and execute functions that are impaired by abnormal dopamine neurotransmission in disorders such as Parkinson's and schizophrenia. To date, in vivo quantification of striatal dopamine has been restricted to structure-based striatal subdivisions. Here, we present a multimodal imaging approach that quantifies the endogenous dopamine release following the administration of d-amphetamine in the functional subdivisions of the striatum of healthy humans with [(11)C]PHNO and [(11)C]Raclopride positron emission tomography ligands. Using connectivity-based (CB) parcellation, we subdivided the striatum into functional subregions based on striato-cortical anatomical connectivity information derived from diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and probabilistic tractography. Our parcellation showed that the functional organization of the striatum was spatially coherent across individuals, congruent with primate data and previous diffusion MRI studies, with distinctive and overlapping networks. d-amphetamine induced the highest dopamine release in the limbic followed by the sensory, motor, and executive areas. The data suggest that the relative regional proportions of D2-like receptors are unlikely to be responsible for this regional dopamine release pattern. Notably, the homogeneity of dopamine release was significantly higher within the CB functional subdivisions in comparison with the structural subdivisions. These results support an association between local levels of dopamine release and cortical connectivity fingerprints.
The neurophysiological correlates of dreaming remain unclear. According to the &quot;arousal-retrieval&quot; model, dream encoding depends on intrasleep wakefulness. Consistent with this model, subjects with high and low dream recall frequency (DRF) report differences in intrasleep awakenings. This suggests a possible neurophysiological trait difference between the 2 groups. To test this hypothesis, we compared the brain reactivity (evoked potentials) of subjects with high (HR, N = 18) and low (LR, N = 18) DRF during wakefulness and sleep. During data acquisition, the subjects were presented with sounds to be ignored (first names randomly presented among pure tones) while they were watching a silent movie or sleeping. Brain responses to first names dramatically differed between the 2 groups during both sleep and wakefulness. During wakefulness, the attention-orienting brain response (P3a) and a late parietal response were larger in HR than in LR. During sleep, we also observed between-group differences at the latency of the P3a during N2 and at later latencies during all sleep stages. Our results demonstrate differences in the brain reactivity of HR and LR during both sleep and wakefulness. These results suggest that the ability to recall dreaming is associated with a particular cerebral functional organization, regardless of the state of vigilance.
The intracellular mechanisms driving postmitotic development of cortical -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons are poorly understood. We have addressed the function of Rac GTPases in cortical and hippocampal interneuron development. Developing neurons express both Rac1 and Rac3. Previous work has shown that Rac1 ablation does not affect the development of migrating cortical interneurons. Analysis of mice with double deletion of Rac1 and Rac3 shows that these GTPases are required during postmitotic interneuron development. The number of parvalbumin-positive cells was affected in the hippocampus and cortex of double knockout mice. Rac depletion also influences the maturation of interneurons that reach their destination, with reduction of inhibitory synapses in both hippocampal CA1 and cortical pyramidal cells. The decreased number of cortical migrating interneurons and their altered morphology indicate a role of Rac1 and Rac3 in regulating the motility of cortical interneurons, thus interfering with their final localization. While electrophysiological passive and active properties of pyramidal neurons including membrane capacity, resting potential, and spike amplitude and duration were normal, these cells showed reduced spontaneous inhibitory currents and increased excitability. Our results show that Rac1 and Rac3 contribute synergistically to postmitotic development of specific populations of GABAergic cells, suggesting that these proteins regulate their migration and differentiation.
A consensus on the prefrontal cortex (PFC) holds that it is pivotal for flexible behavior and the integration of the cognitive, affective, and motivational domains. Certain models have been put forth and a dominant model postulates a hierarchical anterior-posterior gradient. The structural connectivity principles of this model dictate that increasingly anterior PFC regions exhibit more efferent connections toward posterior ones than vice versa. Such hierarchical asymmetry principles are thought to pertain to the macaque PFC. Additionally, the laminar patterns of the connectivity of PFC regions can be used for defining hierarchies. In the current study, we formally tested the asymmetry-based hierarchical principles of the anterior-posterior model by employing an exhaustive dataset on macaque PFC connectivity and tools from network science. On the one hand, the asymmetry-based principles and predictions of the hierarchical anterior-posterior model were not confirmed. The wiring of the macaque PFC does not fully correspond to the principles of the model, and its asymmetry-based hierarchical layout does not follow a strict anterior-posterior gradient. On the other hand, our results suggest that the laminar-based hierarchy seems a more tenable working hypothesis for models advocating an anterior-posterior gradient. Our results can inform models of the human PFC.

Sniffing has historically been considered an olfactory behavior because inhalation is a necessary step in odor perception. Growing evidence, however, has demonstrated that the display of sniffing surpasses the bounds of those contexts that are olfactory in nature. In this issue of Chemical Senses, Arzi, Shedlesky, Secundo, and Sobel demonstrate that humans mimic visually and auditory-observed sniffing, independent of experimentally applied olfactory sensory input. These findings raise important and exciting questions about the possible roles of sniffing in the social context and highlight the need for chemosensory researchers to reconsider the significance of sniffing.


Precise knowledge of the connectivities of the different white matter bundles is of great value for neuroscience research. Our knowledge of subcortical anatomy has improved exponentially during recent decades owing to the development of magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging tractography (DTI). Although DTI tractography has led to important progress in understanding white matter anatomy, the precise trajectory and cortical connections of the subcortical bundles remain poorly determined. The recent literature was extensively reviewed in order to analyze the trajectories and cortical terminations of the lateral association fibers of the brain.The anatomy of the following tracts is reviewed: superior longitudinal fasciculus, middle longitudinal fasciculus, inferior longitudinal fasciculus, inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus, uncinate fasciculus, frontal aslant tract, and vertical occipital fasciculus. The functional role of a tract can be inferred from its topography within the brain. Knowing the functional roles of the cortical areas connected by a certain bundle, it is possible to develop new insights into the putative functional properties of such connections.


The Lyme disease controversy can be largely linked to the misconception that neurobehavioral effects of illness constitute evidence of nervous system infection. Appropriate differentiation between neuroborreliosis (nervous system Borrelia burgdorferi infection) and Lyme encephalopathy (altered nervous system function in individuals with systemic but not nervous system infection)-or encephalopathies of other etiologies-would lessen the controversy considerably, as the attribution of nonspecific symptoms to supposed ongoing central nervous system infection is a major factor perpetuating the debate. Epidemiologic considerations suggest that the entities referred to as &quot;posttreatment Lyme disease&quot; and &quot;chronic Lyme disease&quot; may not actually exist but rather reflect anchoring bias, linking common, nonspecific symptoms to an antecedent medical event. On the other hand, there are data suggesting possible mechanisms by which posttreatment Lyme disease could occur.











Neurotransmitters other than dopamine, such as norepinephrine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, glutamate, adenosine and acetylcholine, are involved in Parkinson's disease (PD) and contribute to its symptomatology. Thus, the progress of non-dopaminergic therapies for PD has attracted much interest in recent years. Among new classes of drugs, adenosine A2A antagonists have emerged as promising candidates. The development of new highly selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonists, and their encouraging anti-parkinsonian responses in animal models of PD, has provided a rationale for clinical trials to evaluate the therapeutic potential and the safety of these agents in patients with PD. To date, the clinical research regarding A2A antagonists and their potential utilization in PD therapy continues to evolve between drugs just or previously discontinued (preladenant and vipadenant), new derivatives in development (tozadenant, PBF-509, ST1535, ST4206 and V81444) and the relatively old drug istradefylline, which has finally been licensed as an anti-parkinsonian drug in Japan. All these compounds have been shown to have a good safety profile and be well tolerated. Moreover, results from phase II and III trials also demonstrate that A2A antagonists are effective in reducing off-time, without worsening troublesome dyskinesia, and in increasing on-time with a mild increase of non-troublesome dyskinesia, in patients at an advanced stage of PD treated with L-DOPA. In addition, early findings suggest that A2A antagonists might also be efficacious as monotherapy in patients at an early stage of PD. This review summarizes pharmacological and clinical data available on istradefylline, tozadenant, PBF-509, ST1535, ST4206, V81444, preladenant and vipadenant.

Since the 1970s, clinicians have increasingly become more familiar with hyperprolactinemia (HPRL) as a common adverse effect of antipsychotic medication, which remains the cornerstone of pharmacological treatment for patients with schizophrenia. Although treatment with second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) as a group is, compared with use of the first-generation antipsychotics, associated with lower prolactin (PRL) plasma levels, the detailed effects on plasma PRL levels for each of these compounds in reports often remain incomplete or inaccurate. Moreover, at this moment, no review has been published about the effect of the newly approved antipsychotics asenapine, iloperidone and lurasidone on PRL levels. The objective of this review is to describe PRL physiology; PRL measurement; diagnosis, causes, consequences and mechanisms of HPRL; incidence figures of (new-onset) HPRL with SGAs and newly approved antipsychotics in adolescent and adult patients; and revisit lingering questions regarding this hormone. A literature search, using the MEDLINE database (1966-December 2013), was conducted to identify relevant publications to report on the state of the art of HPRL and to summarize the available evidence with respect to the propensity of the SGAs and the newly approved antipsychotics to elevate PRL levels. Our review shows that although HPRL usually is defined as a sustained level of PRL above the laboratory upper limit of normal, limit values show some degree of variability in clinical reports, making the interpretation and comparison of data across studies difficult. Moreover, many reports do not provide much or any data detailing the measurement of PRL. Although the highest rates of HPRL are consistently reported in association with amisulpride, risperidone and paliperidone, while aripiprazole and quetiapine have the most favorable profile with respect to this outcome, all SGAs can induce PRL elevations, especially at the beginning of treatment, and have the potential to cause new-onset HPRL. Considering the PRL-elevating propensity of the newly approved antipsychotics, evidence seems to indicate these agents have a PRL profile comparable to that of clozapine (asenapine and iloperidone), ziprasidone and olanzapine (lurasidone). PRL elevations with antipsychotic medication generally are dose dependant. However, antipsychotics having a high potential for PRL elevation (amisulpride, risperidone and paliperidone) can have a profound impact on PRL levels even at relatively low doses, while PRL levels with antipsychotics having a minimal effect on PRL, in most cases, can remain unchanged (quetiapine) or reduce (aripiprazole) over all dosages. Although tolerance and decreases in PRL values after long-term administration of PRL-elevating antipsychotics can occur, the elevations, in most cases, remain above the upper limit of normal. PRL profiles of antipsychotics in children and adolescents seem to be the same as in adults. The hyperprolactinemic effects of antipsychotic medication are mostly correlated with their affinity for dopamine D2 receptors at the level of the anterior pituitary lactotrophs (and probably other neurotransmitter mechanisms) and their blood-brain barrier penetrating capability. Even though antipsychotics are the most common cause of pharmacologically induced HPRL, recent research has shown that HPRL can be pre-existing in a substantial portion of antipsychotic-nave patients with first-episode psychosis or at-risk mental state.

The current research explored pseudoneglect for the mental representation of real-world scenes generated from aural-verbal description in the complete absence of direct visual processing. Healthy participants listened binaurally or monaurally to aural-verbal descriptions of novel real-world scenes with familiar landmarks (e.g., 'shop', 'cafe', 'school') to be imagined on the left- or right-hand side. Participants were asked to mentally represent the street scene using a visuospatial template though it was up to participants how they mentally represented each individual landmark within the street (i.e., in terms of colour and size). There were two main tasks: a relative judgement task (which side of the street contains the most landmarks?) and a recall task (recall the landmarks on the left vs. right side of the street). When stimuli were presented monaurally to the left ear (favouring the activation of the right hemisphere) participants demonstrated representational pseudoneglect and showed a bias towards responding that there were more landmarks on the left compared to the right. However, this did not lead to enhanced recall for left side landmarks. When stimuli were presented binaurally or monaurally to the right ear, there was no evidence of representational pseudoneglect for the relative judgement or recall task. The current study discusses how the use of monaural presentation may boost right hemisphere activation in aural-verbal experimental paradigms designed to explore representational pseudoneglect.
Although motor-language coupling is now being extensively studied, its underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. In this sense, a crucial opposition has emerged between the non-representational and the representational views of embodiment. The former posits that action language is grounded on the non-brain motor system directly engaged by musculoskeletal activity - i.e., peripheral involvement of ongoing actions. Conversely, the latter proposes that such grounding is afforded by the brain's motor system - i.e., activation of neural areas representing motor action. We addressed this controversy through the action-sentence compatibility effect (ACE) paradigm, which induces a contextual coupling of motor actions and verbal processing. ACEs were measured in three patient groups - early Parkinson's disease (EPD), neuromyelitis optica (NMO), and acute transverse myelitis (ATM) patients - as well as their respective healthy controls. NMO and ATM constitute models of injury to non-brain motor areas and the peripheral motor system, whereas EPD provides a model of brain motor system impairment. In our study, EPD patients exhibited impaired ACE and verbal processing relative to healthy participants, NMO, and ATM patients. These results indicate that the processing of action-related words is mainly subserved by a cortico-subcortical motor network system, thus supporting a brain-based embodied view on action language. More generally, our findings are consistent with contemporary perspectives for which action/verb processing depends on distributed brain networks supporting context-sensitive motor-language coupling.
Gaze was monitored by use of an infrared remote eye-tracker during perception and imagery of geometric forms and figures of animals. Based on the idea that gaze prioritizes locations where features with high information content are visible, we hypothesized that eye fixations should focus on regions that contain one or more local features that are relevant for object recognition. Most importantly, we predicted that when observers looked at an empty screen and at the same time generated a detailed visual image of what they had previously seen, their gaze would probabilistically dwell within regions corresponding to the original positions of salient features or parts. Correlation analyses showed positive relations between gaze's dwell time within locations visited during perception and those in which gaze dwelled during the imagery generation task. Moreover, the more faithful an observer's gaze enactment, the more accurate was the observer's memory, in a separate test, of the dimension or size in which the forms had been perceived. In another experiment, observers saw a series of pictures of animals and were requested to memorize them. They were then asked later, in a recall phase, to answer a question about a property of one of the encoded forms; it was found that, when retrieving from long-term memory a previously seen picture, gaze returned to the location of the part probed by the question. In another experimental condition, the observers were asked to maintain fixation away from the original location of the shape while thinking about the answer, so as to interfere with the gaze enactment process; such a manipulation resulted in measurable costs in the quality of memory. We conclude that the generation of mental images relies upon a process of enactment of gaze that can be beneficial to visual memory.
Imaging in neuroscience has been dramatically impacted by the advent of multiphoton microscopy. Multiphoton-excited fluorescence (MPF) in combination with endogenous fluorophores or labeling by fluorescent molecules has proven to be particularly powerful. However, endogenous fluorescence is limited to relatively few molecular species, and practical labeling schemes do not exist for many classes of molecules. Coherent Raman scattering (CRS) techniques, including coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering and stimulated Raman scattering, allow imaging without the need for staining or fluorescent labeling. Such label-free imaging is desirable in biomedical research, because labeling often perturbs the function of small metabolite and drug molecules and may be too toxic to use in vivo. CRS techniques have similar imaging parameters to MPF, making use of pulsed near-infrared lasers to deliver high-sensitivity, high spatial resolution in three dimensions and rapid image acquisition. In this introduction, we will discuss the basic principles of CRS imaging, present the instrumentation requirements for high-speed CRS imaging, and show an example of imaging brain tumors and healthy tissue based on their intrinsic vibrational signatures. This discussion is intended to introduce the benefits and tradeoffs associated with different CRS techniques and show one example of the powerful capabilities of label-free chemical imaging.
Previously, many patients with severe mental illness had difficulties to engage with fragmented mental health services, thus not receiving care. In a Dutch city, Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) was introduced to cater specifically for this group of patients. In a pre-post comparison, changes in mental health care consumption were examined. All mental health care contacts, ACT and non-ACT, of patients in the newly started ACT-teams were extracted from the regional Psychiatric Case Register. Analyses of mental health care usage were performed comparing the period before ACT introduction with the period thereafter. After the introduction of ACT, mental health care use increased in this group of patients, although not all patients remained under the care of ACT teams. ACT may succeed in delivering more mental health care to patients with severe mental illness and treatment needs who previously had difficulties engaging with fragmented mental health care services.

In this study we present a clinical application of the STEPPS model in an Italian sample of severely affected patients with borderline personality disorder (BPD) or personality disorder (PD) with prominent borderline features in comorbidity with a mood disorder. The aims of this work are: 1) to confirm our preliminary results in a larger sample and at a 12-month follow-up, and 2) to identify predictors of drop-out vs completion of STEPPS in order to understand which characteristics of patients make them suitable or not for this treatment. The sample is composed of 32 subjects recruited from a population of inpatients of the Mood Disorders Center, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Hospital San Raffaele-Turro, Milan. To confirm STEPPS efficacy at 12-month follow-up, we selected the following outcome criteria: reduction in the number of hospitalizations related to self-harm acts; reduction in the number of suicidal attempts; reduction of perceived emotional intensity levels; changes in cognitive filter scores; changes in the scores on self-report questionnaires. To identify predictors of drop-out vs completion, we analysed the following variables: demographic features (sex, marital status, school level achieved, and job status); Axis-I diagnosis; Axis-II categorical and dimensional diagnosis; and personality features. Seventeen (53%) subjects completed the treatment successfully. The drop-out rate was 47%. Patients who completed the program show a significant decrease in the number of hospitalizations, both at the end of the treatment and at 12-month follow-up. Friedman ANOVA test shows a significant decrease in suicidal attempts during and after STEPPS, and at 12-month follow-up. Analysis of drop-outs showed no significant differences with regard to sex, marital status, school level and job status between the two groups. Axis-I and Axis-II categorical diagnoses did not discriminate between the two groups. Those patients who dropped differ significantly from completers in histrionic personality traits and magical thinking index, given by the interaction between low scores in Self-Directedness and high scores in Self-Transcendence.
In the field of the early psychosis two main approaches attempt to develop rating tools, one investigating the basic symptoms domain, and the other the attenuated psychotic symptoms. To explore the relationship between basic symptoms (BSs) and other symptom domains in different phases of the psychotic illness 32 at ultra-high risk (UHR), 49 first episode schizophrenia (FES), 42 multiple episode schizophrenia (MES), and 28 generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) patients were enrolled. Participants were assessed using the SIPS/SOPS and the FCQ scales. Analyses of covariance taking into account socio-demographic and clinical variables significantly different between groups were applied to compare FCQ and SOPS scores. Finally FCQ and SOPS principal component analysis was carried out in the schizophrenia spectrum group. SOPS scores were higher in the UHR, FES and MES groups compared to the GAD control group. Concordantly, FES and MES groups had a higher number of basic symptoms in comparison with the GAD group, whereas UHR did not differ from the control group. The largest number of correlations between BSs and psychotic symptoms was found in the GAD group. According to the principal component analysis (PCA) five factors were extracted, with the BSs loading on a unique factor. Our findings imply that the boundary between psychotic and non-psychotic conditions cannot be outlined on the basis of the presence/absence of basic and psychotic symptoms.


This study aimed to investigate 1) the relationship between subjective perception of quality of life (QoL) and clinician-rated levels of psychosocial functioning and 2) the relationship of these indicators with neuropsychological performances, in a sample of 117 subjects with mood and anxiety disorders hospitalized for a 4-week psychiatric rehabilitation program. At the beginning of the hospitalization, QoL and clinician-rated functioning were respectively measured by the World Health Organization Quality of Life Assessment-Brief Form (WHOQOL-BREF) and the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scale, and subjects were administered a neuropsychological battery evaluating verbal and visual memory, working memory, attention, visual-constructive ability, language fluency and comprehension. We did not find any association between WHOQOL-BREF and GAF scores and between cognitive impairment and lower QoL or clinician-rated functioning. Our results suggest that 1) the individuals' condition encompasses different dimensions that are not fully captured by using only clinician-rated or self-administered evaluations; 2) the GAF scale seems unable to indicate the cognitive impairments of our subjects and the WHOQOL-BREF does not appear to be influenced by these deficits. Overall, our findings suggest the need of simultaneously use of multiple assessment tools, including objective evaluations of functioning and different measures of QoL, in order to obtain a more complete clinical picture of the patients. This may allow to identify more specific targets of therapeutic interventions and more reliable measures of outcome.
The present study examined the clinical correlates of insight among adults with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). One hundred and thirty treatment-seeking adults with a primary diagnosis of OCD, aged 18 to 68 years (mean 31.4 years) participated. Measures of clinical severity, obsessive-compulsive symptom dimensions, anxiety symptoms, depressive symptoms, and ability to resist and control OCD symptoms were obtained. Results indicated that poor insight was positively related to greater OCD symptom severity and poorer ability to resist and control OCD symptoms; this pattern of associations held when insight was examined continuously and categorically (i.e., high versus low insight). Insight was generally not associated with other clinical characteristics, except for a relationship with mental neutralizing behaviors. Insight did not mediate the relationship between the ability to resist and control OCD symptoms and obsessive-compulsive symptom severity. Overall, this study provides further information into the nature and role of insight in adults with OCD.
