Conditioning and learning factors are likely to play key roles in the process of addiction and in relapse to drug use. In nicotine addiction, for example, contextual cues associated with smoking can be powerful determinants of craving and relapse, even after considerable periods of abstinence. Using the detection of the immediate-early gene product, Fos, we examined which regions of the brain are activated by environmental cues associated with nicotine administration, and compared this profile to the pattern induced by cues associated with a natural reward, chocolate. In the first experiment, rats were treated with either nicotine (0.4 mg/ml/kg) or saline once per day for 10 days in a test environment distinct from their home cages. In the second experiment, rats were given access to either a bowl of chocolate chips or an empty bowl in the distinct environment for 10 days. After a 4-day interval, rats were re-introduced to the environment where they previously received either nicotine treatment or chocolate access. Nicotine-associated sensory cues elicited marked and specific activation of Fos expression in prefrontal cortical and limbic regions. Moreover, exposure to cues associated with the natural reward, chocolate, induced a pattern of gene expression that showed many similarities with that elicited by drug cues, particularly in prefrontal regions. These observations support the hypothesis that addictive drugs induce long-term neuroadaptations in brain regions subserving normal learning and memory for motivationally salient stimuli.
The nicotinic receptor proteins and gene transcripts for the different nicotinic receptor subunits exist in human prenatal brain already at 4-5 weeks of gestation. The early presence of nicotinic receptors suggests an important role for these receptors in modulating dendritic outgrowth, establishment of neuronal connections and synaptogenesis during development. When measurements of nicotinic receptors using [(3)H]epibatidine (labelling both the alpha3 and alpha4 subtype) and [(3)H]cytisine (labelling the alpha4 subtype) were performed in intact cells from the cortex, subcortical forebrain and mesencephalon (7.5-11 weeks of gestation), the highest specific binding for both ligands was detected in cells from mesencephalon, followed by subcortical forebrain and cortex. The effects of nicotine exposure were studied in primary cultures of prenatal brain (7.5-11 weeks of gestation). Treatment with nicotine (1-100 microM) for 3 days significantly increased the specific binding of [(3)H]epibatidine and [(3)H]cytisine in cortical cells but not in cells from subcortical forebrain and mesencephalon brain regions, indicating region-specific differences in the sensitivity to nicotine exposure. Relative quantification of mRNA showed that the expression of the nicotinic receptor subunits alpha3 and alpha7, but not alpha4, was increased in cortical cells after nicotine treatment. These findings support the assumption of a potential risk of disturbance in the functional role of nicotinic receptors during brain development as a consequence of maternal smoking during pregnancy.
One function of sleep is hypothesized to be the reprocessing and consolidation of memory traces (Smith, 1995; Gais et al., 2000; McGaugh, 2000; Stickgold et al., 2000). At the cellular level, neuronal reactivations during post-training sleep in animals have been observed in hippocampal (Wilson and McNaughton, 1994) and cortical (Amzica et al., 1997) neuronal populations. At the systems level, using positron emission tomography, we have recently shown that some brain areas reactivated during rapid-eye-movement sleep in human subjects previously trained on an implicit learning task (a serial reaction time task) (Maquet et al., 2000). These cortical reactivations, located in the left premotor area and bilateral cuneus, were thought to reflect the reprocessing--possibly the consolidation--of memory traces during post-training rapid-eye-movement sleep. Here, the experience-dependent functional connectivity of these brain regions is examined. It is shown that the left premotor cortex is functionally more correlated with the left posterior parietal cortex and bilateral pre-supplementary motor area during rapid-eye-movement sleep of subjects previously trained to the reaction time task compared to rapid-eye-movement sleep of untrained subjects. The increase in functional connectivity during post-training rapid-eye-movement sleep suggests that the brain areas reactivated during post-training rapid-eye-movement sleep participate in the optimization of the network that subtends subject's visuo-motor response. The optimization of this visuo-motor network during sleep could explain the gain in performance observed during the following day.
Selection line rats congenitally high or low for autotomy in the neuroma model of neuropathic pain (HA and LA rats) were found to be correspondingly high and low in a second type of neuropathic pain, the Chung model, which employs an alternative phenotypic endpoint, tactile allodynia. It has been proposed that both phenotypes reflect ectopic hyperexcitability in axotomized primary sensory neurons. To test this hypothesis we made in vitro recordings from sensory neurons in the L4 and 5 dorsal root ganglia. Baseline excitability was similar in HA and LA rats, and axotomy caused an increase in both lines. However, in the one neuronal subclass previously linked to neuropathic pain in these models the increase was significantly greater in HA than LA rats, and only at the time when pain scores in the two lines were diverging. Heritable differences in electrical response to axotomy in a specific afferent cell type appear to be a fundamental determinant of neuropathic pain.
Several types of changes have been reported to occur in dorsal root ganglia following peripheral nerve injury, including loss of neurons and increases and decreases in peptide expression. However, with regard to loss of neurons, results have not been consistent, presumably due to different quantitative methodologies employed and species analyzed. So far, most studies have been conducted on rats; however, with the fast development of the transgenic techniques, the mouse has become a standard model animal in primary sensory research. Therefore we used stereological methods to determine the number of neurons, as well as the expression of galanin message-associated peptide, a marker for galanin-expressing neurons, neuropeptide Y, and calcitonin gene-related peptide in lumbar 5 dorsal root ganglia of both control C57 BL/6J mice and in mice subjected to a 'mid-thigh' sciatic nerve transection (axotomy). In control animals the total number of lumbar 5 dorsal root ganglion neurons was about 12000. Seven days after axotomy, 24% of the dorsal root ganglion neurons were lost (P&lt;0.001), and 54% were lost 28 days after axotomy (P&lt;0.001). With regard to the percentage of peptide-expressing neurons, the results obtained showed that both galanin message-associated peptide (from &lt;1% to about 21%) and neuropeptide Y (from &lt;1% to about 16%) are upregulated, whereas calcitonin gene-related peptide is downregulated (from about 41% to about 14%) following axotomy. Results obtained with retrograde labeling of the axotomized dorsal root ganglion neurons indicate that the neuropeptide regulations may be even more pronounced, if the analysis is confined to the axotomized dorsal root ganglion neurons rather than including the entire neuron population. We also applied conventional profile-based counting methods to compare with the stereological data and, although the results were comparable considering the trends of changes following axotomy, the actual percentage obtained with the two methods differed markedly, both for neuropeptide Y- and, especially, for galanin message-associated peptide-positive neurons. These present results demonstrate that marked species differences exist with regard to the effect of nerve injury on dorsal root ganglion neurons. Thus, whereas no neuron loss is seen in rat up to 4 weeks after a 'mid-thigh' transection [Tandrup et al. (2000) J. Comp. Neurol. 422, 172-180], the present results indicate a dramatic loss already after 1 week in mouse. It is suggested that the proximity in physical distance of the lesion to the cell body is a critical factor for the survival of the target-deprived neurons. Finally, stereological methodology seems warranted when assessing the total number of neurons as well as changes in peptide regulations after axotomy in mouse.
Despite the highly integrated pattern of response evoked by peripheral chemoreceptor stimulation, limited information exists regarding the neurones within the nucleus of the solitary tract that mediate this reflex. Using a working heart-brainstem preparation, we describe evoked synaptic response patterns, some intrinsic membrane properties, location, morphology and axonal projections of physiologically characterised 'chemoreceptive' neurones located in the solitary tract nucleus in the rat. From 172 whole cell recordings, 56 neurones were identified as chemoreceptive since they responded to aortic injections of low doses of sodium cyanide (2-5 microg). Chemoreceptive neurones had a mean resting membrane potential of -52+/-1 mV and input resistance was 297+/-15 M(Omega) (n=56). Synaptic responses evoked included excitatory synaptic potentials alone, excitatory-inhibitory post-synaptic potential complexes, inhibitory synaptic potentials alone and central respiratory modulated synaptic potentials. Synaptic response latency data were obtained by stimulating electrically the solitary tract: the mean excitatory synaptic latency was 5.2+/-0.4 ms (range 2.5-8.0 ms; n=17). Chemoreceptive neurones showed a heterogeneity in their intrinsic membrane properties: neurones displayed either steady state, augmenting or adapting firing responses to depolarising current injection and, in some neurones, either delayed excitation or rebound activity following hyperpolarising pulses. Eleven chemoreceptive neurones were labelled and provided the first morphological data of these cells. Labelled somata were detected dorsomedial or medial to the solitary tract spanning the obex. Neurones typically had three to eight primary dendrites which often entered the solitary tract as well as extending across the ipsilateral region of the nucleus of the solitary tract. Axons were mostly unmyelinated with boutons of the en passant variety and often ramified within the solitary tract nucleus as well as coursed towards the ipsilateral ventral medulla. In summary, this study provides new data on the neurophysiological, anatomical and morphological properties of nucleus of the solitary tract neurones responding to arterial chemoreceptors in the rat.
A cortico-subcortico-cerebellar neural circuit has been postulated to be important in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. This study investigated whether there are synaptic changes in the cerebellum to accompany its putative involvement in the disorder. We measured the expression of three synaptic proteins (synaptophysin, complexin I and complexin II) in the cerebellar cortex of 16 subjects with schizophrenia and 16 controls using in situ hybridisation histochemistry and immunoautoradiography. Complexin I and II are expressed predominantly by inhibitory and excitatory neurones respectively. In schizophrenia, synaptophysin mRNA was decreased, as was complexin II and its mRNA. Complexin I mRNA and protein levels were unaltered. Expression of the mRNAs in the rat cerebellum was unaffected by 2 weeks administration of antipsychotic drugs (haloperidol, chlorpromazine, risperidone, olanzapine or clozapine). We conclude that there is synaptic pathology in the cerebellum in schizophrenia. By disrupting neural circuits, the alterations may contribute to the cerebellar dysfunction thought to occur in the disorder.
The present study was designed to investigate the motivational effects of the newly discovered endogenous mu-opioid receptor ligands, endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2, using the conditioned place preference paradigm in mice. The binding properties of these peptides were first examined using an opioid binding assay. In membranes obtained from the mouse whole brain, the binding of [3H][D-Ala2, NMePhe4, Gly(ol)5]enkephalin (DAMGO; mu), but not of [3H][D-Phe2, D-Phe5]enkephalin (DPDPE; delta) or [3H]U69593 (kappa) selectively and concentration-dependently competed with that of endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2, indicating that both endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 are specific ligands for mu-opioid receptors in the brain. Endomorphin-1 (1-30 nmol/mouse) given i.c.v. produced a dose-related place preference. This effect was abolished by pre-treatment with the mu-opioid receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine but not the delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole or the kappa-opioid receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine. In contrast, endomorphin-2 (5.6 nmol/mouse) produced place aversion. This aversive effect was inhibited by nor-binaltorphimine as well as beta-funaltrexamine, but not by naltrindole. The place aversion produced by endomorphin-2 was also attenuated by pre-treatment with antiserum against the endogenous kappa-opioid receptor ligand dynorphin A (1-17). These findings indicate that endomorphin-1 may produce its rewarding effect via mu-opioid receptors. On the other hand, the aversive effect induced by endomorphin-2 may be associated with the stimulation of endomorphin-1-insensitive mu-opioid receptors and the activation of dynorphinergic systems in the mouse brain.
GABAergic inhibition of the substantia nigra pars reticulata has been shown to suppress seizures in most models of epilepsy involving forebrain networks, such as absences or clonic seizures. No such antiepileptic effects were observed, however, in genetically audiogenic rats exhibiting tonic seizures generated in the brainstem. This suggests a constitutive dysfunction of the nigral GABAergic neurotransmission in this strain of rat or a selective action of the nigral control on specific networks. In the present study, we first confirmed that bilateral injection of muscimol (700 pmol/side) in the substantia nigra had no effect in Wistar rats with audiogenic seizures (Wistar AS). [3H]Muscimol autoradiography suggested a 40% reduced density of GABA(A) receptors in the substantia nigra of Wistar AS, whereas no change was observed in the cortex and the superior colliculus (superficial and intermediate layers), as compared to control animals. In Wistar AS where 40 repetitions of audiogenic stimulations progressively induced generalised convulsive seizures with both tonic and clonic components, bilateral injection of muscimol (350 pmol/side) in the substantia nigra suppressed the clonic component but had no effect on tonic seizures. In hybrid rats issued from cross-breeding between Wistar AS and rats with spontaneous absence seizures, bilateral injection of muscimol (18 pmol/side) in the substantia nigra abolished cortical spike-and-wave discharges, but had no effect on tonic audiogenic seizures at doses up to 700 pmol/side. These results show that despite a decreased number of GABA(A) receptors in the substantia nigra, inhibition of this structure in Wistar AS still leads to inhibition of seizures involving forebrain structures. These results confirm that GABAergic inhibition of the substantia nigra has antiepileptic effects through the control of forebrain circuits. They suggest that this control mechanism has no inhibitory effect on circuits underlying audiogenic tonic seizures.
In humans with absence epilepsy, spike-and-wave discharges develop in the thalamocortical system during quiet immobile wakefulness or drowsiness. The present study examined the initial stage of the spontaneous development of spike-and-wave discharges in Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats from Strasbourg. Bilateral electrocorticograms were recorded in epileptic and non-epileptic rats under freely moving and undrugged conditions and under neuroleptanalgesia. Short-lasting episodes of medium-voltage 5-9-Hz (mean=6-Hz) oscillations usually emerged spontaneously from a desynchronized electrocorticogram and in bilateral synchrony in both rat strains. These oscillations were distinguishable from sleep spindles regarding their internal frequency, duration, morphology, and moment of occurrence. Spontaneous spike-and-wave discharges developed from such synchronized medium-voltage oscillations, the spike-and-wave complex occurring at the same frequency as the 5-9-Hz wave. Because the thalamus is thought to play a significant role in the generation of spike-and-wave discharges, dual extracellular recording and juxtacellular labelling of relay and reticular neurons were conducted to study the thalamic cellular mechanisms associated with the generation of spike-and-wave discharges. During medium-voltage 5-9-Hz oscillations, discharges of relay and reticular cells had identical patterns in epileptic and non-epileptic rats, consisting of occasional single action potentials and/or bursts (interburst frequency of up to 6-8 Hz) in relay cells, and of rhythmic bursts (up to 12-15 Hz) in reticular neurons, these discharging in the burst mode almost always before relay neurons. The discharge frequency of reticular bursts decelerated to 6 Hz by the beginning of the spike-and-wave discharges. During these, relay and reticular neurons usually fired in synchrony a single action potential or a high-frequency burst of two or three action potentials and a high-frequency burst, respectively, about 12 ms before the spike component of the spike-and-wave complexes. The frequency of these corresponded to the maximal frequency of the thalamocortical burst discharges associated with 5-9-Hz oscillations. The patterns of relay and reticular phasic cellular firings associated with spike-and-wave discharges had temporal characteristics similar to those associated with medium-voltage 5-9-Hz oscillations, suggesting that these normal and epileptic oscillations are underlain by similar thalamic cellular mechanisms. In conclusion, medium-voltage 5-9-Hz oscillations in the thalamocortical loop give rise to spike-and-wave discharges. Such oscillations are not themselves sufficient to initiate spike-and-wave discharges, meaning that genetic factors render thalamocortical networks prone to generate epileptic electrical activity, possibly by decreasing the excitability threshold in reticular cells. While these GABAergic neurons play a key role in the synchronization of glutamatergic relay neurons during seizures, relay cells may participate significantly in the regulation of the recurrence of the spike-and-wave complex. Furthermore, it is very likely that synchronization of relay and reticular cellular discharges during absence seizures is generated in part by corticothalamic inputs.
Sensory processing disturbances, as measured in the P50/sensory gating paradigm, have been linked to aberrant auditory information processing and sensory overload in schizophrenic patients. In this paradigm, the response to the second of paired-click stimuli is attenuated by an inhibitory effect of the first stimulus. Sensory gating has been observed in most healthy human subjects and normal laboratory rats. Because mesolimbic dopamine has been implicated in other filtering disturbances such as prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response and given the fact that amphetamine and apomorphine have been shown to disrupt gating, this study was performed to investigate the role of mesolimbic dopamine in sensory gating. The dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole (10 microg/0.5 microl) was injected bilaterally in nucleus accumbens core and shell and effects on cortical and hippocampal sensory gating were investigated. Also, effects of the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg, subcutaneously) as pretreatment were studied. First, quinpirole significantly reduced both the amplitude to the first click and gating as measured in the cortex and in the hippocampus. There was a tendency for the quinpirole effects on hippocampal gating to be more pronounced in rats injected in the shell. Secondly, haloperidol did not antagonize effects of quinpirole on hippocampal parameters, whereas haloperidol pretreatment fully antagonized quinpirole effects on cortical parameters. In conclusion, gating can be significantly reduced when a dopamine agonist is specifically targeted at mesolimbic dopamine D2 receptors. However, an important consideration is that the dopaminergic effects in the present study on gating are predominantly mediated by the effects on the amplitude to the first click. This has also been suggested for systemic amphetamine injections in rats and schizophrenic patients. This casts doubt on whether dopamine receptor activation affects the putative inhibitory process between the first and the second stimulus.
The 3-nitropropionic acid animal model is a model where excitotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress, mechanisms common to various neurodegenerative diseases, are involved. The present study investigated whether behavioural alterations in this model were related to striatal damage. Wistar and Lewis rats were exposed to 3-nitropropionic acid and their behavioural performance (open field, walking pattern and Morris Water Maze task) was tested after the injections and after a recovery period of 3 weeks. No changes in activity were found in the open field test. Altered walking pattern was observed in the footprint analysis, although a different response was observed in the Wistar rats compared to the Lewis rats. Initially increased latency times were observed during visual discrimination learning in the Morris Water Maze task in 3-nitropropionic acid-treated Wistar rats compared to Wistar controls. During spatial discrimination learning (invisible platform) in the Morris Water Maze task the swimming velocity was decreased in both rat strains as a result of 3-nitropropionic acid treatment. Increased striatal glial fibrillary acidic protein concentration in Wistar rats correlated with several parameters of the footprint analysis and with the latency and distance in visual as well as spatial discrimination learning in the Morris Water Maze. It is concluded that measurement of walking pattern and spatial orientation performance are sensitive indicators to monitor behavioural changes in relation to striatal degeneration in the 3-nitropropionic acid animal model. In addition, Lewis rats are less sensitive towards 3-nitropropionic acid treatment than Wistar rats.
Spiny neurons in neostriatum are vulnerable to cerebral ischemia. To reveal the mechanisms underlying the postischemic neuronal damage, the spontaneous activities, evoked postsynaptic potentials and membrane properties of spiny neurons in rat neostriatum were compared before and after transient forebrain ischemia using intracellular recording and staining techniques in vivo. In control animals the membrane properties of spiny neurons were about the same between the left and right neostriatum but the inhibitory synaptic transmission was stronger in the left striatum. After severe ischemia, the spontaneous firing and membrane potential fluctuation of spiny neurons dramatically reduced. The cortically evoked initial excitatory postsynaptic potentials were suppressed after ischemia indicated by the increase of stimulus threshold and the rise time of these components. The paired-pulse facilitation test indicated that such suppression might involve presynaptic mechanisms. The inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in spiny neurons were completely abolished after ischemia and never returned to the control levels. A late depolarizing postsynaptic potential that was elicited from approximately 5% of the control neurons by cortical stimulation could be evoked from approximately 30% of the neurons in the left striatum and approximately 50% in the right striatum after ischemia. The late depolarizing postsynaptic potential could not be induced after acute thalamic transection. The intrinsic excitability of spiny neurons was suppressed after ischemia evidenced by the significant increase of spike threshold and rheobase as well as the decrease of repetitive firing rate following ischemia. The membrane input resistance and time constant increased within 6 h following ischemia and the amplitude of fast afterhyperpolarization significantly increased after ischemia. These results indicate the depression of excitatory monosynaptic transmission, inhibitory synaptic transmission and excitability of spiny neurons after transient forebrain ischemia whereas the excitatory polysynaptic transmission in neostriatum was potentiated. The facilitation of excitatory polysynaptic transmission is stronger in the right neostriatum than in the left neostriatum after ischemia. The suppression of inhibitory component and the facilitation of excitatory polysynaptic transmission may contribute to the pathogenesis of neuronal injury in neostriatum after transient cerebral ischemia.
We investigated the pathophysiological mechanisms of glutamate-induced delayed neuronal damage in rat hippocampal slice cultures [Stoppini et al. (1991) J. Neurosci. Methods 37, 173-182], with propidium iodide as a marker of cell death. Exposure of the cultures to growth medium containing 10 mM glutamate for 30 min resulted in a slowly developing degeneration of hippocampal principal cells, starting from the medial end of the CA1 region and reaching the dentate gyrus by 48 h. By 24 h, most pyramidal cells in CA1 were damaged. An acute phase of degeneration preceded the delayed damage at 2-6 h, affecting cells in a spatially diffuse manner. When tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM) was present during the glutamate insult, a marked protection (mean 57%, P&lt;0.001) of the CA1 damage was observed. Rather strikingly, when tetrodotoxin was applied immediately following or even with a delay of 30 min after the insult, a similar amount of protection was achieved. In field recordings carried out after the insult, the glutamate-treated slices exhibited spontaneously occurring negative shifts with a duration of 1-10 s and an amplitude of up to 400 microV in the CA3 region, whereas the control slices were always quiescent. Taken together, the results suggest that post-insult neuronal network activity, rather than the direct action of exogenous glutamate, is a major cause of delayed CA1 pyramidal cell death in the organotypic slices. These observations may have implications in the design of neuroprotective strategies for the treatment of brain traumas which are accompanied by delayed and/or distal neuronal damage.
Understanding the mechanisms that influence the initiation of action potentials in single neurons is an important step in determining the way information is processed by neural networks. Therefore, we have investigated the properties of action potential thresholds for hippocampal neurons using in vivo intracellular recording methods in Sprague-Dawley rats. The use of in vivo recording has the advantage of the presence of naturally occurring spatio-temporal patterns of synaptic activity which lead to action potential initiation. We have found there is a large variability in the threshold voltage (5.7+/-1.7 mV; n=22) of individual action potentials. We have identified two separate factors that contribute to this variation in threshold: (1) fast rates of membrane potential change prior to the action potential are associated with more hyperpolarized thresholds (increased excitability) and (2) the occurrence of other action potentials in the 1 s prior to any given action potential is associated with more depolarized thresholds (decreased excitability). We suggest that prior action potentials cause sodium channel inactivation that recovers with approximately a 1-s time constant and thus depresses action potential threshold during this period.
Status epilepticus (SE) was induced in the rat by long-lasting electrical stimulation of the hippocampus. After a latent period of 1 week, spontaneous seizures occurred which increased in frequency and severity in the following weeks, finally culminating after 3 months in a chronic epileptic state. In these animals we determined the properties of voltage-dependent sodium currents in acutely isolated CA1 pyramidal neurones and dentate granule cells using the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique. The conductance of the fast transient sodium current was larger in SE rats (84+/-7 nS versus 56+/-6 nS) but related to a difference in cell size so that the neurones had a similar specific sodium conductance (control: 7.8+/-0.8 nS/pF, SE: 6.7+/-0.8 nS/pF). Current activation and inactivation were characterised by a Boltzmann function. After SE the voltage dependence of activation was shifted to more negative potentials (control: -45.1+/-1.4 mV, SE: -51.5+/-2.9 mV, P&lt;0.05). In combination with a small shift in the voltage dependence of inactivation to more depolarised potentials (control: -68.8+/-2.3 mV, SE: -66.3+/-2.3 mV), it resulted in a window current that was much increased in the SE neurones (median: 64 pA in control, 217 pA in SE, P&lt;0.05). The peak of this window current shifted to more hyperpolarised potentials (control: -44 mV, SE: -50 mV, P&lt;0.05). No differences were found in the sodium currents analysed in dentate granule cells of control and SE animals. The changes observed in CA1 neurones after SE contribute to enhanced excitability in particular when membrane potential is near firing threshold. They can, at least partly, explain the lower threshold for epileptic activity in SE animals. The comparison of CA1 with DG neurones in the same rats demonstrates a differential response in the two cell types that participated in very similar seizure activity.
We have utilised laser confocal microscopy to categorise beta-amyloid plaque types that are associated with preclinical and end-stage Alzheimer's disease and to define the neurochemistry of dystrophic neurites associated with various forms of plaques. Plaques with a spherical profile were defined as either diffuse, fibrillar or dense-cored using Thioflavin S staining or immunolabelling for beta-amyloid. Confocal analysis demonstrated that fibrillar plaques had a central mass of beta-amyloid with compact spoke-like extensions leading to a confluent outer rim. Dense-cored plaques had a compacted central mass surrounded by an outer sphere of beta-amyloid. Diffuse plaques lacked a morphologically identifiable substructure, resembling a ball of homogeneous labelling. The relative proportion of diffuse, fibrillar and dense-cored plaques was 53, 22 and 25% in preclinical and 31, 49 and 20% in end-stage Alzheimer's disease cases, respectively. Plaque-associated dystrophic neurites in preclinical cases were immunolabeled for neurofilament proteins whereas, in end-stage cases, these abnormal neurites were variably labelled for tau and/or neurofilaments. Double labelling demonstrated that the proportion of diffuse, fibrillar and dense-cored plaques that were neuritic was 12, 47 and 82% and 24, 82 and 76% in preclinical and end-stage cases, respectively. Most dystrophic neurites in Alzheimer's disease cases were labelled for either neurofilaments or tau, however, confocal analysis determined that 30% of neurofilament-labelled bulb-like or elongated neurites had a core of tau immunoreactivity. These results indicate that all morphologically defined beta-amyloid plaque variants were present in both early and late stages of Alzheimer's disease. However, progression to clinical dementia was associated with both a shift to a higher proportion of fibrillar plaques that induced local neuritic alterations and a transformation of cytoskeletal proteins within associated abnormal neuronal processes. There data indicate key pathological changes that may be subject to therapeutic intervention to slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease.
In cholinergic nerve terminals, Na(+)- and Cl(-)-dependent, hemicholinium-3-sensitive, high-affinity choline uptake is thought to be the rate-limiting step in acetylcholine synthesis. The high-affinity choline transporter cDNA responsible for the activity was recently cloned. Here we report production of a highly specific antibody to the high-affinity choline transporter and distribution of the protein in the CNS of the rat. The antibody stained almost all known cholinergic neurons and their terminal fields. High-affinity choline transporter-immunoreactive cell bodies were demonstrated in the olfactory tubercle, basal forebrain complex, striatum, mesopontine complex, medial habenula, cranial nerve motor nuclei, and ventral horn and intermediate zone of the spinal cord. Noticeably, high densities of high-affinity choline transporter-positive axonal fibers and puncta were encountered in many brain regions such as cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, striatum, several thalamic nuclei, and brainstem. Transection of the hypoglossal nerve resulted in a loss of high-affinity choline transporter immunoreactivity in neurons within the ipsilateral hypoglossal motor nucleus, which paralleled a loss of immunoreactivity to choline acetyltransferase. The antibody also stained brain sections from human and mouse, suggesting cross-reactivity. These results confirm that the high-affinity choline transporter is uniquely expressed in cholinergic neurons and is efficiently transported to axon terminals. The antibody will be useful to investigate possible changes in cholinergic cell bodies and axon terminals in human and rodents under various pathological conditions.
Nitric oxide can promote or inhibit apoptosis depending on the cell type and coexisting metabolic or experimental conditions. We examined the impact of nitric oxide on development of apoptosis 6, 24, and 72 h after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in mutant mice that lack the ability to generate nitric oxide from neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Adjacent coronal sections passing through the anterior commissure were stained with hematoxylin and eosin or terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL). Immunoblotting was used to identify changes in the anti- and proapoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and Bax, respectively. Activation of caspases was assessed by appearance of actin cleavage products using a novel antiserum directed against 32-kDa actin fragment (fractin). In the neuronal nitric oxide synthase mutant mouse, infarct size and TUNEL positive apoptotic neurons were reduced compared to the wild-type controls. At 6 h, Bcl-2 levels in the ischemic hemisphere were increased in mutants but decreased in the wild-type strain. Bax levels did not change significantly. Caspase-mediated actin cleavage appeared in the ischemic hemisphere at this time point, and was significantly less in mutant brains at 72 h compared to the wild-type. The reduction in the number of TUNEL and fractin positive apoptotic cells appears far greater than anticipated based on the smaller lesion size in mutant mice.Hence, from these data we suggest that a deficiency in neuronal nitric oxide production slows the development of apoptotic cell death after ischemic injury and is associated with preserved Bcl-2 levels and delayed activation of effector caspases.
Whole cell voltage clamp recording was used to investigate neurotransmitter release onto neurones in deep and superficial layers of rat entorhinal cortex in vitro. Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors with the agonist (1S,3R,4S)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,2,4-tricarboxylic acid depressed spontaneous release of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA in layer V, but not in layer II. Depression of transmitter release did not persist in the presence of the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin. It seems likely that activation of presynaptic glutamate heteroreceptors inhibits action potential dependent release of neurotransmitter via a direct action at the presynaptic terminal. We confirmed that depression of inhibitory neurotransmission in layer V was mediated by group III metabotropic glutamate receptors using a specific group III antagonist, (RS)-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine. Application of the antagonist alone did not alter the frequency of spontaneous neurotransmitter release, suggesting that the metabotropic glutamate receptor is not tonically active. In layer V of the entorhinal cortex, activation of presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors enhances spontaneous glutamate release, and inhibits spontaneous release of GABA. These effects may combine to increase random action potential firing in this layer, thereby reducing its capacity for synchrony generation. Our results are consistent with an anticonvulsant action for group III metabotropic glutamate receptors in the entorhinal cortex.
Serotonin induces 'spontaneous' (non-electrically evoked) excitatory postsynaptic currents in layer V pyramidal neurons in the prefrontal cortex. This is likely due to a serotonin2A receptor-mediated focal release of glutamate onto apical dendrites. In addition, activation of the serotonin2A receptor selectively enhances late components of electrically evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents. In this study, using in vitro intracellular and whole-cell recording in rat brain slices, we examined the role of adenosine in modulating serotonin2A-enhanced 'spontaneous' and electrically evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents in layer V pyramidal neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex. Adenosine and N6-cyclopentyladenosine, an A1 adenosine agonist, markedly suppressed the serotonin2A-induced ('spontaneous') excitatory postsynaptic currents. However, adenosine had no effect on spontaneous miniature (tetrodotoxin-insensitive) postsynaptic potentials. Adenosine also blocked the late excitatory postsynaptic currents induced by the serotonin2A/2C agonist R(-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrochloride. Surprisingly, in contrast to other regions, adenosine had a relatively small effect on electrically evoked fast excitatory postsynaptic currents. These findings represent a novel demonstration of adenosine's ability to preferentially modulate serotonin2A-mediated synaptic events in the medial prefrontal cortex. As the serotonin2A receptor is closely linked with the effects of atypical antipsychotics and hallucinogens, further understanding of the modulators of this receptor such as adenosine may provide useful therapeutic applications.
Pentraxin 3, a prototypic long pentraxin, is induced by proinflammatory signals in the brain. Inflammatory cytokines are rapidly induced in glia by epileptic activity. We show that pentraxin 3 immunoreactivity and mRNA are enhanced in the rat forebrain above undetectable control levels by limbic seizures with a dual pattern of induction. Within 6 h from seizure onset, pentraxin 3 immunoreactivity was increased in astrocytes. Eighteen to 48 h later, specific neuronal populations and leucocytes were strongly immunoreactive only in areas of neurodegeneration. This staining was abolished when neuronal cell loss, but not seizures, was prevented by blocking N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Pentraxin 3 -/- mice had a more widespread seizure-related neuronal damage in the forebrain than their wild-type littermates although both groups had similar epileptic activity. Our results provide evidence that pentraxin 3 is synthesized in brain after seizures and may exert a protective role in seizure-induced neurodegeneration.
Progenitor cells in the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle and in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus can proliferate throughout the life of the animal. To examine the proliferation and fate of progenitor cells in the subventricular zone and dentate gyrus after focal cerebral ischemia, we measured the temporal and spatial profiles of proliferation of cells and the phenotypic fate of proliferating cells in ischemic brain in a model of embolic middle cerebral artery occlusion in the adult rat. Proliferating cells were labeled by injection of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) in a pulse or a cumulative protocol. To determine the temporal profile of proliferating cells, ischemic rats were injected with BrdU every 4 h for 12 h on the day preceding death. Rats were killed 2-14 days after ischemia. We observed significant increases in numbers of proliferating cells in the ipsilateral cortex and subventricular zone 2-14 days with a peak at 7 days after ischemia compared with the control group. To maximize labeling of proliferating cells, a single daily injection of BrdU was administered over a 14-day period starting the day after ischemia. Rats were killed either 2 h or 28 days after the last injection of BrdU. A significant increase in numbers of BrdU immunoreactive cells in the subventricular zone was coincident with a significant increase in numbers of BrdU immunoreactive cells in the olfactory bulb 14 days after ischemia and numbers of BrdU immunoreactive cells did not significantly increase in the dentate gyrus. However, 28 days after the last labeling, the number of BrdU labeled cells decreased by 90% compared with number at 14 days. Clusters of BrdU labeled cells were present in the cortex distal to the infarction. Numerous cells immunostained for the polysialylated form of the neuronal cell adhesion molecule were detected in the ipsilateral subventricular zone. Only 6% of BrdU labeled cells exhibited glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity in the cortex and subcortex and no BrdU labeled cells expressed neuronal protein markers (neural nuclear protein and microtubule associated protein-2). From these data we suggest that focal cerebral ischemia induces transient and regional specific increases in cell proliferation in the ipsilateral hemisphere and that proliferating progenitor cells may exist in the adult cortex.
Much of our understanding of the visuotopic organization of striate cortex results from single-electrode penetrations and serial recording of receptive field properties. However, the quality of these maps is limited by imprecision in quantifying electrode position, combining data from multiple laminae, and eye drift during the measurement of the receptive field properties. We have addressed these concerns by using an array of 100 closely spaced microelectrodes to investigate the two-dimensional visuotopic organization of layer IV in cat striate cortex. This array allowed simultaneous measurement of the receptive field properties of multiple single units on a regularly spaced grid. We found the relationship between cortical and visual space to be locally non-conformal: the receptive field locations associated with a closely spaced line of electrodes appeared randomly scattered in visual space. To quantify the scatter, we fitted a linear transformation of electrode sites onto the associated receptive field locations. We found that the distribution of the difference between the predicted receptive field location and the measured location had standard deviations of 0.59 degrees and 0.45 degrees in the horizontal and the vertical axes, respectively. Although individual receptive field positions differed from the predicted locations in a non-conformal sense, the trend across multiple receptive fields followed the maps described elsewhere. We found, on average, that the 13 mm2 of cortex sampled by the array mapped onto a 5.8-degrees) region of visual space. From the scaling of this map and a combination of the statistics of the receptive field size (2.7+/-1.5 degrees) and scatter, we have explored the impact of electrode spacing on the completeness and redundancy in coverage of visual space sampled by an array. The simulation indicated an array with 1.2-mm spacing would completely sample the region of visual space addressed by the array. These results have implications for neuroprosthetic applications. Assuming phosphene organization resembles the visuotopic organization, remapping of visual space may be necessary to accommodate the scatter in phosphene locations.
Conservation of the order in which events occur in developing mammalian brains permits use of regression theory to model the timing of neural development. Following a small adjustment to account for a systematic variability in primate cortical and limbic systems, the model is used to generate a 95-event/nine-species matrix that predicts aspects of neurogenesis and axonal outgrowth in the brains of developing mice, hamsters, rats, spiny mice, rabbits, ferrets, cats, monkeys, and humans. Although data are compiled from species in which the timing of birth and the rate of maturation vary widely, the model proves statistically accurate, with practical implications for improving estimation of milestones of neural development, particularly for humans. Using the three-factor model (species, neural events, and primate adjustments), we produce predictions for the timing of 493 neural occurrences in developing mammalian brains that either have not yet been, or cannot be, empirically derived. We also relate the timing of neural events across the nine species in the form of a reference table calibrated to the development of laboratory rats. This 'translation' table will assist in attempts to equate the neurodevelopmental literature across species with either large or small differences in gestation and maturation, and also permit studies done in a variety of mammals to be applied to better understand human development. The comparative data indicate that humans, although conventionally considered an altricial species, are neurally advanced at birth relative to the other species studied.
The vestibular inner ear detects head acceleration and initiates compensatory eye movement and postural reflexes that help keep the visual image of the world stable on the retina, and maintain balance, during unexpected head movement. The most primitive vestibular systems are estimated to have evolved more than 500 million years ago and in mammalian and submammalian species the vestibular reflexes are mediated by basic brainstem pathways (see Wilson and Melvill Jones, 1979 for review). Although the contributions of the vestibular system to higher cognitive function have generally received less attention than its reflexive roles, vestibular sensory information is transmitted to higher centres in the brain and humans with vestibular damage are known to experience debilitating perceptual illusions (see Curthoys and Halmagyi, 1995; Berthoz, 1996 for reviews). Increasing behavioural and neurophysiological evidence suggests that the hippocampus uses information from the vestibular inner ear in order to build up maps of space that can be used in the development of spatial memory during learning tasks (McNaughton et al., 1991; Chapuis et al., 1992; Wiener and Berthoz, 1993; O'Mara et al., 1994; Wiener et al., 1995; Gavrilov et al., 1995; Stackman and Taube, 1996; Vitte et al., 1996; Taube et al., 1996; Save et al., 1998; Peruch et al., 1999; Cuthbert et al., 2000; Russell et al., 2000). However, to date, there has been no indication of the long-term neurochemical effects of the loss of vestibular input on hippocampal function. Since nitric oxide has been implicated in the mechanisms of hippocampal synaptic plasticity associated with the development of short-term memory (e.g. Schuman and Madison, 1991; Schuman et al., 1994; Arancio et al., 1996; Wu et al., 1997; Lu et al., 1999), we examined whether changes occur in the activity and expression of the enzymes responsible for nitric oxide production (nitric oxide synthases) in subregions of the rat hippocampus at different times following unilateral peripheral vestibular lesions, using western blotting and radioenzymatic assays. We found a decreased expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in the ipsilateral dentate gyrus at 2 weeks following the vestibular damage and not before, that may be related to the long-term effects of the loss of vestibular input on hippocampal function. These results support the hypothesis that head movement and position information derived from the vestibular inner ear may be important for the normal function of the hippocampus.
The effects of acute application of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) on levels of intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)]i) and on whole-cell outward and inward K(+) currents were studied in cultured human microglia. TNFalpha elicited a linear increase in [Ca(2+)]i to a plateau level in microglia bathed in either standard physiological saline solution or Ca(2+)-free physiological saline solution. The rate of increase of [Ca(2+)]i or the level of [Ca(2+)]i attained was not significantly altered in the absence of external Ca(2+) indicating that Ca(2+) influx did not contribute appreciably to the cytokine-induced rise in [Ca(2+)]i. This point was directly confirmed using Mn(2+) quenching where no change in signal fluorescence was observed with TNFalpha treatment of microglia in Ca(2+)-free physiological saline solution. The rate of increase of [Ca(2+)]i induced by TNFalpha in Ca(2+)-free physiological saline solution was not altered by prior application of ATP to deplete inositol triphosphate stores indicating that these stores did not contribute to the cytokine response. In whole-cell patch clamp recordings, the acute treatment of human microglia with TNFalpha led to the expression of an outward K(+) current in one-third (14 of 41) of cells. This current was activated at potentials positive to -30 mV, showed rapid kinetics of activation with no evident inactivation and had an I-V relation exhibiting outward rectification. Analysis of tail currents showed reversal of the outward K(+) current near -70 mV and tetraethylammonium (10 mM) inhibited the outward K(+) current to 24% of control level. Acute application of TNFalpha had no effect to alter inward rectifier currents generated from voltage ramps. The signaling pathways involving TNFalpha modulation of [Ca(2+)]i and K(+) channels in human microglia may contribute to functional and pathological actions of the cytokine in the brain.
Nitric oxide has various actions, acting in a neurotransmitter-like role and also as a paracrine messenger between vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cells. This study was done to determine whether endogenous nitric oxide has a role in modulating evoked catecholamine release from the canine adrenal medulla. Isolated adrenal glands were perfused with Krebs-Ringer solution as a control, or with Krebs-Ringer solution containing either N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA; 3x10(-4) M) to non-selectively inhibit nitric oxide synthase or 7-nitroindazole (10(-4) M), a relatively selective inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Catecholamine release was evoked using the nicotinic cholinergic agonist 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodine. From the collected perfusate epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine were measured by high performance liquid chromatography. Previous studies have shown that in the presence of L-NMMA, basal releases of epinephrine, norepinephrine and dopamine are increased. 7-Nitroindazole had no effect on basal catecholamine release, suggesting that nitric oxide from an endothelial source was responsible for the inhibition of basal catecholamine release from the adrenal medulla. Epinephrine and norepinephrine releases were augmented when either of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitors was added during submaximal nicotinic stimulation, indicating that endogenous nitric oxide inhibited release of epinephrine and norepinephrine. Both neuronal and endothelial nitric oxide synthases appeared to be responsible for this inhibition. In summary, these studies suggest that nitric oxide, from both neuronal and endothelial sources, modulates evoked catecholamine release from canine adrenal medulla, while nitric oxide from an endothelial source is most likely responsible for modulation of catecholamine release under basal conditions.
The effects of the dihydropyridine Ca(2+) channel antagonist nimodipine and the protein kinase C inhibitors staurosporine and calphostin C on the changes in the electrophysiological indices of quantal acetylcholine release induced by a 4-beta-phorbol ester were studied at the frog neuromuscular junction. 4-beta-Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (200 nM) caused an increase in the frequency of miniature endplate potentials and miniature endplate currents and in the quantal content of endplate potentials and endplate currents. These effects were not replicated by 4-alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate (200 nM). Nimodipine (1 microM) itself had no effect on the frequency of miniature endplate potentials and miniature endplate currents and it had no effect on the quantal content. Nimodipine inhibited by 83-98% the increase in these parameters induced by 4-beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. The increase in the frequency of miniature endplate potentials and currents caused by KCl (12 mM) matched the increase caused by 20 min exposure to 4-beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. Nimodipine did not reduce the increase in frequency caused by KCl. Unlike 4-beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, KCl (12 mM) prevented neuromuscular transmission. The effects of prior exposure of muscles to staurosporine (5 microM) on 4-beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate-induced increases in quantal acetylcholine release were inconsistent. In some pretreated fibres, 4-beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate caused increases in miniature endplate potential frequency and quantal content which were as great as the largest values encountered in fibres that had not been pretreated. In others, 4-beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate did not have a marked effect; the frequency of the spontaneous potentials and the quantal content of endplate potentials recorded in the presence of 4-beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate were sometimes less than their respective control values. Pretreatment with calphostin C (500 nM) was more consistent; it prevented by 93-100% the 4-beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate-induced increases in the frequency of miniature endplate potentials and quantal content.Overall, from these results we suggest that activation of protein kinase C increases quantal acetylcholine release by opening quiescent L-type Ca(2+) channels in motor nerve terminals at resting potential and apparently not by depolarisation.
Using extracellular single unit recording, either alone or in combination with microdialysis application of drugs, we examined the characteristics of presumed serotonergic dorsal raphe neurons during wake-sleep states in the freely moving cat. Recordings were made from a total of 272 neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Of these, 240 (88%) were classified as serotonergic on the basis of their typical long-duration action potential, slow discharge activity, and reduced spontaneous discharge rate during paradoxical sleep compared to during slow-wave sleep. An inhibitory response to serotonergic agonists and a slow conduction velocity were seen in all neurons of this type tested or identified by stimulation of the main ascending serotonergic pathway. These presumed serotonergic dorsal raphe neurons could be subdivided into two typical previously identified groups (types I-A and I-B) and four atypical new groups (types I-C, II-A, II-B, and II-C) according to differences in firing patterns during wake-sleep states. The typical neurons were evenly distributed in the dorsal raphe nucleus and their activity was related to the level of behavioral arousal, since they discharged regularly at a high rate during waking and at progressively slower rates during slow-wave sleep, and ceased firing either during slow-wave sleep with ponto-geniculo-occipital waves and paradoxical sleep (type I-A) or only during paradoxical sleep (type I-B). In contrast, the atypical subgroups were unevenly distributed in the dorsal raphe nucleus and exhibited firing patterns distinct from those of the typical neurons, such as sustained tonic activity during paradoxical sleep (types I-C and II-C) or showing their highest rate of tonic discharge during slow-wave sleep, with suppression of discharge during both waking and paradoxical sleep (type II-B). From these data we suggest that presumed serotonergic dorsal raphe neurons play different roles in behavioral state control and that there is functional topographic organization in the dorsal raphe nucleus.
The unipolar brush cells are excitatory, cerebellar granular layer interneurons that receive mossy fiber input on their dendritic brushes in the form of a giant glutamatergic synapse. We investigated the postnatal development of the brush of the unipolar brush cell in lobules IX and X by light microscopy and defined the maturation of mossy fiber-unipolar brush cell synapses and mossy fiber-granule cell synapses by electron microscopy using calretinin immunocytochemistry to identify unipolar brush cells. During the first postnatal week, unipolar brush cells possessed one or two short, branched dendrites. The brush differentiated primarily during the successive 21 postnatal (P) days, during which it underwent progressive maturation. This developmental process was subdivided into stages 1-4, which were descriptively termed protodendritic unipolar brush cell (P2-12), filopodial brush (P12-16), intermediate brush (P16-21), and dendriolar brush (P21-28) stages. Electron microscopic measurements of individual mossy fiber-unipolar brush cell and mossy fiber-granule cell synaptic junctions were made at P12, 16, 21, and 28. While the average length of mossy fiber-unipolar brush cell synapses increased during development, that of mossy fiber-granule cell synapses decreased. Comparisons of the lengths of mossy fiber-unipolar brush cell and mossy fiber-granule cell synapses demonstrated that mossy fiber-unipolar brush cell synapses were longer on average than mossy fiber-granule cell synapses for all ages. Frequency distribution histograms also showed that the percentage of mossy fiber-unipolar brush cell synapses longer than 0.5 microm was lower in the pooled P12-P16 groups than in the pooled P21-P28 groups (8 versus 20%). In contrast, mossy fiber-granule cell synapses longer than 0.5 microm were a small minority at P12, 16, and 21, and occurred rarely at P28. The present study indicates that mossy fiber-unipolar brush cell synapses increase in length with the differentiation of the brush dendrioles, while that of mossy fiber-granule cell synapses decrease with differentiation of the granule cell dendritic claws. The finding that mossy fiber-unipolar brush cell synapses were generally longer than mossy fiber-granule cell synapses may indicate that the properties of the postsynaptic targets play a major role in shaping synaptic appositions within cerebellar glomeruli.
It is shown that the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway is impaired in cerebellum of rats with portacaval anastomosis in vivo as assessed by in vivo brain microdialysis in freely moving rats. NMDA-induced increase in extracellular cGMP in the cerebellum was significantly reduced (by 27%) in rats with portacaval anastomosis. Activation of soluble guanylate cyclase by the NO-generating agent S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine and by the NO-independent activator YC-1 was also significantly reduced (by 35-40%), indicating that portacaval anastomosis leads to remarkable alterations in the modulation of guanylate cyclase in cerebellum. Moreover, the content of soluble guanylate cyclase was increased ca. two-fold in the cerebellum of rats with portacaval anastomosis. Activation of soluble guanylate cyclase by NO was higher in lymphocytes isolated from rats with portacaval anastomosis (3.3-fold) than in lymphocytes from control rats (2.1-fold). The results reported show that the content and modulation of soluble guanylate cyclase are altered in brain of rats with hepatic failure, resulting in altered function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway in the rat in vivo. This may lead to alterations in cerebral processes such as intercellular communication, circadian rhythms, including the sleep-waking cycle, long-term potentiation, and some forms of learning and memory.
Leptin contributes to the regulation of both food intake and energy expenditure. We previously demonstrated that the F344xBN rat, a rodent model for late-onset obesity, is leptin-resistant and that leptin signal transduction following peripheral administration of leptin is impaired in these aged, overweight rats. To determine if leptin signal transduction is impaired in response to central administration of leptin and whether reduced hypothalamic leptin receptors may be contributing to the impaired signal transduction, we examined the in vivo dose-response leptin-induced STAT3 activation (phosphorylation and binding activity to the SIE M67 oligonucleotide) in response to i.c.v. administration of leptin along with the level of hypothalamic leptin receptor protein in young and older, late-onset obese rats. The leptin-induced maximum phosphorylation of STAT3 was 41% greater in young compared with older obese rats, but the dose required for half-maximal phosphorylation of STAT3 was similar in both the young (41 ng) and old-obese (47 ng) rats. There were no changes in total STAT3 protein with leptin or age, and leptin did not increase phosphorylation of STAT1. Leptin increased phosphorylation of STAT3 transcription factor binding eight-fold in the young but only four-fold in the aged-obese rats, and leptin receptor protein was 50% greater in the young compared with aged rats. These data indicate that aged-overweight rats demonstrate reduced signal transduction in response to centrally administered leptin that may be the result of the diminished leptin receptor protein observed in the aged-obese rats. The diminished leptin receptors and impaired leptin signal transduction may explain the diminished physiological responses observed following leptin administration in older rats. This impaired leptin signal transduction may be due either to the elevated obesity with age or to age itself, or to both.
The differences between male and female behaviors are reflected in sexual dimorphism of brain structures and are found throughout the nervous system in a variety of vertebrates. The present study examined neurons immunolabeled for gonadotropin-releasing hormone and arginine vasotocin in the brain of the goldfish Carassius auratus to determine if these neurons are sexually dimorphic. There was no sex difference or influence of sex steroids on the neuronal volume and optical density of staining of arginine vasotocin neurons. Similarly, gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons of the terminal nerve and midbrain tegmentum did not differ between sexually mature males, females and maturing females replaced with sex steroids with respect to distribution, numbers, optical density of staining, or gross morphology. In maturing females, testosterone specifically recruited additional preoptic gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons to equal those in sexually mature individuals. Since estrogen had no effect, the influence of testosterone on gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuronal numbers appears to be independent of aromatization. Specifically, the preoptic gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuronal size was significantly larger in sexually mature males than females. 11-Ketotestosterone-replacement to ovariectomized maturing females induced male-typical secondary characters and male-type courtship behavior but did not masculinize the preoptic gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuronal size. Our results show that the sexually dimorphic preoptic gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuronal size is determined by factors (genetic) other than gonadal steroids. Further, we propose the hypothesis that phenotypic and behavioral sex differences need not be accompanied by structural differences in gonadotropin-releasing hormone and arginine vasotocin in the brain.
Wistar rats were exposed to a fabric collar that had been worn by a domestic cat. Exposure took place in an open rectangular arena containing a small wooden &quot;hide box&quot;. Rats exposed to cat odor spent more than 87% of their time in the hide box during a single 20-min exposure session, whereas rats exposed to a control odor (an unworn collar) spent less than 20% of their time hiding. One hour following this session, rats were killed and Fos immunoreactivity was compared between cat odor-exposed rats, control odor-exposed rats and an additional group that had remained in their home cages. Cat odor-exposed rats showed greater Fos expression than controls in many brain regions, particularly in the medial amygdala, medial hypothalamus and periaqueductal gray. Significant findings included strong and selective induction of Fos in the posteroventral medial amygdaloid nucleus, the premamillary nucleus (dorsal part), ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (dorsomedial part), dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, periaqueductal gray (dorsomedial, dorsolateral and ventrolateral parts) and the cuneiform nucleus. Robust Fos expression in the ventromedial hypothalamus, premamillary nucleus and periaqueductal gray confirms previous suggestions of a role for these areas in predator-induced defensive behavior. Fos immunoreactivity in the medial, but not central or basolateral amygdala is a novel finding and draws attention to this subregion as a possible interface between olfactory input and emotional output.
The extended amygdala is a group of structures including the central and medial amygdaloid nuclei, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and sublenticular substantia innominata. This group of structures is thought to be important in a variety of psychiatric disorders, many of which are linked in one way or another to monoamines and their transporters. However, not much is known about the distribution of these molecules in the primate extended amygdala. Thus, we mapped the distribution of fibers immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase, serotonin, dopamine transporter, and serotonin transporter in the brains of macaque monkeys. Tyrosine hydroxylase-, serotonin-, and serotonin transporter-immunoreactive fibers were found in highest concentrations in the lateral division of the central nucleus and lateral dorsal part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Dopamine beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers were found in the highest concentration in the lateral ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Dopamine transporter-immunoreactive fibers were found in the highest concentrations in the lateral juxtacapsular and lateral dorsal capsular subnuclei of the bed nucleus and lateral capsular subnucleus of the central amygdaloid nucleus, though in much lower amounts than was present in the striatum. These results suggest prominent roles for these transmitters, particularly in the lateral dorsal bed nucleus and lateral part of the central nucleus. The relative absence of dopamine transporter in the extended amygdala suggests that this transmitter acts more through volume transmission while serotonin, which is generally accompanied by proportionate amounts of transporter, may act more like a classical neurotransmitter. In addition, the finding of heavy concentrations of dopamine- and serotonin-immunoreactive fibers in the lateral central nucleus and lateral dorsal bed nucleus lends further support to the idea of these areas as parallels in some respects to the striatum.
The effects of muscarinic agonists on GABAergic synaptic transmission were examined using whole-cell patch-clamp recording in chick brain slices containing the lateral spiriform nucleus. Bath application of muscarine (10 microM) both increased the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic postsynaptic currents and reduced the amplitude of evoked GABAergic polysynaptic postsynaptic currents elicited by focal afferent fiber electrical stimulation. Both of these muscarinic actions were reversible and dose-dependent. Two M(1) antagonists, telenzepine and pirenzipine, and to a lesser extent the M(2) antagonist methoctramine, protected against muscarine's inhibition of the evoked polysynaptic currents. Other M(2) antagonists (tripitramine and gallamine) as well as the M(3) antagonist 4-DAMP mustard (4-diphenylacetoxy-N-(2-chloroethyl)-piperidine hydrochloride) and an M(4) antagonist (tropicamide) provided little or no protection against muscarine in this assay. In contrast, 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-(2-chloroethyl)-piperidine hydrochloride, tropicamide and telenzepine, but not pirenzepine, methoctramine, tripitramine and gallamine, blocked muscarine's enhancement of spontaneous GABAergic currents. McN-A-343 [(4-hydroxy-2-butynyl)-1-trimethylammonium-m-chlorocarbanilate chloride] and CDD-0097 (5-propargyloxycarbonyl-1,4,5,6-tetrahydropyrimidine hydrochloride), two M(1) agonists, mimicked muscarine's inhibition of the evoked polysynaptic GABAergic currents but did not mimic muscarine's enhancement of spontaneous GABAergic currents. Both actions of muscarine persisted when slices were pretreated with pertussis toxin or N-ethylmaleimide, which inactivate G-proteins coupled to M(2) and M(4) receptors while leaving G-proteins coupled to M(1), M(3) and M(5) receptors intact. Muscarine had no significant effect on the amplitude of the direct postsynaptic current elicited by exogenous GABA in the presence of tetrodotoxin. The results demonstrate that distinct muscarinic receptors oppositely modulate GABAergic transmission in the lateral spiriform nucleus. The receptor mediating the inhibition of evoked GABAergic polysynaptic currents is pharmacologically similar to an M(1) receptor, while the enhancement of spontaneous GABAergic currents appears to be mediated by an M(3) receptor.
Although glycine receptors are widely expressed in the forebrain their function is obscure. We studied their activation by two possible endogenous ligands, glycine and taurine, and demonstrate a different expression pattern of glycine receptors in neostriatal cholinergic interneurons from two rodent species. Single-cell-reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis of glycine receptor-subunit expression was combined with whole-cell recordings from acutely isolated cholinergic interneurons. All cells expressed the alpha2-glycine receptor subunit, the majority (72%) in mice but none in young and aged rats expressed the alpha3-subunit. The beta-subunit expression was associated with both a higher efficacy and a higher potency of the partial agonist taurine. Cells expressing the alpha3-subunit displayed a slower desensitization of taurine responses than of glycine responses, in contrast to cells expressing the alpha2-, beta-subunits where desensitization time constants were similar. Glycine responses were reduced by preapplication of taurine; this effect was more pronounced in cells lacking the alpha3-subunit. We demonstrate interspecies differences and heterogeneity in expression and function of glycine receptors within the same neuronal population in the neostriatum.
We previously reported that Parkinson's disease patients could point with their eyes closed as accurately as normal subjects to targets in three-dimensional space that were initially presented with full vision. We have now further restricted visual information in order to more closely examine the individual and combined influences of visual information, proprioceptive feedback, and spatial working memory on the accuracy of Parkinson's disease patients. All trials were performed in the dark. A robot arm presented a target illuminated by a light-emitting diode at one of five randomly selected points composing a pyramidal array. Subjects attempted to &quot;touch&quot; the target location with their right finger in one smooth movement in three conditions: dark, no illumination of arm or target during movement; movement was to the remembered target location after the robot arm retracted; finger, a light-emitting diode on the pointing fingertip was visible during the movement but the target was extinguished; again, movement was to the remembered target location; and target, the target light-emitting diode remained in place and visible throughout the trial but there was no vision of the arm. In the finger condition, there is no need to use visual-proprioceptive integration, since the continuously visualized fingertip position can be compared to the remembered location of the visual target. In the target condition, the subject must integrate the current visible target with arm proprioception, while in the dark condition, the subject must integrate current proprioception from the arm with the remembered visual target. Parkinson's disease patients were significantly less accurate than controls in both the dark and target conditions, but as accurate as controls in the finger condition. Parkinson's disease patients, therefore, were selectively impaired in those conditions (target and dark) which required integration of visual and proprioceptive information in order to achieve accurate movements. In contrast, the patients' normal accuracy in the finger condition indicates that they had no substantial deficits in their relevant spatial working memory. Final arm configurations were significantly different in the two subject groups in all three conditions, even in the finger condition where mean movement endpoints were not significantly different. Variability of the movement endpoints was uniformly increased in Parkinson's disease patients across all three conditions. The current study supports an important role for the basal ganglia in the integration of proprioceptive signals with concurrent or remembered visual information that is needed to guide movements. This role can explain much of the patients' dependence on visual information for accuracy in targeted movements. It also underlines what may be an essential contribution of the basal ganglia to movement, the integration of afferent information that is initially processed through multiple, discrete modality-specific pathways, but which must be combined into a unified and continuously updated spatial model for effective, accurate movement.
To elucidate the role of dendritic morphology in signal transfer, the passive propagation of somatic and dendritic potentials was compared in multi-compartment models of three interneuron subpopulations in the CA1 region. Nine calbindin-, 15 calretinin- and 10 parvalbumin-containing cells were modelled incorporating the detailed geometry, the currents of the action potentials in the soma, and the AMPA, N-methyl-D-aspartate and GABA-B receptor-mediated postsynaptic currents in the dendrites. The cable properties show characteristic differences among the subpopulations. The morphotonic length of calbindin and calretinin cell dendrites is larger than of parvalbumin cells. Thus parvalbumin cells are more compact than calbindin or calretinin cells unless the ratio of their axial and membrane resistivities exceeds the ratios of the other two cell types by more than 33%. In calbindin cells, the distal parts of the extremely long dendrites that invade the alveus are virtually isolated from the soma for passively propagating signals. The synaptic potentials evoked at a given morphotonic distance from the soma show larger differences locally on the dendrites than on the soma in all subpopulations. Both the somatic and dendritic amplitude ratios are the smallest in PV cells. In calbindin cells the somatic amplitude of synaptic potentials evoked at the same morphotonic distance from the soma is similar regardless of the number of branchpoints along their path. In calretinin and parvalbumin cells, from dendrites with long primary segments synaptic potentials reach the soma with larger amplitude than from dendrites that are branching close to the soma. The dendrites with the larger impact on somatic membrane potential are usually the dendrites that enter the stratum lacunosum-moleculare. These results indicate that dendritic morphology plays a role in changing the effectiveness of synaptic potentials evoked at different dendritic locations, and in this way is likely to be an important factor in determining the integrative properties of the different neuron populations.
It is unclear how and when insoluble beta-amyloid in senile plaques exerts degenerative effects on distant hippocampal neurons in Alzheimer's disease. Racemization of Ser and Asp residues of insoluble beta-amyloid is a typical age-dependent process. In this study, we investigated the fibril formation activity and cytotoxic activity of beta-amyloid 1-40 racemized at the Asp or Ser residue. In contrast to beta-amyloid 1-40 and its derivative substituted with the D-Asp(1, 7 or 23) or D-Ser(8) residue, [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 1-40 was non-toxic to PC12 cells, and did not exhibit significant fibril formation activity making it soluble. However, [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 1-40, but not beta-amyloid 1-40, was converted in vitro to a potent neurotoxic and truncated peptide, [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 25-35 or [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 25-40, by chymotrypsin-like enzymes and aminopeptidase M. Soluble [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 1-40 was injected into rat hippocampus with a non-toxic dose of ibotenic acid, an excitatory amino acid. Nissl staining and microtubule-associated protein-2 immunostaining revealed that [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 1-40, as well as [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 25-35, produced a drastic degeneration of the CA1 neurons with ibotenic acid although [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 1-40 alone or ibotenic acid alone did not exert neuronal damage. This suggests the in vivo conversion of non-toxic [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 1-40 to the toxic and truncated peptides which enhance the susceptibility of neurons to the excitatory amino acid.These results and the presence of [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 25-35-like antigens in Alzheimer's disease brains suggest that soluble [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 1-40, possibly formed during the aging process, is released from senile plaques, and converted by brain proteinases to truncated [D-Ser(26)]beta-amyloid 25-35(40)-like peptides, which degenerate hippocampal neurons by enhancing the susceptibility to excitatory amino acids in Alzheimer's disease brains. These findings may provide the basis for a new therapeutic approach to prevent the neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease.
At variance with pilocarpine-induced epilepsy in the laboratory rat, pilocarpine administration to the tropical rodent Proechimys guyannensis (casiragua) elicited an acute seizure that did not develop in long-lasting status epilepticus and was not followed by spontaneous seizures up to 30 days, when the hippocampus was investigated in treated and control animals. Nissl staining revealed in Proechimys a highly developed hippocampus, with thick hippocampal commissures and continuity of the rostral dentate gyri at the midline. Immunohistochemistry was used to study calbindin, parvalbumin, calretinin, GABA, glutamic acid decarboxylase, and nitric oxide synthase expression. The latter was also investigated with NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry. Cell counts and densitometric evaluation with image analysis were performed. Differences, such as low calbindin immunoreactivity confined to some pyramidal cells, were found in the normal Proechimys hippocampus compared to the laboratory rat. In pilocarpine-treated casiraguas, stereological cell counts in Nissl-stained sections did not reveal significant neuronal loss in hippocampal subfields, where the examined markers exhibited instead striking changes. Calbindin was induced in pyramidal and granule cells and interneuron subsets. The number of parvalbumin- or nitric oxide synthase-containing interneurons and their staining intensity were significantly increased. Glutamic acid decarboxylase(67)-immunoreactive interneurons increased markedly in the hilus and decreased in the CA1 pyramidal layer. The number and staining intensity of calretinin-immunoreactive pyramidal cells and interneurons were significantly reduced. These findings provide the first description of the Proechimys hippocampus and reveal marked long-term variations in protein expression after an epileptic insult, which could reflect adaptive changes in functional hippocampal circuits implicated in resistance to limbic epilepsy.
Visual, tactile, and olfactory recognition memory in animals is mediated in part by the perirhinal/entorhinal (or rhinal) cortices and, possibly, the hippocampus. To examine the role of these structures in auditory memory, we performed rhinal, hippocampal, and combined lesions in groups of dogs trained in auditory delayed matching-to-sample with trial-unique sounds. The sample sound was presented through a central speaker and, after a delay, the sample sound and a different sound were played alternately through speakers placed on either side of the animal; the animal was rewarded for responding to the side emitting the sample sound. None of the lesion groups showed significant impairment in comparison either to their own preoperative performance or to the performance of intact control dogs. This was the case both for relearning the delayed matching rule at a delay of 1.5 s and for task performance at variable delays ranging from 10 to 90 s. From these findings we suggest that the tissue critical for auditory recognition memory is located outside both the perirhinal/entorhinal cortices and the hippocampus.
In the present report, the norepinephrine uptake inhibitor nisoxetine as well as a cocktail of nisoxetine and the alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist phentolamine were infused unilaterally into the olfactory bulb during microdialysis to assess their effects upon the capacity of male rats to identify conspecifics. A social discrimination test was conducted while simultaneously measuring olfactory bulb norepinephrine output in the dialysate before, during, and after behavioral testing. Nisoxetine significantly increased norepinephrine levels in the olfactory bulb compared with the Ringer's solution control group. Following such increases in olfactory bulb norepinephrine, identification responses were enhanced compared with that observed in the Ringer's control. In the presence of phentolamine, nisoxetine elevated olfactory bulb norepinephrine to levels similar to that obtained in the nisoxetine alone group, however, investigatory responses directed to the conspecifics indicated an absence of identification capacity similar to that observed in the Ringer's control group. These results reveal a direct link between norepinephrine transmission in the olfactory bulb and enhanced identification via its activation of postsynaptic alpha-adrenergic receptors. These results also show that inhibition of norepinephrine uptake may represent an important mechanism involved with the enhancement of social identification and suggest a possible novel effect for the antidepressant nisoxetine.
The evolution of brain injury was examined in mice subjected to focal cerebral ischemia as induced by 30 min of intraluminar thread occlusion of the middle cerebral artery, followed by 3 h to 3 days of reperfusion. Metabolic dysfunctions were studied by 3H-leucine autoradiography for the measurement of cerebral protein synthesis and by regional ATP bioluminescent imaging. Metabolic changes were compared with responses of the genes c-fos, c-jun, heat-shock protein gene (hsp)72, p53-activated gene (pag)608 and caspase-3, which were investigated by in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunocytochemistry, and correlated with the degree of DNA fragmentation, as assessed by the terminal TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling method. Intraluminar thread occlusion led to a reproducible reduction of cerebral laser Doppler flow to 20-30% of control. Thread withdrawal was followed by a short-lasting post-ischemic hyperperfusion to approximately 120%. In non-ischemic control animals, fractional protein synthesis values of 0.81+/-0.26 and 0.94+/-0.23 were obtained. Thread occlusion resulted in a suppression of protein synthesis throughout the territory of the middle cerebral artery after 3 h of reperfusion (0.04+/-0.08 in caudate-putamen and 0.14+/-0.19 in somatosensory cortex, P&lt;0.05). Protein synthesis partly recovered in the cortex after 24 h and 3 days (0.71+/-0.40 and 0.63+/-0.26, respectively), but remained suppressed in the caudate-putamen (0.14+/-0.22 and 0.28+/-0.28). Regional ATP levels did not show any major disturbances at the reperfusion times examined. Thread occlusion resulted in a transient increase of c-fos mRNA levels in ischemic and non-ischemic parts of the cortex and caudate-putamen at 3 h after ischemia, which suggests that spreading depressions were elicited in the tissue. At the same time, c-jun and hsp72 mRNAs were elevated only in ischemic brain areas showing inhibition of protein synthesis. C-fos and c-jun responses completely disappeared within 24 h of reperfusion. Hsp72 mRNA levels remained elevated in the cortex after 24 h, but decreased to basal values in the caudate-putamen. Twenty-four hours after reperfusion, pag608 and caspase-3 mRNA levels increased in the caudate-putamen, where protein synthesis rates were still reduced, and remained elevated even after 3 days. However, pag608 and caspase-3 mRNA levels did not increase in the cortex, where protein synthesis recovered. After 24 h and 3 days, functionally active p20 fragment of caspase-3 was detected in the caudate-putamen, closely associated with the appearance of DNA fragmented cells. Neither activated caspase-3 nor DNA fragmentation were noticed in the cortex.In summary, the suppression of protein synthesis is reversible in the ischemia-resistant cortex following 30 min of thread occlusion in mice, but persists in the vulnerable caudate-putamen. In the caudate-putamen, apoptotic programs are induced, closely in parallel with the manifestation of delayed cell death. Thus, the recovery of protein synthesis may be a major factor influencing tissue survival after transient focal ischemia.
Cation-chloride cotransporters have been considered to play pivotal roles in controlling intracellular and extracellular ionic environments of neurons and hence controlling neuronal function. We investigated the total distributions of K-Cl cotransporter 1 (KCC1), KCC2 (KCC2), and Na-K-2Cl cotransporter 1 (NKCC1) messenger RNAs in the adult rat nervous system using in situ hybridization histochemistry. KCC2 messenger RNA was abundantly expressed in most neurons throughout the nervous system. However, we could not detect KCC2 messenger RNA expression in the dorsal root ganglion and mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, where primary sensory neurons show depolarizing responses to GABA, suggesting that the absence of KCC2 is necessary for this phenomenon. Furthermore, KCC2 messenger RNA was also not detected in the dorsolateral part of the paraventricular nucleus, dorsomedial part of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, and ventromedial part of the supraoptic nucleus where vasopressin neurons exist, and in the reticular thalamic nucleus. As vasopressin neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and neurons in the reticular thalamic nucleus produce their intrinsic rhythmicity, the lack of KCC2 messenger RNA expression in these regions might be involved in the genesis of rhythmicity through the control of intracellular chloride concentration. The expression levels of KCC1 and NKCC1 messenger RNAs were relatively low, however, positive neurons were observed in several regions, including the olfactory bulb, hippocampus, and in the granular layer of the cerebellum. In addition, positive signals were seen in the non-neuronal cells, such as choroid plexus epithelial cells, glial cells, and ependymal cells, suggesting that KCC1 and NKCC1 messenger RNAs were widely expressed in both neuronal and non-neuronal cells in the nervous system. These results clearly indicate a wide area- and cell-specific variation of cation chloride cotransporters, emphasizing the central role of anionic homeostasis in neuronal function and communication.
It appears likely that, in analogy to the synaptic development of sensory and motor cortices, which critically depends on sensory or motor stimulation (Rosenzweig and Bennett, 1996), the synaptic development of limbic cortical regions are modulated by early postnatal cognitive and emotional experiences. The very first postnatal experience, which takes place in a confined and stable familial environment, is the interaction of the newborn individual with the parents and siblings (Gray, 1958). The aim of this quantitative morphological study was to analyze the impact of different degrees of juvenile emotional experience on the synaptic development in a limbic cortical area, the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, a region which is involved in the perception and regulation of emotions. We study the precocious trumpet-tailed rat (Octodon degus) as the animal model, because, like human babies, this species is born with functional visual and acoustic systems and the pups are therefore capable of detecting even subtle environmental changes immediately after birth (Reynolds and Wright, 1979; Poeggel and Braun, 1996; Braun et al., 2000; Ovtscharoff and Braun, 2001). The results demonstrate that already a subtle disturbance of the familial environment such as handling induced significantly elevated spine densities on the basal dendrites of layer III cortical pyramidal neurons. More severe disturbances of the emotional environment, such as periodic parental deprivation with or without subsequent chronic social isolation, resulted in an elevation of spine densities of similar magnitude as seen after handling and in addition, altered spine densities confined to specific dendritic segments were observed in these groups. These observations unveil the remarkable sensitivity of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex towards environmental influences and behavioral experiences during phases of postnatal development. The behavioral consequences of these experience-induced synaptic changes still need to be analyzed further to assess if they are beneficial or detrimental to the animals cognitive and emotional capacities in later life.
Cannabinoids appear atypical as drugs of abuse since controversial data exist concerning the ability to lower the thresholds for electrical self-stimulation (Stark and Dews, 1980; Gardner et al., 1988; Gardner, 1992) and to support self-administration (Martellotta et al., 1998; Tanda et al., 2000) or conditioned place preference in animals (Lepore et al., 1995; Parker and Gillies, 1995; McGregor et al., 1996; Saudo-Pea et al., 1997; Chaperon et al., 1998; Hutcheson et al., 1998; Mallet and Beninger, 1998; Cheer et al., 2000; Valjent and Maldonado, 2000). Opioids and cannabinoids share some pharmacological properties (Manzanares et al., 1999). The most interactions were found in antinociception (Welch and Stevens, 1992; Smith et al., 1994) and, to a lesser extent, in drug reinforcement (Chen et al., 1990; Vela et al., 1995; Tanda et al., 1997). In the present study we asked whether: (1) a potent synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist, [(-)-cis-3-[2-hydroxy-4-(1,1-dimethylheptil)-phenyl]-trans-4-(3-hydroxy propyl) cyclohexanol] (CP 55,940) (from 10 to 40 microg/kg), which binds to the brain cannabinoid receptors with high affinity (Herkenham et al., 1991), would induce conditioned place preference, in comparison with heroin (from 0.1 to 5 mg/kg); (2) what type of receptor was involved; (3) what kind of interaction there was between the two drugs, when given in combination, on reward. CP 55,940 elicited a conditioned place preference only at a dose of 20 microg/kg similar in intensity to that of heroin (2 mg/kg). The reinforcing properties of the cannabinoid agonist were fully antagonised by pretreatment with the brain cannabinoid receptor-1 (CB(1)) antagonist, [N-piperidino-5-(4-chlorophenyl) 1-(2,4-dichloro-phenyl)-4-methyl pyrazole-3-carboxamide hydrochloride] (SR 141716A) and naloxone. The combination of CP 55,940 and heroin, at the reinforcing doses, led to a reward which did not show any additive effect. Taken together these findings are important for understanding how the cannabinoids produce reward and the interconnection of the opioid and cannabinoid system in the motivation.
GABA(A) receptor/Cl- channels and voltage-gated Ca2+ channels are believed to be important sites of ethanol action in the CNS. Acute exposure of ethanol potentiates GABA(A) receptor/Cl- channel activity and inhibits voltage-gated Ca2+ channels in a number of preparations, mostly post-mitotic neurons. The effects of ethanol on these channels in primary cultures of undifferentiated neural precursor cells remain unknown. To address this issue, we examined the effects of ethanol on GABA(A) agonist-activated elevation of cytosolic Ca2+ in an in vitro model of the cortical neuroepithelium derived from rat basic fibroblast growth factor-expanded neural precursor cells. We found a potent inhibition of GABA(A)-activated elevation of cytosolic Ca2+ by ethanol in actively proliferating cells. Since we had recently demonstrated that GABA(A) receptor activation depolarizes these cells and elevates their cytosolic Ca2+, we tested whether the effects of ethanol involved both GABA(A) receptors and voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. Both extracellular K+- and muscimol-induced cytosolic Ca2+ elevations were abolished by nitrendipine, indicating that both depolarizing stimuli triggered Ca2+ influx through L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. Exposure of proliferating cells to different concentrations of ethanol revealed that the drug was more potent in blocking muscimol-induced compared to K+-evoked cytosolic Ca2+ elevations. These results raise the possibility that ethanol blocks GABAergic stimulation of cytosolic Ca2+ levels in proliferating precursors primarily by interacting with GABA(A) receptor/Cl- channels and secondarily with voltage-gated Ca2+ channels.
Alpha-synuclein accumulates in the brains of sporadic Parkinson's disease patients as a major component of Lewy bodies, and mutations in alpha-synuclein are associated with familial forms of Parkinson's disease. The pathogenic mechanisms that precede and promote the aggregation of alpha-synuclein into Lewy bodies in neurons remain to be determined. Here, we constructed a series of alpha-synuclein-enhanced green fluorescent protein (alpha-synucleinEGFP, SynEGFP) fusion proteins to address whether the Parkinson's disease-associated mutations alter the subcellular distribution of alpha-synuclein, and to use as a tool for experimental manipulations to induce aggregate formation. When transfected into mouse cultured primary neurons, the 49-kDa alpha-synucleinEGFP fusion proteins are partially truncated to a approximately 27-kDa form. This non-fluorescent carboxy-terminally modified fusion protein spontaneously forms inclusions in the neuronal cytoplasm. A marked increase in the accumulation of inclusions is detected following treatment with each of three proteasome inhibitors, n-acetyl-leu-leu-norleucinal, lactacystin and MG132. Interestingly, Ala30Pro alpha-synucleinEGFP does not form the cytoplasmic inclusions that are characteristic of wild-type and Ala53Thr alpha-synucleinEGFP, supporting the idea that the Ala30Pro alpha-synuclein protein conformation differs from wild-type alpha-synuclein. Similar inclusions are formed if alpha-synuclein carboxy-terminus is modified by the addition of a V5/6xHistidine epitope tag. By contrast, overexpression of unmodified alpha-synuclein does not lead to aggregate formation. Furthermore, synphilin-1, an alpha-synuclein interacting protein also found in Lewy bodies, colocalizes with the carboxy-terminally truncated alpha-synuclein fusion protein in discrete cytoplasmic inclusions.Our finding that manipulations of the carboxy-terminus of alpha-synuclein lead to inclusion formation may provide a model for studies of the pathogenic mechanisms of alpha-synuclein aggregation in Lewy bodies.
Fibroblast growth factor-5 (FGF-5) is a putative target-derived survival factor for motoneurones as it is concentrated in the synaptic portions of skeletal muscles and because it promotes the survival of embryonic motoneurones in vitro. A variety of experimental approaches have been used to examine this possibility. The expression of FGF-5 in the neuromuscular system was analysed using the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Both splice variants of FGF-5 were detected in adult rat skeletal muscle, sciatic nerve, and spinal cord. The expression of FGF-5 in skeletal muscle was up-regulated after denervation. At first sight this appears to be consistent with FGF-5 being a target-derived factor. However, FGF-5 protein was detected in Schwann cells, macrophages, vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells, but not in muscle fibres. The absence of FGF-5 in muscle fibres was confirmed by RT-PCR examination of isolated muscle fibres. Furthermore, FGF-5 protein was also not detected in denervated fibres, as would be expected for a neuronal survival factor. Denervation did however lead to up-regulation of FGF-5 in the Schwann cells of the distal nerve trunk. This may indicate that FGF-5 is either an autocrine regulator of Schwann cells or a Schwann cell-derived neurotrophic factor. The latter appears not to be the case for two reasons. First, the double-ligation technique was used to show that endogenous FGF-5 is not transported in motor axons. Second, stereological estimates of the number of motoneurones in an FGF-5 null mutant (Angora) mouse failed to reveal any loss of motoneurones. Collectively these experiments suggest that FGF-5 is not a physiological regulator of motoneurones, and therefore raise the possibility that it is an autocrine regulator of Schwann cells.
We have addressed the molecular mechanism(s) of hyperalgesia, which depends on increased excitability of dorsal horn neurons and on sensitization of primary afferent nociceptors, during peripheral inflammation. Following unilateral adjuvant-induced inflammation in the rat hind paw, time-course changes in behavioral hyperalgesia and functional activities of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase C isozymes were examined. Inflammation was characterized by increase in paw diameter, and behavioral hyperalgesia was quantified as paw withdrawal latency from a radiant heat source. Behavioral hyperalgesia on the injected paw was significantly increased. This was accompanied by a significant increase in total functional membrane-associated protein kinase C activity, whereas total cytosolic protein kinase C activity was unchanged on the sides of the lumbar spinal cord both contralateral and ipsilateral to the inflammation. Importantly, on the side of lumbar cord ipsilateral to the inflamed paw, the activity of membrane-associated protein kinase CbetaII was increased following the same time-course as the paw withdrawal latency decrease, suggesting an increased translocation of protein kinase Cbetall to the membrane related to behavioral hyperalgesia. A defined mixture of purified gangliosides, which inhibits intracellular protein kinase C translocation and activation, decreased inflammation-induced paw withdrawal latency, and specifically decreased the activity of membrane-associated protein kinase Cbetall on the side of the spinal cord ipsilateral to the inflammation. Quantitative immunohistochemical analyses demonstrated intensified protein kinase CbetaII-like immunoreactivity on the side of the spinal cord ipsilateral to the inflammation. Time-course for increases in the activity of membrane-associated protein kinase CbetaII, and in intensity of protein kinase CbetaII-immunoreactivity, paralleled inflammation-mediated changes in paw withdrawal latency and paw diameter. Our findings indicate an apparent involvement of protein kinase CbetaII isozyme specifically in the molecular mechanism(s) of thermal hyperalgesia.
Intraspinal injection of quisqualic acid, a mixed kainic acid/2-amino-3(3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazol-4-yl)propionic acid and metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, produces an excitotoxic injury that leads to the onset of both spontaneous and evoked pain behavior as well as changes in spinal and cortical expression of opioid peptide mRNA, preprodynorphin and preproenkephalin. What characteristics of the quisqualic acid-induced injury are attributable to activation of each receptor subtype is unknown. This study attempted to define the role of activation of the kainic acid/2-amino-3(3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazol-4-yl)propionic acid (AMPA) and metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes in the regulation of opioid peptide expression and the onset of spontaneous and evoked pain-related behavior following excitotoxic spinal cord injury by comparing quisqualic acid-induced changes with those created by co-injection of quisqualic acid and the kainic acid/AMPA antagonist, 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo[f]quinoxaline, (NBQX) or the metabotropic antagonist, (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA). Therefore, 42 male Long-Evans adult rats were divided into seven treatment groups and received intraspinal microinjections of saline (sham), 0.5% dimethylsulphoxide (sham), quisqualic acid (1.2 microl, 125 mM), NBQX (1.2 microl, 60 microM), AIDA (1.2 microl, 250 microM), quisqualic acid/NBQX (1.2 microl, 125 mM/60 microM), or quisqualic acid/AIDA (1.2 microl, 125 mM/250 microM) directed at spinal levels thoracic 12-lumbar 2. Behavioral observations of spontaneous and evoked pain responses were completed following surgery. After a 10-day survival period, animals were killed and brain and spinal cord tissues were removed and processed for histologic analysis and in situ hybridization. Both AIDA and NBQX affected the quisqualic acid-induced total lesion volume but only AIDA caused a decrease in the percent tissue damage at the lesion epicenter. Preprodynorphin and preproenkephalin expression is increased in both spinal and cortical areas in quisqualic acid-injected animals versus sham-, NBQX or AIDA-injected animals. NBQX did not affect quisqualic acid-induced spinal or cortical expression of preprodynorphin or preproenkephalin except for a significant decrease in preproenkephalin expression in the spinal cord. In contrast, AIDA significantly decreases quisqualic acid-induced preprodynorphin and preproenkephalin expression within the spinal cord and cortex. AIDA, but not NBQX, significantly reduced the frequency of, and delayed the onset of, quisqualic acid-induced spontaneous pain-related behavior. From these data we suggest that both the kainic acid/AMPA and metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes are involved in the induction of the excitotoxic cascade responsible for quisqualic acid-induced neuronal damage and changes in opioid peptide mRNA expression, while metabotropic glutamate receptors may play a more significant role in the onset of post-injury pain-related behavior.
In experiments on the preparation of a frog perfused brain (Rana ridibunda), intracellular potentials were recorded from neurons of the vestibular nuclei following stimulation of the vestibular nerve and the spinal cord. The vestibulospinal neurons were identified on the basis of excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by the stimulation of the ipsilateral vestibular nerve and antidromic activation from the stimulation of the cervical and lumbar enlargements of the spinal cord. The cells that could be activated antidromically only by cervical cord stimulation have been designated as C cells, and the cells that could also be activated antidromically as a result of lumbar stimulation have been termed L cells. The average conduction velocity determined for C neurons was 10.67 m/s and for L neurons 15.84 m/s. The ratio of C and L neurons over the vestibular nuclear complex was very similar to each other: 52% C neurons and 48% L neurons. The majority of both types of neurons were localized in the lateral vestibular nucleus (58.6%), to a lesser extent in the descending vestibular nucleus (30.7%) and very little in the medial vestibular nucleus (10.6%). In the lateral vestibular nucleus, C neurons prevailed in the caudal part of the nucleus and L neurons prevailed in the rostral part. By contrast, in the descending and medial vestibular nuclei there was a gradual increase of C and L cells quantitatively from the rostral to the caudal part. Fast and slow cells were detected among the vestibulospinal neurons. The fast neurons of L cells did not prevail greatly over the slow ones, whereas the slow neurons of C cells prevailed comparatively largely over the fast neurons. Thus, it became possible to reconstruct the spatial distribution of the identified vestibulospinal neurons. The results of spatial distribution of C and L vestibulospinal neurons in the frogs failed to conform to definite somatotopy, which is characteristic of mammalian vestibular nuclei. The results of this study have confirmed an earlier assumption that C and L neurons in the frog's vestibular nuclei as a source of vestibulospinal fibers, are scattered separately or more frequently in groups, so that they establish a 'patch-like' somatotopy and do not form a distinctly designed field as in mammals.
The morphological and physiological substrates that underlie the mutual regulatory interactions of neurotensin and dopamine in the rat mesotelencephalic projections and related structures remain to be fully described. A salient candidate for neurotensinergic effects on the mesotelencephalic dopamine projection is the dense plexus of neurotensin immunoreactive axons that enmeshes the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra, but the locations of the neurons that give rise to this plexus have not been identified and its systemic context remains obscure. To address this, Fluoro-Gold and the cholera toxin beta subunit, retrogradely transported axonal tracers, were injected into the ventral tegmental area of rats and the brains were processed to demonstrate neurons that contained both retrograde tracer immunoreactivity and a probe against neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA. Substantial numbers of double-labeled neurons were observed in the rostral part of the lateral septum, and in a region centered on the shared boundaries of the bed nucleus of stria terminalis, ventromedial ventral pallidum, diagonal band of Broca, lateral preoptic area and rostral lateral hypothalamus. A few double-labeled neurons were also observed in the dorsal raphe nucleus and adjacent periaqueductal gray. Despite the administration of haloperidol and D-amphetamine to elicit and enhance neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA expression in striatum, including the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle, no double-labeled neurons were observed there. These results identify a novel brain substrate for control of midbrain dopamine levels, which affect reward mechanisms and motivation.
Dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra often fire action potentials irregularly in vivo, but in vitro fire in a regular, pacemaker-like firing pattern. Bath application of apamin, a blocker of calcium-activated potassium channels, can shift a dopamine neuron from pacemaker-like to irregular firing. To determine whether the irregular firing was caused by intrinsic cellular mechanisms rather than random synaptic input or some other form of noise, spike density functions of interspike interval records were analyzed using non-linear forecasting methods to quantify any non-linear (non-periodic) structure. Intrinsic cellular mechanisms are capable of producing chaotic firing, which is deterministic, non-linear, and loses predictability exponentially with increasing forecast time.To determine whether forecasting spike density functions could reliably measure predictability, forecasting was first applied to spike density functions produced by computer simulations of pacemaker-like, chaotic, and random firing, as well as pacemaker-like and chaotic firing that were randomly synaptically driven. Exponential loss of predictability was successfully detected in both chaotic and randomly driven chaotic firing. Predictability scaled faster than exponentially for random spiking, and linearly (slower than exponentially) for randomly driven pacemaker firing. The method was then applied to experimental records of apamin-induced irregular firing of rat dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra in vitro and in vivo. Exponential loss of predictability was detected in both cases, consistent with chaotic firing. Experimental records of pacemaker-like firing in vitro showed linear scaling, consistent with a randomly driven pacemaker. Several schemes for neural encoding of synaptic inputs have been suggested, such as rate codes or temporal codes. However, our results suggest that under some conditions, the irregular firing of dopamine neurons does not reflect the random temporal dynamics of its inputs, but rather the intrinsic, deterministic dynamics of dopamine cells themselves, under the tonic neuromodulatory influence of apamin in vitro and possibly that of an unidentified endogenous modulatory substance in vivo.
The 'extended amygdala', a forebrain continuum implicated in complex motivational responses, is comprised of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and its sublenticular extension into the centromedial amygdala. Dopamine is also involved in motivated behavior, and is increased in several brain regions by emotionally relevant stimuli. To examine how the extended amygdala influences the dopamine cells, we determined the organization of inputs from subdivisions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and sublenticular extended amygdala to the dopamine subpopulations in monkeys. Inputs from the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and corresponding regions of the sublenticular extended amygdala are differentially organized. The medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and its medial sublenticular extension have a mediolateral organization with the densest inputs to the medial substantia nigra, pars compacta, and relatively few inputs to the central and lateral substantia nigra. In contrast, the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (and its continuation into the sublenticular extended amygdala) projects across the mediolateral extent of the substantia nigra. The subnuclei of the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis also have differential projections to the dopamine cells. While the central core of the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis has restricted inputs, the surrounding dorsolateral, capsular and juxtacapsular subdivisions project strongly to the dorsal tier dopamine neurons. The posterior subdivision of the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and its continuation into the central sublenticular extended amygdala project more broadly to both the dorsal tier and densocellular region of the ventral tier. From these results we suggest that specific subdivisions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis have differential influences on the dopamine subpopulations, influencing dopamine responses in diverse brain regions.
Neuropeptide Y and corticotropin-releasing hormone are involved in the regulation of various physiological functions including the expression of anxiety and fear. The anxiogenic effects of corticotropin-releasing hormone can be modulated by neuropeptide Y, yet the brain regions involved in this interaction are only partly understood. By utilizing antibodies raised against neuropeptide Y and the Y1 receptor protein we identified a densely labeled cell group in the dorsal zone of caudal part of the rat lateral septum. Bilateral microinjections of neuropeptide Y into the dorsocaudal lateral septum but not into the intramedial septum dose-dependently decreased anxiety in the social interaction test of rats, whereas the effects of corticotropin-releasing hormone were opposite. The anxiogenic-like effect of corticotropin-releasing hormone was reversed by neuropeptide Y pretreatment. Local microinjection of the neuropeptide Y receptor selective antagonists revealed that neither Y1 receptor nor Y2 receptor selective antagonists had effects on experimental anxiety on their own suggesting that neuropeptide Y-induced anxiolysis is not tonic. The Y1 receptor antagonist blocked the anxiolytic-like effect of neuropeptide Y, while the Y2 receptor antagonist was ineffective.We conclude that neuropeptide Y in the dorsocaudal lateral septum may act as an endogenous anxiolytic and antagonize corticotropin-releasing hormone (stress)-induced anxiety. This functional antagonism probably shapes behavior under aversive conditions, as neuropeptide Y-induced anxiolysis is not tonic in nature. An imbalance between these two neuropeptide systems in the septum may lead to a maladaptive expression of anxiety after stress exposure.
Systemically administered cholinomimetics or cholinesterase inhibitors can depress behavior in humans and animals, whereas antimuscarinic agents reverse this effect or even produce euphoria. Although these effects have been well documented, the specific brain regions that mediate them remain largely unknown. In the present experiments, muscarinic agonists and antagonists were locally injected into the nucleus accumbens of female Sprague-Dawley rats to test for their effects on behavioral depression in the Porsolt swim test and locomotor activity. Local, microinjections of the drugs in the accumbens elicited behaviors that were similar to the systemic effects reported in other studies. Injection of the non-specific agonist arecoline (40 and 80 microg) dose-dependently inhibited swimming and escape behavior. This may be mediated in part by accumbens M1 receptors because blocking these receptors with the specific antagonist pirenzepine (17.5 and 35.0 microg) did the opposite by increasing swimming. Gallamine (0.13, 0.44, and 0.88 microg), an antagonist at M2 receptors, dose-dependently decreased swimming. Two-way microdialysis suggested that this was in part due to the release of ACh by blocking M2 autoreceptors. Scopolamine, a mixed M1/M2 receptor antagonist, also released ACh but did not decrease swimming, probably because the M1 receptors were blocked; the drug (1.0 microg) increased swimming time, much like pirenzepine. With the exception of arecoline, none of the drugs significantly affected locomotor activity in a photocell cage. Arecoline (40 microg), which had decreased swimming, reduced activity. The present study suggests that muscarinic receptors in the nucleus accumbens can control immobility in the Porsolt swim test. The onset of immobility may depend on the activation of post-synaptic M1 receptors.
Bone morphogenetic proteins are members of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily. They are widely expressed in the mammalian nervous system, where they exert trophic effects on several neuronal populations. We studied the neurotrophic activity of bone morphogenetic protein-2 and bone morphogenetic protein-7 (also called osteogenic protein-1) on cultured striatal cells, previously shown to express bone morphogenetic protein ligands and receptors. Our results indicate that only bone morphogenetic protein-2 promoted the differentiation of GABAergic neurons, especially of the calbindin-positive subpopulation, the subset of projecting striatal neurons that degenerates in Huntington's disease. Bone morphogenetic protein-2 increased the area, perimeter and degree of arborization of GABAergic neurons, promoting calbindin phenotype without altering proliferation or apoptosis. In contrast, neither bone morphogenetic protein-2 nor -7 affected striatal cholinergic interneurons. However, they both increased the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells. Suppression of glial proliferation with 5-fluorodeoxyuridine did not abolish bone morphogenetic protein-2 effects on the differentiation of striatal neurons, ruling out an indirect mechanism through astrocytes. In conclusion, our results show that bone morphogenetic protein-2 promotes the differentiation of cultured GABAergic striatal neurons, suggesting that bone morphogenetic proteins are involved in the development of the striatum.
The neurotoxic mechanism of HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein 120 (gp120) involves glutamatergic (NMDA) receptor/Ca2+-dependent excitotoxicity, mediated in part via glia. Pro-inflammatory cytokines also may have roles. We have reported that pre-exposure of brain cultures to 'physiological' ethanol concentrations (20-30 mM) protects against neuronal damage from HIV-1 gp120, but not from the direct receptor agonist, NMDA. Using lactate dehydrogenase assays and propidium iodide staining of rat organotypic hippocampal-entorhinal cortical slice cultures we determined that ethanol's suppression of gp120 neurotoxicity required at least 4 days of pretreatment. The gp120-induced neurotoxicity was accompanied by interleukin-6 elevations that were not affected by the pretreatment. However, gp120 induced substantial, early increases in extracellular glutamate levels that were blocked by ethanol pretreatment, conceivably abrogating excitotoxicity. Consistent with abrogation of excitotoxic pathways, fura-2 imaging showed selective deficits in gp120-dependent intracellular Ca2+ responses in ethanol-pretreated slices. Gp120 is believed to increase glutamate levels by both stimulating release and inhibiting (re)uptake. Results with a labeled glutamate analog, D-[3H]aspartate, revealed that gp120's inhibition of glutamate uptake, rather than its stimulation of release, was abolished after ethanol. Further studies indicated that two converging effects of ethanol pretreatment may underlie the abolishment of gp120-mediated glutamate uptake inhibition: (a) blockade of gp120-induced release (ostensibly from glia) of arachidonic acid, an inhibitor of astroglial glutamate reuptake, and (b) modest proliferation and activation of astroglia upon gp120 stimulation--which are likely to augment glutamate transporters. Thus, as with gp120 itself, glia and glutamate/arachidonic acid regulation appear to be important targets for ethanol. Since moderate ethanol consumption is as common among HIV-infected individuals as in the general population, this newly recognized neuroprotective (and apparently anti-excitotoxic) effect of ethanol withdrawal in vitro could be important, but it requires further study before its significance, if any, is understood.
Our aim was to investigate the mechanisms involved in the high intracellular sodium-induced transmitter release in the CNS through the characterisation of the veratridine-evoked (40 microM) noradrenaline release from rat hippocampal slices. The response to veratridine was completely inhibited by tetrodotoxin (1 microM), indicating that the effect is due to the activation of sodium channels. Omission of Ca2+ from the superfusion fluid inhibited the veratridine-evoked release by 72%, showing that the majority of release results from external Ca2+-dependent exocytosis. The residual Ca2+-independent release was not blocked by the intracellular Ca2+ chelator 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N,N-tetraacetic acid acetoxymethyl ester (100 microM) suggesting that intracellular Ca2+ stores are not involved in this component of veratridine effect. The noradrenaline uptake blockers, desipramine (10 microM) and nisoxetine (10 microM), inhibited the external Ca2+-independent release by 50 and 46%, respectively, indicating that the release partly originates from the reversal of transporters (carrier-mediated release). In contrast to uptake blockers, lowering the temperature, another possibility to inhibit transporter function, completely inhibited the effect of veratridine in the absence of Ca2+. Further experiments revealed that low temperature (20 and 12 degrees C) reduces the veratridine-induced increase of intracellular sodium concentration ([Na+]i) in rat cortical synaptosomes (68 and 78% inhibition, respectively). The clinical relevance of our data is that during ischemia a massive release of transmitters occurs mainly due to the elevation of [Na+]i, which contributes to the development of ischemic brain injury. Our results show that low temperature may be a better therapeutic approach to the treatment of ischemia because it has a dual action on this process. Firstly, it inhibits the function of uptake transporters and hence reduces the carrier-mediated outflow of transmitters. Secondly, it inhibits the sodium influx and therefore prevents the unwanted elevation of [Na+]i. Our data also suggest that veratridine stimulation can be a suitable model for ischemic conditions.
The clinical and basic literature suggest that hilar cells of the dentate gyrus are damaged after seizures, particularly prolonged and repetitive seizures. Of the cell types within the hilus, it appears that the mossy cell is one of the most vulnerable. Nevertheless, hilar neurons which resemble mossy cells appear in some published reports of animal models of epilepsy, and in some cases of human temporal lobe epilepsy. Therefore, mossy cells may not always be killed after severe, repeated seizures. However, mossy cell survival in these studies was not completely clear because the methods did allow discrimination between mossy cells and other hilar cell types. Furthermore, whether surviving mossy cells might have altered physiology after seizures was not examined. Therefore, intracellular recording and intracellular dye injection were used to characterize hilar cells in hippocampal slices from pilocarpine-treated rats that had status epilepticus and recurrent seizures ('epileptic' rats). For comparison, mossy cells were also recorded from age-matched, saline-injected controls, and pilocarpine-treated rats that failed to develop status epilepticus. Numerous hilar cells with the morphology, axon projection, and membrane properties of mossy cells were recorded in all three experimental groups. Thus, mossy cells can survive severe seizures, and those that survive retain many of their normal characteristics. However, mossy cells from epileptic tissue were distinct from mossy cells of control rats in that they generated spontaneous and evoked epileptiform burst discharges. Area CA3 pyramidal cells also exhibited spontaneous and evoked bursts. Simultaneous intracellular recordings from mossy cells and pyramidal cells demonstrated that their burst discharges were synchronized, with pyramidal cell discharges typically beginning first. From these data we suggest that hilar mossy cells can survive status epilepticus and chronic seizures. The fact that mossy cells have epileptiform bursts, and that they are synchronized with area CA3, suggest a previously unappreciated substrate for hyperexcitability in this animal model.
There is considerable evidence to suggest that adenosine is a modulator of behavioral state. Our previous reports showed that perfusion of adenosine into the basal forebrain decreased wakefulness. Furthermore, prolonged wakefulness resulted in increased levels of extracellular adenosine in the basal forebrain of cats and rats. However, the longer-term consequences of prolonged wakefulness and increased adenosine are largely unknown. We report here an increase in the DNA binding activity of the transcription factor, nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) following 3 h of sustained wakefulness in the rat basal forebrain. Moreover, this treatment led to the appearance of the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB in the nucleus, as determined by western blot analysis of nuclear proteins. This contrasted with undetectable levels in the sleeping controls. A concomitant disappearance of I-kappaB in cytoplasm suggested the degradation of this inhibitor of NF-kappaB. In the acute in vitro basal forebrain slice preparation, perfusion of adenosine increased NF-kappaB DNA binding while pretreatment of the slices with the A1 adenosine receptor antagonist, cyclopentyl-1-3-dimethylxanthine, significantly reduced NF-kappaB DNA binding. These results are compatible with the hypothesis that increases in the levels of adenosine in the basal forebrain, that occur during prolonged wakefulness, act through an A1 adenosine receptor and a second messenger system to increase the activity of the transcription factor NF-kappaB. We further hypothesize that some of the long duration effects of prolonged wakefulness/sleep deprivation on performance and physiology, often termed 'sleep debt', might be mediated through adenosine and its activation of NF-kappaB, which is known to alter the expression of several behavioral state regulatory factors.
The immediate-early gene product Fos is differentially induced in the rat brain by the antipsychotic drugs haloperidol and clozapine. It is often claimed that although both drugs induce Fos in the nucleus accumbens, haloperidol but not clozapine increases Fos-like immunoreactivity in the striatum, whereas clozapine but not haloperidol increases Fos-like immunoreactivity in prefrontal cortex. Investigations of antipsychotic drug effects on Fos have typically administered high doses with pronounced sedative effects to behaviorally naive animals. In the present study, we compared the effects of low doses of haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg) and clozapine (5 mg/kg) on Fos-like immunoreactivity in rats which were either behaviorally naive, exposed to a novel environment or tested for two-way active avoidance. We determined that haloperidol increased Fos in the striatum and nucleus accumbens regardless of testing condition whereas clozapine markedly reduced the induction of Fos by behavioral testing in these regions; moreover, haloperidol dramatically increased prefrontal cortical Fos expression in animals placed in a novel environment, but not in testing-naive controls. From these results we suggest that antipsychotic drug-induced patterns of Fos expression in the rat are highly dependent on animals' concurrent behavioral status, perhaps reflecting neuroanatomically specific interactions between antipsychotic drugs and environmental stressors which also may occur in the schizophrenic condition.
In a previous study, we found that the forepaw representation in the primary somatosensory cortex of rats housed in standard laboratory conditions was drastically altered during the aging process. In other studies we reported that exposure to an enriched environment improved the topographical organization and increased the spatial resolution of the forepaw cutaneous map in young adult rats, whereas housing in impoverished environment resulted in a loss of somatotopic details in the forepaw map. The main purpose of the present study was to investigate the influence of differential sensorimotor experience promoted by exposure to enriched or impoverished environments on the mutability of the cortical forepaw representation during aging. Two groups of Long-Evans rats were reared in enriched and impoverished environments from weaning to the age of 3.5-5 months (young adults), 6.5-8 months (mature rats), and 23-28 months (senescent rats). The electrophysiological maps of the forepaw representation were based on the somatosensory 'submodality' (cutaneous vs. non-cutaneous), size, and location of the receptive fields of small clusters of layer IV neurons. Moreover, the mechanical thresholds of neuronal response to cutaneous stimulation were assessed with calibrated von Frey filaments in mature and senescent animals. Age-related alterations of the topographic features of the forepaw map were characterized by a decrease in and a fragmentation of the cortical zones serving the glabrous skin of the forepaw. These changes were less pronounced in the enriched rats than in the impoverished rats. Glabrous skin receptive fields were smaller in young adult and mature enriched rats than in their impoverished counterparts. However, during aging glabrous receptive fields increased in the enriched rats, but decreased in the senescent impoverished rats so that old rats of either groups displayed receptive fields of similar sizes; in contrast, the size of hairy skin receptive fields was not affected by housing conditions or aging. Measurement of the neuronal responses to calibrated forces applied to the skin indicated that cortical excitability to near-threshold cutaneous input was lower in senescent rats than in mature rats, regardless of environmental conditions. The present study demonstrates that use-dependent remodeling of somatosensory maps occurs throughout life and that environmental and social interactions can partially offset the age-related breakdown of somatosensory cortical maps.
In our previous study, continuous visual (cartoon and random dot motion) and auditory (music) stimulation changed the somatosensory evoked magnetic fields following electrical stimulation of the median nerve in human subjects. They enhanced the middle-latency components (3M and 4M) generated in the contralateral primary somatosensory cortex, and reduced the MI component generated in the ipsilateral secondary somatosensory cortex. We speculated that such interference effects were caused by activation of polymodal neurons in areas 5 and/or 7 of the parietal lobe as well as in the medial superior temporal region and superior temporal sulcus. However, we could not exclude the effect of attention on such interference effects. In the present study, to know the effect of attention on visual and auditory interference in these changes, we stimulated the bilateral median nerves unilaterally in a random order, and asked subjects to count the number of times the left median nerve was stimulated while visual or auditory interference was applied. Five components (1M-5M) were identified in the hemisphere contralateral to the stimulated nerve and only one component (MI) was found in the ipsilateral hemisphere. The 3M and 4M components (33-75 ms in latency) were enhanced by both attention and visual interference stimulation but not by auditory stimulation. The 5M component (70-115 ms) and MI component (70-133 ms) were enhanced by attention, but were not changed by attention together with visual or auditory interference. Summarizing the results of our previous study and the present study, (1) visual interference alone enhanced the 3M and 4M but reduced the MI, and (2) attention alone also enhanced the 3M and 4M, and enhanced the 5M and MI. As a result, (3) visual interference with attention enhanced the 3M and 4M more, and showed no significant change of the 5M and MI. This was compatible with a summation of the effects caused by visual interference alone and attention alone, but some interactions between visual interference and attention might have taken place. The locations of dipoles of all components were not significantly changed by attention or any interference stimulation. These findings support the idea that there are significant interactions of activities relating to somatosensory stimulation, visual stimulation and cognitive function, in both the primary and the secondary somatosensory cortex in humans.
There is growing evidence to suggest that growth hormone plays a role in the growth and development of the CNS. Specifically, growth hormone has been implicated in promoting brain growth, myelination, neuronal arborisation, glial differentiation and cognitive function. Here we investigate if growth hormone has a role in the recovery from an unilateral hypoxic-ischaemic brain injury. Using moderate (15 min hypoxia) and severe (60 min hypoxia) models of hypoxic-ischaemia in juvenile rats and standard immunohistochemical techniques, we found intense growth hormone-like immunoreactivity present within regions of cell loss by 3 days (P&lt;0.05). Growth hormone-like immunoreactivity was observed on injured neurones, myelinated axons, glial cells within and surrounding infarcted tissue and on the choroid plexus plus ependymal cells within the injured hemisphere. The pattern of immunoreactivity suggests that (a) growth hormone (or a growth hormone-like substance) is transported via the cerebrospinal fluid and (b) that growth hormone (or a growth hormone-like substance) is acting in a neurotrophic manner specifically targeted to injured neurones and glia. To test this hypothesis we treated a moderate hypoxic-ischaemic brain injury with 20 microg of rat growth hormone by intracerebroventricular infusion starting 2 h after injury (n=12/group). After 3 days the animals were killed and the extent of neuronal loss quantified. Growth hormone treatment reduced neuronal loss in the frontoparietal cortex (P&lt;0.001), hippocampus (P&lt;0.01) and dorsolateral thalamus (P&lt;0.01) but not in the striatum. This spatial distribution of the neuroprotection conveyed by growth hormone correlates with the spatial distribution of the constitutive neural growth hormone receptor, but not with the neuroprotection offered by insulin-like growth factor-I treatment in this model. These results suggest that some of the neuroprotective effects of growth hormone are mediated directly through the growth hormone receptor and do not involve insulin-like growth factor-I induction.In summary, we have found that a growth hormone-like factor increased in the brain in the days after injury. In addition, treatment with growth hormone soon after an hypoxic-ischaemic injury reduced the extent of neuronal loss. These results further suggest that a neural growth hormone axis is activated during recovery from injury and that this may act to restrict the extent of neuronal death.
Most functional imaging studies of memory retrieval investigate memory for standardized laboratory stimuli. However, naturally acquired autobiographical memories differ from memories of standardized stimuli in important ways. Neuroimaging studies of natural memories may reveal distinctive patterns of brain activation and may have particular value in assessing clinical disorders of memory. This study used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate brain activation during successful retrieval of autobiographical memories elicited by name-cued recall of family members and friends. The caudal part of the left posterior cingulate cortex was the most strongly activated region and was significantly activated in all eight subjects studied. Most subjects also showed significant activation of the left anterior orbitomedial, anterior middle frontal, precuneus, cuneus, and posterior inferior parietal cortices, and the right posterior cingulate and motor cortices.Our findings are consistent with prior studies showing posterior cingulate cortex activation during autobiographical memory retrieval. This region is also consistently activated during retrieval of standardized memory stimuli when experimental designs emphasizing successful retrieval are employed. Our results support the hypothesis that the posterior cingulate cortex plays an important role in successful memory retrieval. The posterior cingulate cortex has strong reciprocal connections with entorhinal and parahippocampal cortices. Studies of early Alzheimer's disease, temporal lobectomy, and hypoxic amnesia show that hypometabolism of the posterior cingulate cortex is an early and prominent indicator of pathology in these patients. Our findings suggest that autobiographical memory retrieval tasks could be used to probe the functional status of the posterior cingulate cortex in patients with early Alzheimer's disease or at risk for that condition.
The mint family consists of evolutionarily conserved adapter proteins from Caenorhabditis elegans to mammalian neurons. Three mammalian isoforms, mint1, 2, and 3, are extensively diverted in their N-terminal halves and, in striking contrast, are highly homologous to each other in their C-terminal halves containing phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) and PSD-95/DLG-A/ZO-1 (PDZ) domains that work as protein-protein interaction modules. Biochemical and genetic analyses revealed that mint1 and LIN-10, a homolog in C. elegans, comprise macromolecular complexes in the presynaptic and postsynaptic terminals, thereby bringing synaptic vesicles to the exocytotic transmitter release site and localizing receptors and ion channels in the specific membrane domains. Amyloid precursor protein is one of the targets of the PTB domain of mint and this interaction modulates its proteolytic procedures ending up with amyloid beta peptide production, but its molecular mechanism is unclear. We show by an in situ hybridization technique that mint3, a ubiquitous isoform, is expressed both in polar cells like neurons, and in non-polar cells, such as glia and ependymal cells, in the mouse brain. In addition, a considerable amount of a human homolog mint3 (approximately 70 kDa) was expressed in a human epithelial cell line. Subcellularly, mint3 is specifically enriched in vesicles in the cytoplasm, cell membrane, and Golgi complex as reserves. A series of deletions or site-directed mutations revealed that mint3 double recognizes an amyloid precursor protein-containing macromolecular complex via the PTB and PDZb domains independently and cooperatively, not only in the cytoplasmic transporting vesicles but even after amyloid precursor protein was targeted and/or inserted to the specific cell membrane domains. From these results we suggest that mint3 links amyloid precursor protein to other components, thereby regulating its transport, endocytosis, and metabolism. Abnormal metabolism of amyloid precursor protein causes an early-onset type of Alzheimer's disease but its molecular mechanism is incompletely understood. The present findings give morphological evidence and a molecular framework of how mint interacts with amyloid precursor protein and modifies its processing on the secretory pathway.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) interacts with noradrenergic, dopaminergic and cholinergic systems of the brain, and these interactions are thought to be of relevance for the stress response, anxiety-related behavior, and cognitive function. CRH mediates its central effects through two high-affinity membrane receptors, CRH receptor subtypes 1 and 2. It is however unclear at present whether cholinergic or catecholaminergic cells express these receptors themselves or whether the effects of CRH are indirectly mediated through interaction with other neurotransmitter systems. Therefore, this study investigated whether choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive neurons of the murine basal forebrain and brainstem nuclei, and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons located within the locus coeruleus, ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra co-express CRH receptor 1, employing a double-immunocytochemical procedure. Using an antibody against the C-terminus of the CRH type 1 receptor (CRH-R1), CRH-R1-like immunoreactivity was found in all cholinergic basal forebrain nuclei except the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. In particular, the diagonal band of Broca (vertical and horizontal limbs) showed a high degree of co-localization of CRH-R1 immunoreactivity and choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity (both limbs &gt;90%). A less intense immunoreactivity but still high rate of co-localization was detected in the cholinergic neurons of the medial septum (80%), while lowest co-localization was observed in choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive neurons of the substantia innominata (58%). An intermediate degree of co-localization (75%) was seen in the brainstem pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, while the other major brainstem cholinergic nucleus, the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, showed an even higher degree of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity-positive cells also immunoreactive for CRH-R1 (92%). All catecholaminergic structures studied displayed a pattern of CRH-R1 immunoreactivity strongly overlapping the pattern of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. The intensity of the CRH-R1 signal was relatively low within the ventral tegmental area and the substantia nigra pars compacta, while the CRH-R1 signal was very intense and detected in almost all of the neurons of the locus coeruleus. These results clearly demonstrate that the cholinergic and catecholaminergic systems provide direct anatomical substrates for CRH action through the CRH-R1. These findings are of particular relevance for understanding the action of recently developed CRH-R1 antagonistic drugs which may offer a new therapeutic approach to treat stress-related disorders such as anxiety and depression and their concomitant alterations in arousal and cognitive functions.
The cholinergic phenotype requires the expression of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter and choline acetyltransferase proteins. Both genes are encoded at one chromosomal location called the cholinergic gene locus. We have identified by in situ hybridization histochemistry distinct patterns of transcription from the cholinergic gene locus in the subdivisions of the rat cholinergic nervous system. The vesicular acetylcholine transporter and choline acetyltransferase are co-expressed in cholinergic neurons at all developmental stages in all major types of cholinergic neurons. The relative levels of vesicular acetylcholine transporter and choline acetyltransferase transcripts, however, change substantially during development in the CNS. They also differ dramatically in distinct subdivisions of the mature cholinergic nervous system, with vesicular acetylcholine transporter mRNA expressed at high levels relative to choline acetyltransferase mRNA in the peripheral nervous system, but at equivalent levels in the CNS. Expression of the R-exon, the presumptive first non-coding exon common to both the vesicular acetylcholine transporter and choline acetyltransferase, was not detectable at any developmental stage in any of the cholinergic neuronal subtypes in the rat nervous system. Thus, in contrast to less complex metazoan organisms, production of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter and choline acetyltransferase via a common differentially spliced transcript does not seem to occur to a significant extent in the rat. We suggest that separate transcriptional start sites within the cholinergic gene locus control vesicular acetylcholine transporter and choline acetyltransferase transcription, while additional elements are responsible for the specific transcriptional control of the entire locus in cholinergic versus non-cholinergic neurons. Independent transcription of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter and choline acetyltransferase genes provides a mechanism for regulating the relative expression of these two proteins to fine-tune acetylcholine quantal size in different types of cholinergic neurons, both centrally and peripherally.
Identification of relevant phenotypes related to neural functioning has yet to receive the needed attention, although behavioral phenotyping, through comparative studies in inbred strains of mice, has produced some major findings (Cabib et al., 2000; Crabbe, 1999; Gerlai, 1996; Lathe, 1996). Central responses to stress play a major psychopathogenic role in the presence of a genetic liability (Fowels, 1992), and mesocortical and mesoacumbens dopamine metabolism and release are the most relevant among these responses (Abercrombie et al., 1989; Cabib and Puglisi-Allegra, 1994; Chrapusta et al., 1997; Di Chiara et al., 1999; Herv et al., 1979; Imperato et al., 1991). Therefore, in the present study, we assessed strain-dependent differences in mesocortical and mesoaccumbens dopamine responses to a widely utilized stressful procedure (restraint), by comparing mice of the oldest and most studied inbred strains (Cabib et al., 2000): the C57BL/6JIco and DBA/2JIco. We found that stress produced inhibition of mesoaccumbens dopamine release accompanied by a very fast and strong activation of mesocortical dopamine metabolism in C57BL/6JIco mice, and the opposite in mice of the DBA/2JIco strain. These results suggest a genetic control over the balance between mesocortical and mesoaccumbens dopamine responses to stress, and provide a model for pre-clinical studies on molecular genetics of depression.
In 1937 Papez described an anatomical circuit (or loop) beginning and ending in the hippocampal formation that he proposed subserved emotional experience (Papez, 1937). Specifically, the projections of the circuit were as follows: hippocampal formation--&gt; mammillary bodies--&gt; anterior thalamus--&gt; cingulate cortex--&gt; parahippocampal gyrus--&gt; hippocampal formation. Although the circuit has been refined based on subsequent anatomical findings (Amaral and Witter, 1995; Shibata, 1992; Van Groen and Wyss, 1995), the major links of the circuit unquestionably represent a prominent system of connections in the mammalian brain. Hence, the enduring nature of 'Papez's circuit'. Unlike, however, its persistence as anatomical entity, the proposed functional role for the circuit has been less resilient. The early notion that Papez's circuit subserves emotional experience/expression has been abandoned (LeDoux, 1993) and replaced by the proposal that it is primarily involved in mnemonic functions (Aggleton and Brown, 1999). Lesions of each of the major components of the circuit have been shown to disrupt memory (Aggleton and Brown, 1999; Sutherland et al., 1988; Sziklas and Petrides, 1993). The mammillary bodies represent a major output from the hippocampus in Papez's circuit (Amaral and Witter, 1995). It has recently been shown that cells of mammillary body fire rhythmically in bursts synchronous with the theta rhythm of the hippocampus (Bland et al., 1995; Kirk et al., 1996; Kocsis and Vertes, 1994, 1997) and that this rhythmical activity is dependent upon the action of the hippocampus on the mammillary bodies (Bland et al., 1995; Kirk et al., 1996). It is well established that the mammillary bodies project massively to the anterior thalamus (Shibata, 1992), which taken together with the demonstration that mammillary body cells fire synchronously with theta, suggests that the mammillary bodies may act on the anterior thalamus, possibly in the manner that the hippocampus acts on the mammillary bodies, to rhythmically activate cells of the anterior thalamus at theta frequency. We demonstrated that approximately 75% of cells of the anterior ventral nucleus of the thalamus fire rhythmically synchronous with the hippocampal theta rhythm and the activity of 46% of these anterior ventral neurons was highly correlated with theta. These findings, together with demonstration of theta-rhythmically firing cells in other structures of Papez's circuit, indicate that a theta-rhythmic signal may resonate throughout Papez's circuit, possibly involved in the control of mnemonic functions of the circuit.
Appropriate timing of physiological and behavioral processes requires that the circadian clock be reset daily by salient cues in the environment, particularly light. It is known that the ability of light to reset the clock depends both on its intensity and on the circadian time when it is applied (Daan and Pittendrigh, 1976; Moore-Ede et al., 1982). Here we show that the ability of a weak light stimulus to reset the clock is dramatically enhanced when it is presented daily at the same circadian time. Equivalent daily presentations of this light stimulus, but at different circadian times each day, do not lead to such enhancement. These findings suggest that the ability of light to reset the clock can be modified through a novel, and previously unrecognized, conditioning-like associative process in which circadian time serves as the conditioned stimulus and light as the unconditioned stimulus. The idea that circadian time can serve as a conditioned stimulus to modulate the effectiveness of light provides a new perspective on the lasting impact that light schedules have on the circadian clock and, thus, may have implications for existing models of photic entrainment (Pittendrigh and Daan, 1976; Moore-Ede et al., 1982).
Beta-amyloid is one of the most significant features of Alzheimer's disease, and has been considered to play a pivotal role in neurodegeneration through an unknown mechanism. However, it has been noted that beta-amyloid accumulation is associated with markers of oxidative stress including protein oxidation (Smith et al., 1997), lipid peroxidation (Mark et al., 1997; Sayre et al., 1997), advanced glycation end products (Smith et al., 1994), and oxidation of nucleic acids (Nunomura et al., 1999). Furthermore, studies from cultured cells have shown that beta-amyloid leads to an increase in hydrogen peroxide levels (Behl et al., 1994), and the production of reactive oxygen intermediates (Harris et al., 1995). Taken together, this evidence supports the idea that beta-amyloid plays a key role in oxidative stress-evoked neuropathology. In this study, we examined the induction of oxidative stress in response to amyloid load in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. The mice carrying mutant amyloid precursor protein and presenilins-1 (Goate et al., 1991; Hardy, 1997), develops beta-amyloid deposits at 10-12 weeks of age and show several features of the human disease (Holcomb et al., 1998; Matsuoka et al., 2001; McGowan et al., 1999; Takeuchi et al., 2000; Wong et al., 1999). Both 3-nitrotyrosine and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (protein and lipid oxidative stress markers, respectively) associate strongly with fibrillar beta-amyloid, but not with diffuse (thioflavine S negative) beta-amyloid, and the levels increase in relation to the age-associated increase in fibrillar amyloid load.From these data we suggest that fibrillar beta-amyloid is associated with oxidative damage which may influence disease progression in the Alzheimer's disease brain.
Syntaxin 1A has a pronounced inhibitory effect on the activation kinetics and current amplitude of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. This study explores the molecular basis of syntaxin interaction with N- and Lc-type Ca(2+) channels by way of functional assays of channel gating in a Xenopus oocytes expression system. A chimera of syntaxin 1A and syntaxin 2 in which the transmembrane domain of syntaxin 2 replaced the transmembrane of syntaxin 1A (Sx1-2), significantly reduced the rate of activation of N- and Lc-channels. This shows a similar effect to that demonstrated by syntaxin 1A, though the current was not inhibited. The major sequence differences at the transmembrane of the syntaxin isoforms are that the two highly conserved cysteines Cys 271 and Cys 272 in syntaxin 1A correspond to the valines Val 272 and Val 273 in syntaxin 2 transmembrane. Mutating either cysteines in Sx1-1 (syntaxin 1A) to valines, did not affect modulation of the channel while a double mutant C271/272V was unable to regulate inward current. Transfer of these two cysteines to the transmembrane of syntaxin 2 by mutating Val 272 and Val 273 to Cys 272 and Cys 273 led to channel inhibition. When cleaved by botulinum toxin, the syntaxin 1A fragments, amino acids 1-253 and 254-288, which includes the transmembrane domain, were both unable to inhibit current amplitude but retained the ability to modify the activation kinetics of the channel. A full-length syntaxin 1A and the integrity of the two cysteines within the transmembrane are crucial for coordinating Ca(2+) entry through the N- and Lc-channels. These results suggest that upon membrane depolarization, the voltage-gated N- and Lc-type Ca(2+)-channels signal the exocytotic machinery by interacting with syntaxin 1A at the transmembrane and the cytosolic domains. Cleavage with botulinum toxin disrupts the coupling of the N- and Lc-type channels with syntaxin 1A and abolishes exocytosis, supporting the hypothesis that these channels actively participate in Ca(2+) regulated secretion.
PC12-GFRalpha1 cells, a clonal cell line engineered to express glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor receptor alpha1 were constructed. Given glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor could induce the differentiation and promote the survival of PC12-GFRalpha1 cells at low concentrations, the cells provide an unlimited source of monoclonal cells for studies on the signal transduction pathway of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. To characterize the involvement of the mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathways in the biological effect of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, we used the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase inhibitor PD98059 and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor LY294002. PD98059 blocked glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-induced PC12-GFRalpha1 cells neurite formation in a dose-dependent manner, without significantly altering cell viability. LY294002 reversed the survival-promoting effect of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor on the PC12-GFRalpha1 cells in serum-deprived medium. The present study demonstrates that phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway seems to mediate the survival-promoting effect of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor on PC12-GFRalpha1 cells, while the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway could be an important step in mediating PC12-GFRalpha1 cells differentiation induced by glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. Therefore, it is inferred that similar intracellular signaling components are used by distinct growth factors toward a common biological effect.
We examined the role of second messengers during the neuritogenesis that accompanies neuronal differentiation in a neuroblastomaxglioma hybrid cell line (NG108-15). NG108-15 cells extended neurites after treatment with dibutyryl cyclic AMP. This dibutyryl cyclic AMP treatment evoked the synthesis of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel proteins in the cells. The number of neurites was decreased by Ca(2+) influx under condition of high K(+). Interestingly, the increase of neurites stimulated by dibutyryl cyclic AMP and the decrease of neurites caused by high K(+) were both reversible. This is the first study to demonstrate that cyclic AMP regulates a negative feedforward system for neuritogenesis, which links with Ca(2+) signaling. Such a dual role of cyclic AMP may play an important part in precise neurite targeting.
Efflux of Cl(-) through GABA(A)-gated anion channels depolarizes the cell bodies and intraspinal terminals of sensory neurons, and contributes to the generation of presynaptic inhibition in the spinal cord. Active accumulation of Cl(-) inside sensory neurons occurs through an Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransport system that generates and maintains the electrochemical gradient for this outward Cl(-) current. We studied the immunolocalization of the Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter protein using a monoclonal antibody (T4) against a conserved epitope in the C-terminus of the molecule. Western blots of frog, rat and cat dorsal root ganglion membranes revealed a single band of cotransporter immunoreactivity at approximately 160kDa, consistent with the molecular mass of the glycosylated protein. Deglycosylation with N-glycosidase F reduced the molecular mass to approximately 135kDa, in agreement with the size of the core polypeptide. Indirect immunofluorescence revealed strong cotransporter immunoreactivity in all types of dorsal root ganglion cell bodies in frog, rat and cat. The subcellular distribution of cotransporter immunoreactivity was different amongst species. Membrane labeling was more apparent in frog and rat dorsal root ganglion cell bodies than in cat. In contrast, cytoplasmic labeling was intense in cat and weak in frog, being intermediate in the rat. Cotransporter immunoreactivity also occurred in satellite cells, particularly in rat and cat dorsal root ganglia. The membrane region and axoplasm of sensory fibers were heavily labeled in cat and rat and less in frog. Three-dimensional reconstruction of confocal optical sections and dual immunolocalization with S-100 protein showed that the cotransporter immunoreactivity was prominently expressed in the nodal and paranodal regions of the Schwann cells. Ultrastructural immunolocalization confirmed the presence of immunoreactivity on the membranes of the axon and the Schwann cell in both the nodal region and the paranode. Treatment with sodium dodecylsulfate and beta-mercaptoethanol also uncovered intense cotransporter immunoreactivity in Schmidt-Lanterman incisures at the light microscopic level. The localization of the Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter protein is consistent with its function as a Cl(-)-accumulating mechanism in sensory neurons. Its distinctive presence in Schwann cells suggests that it could also be involved in K(+) uptake from the extracellular space, particularly in the paranodal region of myelinated axons, thereby regulating the extracellular ionic environment and the excitability of axons.
We applied calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) by continuous perfusion of the extrajunctional surface of the adult rat soleus muscle in vivo. We obtained this through a fine polyethylene catheter connected to an Alzet pump implanted in the animal. The perfusion induced a local acetylcholine receptor accumulation in the membrane of the muscle fibres starting with a delay of one to two days, provided a chronic conduction block of soleus innervation was concomitantly present. The effect was prominent, being higher than that following denervation. The lack of acetylcholine receptor accumulation observed in sham perfused animals and the co-administration of CGRP and its competitive antagonist peptide, hCGRP(8-37), eliminates the possibility that the response to CGRP application represents an inflammatory reaction to foreign bodies instead of a specific effect of the peptide. We suggest that CGRP may act on the extrajunctional membrane of muscle fibres to help induce acetylcholine receptor accumulation after appropriate receptors for the peptide are re-expressed due to muscle paralysis. Whilst this is compatible with a role of CGRP in synaptogenesis, a recent study showed that alpha-CGRP(-/-) mutant mice have normal neuromuscular junction development. However, given the redundancy of factors involved in acetylcholine receptor accumulation, further experiments on multiple knock-outs need to be performed before a final conclusion is reached about the physiological significance of CGRP.
The effects of 1-100 nM Lqh III, an alpha-like toxin isolated from the scorpion Leiurus quinquestriatus hebraeus, were assessed on the nodal membrane potential and ionic currents of single frog myelinated axons. In current-clamped axons, Lqh III increased the duration of action potentials without markedly affecting the peak amplitude and the resting membrane potential. The toxin was less effective when the resting membrane potential of axons was increasingly more positive. The Lqh III-induced increase in action potential duration was not due to the blockade of K(+) channels, since the toxin had no significant effect upon the K(+) current. In contrast, Lqh III inhibited the inactivation of a fraction of the Na(+) current, leading to a maintained late inward Na(+) current which represented about 45% of the peak Na(+) current, as observed during long-lasting depolarisations and in steady-state Na(+) current inactivation-voltage relationships when the pre-pulse potential was more positive than about -30mV. The activation kinetics of the late Na(+) current were well described by a single exponential whose time constant was 8.53+/-0.78 ms (n=3). Finally, Lqh III slowed the time-course of the remaining peak Na(+) current inactivation by altering initial amplitudes (to time zero of depolarisation) and time constants of its fast and slow phases. No significant additional effect was detected during the action of the toxin. In conclusion, we propose that, in frog myelinated axons, the effects of Lqh III are those typically attributed to classical scorpion alpha-toxins.
Heat transduction mechanisms in primary nociceptive afferents have been suggested to involve a vanilloid receptor channel with high calcium permeability. To characterize the changes in free cytosolic calcium evoked by noxious heat stimuli (&lt; or =51 degrees C, 10s), we performed microfluorometric measurements in acutely dissociated small dorsal root ganglion neurons (&lt; or =32.5 microm) of adult rats using the dye FURA-2. Only neurons that responded with a reversible increase in intracellular calcium to high potassium were evaluated. Heat-induced calcium transients (exceeding mean + 3S.D. of the temperature dependence of the dye) were found in 66 of 105 neurons. These transients increased non-linearly with temperature. In contrast, heat-insensitive neurons showed a small linear increase of intracellular calcium throughout the range of 12-49 degrees C, similar to cardiac muscle cells. The vanilloid receptor agonist capsaicin induced calcium transients in 72 of 99 neurons. Capsaicin sensitivity and heat sensitivity were significantly associated (P&lt;0.001, chi(2)-test), but 16 of 34 heat-insensitive cells responded to capsaicin and four of 49 heat-sensitive cells were capsaicin insensitive. The competitive vanilloid receptor antagonist capsazepine (10 microM) reversibly reduced the heat-induced calcium transients by 47+/-13%. In contrast, high potassium-induced calcium transients were not affected by pre-incubation with capsazepine. In calcium-free extracellular solution, the heat-induced rise in intracellular calcium was reduced by 76+/-5%. Heat-induced calcium transients were also reversibly reduced by 75+/-6% in sodium-free solution and by 62+/-7% with the L-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine (5 microM). These results indicate that noxious heat rapidly increases intracellular calcium in nociceptive primary sensory neurons. Heat-sensitive vanilloid receptors are involved in the induction of calcium transients, and calcium is also released from intracellular stores, but the main fraction of calcium passes through voltage-operated calcium channels.
Three morphologically distinct types of lamina I neurones, fusiform, flattened and pyramidal, project from the spinal cord to the caudal part of the nucleus tractus solitarii in the rat, and may represent a pathway whereby peripheral stimuli can modify autonomic functions. The neurochemistry of these three types of projection neurones was investigated using retrograde neuronal tracing with cholera toxin B-subunit combined with dual and triple immunofluorescence labelling for different neuroactive substances. None of the lamina I neurones with immunoreactivity for GABA or glycine were found to project to the nucleus tractus solitarii, whereas high levels of glutamate immunoreactivity, which may indicate a glutamatergic phenotype, were found in 18.4% of fusiform, 9.6% of pyramidal and 2.1% of flattened projection neurones. Immunoreactivity for calbindin-D28K was present in 34.9% of fusiform cells, 18.3% of pyramidal cells and 10.5% of flattened cells, and nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity was detected in 13.8% of fusiform cells, 1.1% of pyramidal cells and 4.2% of flattened cells that had projections to the nucleus tractus solitarii. Calbindin immunoreactivity was co-localised in major subpopulations of projection neurones of each morphological type that contained glutamate immunoreactivity, whereas co-localisation of nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity in these neurones was relatively uncommon. The pyramidal cell was the only retrogradely labelled cell type found to be immunoreactive for substance P, but few (&lt;5%) of these neurones were immunolabelled. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that lamina I neurones projecting to the dorsal vagal complex are not inhibitory, and that some of them, belonging mostly to the fusiform and pyramidal types, may exert excitatory, glutamate- or substance P-mediated effects upon inhibitory interneurones in the nucleus tractus solitarii. Such excitatory pathways could be involved in the attenuation of the reflex control of blood pressure by both painful and innocuous peripheral stimuli, such as those arising in injury and exercise.
Collateral sprouting of undamaged descending axons is one potential mechanism for recovery of function after incomplete spinal cord injury. In this study, we have investigated whether terminals of the intact corticospinal tract in the rat would sprout following ablation of a parallel descending pathway, the rubrospinal tract. No sprouting was detected after this injury alone. However, the combination of rubrospinal tract ablation with administration of 100ng neurotrophin-3 to neurons of the corticospinal tract resulted in marked increased density of corticospinal innervation in the superficial dorsal horn. There was no effect of administration of neurotrophin-3 alone and increase in axon density was not detected in the deep dorsal horn. These results imply that spontaneous sprouting of undamaged corticospinal axons does not occur following ablation of a parallel tract system, although collateral sprouting can be induced through a combination of the lesion plus exogenous growth factor. Induced change in corticospinal terminal density is detected in the superficial dorsal horn only, supporting the hypothesis that this is an area particularly supportive of circuit reorganisation.
The granular layer of the cerebellar cortex consists of densely packed neuronal cells, classified into granule cells and large interneurons. In this study, we provide a comparative survey of large granular layer interneurons in the adult rat cerebellum based on both morphological and neurochemical criteria. To this end, double immunofluorescence histochemistry was performed by combining antibodies against the cytoplasmic antigen Rat-303, calretinin, the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR2 and somatostatin. Based on Rat-303/calretinin double immunohistochemistry, three distinct populations of large granular layer interneurons could be discerned: cells immunopositive for Rat-303, calretinin or both. Rat-303 or calretinin single-labeled cells represented Golgi cells and unipolar brush cells, respectively. Rat-303/calretinin double-labeled cells located just underneath the Purkinje cell layer represented Lugaro cells. Morphometrical analysis distinguished two populations of Rat-303-positive Golgi cells according to their location: vermis versus hemisphere. Immunostaining for the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR2 combined with Rat-303 or calretinin revealed that the majority of Golgi cells (about 90%) appeared to be mGluR2 positive. Lugaro cells were mGluR2 negative. In addition, a limited population of large polymorphous interneurons in the depth of the granular layer with morphological features resembling Golgi cells also displayed Rat-303/calretinin immunoreactivity and were mGluR2 negative. Double immunohistochemistry for Rat-303 and somatostatin revealed three populations of labeled cells in the depth of the granular layer. Besides double-labeled Golgi cells, Rat-303 or somatostatin single-labeled cells were present. Based on mGluR2/somatostatin and calretinin/somatostatin double immunostainings, Rat-303 single-labeled cells were found to correspond to Rat-303/calretinin-positive, mGluR2-negative Golgi-like cells, while the identity of somatostatin single-labeled cells remained unclear. The data presented in this article elaborate previous reports on the morphological and neurochemical differentiation of large interneurons in the rat cerebellar granular layer. In addition, they indicate that the current classification of these cells into Golgi cells, Lugaro cells and unipolar brush cells does not describe the observed neurochemical heterogeneity.
The existence of a neuronal-glial signalling through the activation of neurotransmitter receptors expressed in glia is well-documented. In excitatory synapses, glutamate released from presynaptic terminals activates not only postsynaptic receptors, but also ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors localized in the glia ensheathing the synapses. The medial nucleus of the trapezoid body of the auditory system is involved in the localization of sounds in the space. In this nucleus, the large excitatory synaptic terminals formed by the calyces of Held on the principal globular cell bodies are wrapped by astrocytic processes. Since these synapses are functional from early postnatal days, glia receiving excitatory synaptic signals from the calyces may participate in modulating the maturation and development of the system. Groups I and II of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been localized in glial cells in different brain regions. To investigate whether group II mGluRs are present in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body, we have studied the pattern of expression of mGluR2/3 in the developing and mature nucleus by means of immunocytochemichal methods. The most remarkable finding was the switch in the occurrence of mGluR2/3 from glial to neuronal compartments. Thus, a preferential localization of mGluR2/3 immunoreactivity was observed in astrocytic processes surrounding the calyces of Held during the early postnatal development. In contrast, the main feature in adult rats was the presence of the group II mGluRs in presynaptic calyces of Held and postsynaptic principal globular cells.From these observations we suggest a role for group II mGluRs in neuronal-glial signalling in the calyx of Held-principal globular neuron synapses. Activation of these receptors might be relevant to the maturation and modulation of synaptic transmission in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body.
The noradrenergic &quot;REM-off&quot; neurons in the locus coeruleus cease firing, whereas some cholinergic and non-cholinergic &quot;REM-on&quot; neurons increase firing during rapid eye movement sleep. A reciprocal interaction between these neurons was proposed. However, acetylcholine did not inhibit neurons in the locus coeruleus. Nevertheless, since GABA levels increase during rapid eye movement sleep and picrotoxin injections into the locus coeruleus reduced rapid eye movement sleep, it was hypothesized that GABA in the locus coeruleus might play an intermediary inhibitory role for rapid eye movement sleep regulation. Therefore, the effects of GABA or carbachol (a mixed cholinergic agonist receptor) alone, as well as an agonist of one in presence of an antagonist of the other, in the locus coeruleus were investigated on sleep-wakefulness and rapid eye movement sleep. The cholinergic agonist carbachol increased, while the muscarinic antagonist receptor scopolamine decreased, the frequency of induction of rapid eye movement sleep per hour. In contrast, GABA and picrotoxin increased and decreased, respectively, the duration of rapid eye movement sleep per episode. However, when carbachol was injected in the presence of picrotoxin or GABA was injected in the presence of scopolamine, the effect of GABA or picrotoxin was dominant. Microinjection of both scopolamine and picrotoxin in combination reduced both the frequency of initiation as well as the duration per episode of rapid eye movement sleep. From these results we suggest that in the locus coeruleus cholinergic input modulates the frequency of induction of rapid eye movement sleep and this action is mediated through GABA interneurons, whereas the length of rapid eye movement sleep per episode is maintained by the presence of an optimum level of GABA. A model of neural connections for initiation and maintenance of rapid eye movement sleep is proposed and discussed.
Extracellular and intracellular recordings were carried out from neurons in the region of the pontine reticular formation at the transition between the nucleus reticularis pontis oralis and caudalis, and in the pontis caudalis. Responses were studied after stimulation of the mesopontine cholinergic pedunculopontine nucleus in precollicular-postmammillary transected, paralyzed preparations. Recordings of neurographic activity in hindlimb flexor and extensor nerves served to detect changes in fictive locomotion and muscle tone induced by pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation or occurring spontaneously. Short duration trains of pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation induced long lasting responses, on average over 12s in duration, in one-third of pontine reticular neurons. These prolonged responses were stimulation frequency-dependent such that the longest durations were induced by stimulation at 20-60Hz. In some cells, stimulation at lower (10Hz) or higher (100Hz) frequencies induced responses of shorter duration or were absent, while in others, higher frequencies prolonged the excitatory effects of pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation. We conclude that these stimulation frequency-dependent effects may be related to the modulation of postural muscle tone and locomotion by the pedunculopontine nucleus.
Midbrain sections taken from Sprague-Dawley rats of varying ages within the first four postnatal weeks were used to determine, immunocytochemically, putative changes of GABA(A) receptor beta2/3 subunits, GABA(B) receptor (R1a and R1b splice variants), and GABA(C) receptor rho1 subunit expression and distribution in the superficial, visual layers of the superior colliculus. Immunoreactivity for the GABA(A) receptor beta2/3 subunits was found in the superficial grey layer from birth. The labelling changed with age, with an overall continuous reduction in the number of cells labelled and a significant increase in the labelling intensity distribution (neuropil vs soma). Further analysis revealed an initial increase in the labelling intensity between postnatal days 0 and 7 in parallel with an overall reduction of labelled neurones. This was followed by a significant decrease in labelling intensity distribution between postnatal days 7 and 16, and a subsequent increase in intensity between postnatal days 16 and 28. The labelling profiles for GABA(B) receptors (R1a and R1b splice variants) and GABA(C) receptors (rho1 subunit) showed similar patterns. Both receptors could be found in the superficial layers of the superior colliculus from birth, and the intensity and distribution of labelling remained constant during the first postnatal month. However, the cell body count showed a significant decrease between postnatal days 7 and 16. These changes may be related to the time-point of eye opening, which occurred approximately two weeks after birth. For all three receptor types, the cell body count remained constant after postnatal day 16. By four weeks of age, there was no significant difference between the cell numbers obtained for the different receptors. Both GABA itself and neurofilament labelling were also obtained in the superficial superior colliculus at birth. Neurofilament, although found at birth, showed very little ordered arrangement until 16days after birth. When slices were double labelled for GABA(C) receptors and neurofilament, some overlap was observed. Double labelling for the presynaptic protein synaptophysin and GABA(C) receptors showed proximity in some places, indicative of a partly synaptic location of GABA(C) receptors. When GABA(C) and GABA(A) receptors were labelled simultaneously, some but not all neurones showed immunoreactivity for both receptor types. In conclusion, all three GABA receptor types were found to be present in the superior colliculus from birth, and all show some form of postnatal modification, with GABA(A) receptors demonstrating the most dramatic changes. However, GABA(B) and GABA(C) receptors are modified significantly around the onset of input-specific activity. Together, this points towards a contribution of the GABAergic system to processes of postnatal maturation in the superficial superior colliculus.
The basal forebrain cholinergic system is involved in different forms of memory. To study its role in social memory in sheep, an immunotoxin, ME20.4 immunoglobulin G (IgG)-saporin, was developed that is specific to basal forebrain cholinergic neurons bearing the p75 neurotrophin receptor. The distribution of sheep cholinergic neurons was mapped with an antibody against choline acetyltransferase. To assess the localization of the p75 receptor on basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, the distribution of p75 receptor-immunoreactive neurons with ME20.4 IgG was examined, and a double-labeling study with antibodies against choline acetyltransferase and p75 receptor was undertaken. The loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and acetylcholinesterase fibers in basal forebrain projection areas was assessed in ewes that had received intracerebroventricular injections of the immunotoxin (50, 100 or 150 microg) alone, as well as, in some of the ewes treated with the highest dose, with bilateral immunotoxin injections in the nucleus basalis (11 microg/side). Results indicated that choline acetyltransferase- and p75 receptor-immunoreactive cells had similar distributions in the medial septum, the vertical and horizontal limbs of the band of Broca, and the nucleus basalis. The double-labeling procedure revealed that 100% of the cholinergic neurons are also p75 receptor positive in the medial septum and in the vertical and horizontal limbs of the band of Broca, and 82% in the nucleus basalis. Moreover, 100% of the p75 receptor-immunoreactive cells of these four nuclei were cholinergic. Combined immunotoxin injections into ventricles and the nucleus basalis produced a near complete loss (80-95%) of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers in the hippocampus, olfactory bulb and entorhinal cortex. This study provides the first anatomical data concerning the basal forebrain cholinergic system in ungulates. The availability of a selective cholinergic immunotoxin effective in sheep provides a new tool to probe the involvement of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in cognitive processes in this species.
Basal forebrain neuronal circuits, specifically the corticopetal cholinergic system, mediate attentional abilities. The effects of infusions of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) into the basal forebrain were assessed in rats trained in an operant task designed to generate measures of sustained attention performance. Control animals were trained in a cued visual discrimination task devoid of explicit demands on attentional performance, but involving similar basic operant components as the sustained attention task. The effects of intrabasalis infusions of NMDA (1, 3 and 6nmol) and APV (3, 10 and 20nmol) were tested in separate groups of animals. Infusion of neither drug affected the animals' response accuracy in the cued visual discrimination task, indicating that performance in this task remains insufficient to activate basal forebrain NMDA receptors. Infusions of APV in sustained attention task-performing animals selectively decreased the animals' ability to detect visual signals, but spared their ability to reject non-signal events. Conversely, infusions of NMDA into the basal forebrain did not affect the animals' hit rate but increased their number of false alarms, i.e. &quot;claims&quot; for signals in non-signal trials. The concentrations of NMDA infused into the basal forebrain did not result in neurotoxic effects as demonstrated by a separate experiment, which indicated neurodegeneration following the infusion of 30 nmol NMDA as visualized by the Fluoro-Jade method.The effects of APV correspond with the attentional consequences of other manipulations known to impair the functions of cortical cholinergic input. Conversely, the effects of NMDA infusions agree with the hypothesis that overactivity of cortical cholinergic inputs mediates an abnormal overprocessing of the stimulus situation. Basal forebrain NMDA receptor manipulations assist in determining the role of this neuronal system in cognitive processes.
Embryonic neurons transplanted to the adult CNS extend axons only for a developmentally defined period. There are certain intercellular factors that control the axonal extension, one of which may be the expression of the bcl-2 protein. In this study, rats with complete striatal dopamine fiber denervation received embryonic day 14 mouse ventral mesencephalon cells overexpressing human bcl-2 or control wild-type ventral mesencephalon cells. All rats were treated with cyclosporine to prevent rejection and the surviving grafts were analyzed for cell survival and outgrowth of dopaminergic fibers. The results demonstrate that bcl-2 overexpression does not enhance neuronal graft survival. However, the bcl-2 overexpressing neurons had a higher number of dopaminergic fibers that grew longer distances. These results show that overexpression of bcl-2 can result in longer distance axonal growth of transplanted fetal dopaminergic neurons and that genetic modification of embryonic donor cells may enhance their ability to reinnervate a neuronal target territory.
Temporal lobe epilepsy is related to many structural and physiological changes in the brain. We used kainic acid in rats as an animal model of temporal lobe epilepsy, and studied the neural interactions of the dentate gyrus in urethane-anesthetized rats in vivo. Our initial hypothesis was that sprouting of mossy fibers, the axons of the granule cells, increases proximal dendritic excitatory currents in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Extracellular currents were detected in vivo using current source density analysis. Backfiring the mossy fibers in CA3 or orthodromic excitation of the granule cells through the medial perforant path induced a current sink at the inner molecular layer. However, the sink or inferred excitation at the inner molecular layer was not increased in kainic acid-treated rats and the sink actually correlated negatively with the degree of mossy fiber sprouting. It is inferred that the latter sink was mediated mainly by association fibers and not by recurrent mossy fibers. After kainic acid treatment, paired-pulse inhibition of the population spikes in the dentate gyrus was increased. In contrast, reverberant activity that involved looping around an entorhinal-hippocampal circuit was increased in kainic acid-treated rats, compared to control rats. The increase of inhibition in kainic acid-treated rats was readily blocked by a small dose of GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline. The latter dose of bicuculline induced paroxsymal spike bursts in kainic acid-treated but not control rats, demonstrating that the increased inhibition in dentate gyrus was fragile. In conclusion, after kainic acid induced seizures, the dentate gyrus in vivo showed an increase in inhibition that appeared to be fragile. The hypothesized increase in proximal dendritic excitation due to mossy fiber sprouting was not detected. However, the fragile inhibition could explain the seizure susceptibility in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy.
Towards understanding the role of glycolysis on synaptic function, we examined the effect of lactate on synaptic potential, energy metabolism, Ca(2+) homeostasis and extracellular glutamate in the dentate gyrus of guinea-pig hippocampus. Postsynaptic population spikes were recorded from the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus in guinea-pig hippocampal slices after replacing glucose with lactate in the perfusion medium. Population spikes were not maintained and spontaneously recovered around 35min after the replacement of glucose with lactate. However, ATP levels of the dentate gyrus remained unchanged while those during the glucose-free condition decreased to 73% of the initial levels at 60min. Intracellular Ca(2+) was measured with the calcium indicator dye fura-2 AM, and the population spike was recorded simultaneously. Ca(2+) levels increased concomitantly with the early decay of synaptic potentials, and recovered partially with the spontaneous recovery of synaptic potentials. The time course of decay of population spikes and the increase of Ca(2+) levels during lactate replacement were similar to those during glucose deprivation. Increase in Ca(2+) levels during lactate replacement was completely blocked by the ryanodine receptor/calcium release channel antagonist dantrolene. Glutamate was released more significantly in the medium during lactate replacement than with normal Ringer solution, and less than that during glucose deprivation. Addition of the N-methyl-D-aspartate blocker, D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, and the L-type calcium channel blocker, nimodipine, but not dantrolene blocked spontaneous recovery of population spikes. The results indicate that lactate can maintain energy levels in hippocampal slices, but cannot maintain ion homeostasis in granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Glycolysis plays an important role in maintaining ion homeostasis, and activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate and L-type calcium channels is necessary for support of synaptic function by lactate utilization.
The extracellular matrix is a complex network of macromolecules including glycoproteins, polysaccharides and proteoglycans. Tenascin-R and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans are essential components of hippocampal extracellular matrix co-localised in perineuronal nets on interneurons. Mutant mice deficient in expression of tenascin-R showed a two-fold reduction of long-term potentiation induced by theta-burst stimulation of Schaffer collaterals in the stratum radiatum of the CA1 region of the hippocampus, as compared to wild-type mice. The same reduction in potentiation was observed in slices from wild-type mice pretreated for 2h with chondroitinase ABC that completely removed chondroitin sulfates from the extracellular matrix. Treatment of slices from tenascin-R deficient animals with the enzyme did not further reduce potentiation in comparison with untreated slices from these mice, showing an occlusion of effects produced by removal of tenascin-R and chondroitin sulfates. However, the level of potentiation recorded immediately after theta-burst stimulation was significantly higher in wild-type than in tenascin-R deficient mice, whereas chondroitinase ABC had no significant effect on this short-term form of plasticity. Enzymatic treatment also did not affect short-term depression evoked by low-frequency stimulation, whereas this form of synaptic plasticity was reduced in tenascin-R deficient mice. In contrast, long-term depression in CA1 was impaired by digestion of chondroitin sulfates but appeared normal in tenascin-R mutants. Our data demonstrate that tenascin-R and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans differentially modulate several forms of synaptic plasticity, suggesting that different mechanisms are involved.
At the auditory periphery, the medial olivocochlear system is assumed to be involved in complex sound processing and may be influenced by feedback from higher auditory nuclei. Indeed, the descending auditory pathway includes fibers coming from the auditory cortex that are anatomically well positioned to influence the superior olivary complex, and thus the medial efferent system. The aim of the present study was to verify the hypothesis of an implied influence of the auditory cortex on the peripheral auditory system. In three rare cases of patients presenting with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy, Heschl's gyrus (i.e. the temporal superior gyrus) was surgically removed in the right hemisphere in two patients and in the left hemisphere in a third patient, in order to minimize epilepsy attacks, as preoperative stereoencephalography had shown the epileptic focus or tumor to be situated in those locations. In all three cases, several weeks after the operation the medial olivocochlear system was clearly less functional on both sides, but especially on the side contralateral to the resection. In healthy controls, no such pattern was obtained. In four other epileptic patients, who were operated unilaterally at the anterior temporal pole, amygdala and hippocampus with the temporal gyrus partially spared, efferent suppression grew stronger in the ear ipsilateral to surgery. These results revealed that, in humans, the primary and secondary auditory cortex play a role in modulating auditory periphery activity through direct or indirect efferent fibers. In accordance with previous findings, this descending influence may improve the auditory afferent message by adapting the hearing function according to cortical analysis of the ascending input.
Prefrontal cortex neurons recorded in vivo exhibit bistable activity states, consisting of a depolarized phase (-55mV) and a hyperpolarized phase (-85mV). These &quot;up&quot; and &quot;down&quot; states have durations ranging from 800ms to 1s and a periodicity of approximately 1Hz. This study examines the state-dependency of prefrontal cortical neuron responses to dopamine, in which the bistable-state was approximated in vitro by intracellular current injection. At resting membrane potential (n=10), dopamine caused a significant depolarization of the membrane potential without altering any of the other electrophysiological characteristics tested. In contrast, both dopamine (30 microM, 5min) and the D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393 (5 and 10 microM) increased cell excitability when the cell was in the depolarized state (i.e., -55mV) but not the hyperpolarized state (i.e., -85 mV; n=10). This increase in excitability was accompanied by a decrease in the rheobase current. The SKF 38393-enhanced excitability was dose-dependent and could be blocked by bath administration of the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (5 and 10 microM). Administration of the GABA antagonist bicuculline (7 microM) plus the N-methyl-D-aspartate channel blocker CPP (10 microM) produced an additional increase in the excitability of prefrontal cortex neurons that was not dependent on the membrane potential. From these data we suggest that dopamine exerts state-dependent modulatory effects on the excitability of neurons in deep layers of the prefrontal cortex.
Chromogranin A, chromogranin B and secretogranin II belong to the chromogranin family which consists of large protein molecules that are found in large dense core vesicles. Chromogranins are endoproteolytically processed to smaller peptides. This study was designed to elucidate the regulation of chromgranin expression by acute and subchronic phencyclidine administration. The behavioral syndrome produced by phencyclidine represents a pharmacological model for some aspects of schizophrenia [Jentsch and Roth (1999) Neuropsychopharmacology 20, 201-225]. Tissue concentrations of chromogranins were measured with specific radioimmunoassays. Alterations in secretogranin II gene expression were investigated by in situ hybridization. A single dose of phencyclidine (10mg/kg) led to a transient decrease in secretoneurin tissue levels in the prefrontal cortex after 4h followed by an increase in secretoneurin tissue levels after 12h. Repeated phencyclidine treatment (10mg/kg/day) for five days resulted in elevated secretoneurin levels in cortical areas whereas chromogranin A and chromogranin B tissue levels were unchanged. After the same treatment, a significant increase in the number of secretoneurin containing neurons was found in cortical layers II-III, and V-VI as revealed by immunocytochemistry. The increases in secretoneurin levels were paralleled by an increased number of secretogranin II messenger RNA containing neurons as well as by an increased expression of secretogranin II by individual neurons. The present study shows that secretoneurin II tissue concentration and secretogranin II messenger RNA expression is distinctly altered after acute and subchronic phencyclidine application. From these results we suggest that phencyclidine may induce synaptic alterations in specific brain areas and may contribute to a better understanding of synaptic dysfunction which may also occur in schizophrenia.
Dystroglycan, originally identified in muscle as a component of the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein complex, is a ubiquitously expressed cell-surface receptor that forms a transmembrane link between the extracellular matrix and the cytoskeleton. It contains two subunits, alpha and beta, formed by proteolytic cleavage of a common precursor. In the brain, different neuronal subtypes and glial cells may express dystroglycan in complex with distinct cytoplasmic proteins such as dystrophin, utrophin and their truncated forms. To examine the distribution of dystroglycan in adult mouse brain, we raised antibodies against the recombinant amino- and carboxyl-terminal domains of alpha-dystroglycan. On western blot, the antibodies recognized specifically alpha-dystroglycan in cerebellar extracts. Using light microscopy, alpha-dystroglycan was found in neurons of the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, basal ganglia, thalamus, hypothalamus, brainstem and cerebellum, where dystrophin and its truncated isoforms are also known to be present. Electron microscopy revealed that alpha-dystroglycan immunoreactivity was preferentially associated with the postsynaptic specializations. Dystroglycan immunostaining was also detected in perivascular astrocytes and in those facing the pia mater, where utrophin and dystrophin truncated isoforms are present. The cell body and endfeet of astrocytes around blood vessels and the endothelial cells at the blood-brain barrier also expressed dystroglycan. From these data, we suggest that dystroglycan, by bridging the extracellular matrix and the cytoskeleton, may play an important functional role at specialized intercellular contacts, synapses and the blood-brain barrier, whose structural and functional organization strictly depend on the integrity of the extracellular matrix-cytoskeleton linkage.
A transgenic mouse expressing the human beta-amyloid precursor protein with the &quot;Swedish&quot; mutation, Tg2576, was used to investigate the mechanism of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) deposition. We characterized Abeta deposits in the cerebral cortex biochemically and pathologically. A surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization affinity mass spectrometric study using the 6E10 monoclonal antibody demonstrated that the major species of Abeta in a formic acid-extracted fraction of the cortex were Abeta(1-38), Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42). Immunohistochemistry using antibodies to the carboxy-terminal epitopes of Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42), as well as 6E10, showed that plaques containing Abeta(1-42) were more numerous than those containing Abeta(1-40) throughout the cortex. Laser confocal analysis of the immunoreactivities in the plaques demonstrated that Abeta(1-40) was preferentially located in the central part of the Abeta(1-42) positive plaques. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay measurements of Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42) showed that Abeta(1-40) was several-fold more abundant than Abeta(1-42). From these data we suggest that Abeta(1-42) deposition may precede Abeta(1-40) deposition, while Abeta(1-40) begins to deposit in the central part of the plaques and accumulates there. Furthermore, localization of Abeta(1-40) corresponded almost exactly to congophilic structures, which were associated with aberrant swollen synapses detected with antibodies to synaptophysin and alpha-synuclein. Thus, Abeta deposits in Tg2576 mice have similar characteristics to those in Alzheimer's disease.
C. elegans mutants defective in unc-13 exhibited severe behavioral abnormalities including paralyzed locomotion and slow pharyngeal pumping and irregular defecation cycle. Consistent with the phenotypes, the mutants accumulated abnormally high levels of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and were resistant to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. The unc-13 gene was expressed in most, if not all, neurons when analyzed by using chimeric constructs consisting of the unc-13 promoter and green fluorescence protein or beta-galactosidase reporter gene. While Ca(2+)-regulated acetylcholine release is lacking, the mutants were still able to release acetylcholine in vivo and in vitro at similar levels to that mediated by the regulated mechanism. Double mutants defective in both unc-13 and other genes involved in synaptic transmission showed the Unc-13 phenotype, rather than other mutant phenotypes, in terms of locomotion as well as of acetylcholine accumulation. Furthermore, electron microscopic reconstruction of the mutant nervous system uncovered that a majority of neurons developed and connected as those in the wild type except for subtle abnormalities including inappropriate connections through gap junctions and morphological alterations of neurons. These results demonstrate that the unc-13 gene product plays an essential role at a late stage in Ca(2+)-regulated synaptic exocytosis. Neurotransmitters released through the Ca(2+)-regulated mechanism are required for, but do not play major roles in the nervous system development. The large amount of Ca(2+)-independent neurotransmitter release observed in the unc-13 mutants suggests that there may be a distinct mechanism from evoked or spontaneous release in neurotransmission.
The functions of the electroencephalographic rhythms are uncertain. Correlational evidence has linked 10-12Hz alpha rhythms to memory formation in healthy people. Moreover, loss of 10Hz alpha correlates with memory problems in Alzheimer's disease. Going beyond mere correlation, brain stimulation or peptides that alter electroencephalographic rhythms can modulate behaviour and enhance memory in rats. This latter finding fits with evidence that electroencephalogram-frequency stimulation can enhance long-term potentiation, the neural basis of memory. I aimed to test if manipulations of alpha-frequency electroencephalographic activity enhance human memory. Flicker provides an experimental means of modulating the human electroencephalogram: 9-12Hz flicker can entrain alpha-like activity. In rats, the frequency-specificity of brain stimulation's behavioural effects excludes the possibility that they result from non-specific (i.e. non-electroencephalographic) mechanisms. I tested if flicker manipulations would show analogous frequency-specific effects in man. In view of the above correlational data, I predicted that flicker at 10Hz (a frequency near to the peak power of endogenous alpha) would enhance human memory, but adjacent frequencies (8.7 and 11.7 Hz) would not. The results confirmed this prediction. This suggests that 10Hz electroencephalographic alpha subserves memory formation in man: 10Hz flicker enhances memory in healthy people and may have therapeutic potential in memory disorders.
Specimens of the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis infected with the schistosome parasite Trichobilharzia ocellata show a strongly inhibited development of their reproductive tract. We hypothesised that the effects of the underdevelopment of targets are reflected at the level of the neuronal development of (i) the motor neurons innervating the male copulation organ and (ii) neuroendocrine cells regulating the gonad. We determined the state of neuronal development by measuring cell number, cell size and neuropeptide gene expression. Our results show that the neuronal development of both copulation controlling anterior lobe motor neurons of the right cerebral ganglion and neuroendocrine caudodorsal cells, which produce neuropeptides regulating ovulation, egg laying and accompanying behaviour, are affected in parasitised animals in which their respective target organs were not developed. The cell bodies were smaller and fewer cells were found to express neuropeptide genes compared to those in non-parasitised animals. These effects were not observed in the appropriate controls. Backfills and lesions of the penis nerve have shown that the inhibited development of central motor neurons in parasitised snails is target dependent; neighbouring neurons that have no connection with the male copulation organ are not affected. Our data suggest that this effect is established by target-derived neurotrophic factors that need this connection for being transported to the innervating motor neurons. We propose that the effect on the neuroendocrine caudodorsal cells is mediated by a humoral factor, since they have no known connection with their target. We have shown that the size and gene expression of motor neurons controlling copulation behaviour in the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis are related to the size of their target, the copulation organ, and depend on the connection with this target.
To study the developmental profile of otolith-related vestibular nuclear neurons, their spontaneous activities and response dynamics were examined in decerebrate rats aged seven, 14, 21 and 84 (adult) days. Extracellular recordings were performed in the lateral and descending vestibular nucleus of animals held at the stationary position in the earth-horizontal or subjected to constant velocity off-vertical axis rotation, which selectively stimulates the otolith receptors. All neurons displayed sinusoidal position-dependent modulation in discharge rate, indicating their capability in coding spatial information during low-frequency head movement. Some neurons showed a full-cycle response to off-vertical axis rotation (non-clipped), while other neurons were silenced in discharge during parts of each rotary cycle (clipped). In seven-day-old rats, three-quarters of the responsive neurons sampled were clipped and the proportion progressively decreased to less than one-quarter in adult rats. In each age group, the clipped neurons discharged in approximately 60% of the stimulus cycle. Response gains of the neurons increased with age, reaching a plateau from 21 days of age for clipped neurons and 14 days for non-clipped neurons. The clipped neurons demonstrated higher response gains than the non-clipped neurons at or beyond 21 days of age. Spontaneous activities of the neurons at the stationary and earth-horizontal positions were analysed in relation to their response gains; a positive correlation was observed from 14 days of age onwards. Both types of neurons showed progressive increase in spontaneous activity as the rats matured, though the clipped neurons exhibited significantly lower resting rates than the non-clipped neurons at each of the age groups studied. Some neurons that responded to off-vertical axis rotation were not spontaneously active at the stationary position, but the proportion of these decreased significantly with age. The coefficient of variation of each age group showed a bimodal distribution, thereby allowing spontaneously active neurons to be assigned as regular or irregular. Though the vast majority of both the clipped and non-clipped neurons showed irregular discharge patterns at seven days of age, the overall population became more regular as the rats matured. Irregular neurons of young rats exhibited phase-stable and phase-shift responses, while those of older rats showed only the phase-stable response. This distinction was not observed amongst regular neurons over the ages studied. Our results reveal features of central otolith neurons that can be taken as signs of maturation during the first three postnatal weeks. These neuronal features provide the framework for the analysis of behaviours mediated by the otolith system during postnatal maturation.
During early postnatal development, nerve injury results in the death of a large proportion of motoneurones and poor recovery of muscle function. Our previous results have shown that premature enhancement of transmitter release from nerve terminals prevents the death of motoneurones following neonatal nerve injury. Whether this increase in motoneurone survival is reflected in an improvement in the reinnervation of muscle was studied here. The muscles in one hindlimb of newborn rats were treated with 4-aminopyridine. Three days later, the sciatic nerve was crushed in the treated leg. When the animals were seven, 14 and 21days of age, the soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles were removed and processed for GAP-43 (a 43-kDa growth-associated protein) and synaptophysin immunocytochemistry. Both GAP-43 and synaptophysin were expressed in normal soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles at seven days. Synaptophysin was still expressed at 14 days, but GAP-43 expression had declined. Following nerve injury at three days of age, there was no GAP-43 or synaptophysin immunoreactivity in nerve terminals at seven days. By 21 days, there were 17.3+/-2.1 GAP-43-positive terminals per section in the soleus and 17.7+/-1.4 in the extensor digitorum longus, with mean terminal areas of 47.5+/-3.3 and 49.8+/-2.6 microm(2), respectively. In animals in which nerve crush was preceded by 4-aminopyridine treatment, at 21 days there were 32.9+/-2.6 GAP-43-immunoreactive terminals in the soleus and 44.9+/-2.3 in the extensor digitorum longus, with a mean area of 122.7+/-6.6 microm(2) in the soleus and 136.2+/-9.7 microm(2) in the extensor digitorum longus. These results indicate that in muscles pretreated with 4-aminopyridine, prior to nerve crush at three days, there are significantly more terminals, which occupy a larger area than in untreated muscles. Thus, increasing transmitter release prior to nerve injury significantly improved the ability of axons to reinnervate muscle.
A murine model of motoneuron disease, the pmn/pmn mouse, shows a reduction in the retrograde transport of fluorescent probes applied directly onto the cut end of sciatic nerve. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), when co-applied with fluorescent tracers, increases the number of retrograde labelled motoneurons. We demonstrate here that spinal cord tissue from pmn/pmn mice had significantly reduced phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity and expression in the particulate fraction compared to controls, without changes in the activities or expression of the downstream kinases, protein kinase B/Akt or Erk1. Systemic administration of BDNF augmented phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase specific activity in spinal cord tissue from pmn/pmn and control mice, with a greater elevation in the particulate fractions of pmn/pmn mice than in controls. We examined the effect of inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase on the retrograde labelling of motoneurons, 24h following the direct application of inhibitors and Fluorogold to the cut end of sciatic nerve in control and pmn/pmn mice (labelling index). The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase inhibitor PD 98059 had no effect on the labelling index in control or pmn/pmn mice. In the absence of exogenous BDNF, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitors reduced the number of labelled motoneurons in control mice, without changing the labelling index in pmn/pmn. Co-application of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitors with BDNF to the cut end of sciatic nerve blocked the action of BDNF on retrograde labelling in pmn/pmn mice. These results indicate that the retrograde labelling of motoneurons is mediated by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-dependent and -independent pathways. In pmn/pmn mice, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity in spinal neurons is below the level required for optimal retrograde labelling of motoneurons and labelling can be augmented by the administration of growth factors stimulating phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity. The data indicate that phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity is important in the uptake and/or retrograde transport of substances by motoneurons and is altered in this model of motoneuron diseases.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons in the submucosal ganglia of the guinea-pig distal colon. The recording electrode contained the intracellular marker biocytin, which was injected into neurons so that their electrophysiological characteristics could be correlated with their shape. Correlations of electrophysiology and shape have not been reported previously for neurons in this region. Three types of neuron were identified on electrophysiological grounds. Neurons of the first type (S neurons) had tetrodotoxin-sensitive soma action potentials, and received fast and slow excitatory synaptic inputs. They had uniaxonal morphologies and may function as secretomotor or possibly vasomotor neurons. The second type (AH neurons) received only slow synaptic input, while the soma action potential had tetrodotoxin-sensitive and -insensitive components with a shoulder on the falling phase and a long-lasting afterhyperpolarisation of the membrane potential following a single action potential. Neurons of this type had multipolar morphologies and provided dense innervation of adjacent submucosal ganglia. These neurons are similar to the submucosal intrinsic primary afferent neurons of the guinea-pig small intestine. The final type of neuron [the low-threshold (LT) neuron] had electrophysiological characteristics that set it apart from those described previously within enteric plexuses. They expressed tetrodotoxin-insensitive voltage-gated soma currents, did not have long-lasting afterhyperpolarisations and received only slow synaptic input. In addition, these neurons were very excitable: they had large input resistances and low thresholds for action potential discharge, and often fired action potentials in the absence of stimulation. Neurons with these characteristics were uniaxonal and thus are likely to be secretomotor or possibly vasomotor neurons. This study has shown that submucosal neurons of the distal colon fall into three distinct types, which can be distinguished by a combination of electrophysiological and morphological criteria.
Uterine innervation undergoes cyclical remodeling in the adult virgin rat. Previous studies showed that ovariectomy leads to increased uterine sympathetic nerve density, and this can be reduced by estrogen administration. However, the receptor mechanism by which estrogen modulates sympathetic innervation is unknown. The present study assessed the role of the estrogen receptor alpha in establishing levels of uterine innervation by comparing the nerve abundance in mice with a null mutation of the estrogen receptor alpha with those of the wild-type cycling mouse. Immunostaining for total uterine innervation using antibodies against the pan-neuronal marker protein gene product 9.5 showed that nerve numbers in normally cycling wild-type mice were high in diestrus when circulating estrogen is at its nadir, and low at estrus, coincident with high plasma estrogen. Uteri of the estrogen receptor alpha knock-out mice were smaller than those of wild-type mice, but even when corrected for differences in size, total innervation was 188% and 355% greater than that of wild-type mice at diestrus and estrus, respectively. This hyperinnervation is associated with increased numbers of nerves immunoreactive for the noradrenergic enzyme dopamine beta-hydroxylase, without obvious differences in those containing calcitonin gene-related peptide or the vesicular acetylcholine transporter. While estrogen supplementation of the ovariectomized wild-type mice significantly reduced total uterine innervation, neither ovariectomy nor estrogen supplementation affected uterine nerve density in estrogen receptor alpha knock-out mice.We conclude that estrogen acting through the estrogen receptor alpha determines the number of sympathetic nerve terminal branches within uterine smooth muscle target. In mice with low circulating estrogen, or high estrogen but lacking the functional estrogen receptor alpha, the uterus contains abundant sympathetic nerves, whereas estrogen acts via the estrogen receptor alpha to regulate uterine innervation by reducing numbers of intact sympathetic nerves. Although it is not known whether estrogen acts on the target or neuron to initiate these changes, the estrogen receptor alpha apparently plays a major role in the cyclical modulation of uterine sympathetic innervation.
Cultured neurons from the paravertebral sympathetic chain of rats possess excitatory P2X as well as excitatory uracil nucleotide-sensitive P2Y receptors. Preliminary observations had indicated that the analogous neurons of mice lacked P2X receptors. This difference was now investigated. Thoracolumbar sympathetic neurons from one- to three-day-old mice were cultured for seven days. When the neurons were preincubated with [3H]noradrenaline and then superfused, ATP failed to cause any change in tritium outflow. UTP (3-300 microM) and UDP (30-100 microM), in contrast, caused marked increases, and so did nicotine (3-100 microM). The effect of UTP was not changed by suramin but abolished by tetrodotoxin and in the absence of calcium. The effect of nicotine was antagonized by hexamethonium and also abolished by tetrodotoxin and in the absence of calcium. Pre-exposure to UDP prevented the effect of UTP. In neurons studied by means of whole-cell patch-clamp techniques under current clamp, ATP lacked any effect. UTP (100 microM), UDP (100 microM) and nicotine (10 microM) caused depolarization accompanied by action potentials. Pre-exposure to UDP prevented the effect of UTP. In neurons studied under voltage clamp, ATP, UTP and UDP failed to cause any detectable current. Nicotine (10 microM), in contrast, elicited inward currents. Neither UTP nor UDP reduced the M-type potassium outward current. These results demonstrate a pronounced difference between cultured sympathetic neurons from the mouse and the rat paravertebral chain. Neurons from both species possess the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Neurons from both species also possess uracil nucleotide-sensitive P2Y receptors which, when activated, mediate depolarization, action potential firing and noradrenaline release; these effects are not due to inhibition of M-type potassium channels. Only the rat but not the mouse neurons, however, possess P2X receptors which, when activated, mediate cation entry, depolarization, action potential generation and transmitter release. The absence of functional P2X receptors makes the mouse neurons suitable for further study of the uracil nucleotide-sensitive P2Y receptors.
Capsaicin, a pungent ingredient of hot chilli peppers, triggered Ca(2+) influx in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, which express specific vanilloid receptors of type 1, with ED(50)&lt;100 nM. An increase in capsaicin concentration to 10 microM inhibited Ca(2+) clearance from the cytosol, but did not affect the amplitude of intracellular Ca(2+) elevation. In DRG neurons, 10 microM capsaicin also produced a significant drop in mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi), as measured with the mitochondria-specific potentiometric fluorescent dye JC-1. Similar loss of mitochondrial potential upon application of capsaicin was observed in non-neuronal primary (human lymphocytes) and transformed (human myeloid leukaemia cell line, HL-60) cells. The EC(50) values for capsaicin-induced mitochondrial depolarisation were 6.9 microM (DRG neurons), 200 microM (human lymphocytes) and 150 microM (HL-60 cells). Removal of extracellular Ca(2+) or an application of the antioxidant trolox attenuated capsaicin-induced dissipation of Deltapsi in DRG neurons, but not in human lymphocytes and HL-60 cells. Rotenone, an inhibitor of complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, and oligomycin, an inhibitor of F(0)F(1)-ATPase, significantly enhanced the mitochondrial depolarisation produced by capsaicin in DRG neurons. In human lymphocytes and HL-60 cells, only oligomycin potentiated the effect of capsaicin. From our results, we suggest that, in DRG neurons and non-neuronal cells, capsaicin dissipates Deltapsi, possibly due to a direct inhibition of complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The presence of vanilloid receptor-1 in DRG neurons makes their mitochondria 20-30-fold more sensitive to the depolarising effect of capsaicin compared with non-neuronal cells lacking vanilloid receptor-1. The higher sensitivity of DRG neurons to capsaicin may underlie a selective neurotoxicity of capsaicin towards sensory neurons.
Apoptosis or programmed cell death has been reported after CNS trauma. However, the significance of this mechanism in the pathophysiology of spinal cord injury, in particular at the cervical level, requires further investigation. In the present study, we used the extradural clip compression model in the rat to examine the cellular distribution of apoptosis following cervical spinal cord injury, the relationship between glial apoptosis and post-traumatic axonal degeneration and the possible role of apo[apoptosis]-1, CD95 (FAS) and p75 in initiating post-traumatic glial apoptosis. In situ terminal-deoxy-transferase mediated dUTP nick end labeling revealed apoptotic cells, largely oligodendrocytes as identified by cell specific markers, in grey and white matter following spinal cord injury. Apoptotic cell death was confirmed using electron microscopy and by the demonstration of DNA laddering on agarose gel electrophoresis. Beta-amyloid precursor protein was used as a molecular marker of axonal degeneration on western blots and immunohistochemistry. Degeneration of axons was temporally and spatially co-localized with glial apoptosis. FAS and p75 protein expression was seen in astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglia, and was also seen in some apoptotic glia after cord injury. Both FAS and p75 increased in expression in a temporal course, which mirrored the development of cellular apoptosis. The downstream caspases 3 and 8, which are linked to FAS and p75, demonstrated activation at times of maximal apoptosis, while FLIP-L an inhibitor of caspase 8, decreased at times of maximal apoptosis. We conclude that axonal degeneration after traumatic spinal cord injury is associated with glial, in particular oligodendroglial, apoptosis. Activation of the FAS and p75 death receptor pathways may be involved in initiating this process.
Trigeminal neurogenic inflammation is one explanation for the development of vascular migraine. The triggers for this inflammation and pain are not well understood, but are probably vasoactive components acting on the blood vessel wall. Migraine-related inner ear symptoms like phonophobia, tinnitus, fluctuation in hearing perception and increased noise sensitivity provide indirect evidence that cochlear blood vessels are also affected by basilar artery migraine. The purpose of this investigation was to determine if a functional connection exists between the cochlea and the basilar artery. Neuronally mediated permeability changes in the cochlea and basilar artery were measured by colloidal silver and Evans Blue extravasation, following orthodromic and antidromic stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion innervating the cochlea. Capsaicin and electrical stimulation induced both dose- and time-dependent plasma extravasation of colloidal silver and Evans Blue from the basilar artery and anterior inferior cerebellar artery. Both orthodromic and antidromic activation of trigeminal sensory fibers also induced cochlear vascular permeability changes and significant quantitative differences between the treated and control groups in spectrophotometric assays. These results characterize a vasoactive connection between the cochlea and vertebro-basilar system through the trigeminal sensory neurons. We propose that vertigo, tinnitus and hearing deficits associated with basilar migraine could arise by excitation of the trigeminal nerve fibers in the cochlea, resulting in local plasma extravasation. In addition, cochlear &quot;dysfunction&quot; may also trigger basilar and cluster headache by afferent input to the trigeminal system.
Copper plays a key role in brain development, function and survival. Alteration of its homeostasis is suggested to be an aetiological factor in several neurodegenerative diseases. However, the molecular mechanisms relating copper to neurodegeneration are still unknown. In the present report, using morphological analyses of brain sections of mottled/brindled mutant (Mo(br/y)) mice, the animal model of the human genetic copper deficiency associated with neurodegeneration (Menkes' disease), we demonstrated that a high degree of apoptotic cells is present in the neocortex and in the hippocampus. Biochemical characterisation revealed decreased levels of copper content and of the activity of the mitochondrial copper-dependent enzyme cytochrome c oxidase. Copper, zinc-superoxide dismutase activity also shows a slight decrease, while no change was observed for glutathione content. Lower levels of ATP were also found, indicative of a copper-dependent impairment of energy metabolism. Changes appear to be specific for the brain, since no alterations in the activity of liver enzymes were found, although the level of copper was strongly decreased. We also tested biochemical factors involved in cell commitment to apoptosis. The expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, which plays a fundamental role in brain development and morphogenesis, was dramatically decreased and the levels of cytochrome c released from mitochondria into the cytosol were significantly increased. On the basis of these findings, we propose that down-regulation of Bcl-2 can cause neurodegeneration triggered by mitochondrial damage due to copper depletion during brain development in Mo(br/y) mice.
Withdrawal from chronic ethanol consumption can be accompanied by motor seizures, which may be a result of altered GABA(A) receptor function. Recently, we have generated and characterized mice lacking the epsilon isoform of protein kinase C as being supersensitive to the behavioral and biochemical effects of positive GABA(A) receptor allosteric modulators, including ethanol. The aim of the present study was to determine whether protein kinase C-epsilon null mutant mice display altered seizure severity during alcohol withdrawal. In addition, we used c-fos immunohistochemistry immediately following seizure assessment to identify potential brain regions involved in any observed differences in withdrawal severity. Mice were allowed to consume an ethanol-containing or control liquid diet as the sole source of food for 14 days. During the 7-h period following removal of the diet, both ethanol-fed wild-type and protein kinase C-epsilon null mutant mice displayed an overall increase in Handling-Induced Convulsion score versus control-fed mice. However, at 6 and 7h following diet removal, the Handling-Induced Convulsion score was reduced in ethanol-fed protein kinase C-epsilon null mutant mice compared to ethanol-fed wild-type mice. Ethanol-fed protein kinase C-epsilon null mutant mice also exhibited a decrease in the number of Fos-positive cells in the lateral septum, and an increase in the number of Fos-positive cells in the dentate gyrus, mediodorsal thalamus, paraventricular nuclei of the thalamus and hypothalamus, and substantia nigra compared to ethanol-fed wild-type mice. These data demonstrate that deletion of protein kinase C-epsilon results in diminished progression of ethanol withdrawal-associated seizure severity, suggesting that selective pharmacological inhibitors of protein kinase C-epsilon may be useful in the treatment of seizures during alcohol withdrawal. These data also provide insight into potential brain regions involved in generation or suppression of ethanol withdrawal seizures.
The endogenous interleukin-1 receptor antagonist is the natural inhibitor of the biological effects of interleukin-1 during inflammation. Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist refers to three isoforms: one secreted and two intracellular forms (types I and II). The objective of the present study was to investigate the expression of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist isoforms in the rat brain in vivo in response to an i.p. injection of lipopolysaccharide. The interleukin-1 receptor antagonist was studied at the messenger and protein levels by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis, respectively. Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist messenger RNA was constitutively expressed in the brain and its expression increased in response to lipopolysaccharide. The three interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein isoforms were up-regulated after lipopolysaccharide treatment in a time-dependent manner. Their relative expression differed according to the isoform and brain region studied. Double immunofluorescence staining revealed interleukin-1 receptor antagonist positive neurons and microglia in hippocampus 24h after lipopolysaccharide stimulation. These results demonstrate for the first time that brain cells are able to produce interleukin-1 receptor antagonist isoforms in response to a peripheral immune challenge with a predominance of the secreted over intracellular forms.
Homeostatic regulation of arterial pressure is maintained by arterial baroreceptors. Activation of these receptors results in an inhibition of sympathetic activity to the heart. It is known that angiotensin II in the nucleus tractus solitarii attenuates the baroreceptor reflex-evoked vagal bradycardia. Here, we determined whether the cardiac sympathetic component of the baroreceptor reflex could be modulated by angiotensin II in the nucleus of the solitary tract. An in situ, arterially perfused working heart--brainstem preparation of rat was employed and the sympathetic inferior cardiac nerve recorded. Increases in perfusion pressure caused a reflex bradycardia and inhibition of inferior cardiac nerve activity. Microinjection of angiotensin II (500 fmol) in the nucleus of the solitary tract attenuated significantly both the reflex bradycardia and inhibition of inferior cardiac nerve activity (P&lt;0.01). The latter was reversible and sensitive to losartan, an angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist. In contrast, the peripheral chemoreceptor reflex evoked an increase in inferior cardiac nerve activity that was not affected by angiotensin II applied exogenously in the nucleus of the solitary tract. We conclude that within the nucleus of the solitary tract angiotensin II exerts a powerful and specific inhibitory modulation of the baroreceptor reflex control of sympathetic nerve activity destined for the heart. We suggest that our data may have clinical implications relating to hypertension, a condition when angiotensin II activity is heightened in the brain and the efficacy of the baroreflex is reduced.
We evaluated in Sprague--Dawley rats the hypothesis that Fos protein induced by baroreceptor activation in the nucleus tractus solitarii participates in transcriptional regulation of the expression of angiotensin receptor genes. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that baroreceptor activation elicited by sustained hypertension resulted in a transient decrease in angiotensin II subtype 1, but not subtype 2, receptor messenger RNA, in the dorsomedial medulla, including the nucleus tractus solitarii. There was subsequently a transitory reduction in the pressor response elicited by microinjection bilaterally of angiotensin II (40 pmol) into the nucleus tractus solitarii, followed by an increase in c-fos messenger RNA and Fos immunoreactivity at the same nucleus. Both the re-expression of angiotensin II subtype 1 receptor messenger RNA and restoration of pressor response to angiotensin II after baroreceptor activation were significantly blunted by bilateral application into the nucleus tractus solitarii of an antisense oligonucleotide (50 pmol) that targets against the initiation codon of c-fos messenger RNA. Control pretreatment with the corresponding sense oligonucleotide (50 pmol), or an antisense c-fos oligonucleotide that targets against a different portion of the coding sequence of the c-fos messenger RNA (50 pmol), was ineffective. At the receptor level, the angiotensin II-induced pressor response was antagonized by the subtype 1 receptor antagonist losartan (1.6 nmol), but not by the subtype 2 receptor antagonist PD-123319 (1.6 nmol). These findings suggest that sustained hypertension down-regulates angiotensin II subtype 1 receptors at both messenger RNA and functional expression levels in the nucleus tractus solitarii. Furthermore, Fos protein induced in the nucleus tractus solitarii by baroreceptor activation may play a permissive role in the transcriptional regulation of the re-expression of this subtype of angiotensin receptors.
Understanding how neurons and glia sort and deliver cell adhesion molecules to their cell surface should provide important clues as to how such molecules participate in dynamic neuronal functions in the developing and adult brain. The present study examines translocation of polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a negative regulator of cell adhesion, in cells of the rat hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system in which it is expressed throughout life and which undergo morphological remodelling in response to stimulation. PSA-NCAM expression in this system does not vary markedly in relation to different conditions of regulated neurosecretion, suggesting that the glycoprotein reaches cell surfaces via the constitutive pathway. To study this more directly, we here used immunofluorescence for PSA on NCAM in live, unpermeabilized cells to monitor PSA-NCAM surface expression in organotypic slice cultures from postnatal rat hypothalami. Subsequent immunolabelling for oxytocin confirmed that the cultures included magnocellular oxytocinergic neurons displaying many properties of adult neurosecretory neurons in situ. In the cultures, immunoreaction for PSA-NCAM was visible on the surface of oxytocinergic and non-oxytocinergic axons. This reaction disappeared after exposure of the cultures to endoneuraminidase, an enzyme which specifically cleaves alpha-2-8-linked PSA from NCAM. PSA-NCAM reappeared on axonal surfaces 4h after enzyme washout. Such reexpression was visibly not affected by neuronal activity inhibition (blockade of Ca(2+) channels with Mn(2+), of Na(+) channels with tetrodotoxin, or of glutamate receptors with 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione or D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid) or facilitation (K(+) depolarization or GABA-A receptor blockade with bicuculline). In contrast, PSA-NCAM surface translocation was inhibited reversibly by cooling the cultures at 20 degrees C, a procedure which blocks constitutive secretion and which resulted in accumulation of PSA-NCAM in the cytoplasm of oxytocinergic and non-oxytocinergic neurons. This treatment also revealed PSA-NCAM in the cytoplasm of underlying astrocytes. Our observations provide direct evidence that PSA-NCAM reaches the cell surface of hypothalamic neurons and astrocytes via the constitutive pathway, independently of Ca(2+) entry and enhanced neuronal activity. Thus, PSA-NCAM in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system would be continuously available to permit its cells to undergo remodelling whenever the proper stimulus intervenes.
The neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine has been used to induce selective dopaminergic cell death in animal models of Parkinson's disease. The response of neurons to this toxin has been shown to be greatly influenced by astrocytes. Our laboratory reported previously that human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells became more resistant to the toxicity of 6-hydroxydopamine when co-cultured with mouse astrocytes. This enhanced tolerance required direct and specific adhesion between SH-SY5Y cells and astrocytes. We hypothesized that this interaction led to biochemical changes in SH-SY5Y cells, thereby protecting these cells from toxicity. To study these changes, we again co-cultured SH-SY5Y cells with astrocytes and treated them with 6-hydroxydopamine. An optimized condition of trypsin treatment was employed to separate SH-SY5Y cells from astrocytes quickly. Western blot analysis demonstrated that 6-hydroxydopamine significantly increased p53 protein in monolayer SH-SY5Y cells grown in either regular medium or conditioned medium from astrocytes. This change, however, was not observed in the group co-cultured with astrocytes. Data obtained from the ribonuclease protection assay indicated that similar changes also occurred at the transcriptional level. The enhanced resistance of the co-cultured SH-SY5Y cells to the toxicity of 6-hydroxydopamine is attributed to the ability of astrocytes to prevent the increase of p53 induced by this toxin. This study demonstrates the significance of the interaction between astrocytes and neurons when they are exposed to neurotoxins.
A dopamine transporter-radioligand binding study demonstrated a dopaminergic innervation around the pallidal complex in the normal monkey (n=5), i.e. where a subpopulation of pallidal neurons known as &quot;border cells&quot; is classically identified. Surprisingly, this peripallidal binding persists in monkeys rendered parkinsonian (n=5) with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment. The border cell electrophysiological activity was then analysed in normal and parkinsonian monkeys (n=2), either in the untreated state or following administration of levodopa. Pallidal border cell firing frequency was significantly decreased after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment (8.9+/-0.7 vs 31.4+/-1.6Hz, P&lt;0.05). This decrease was partly corrected by levodopa administration (19.2+/-1.0Hz, P&lt;0.05 vs both normal and parkinsonian situations). The peripallidal dopaminergic innervation suggests that pallidal border cells are under a direct dopaminergic control, arising from the ventral tegmental area and/or the basal forebrain magnocellular complex, the role of which remains unknown. Moreover, the relative sparing of these dopaminergic fibers in parkinsonian monkeys suggests that they would exhibit specific adaptive properties totally different from those described in the nigrostriatal pathway.
In vivo electrophysiological techniques were used to study the effect of m-chlorophenylpiperazine, a non-selective serotonin-2C receptor agonist, on the activity of non-dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the ventral tegmental area of anesthetized rats. Intravenous administration of m-chlorophenylpiperazine (5-320 microg/kg) caused a dose-dependent increase in the basal firing rate of a subpopulation of nigral neurons which do not respond to a footpinch stimulus [P(0) neurons], whereas it did not affect the activity of neurons which are responsive to the footpinch [P(+) neurons]. However, m-chlorophenylpiperazine (5-320 microg/kg) excited all non-dopaminergic neurons sampled in the ventral tegmental area. Moreover, microiontophoretic application of m-chlorophenylpiperazine (10-40 nA) caused an excitation of P(0) nigral and ventral tegmental area neurons. Pretreatment with the selective serotonin-2C receptor antagonist SB 242084 (200 microg/kg, i.v.) completely blocked the excitatory effect of i.v. m-chlorophenylpiperazine (5-320 microg/kg), both in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and in the ventral tegmental area. It is concluded that stimulation of serotonin-2C receptors by m-chlorophenylpiperazine activates non-dopaminergic (presumably GABA-containing) neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and ventral tegmental area.
Organotypic cultures of fetal or early postnatal striatum were used to assess striatal patch formation and maintenance in the presence or absence of dopaminergic and glutamatergic influences. Vibratome-cut slices of the striatum prepared from embryonic day 19 to postnatal day 4 rat pups were maintained in static culture on clear membrane inserts in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium/F12 (1:1) with 20% horse serum. Some were co-cultured with embryonic day 12-16 ventral mesencephalon and/or embryonic day 19 to postnatal day 4 cortex, which produced a dense dopaminergic innervation and a modest cortical innervation. Donors of striatal and cortical tissue were previously injected with bromo-deoxyuridine (BrdU) on embryonic days 13 and 14 in order to label striatal neurons destined to populate the patch compartment of the striatum. Patches of BrdU-immunoreactive cells were maintained in organotypic cultures of late prenatal (embryonic days 20-22) or early postnatal striatum in the absence of nigral dopaminergic or cortical glutamatergic influences. In slices taken from embryonic day 19 fetuses prior to the time of in vivo patch formation, patches were observed to form after 10 days in vitro, in 39% of nigral-striatal co-cultures compared to 6% of striatal slices cultured alone or in the presence of cortex only. Patches of dopaminergic fibers, revealed by tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, were observed in the majority of nigral-striatal co-cultures. Immunostaining for the AMPA-type glutamate receptor GluR1 revealed a dense patch distribution in nearly all cultures, which developed in embryonic day 19 cultures after at least six days in vitro. These findings indicate that striatal patch/matrix organization is maintained in organotypic culture, and can be induced to form in vitro in striatal slices removed from fetuses prior to the time of in vivo patch formation. Furthermore, dopaminergic innervation from co-cultured pieces of ventral mesencephalon enhances patch formation in organotypic cultures.
Microinjections of cholera toxin B subunit were made into the area of the neostriatum that receives input from the primary somatosensory barrel cortex (SI) in the rat. Studies of the cortices then allowed retrograde identification of the cortical cells supplying the striatal input. When injections were restricted to the neostriatum, retrograde labelling was found in layer V of both SI cortices. Ipsilateral to the injection, cells were retrogradely filled with toxin in all parts of the barrel field, in adjacent parietal cortex, in the motor cortex and in prefrontal areas. A similar distribution across cortical areas was seen contralaterally; however, the stained cells in the SI were between rather than within barrel columns. An earlier anterograde study suggested two inputs from the SI to the neostriatum. The present results indicate that one input to the somatosensory area of the neostriatum arises bilaterally from neurons between the barrels of the SI, while the topographic pathway from below the barrels is present only ipsilaterally. These anatomical results indicate that separate stimulation of the two corticostriatal pathways from the barrel cortex is possible. Electrical stimulation of the contralateral cortex will activate the bilateral pathway, while electrical stimulation of the whisker pads activates the barrels and hence the topographic pathway. Neurons in the somatosensory region of the striatum responded to stimuli in the contralateral cortex and in the contralateral whisker pad. In spite of very different path lengths, stimuli via the two routes gave rise to excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the striatal cells with similar latencies. The excitatory postsynaptic potentials to whisker pad stimulation had a rapid rise time and usually resulted in at least one action potential. Responses to stimulation of the contralateral cortex rose to a peak more slowly and were more variable in latency, but also gave rise to an action potential in the majority of cases. All the neurons had the physiological characteristics of medium-sized densely spiny cells and after intracellular filling with biocytin had the appropriate morphology. In summary, we propose that two corticostriatal pathways arise from layer V cells in the barrel area of the somatosensory cortex; one is bilateral and arises from cells mainly below the septa, while a topographical pathway arises from cells below the barrels. Both pathways can raise the spiny output cells of the striatum to firing threshold. The latencies from the contralateral cortex imply slowly conducting fibres with considerably more temporal dispersion than the pathway from below the barrels, which we excited from the contralateral periphery.
The activity of midbrain dopamine neurons is strikingly similar to the reward prediction error of temporal difference reinforcement learning models. Experimental evidence and simulation studies suggest that dopamine neuron activity serves as an effective reinforcement signal for learning of sensorimotor associations in striatal matrisomes. In the current study, we simulate dopamine neuron activity with the extended temporal difference model of Pavlovian learning and examine the influences of this signal on medium spiny neurons in striatal matrisomes. The modeled influences include transient membrane effects of dopamine D(1) receptor activation, dopamine-dependent long-term adaptations of corticostriatal transmission, and effects of dopamine on rhythmic fluctuations of the membrane potential between an elevated &quot;up-state&quot; and a hyperpolarized &quot;down-state&quot;. The most dominant activity in the striatal matrisomes is assumed to elicit behaviors via projections from the basal ganglia to the thalamus and the cortex. This &quot;standard model&quot; performs successfully when tested for sensorimotor learning and goal-directed behavior (planning). To investigate the contributions of our model assumptions to learning and planning, we test the performance of several model variants that lack one of these mechanisms. These simulations show that the adaptation of the dopamine-like signal is necessary for sensorimotor learning and planning. Sensorimotor learning requires dopamine-dependent long-term adaptation of corticostriatal transmission. Lack of dopamine-like novelty responses decreases the number of exploratory acts, which impairs planning capabilities. The model loses its planning capabilities if the dopamine-like signal is simulated with the original temporal difference model, because the original temporal difference model does not form novel associative chains. Transient membrane effects of the dopamine-like signal on striatal firing substantially shorten the reaction time in the planning task. The capability for planning is improved by influences of dopamine on the durations of membrane potential fluctuations and by manipulations that prolong the reaction time of the model. These results suggest that responses of dopamine neurons to conditioned stimuli contribute to sensorimotor reward learning, novelty responses of dopamine neurons stimulate exploration, and transient dopamine membrane effects are important for planning.
The Royal College of Surgeons rat has a retinal pigment epithelial cell defect which causes a progressive loss of rods occurring primarily over the first few months of life. We have studied the consequences of this degenerative process on visual sensitivity across the visual field. Sensitivities were determined in the superior colliculus for unit responses recorded from 22 days up to one year of age from sites encompassing the whole visual field representation. Following visual sensitivity assessment, retinae were examined anatomically at the light and electron microscopic level. At 22 days of age, sensitivities in dystrophic rats were comparable to those of non-dystrophics at any age (40+/-1 and 41+/-1dB, respectively), despite the fact that signs of degenerative events were clear at the electron microscopic level, including presence of pyknotic photoreceptor nuclei, disorganised outer segments and accumulation of debris. However, loss in sensitivity was first detected only at 28-36 days of age (27+/-4dB). From then on, sensitivities progressively decreased to reach a plateau by 180-240 days (4+/-2dB). Starting around 90 days and onward, there was a positive gradient of sensitivities from temporal to nasal field. Drops in visual sensitivity were parallelled by several changes in visual response properties, including prolonged latency, inconsistent responsiveness, appearance of bursting spontaneous activity and activation of units by stimuli presented outside their classical receptive fields. The measure of visual sensitivities by recording visual responses at specific sites in the superior colliculus provides a reliable point-to-point assessment of retinal function comparable to visual perimetry testing in humans. This experimental approach provides the background for answering questions arising during the development of potential experimental therapies for retinal degeneration using animal models like the Royal College of Surgeons rat.
Marr [J. Physiol. (1969) 202, 437-470] and Albus [Math. Biosci. (1971) 10, 25-61] hypothesized that cerebellar learning is facilitated by a granule cell sparse code, i.e. a neural code in which the fraction of active neurons is low at any one time. In this paper, we re-examine this hypothesis in light of recent experimental and theoretical findings. We argue that cerebellar motor learning is enhanced by a sparse code that simultaneously maximizes information transfer between mossy fibers and granule cells, minimizes redundancies between granule cell discharges, and re-codes the mossy fiber inputs with an adaptive resolution such that inputs corresponding to large errors are finely encoded. We then propose that a set of biologically plausible unsupervised learning rules can produce such a code. To maintain a low mean firing rate compatible with a sparse code, an activity-dependent homeostatic mechanism sets the cells' thresholds. Then, to maximize information transfer, the mossy fiber--granule cell synapses are adjusted by a Hebbian rule. Furthermore, to minimize redundancies between granule cell discharges, the inhibitory Golgi cell--granule cell synapses are tuned by an anti-Hebbian rule. Finally, to allow adaptive resolution, a performance-based neuromodulator-like signal gates these three plastic processes. We integrate these gated learning rules into a simplified model of the cerebellum for arm movement control, and show that unsupervised learning of granule cell sparse codes greatly improves cerebellar adaptive motor control in comparison to a &quot;fixed&quot; Marr--Albus-type model. Until recently, activity-dependent cerebellar plasticity was thought to be largely confined to the granule cell--Purkinje cell synapses. This static view of the cerebellum is, however, quickly being replaced by an extremely dynamic view in which plasticity is omnipresent. The present theoretical study shows how several forms of plasticity in the granular layer of the cerebellum can produce fast, accurate and stable cerebellar learning.
In the current study we focus on the involvement of dopamine D(2) receptors in the ventral hippocampus in memory performance and acetylcholine release. Using the aversively motivated 14-unit T-maze (Stone maze) the injection of raclopride, a D(2) receptor antagonist, into the ventral hippocampus (8 microg/kg) was found to impair memory performance. Co-injection of quinpirole, a D(2) receptor agonist (8 microg/kg), overcame the impairment in performance. Microdialysis study revealed that quinpirole infusion (10-500 microM) into the ventral hippocampus stimulated acetylcholine release in a dose-dependent manner, and systemic injection of quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) also stimulated acetylcholine release in the ventral hippocampus. Infusion of eticlopride, another D(2) receptor antagonist, into the ventral hippocampus suppressed acetylcholine release in the hippocampus induced by systemic injection of quinpirole. Taken together, we suggest that D(2) receptors in the ventral hippocampus are involved in memory performance, possibly through the regulation of acetylcholine.
Long-term potentiation and depression of glutamatergic synaptic responses are accompanied by an increased firing probability of neurons in response to a given excitatory input. This property, named excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation, has also been described in epileptic tissue and has pro-epileptic consequences. In this study, we show that excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation can be reversed in the kainic acid lesioned rat hippocampus, a chronic model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Simultaneous in vitro extracellular recordings in stratum radiatum and stratum pyramidale were performed in the CA1 area of the kainic acid lesioned rat hippocampal slices. Fifteen minutes, application of the K(+) channel blocker tetraethylammonium resulted in excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation (measured 90min after the start of the washout period) which could be reversed by subsequent low-frequency or tetanic stimuli. Excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation and its subsequent reversal by an electrical conditioning stimulus were found to have a N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent component. Tetraethylammonium treatment also resulted in excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation of pharmacologically isolated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated responses which could be reversed by subsequent low-frequency or tetanic stimuli. We conclude that excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation can be reversed in epileptic tissue, even in the absence of synaptic plasticity. These results suggest the presence of endogenous regulatory mechanisms which are able to decrease cell excitability.
A number of studies suggested that cannabis use can cause or exacerbate psychoses and may increase the risk of developing schizophrenia. These findings suggest that changes in the cannabinoid system of the brain may be involved in the pathology of schizophrenia. To determine whether changes in the cannabinoid system were present in the brains of subjects with schizophrenia, we used in situ radioligand binding and autoradiography to measure the binding of [3H]CP-55940 to the cannabinoid-1 receptor in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (Brodmann's area 9), caudate-putamen and areas of the temporal lobe from schizophrenic and control subjects, some of whom had ingested cannabis close to death. There was an increase in the density of [3H]CP-55940 binding to cannabinoid-1 receptors in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex from subjects with schizophrenia (mean+/-S.E.M.: 142+/-9.9 vs 119+/-6.6fmol/mg estimated tissue equivalents; P&lt;0.05) that was independent of recent cannabis ingestion. There was an increase in the density of cannabinoid-1 receptors in the caudate-putamen from subjects who had recently ingested cannabis (151+/-9.0 vs 123+/-7.2fmol/mg estimated tissue equivalents; P&lt;0.05) that was independent of diagnoses. These data indicate that there are changes in cannabinoid-1 receptors in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex that may prove to be associated with the pathology of schizophrenia. By contrast, changes in the density of cannabinoid-1 receptors may occur in the caudate-putamen in response to cannabis ingestion.
Mutations in presenilin-1 gene are responsible for the majority of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease cases. The function of this protein and the mechanism underlying the pathogenicity of its mutations are still unclear. To elucidate the role of presenilin-1 in the Alzheimer's disease pathology, we tested two such mutations (P117L and M146L) for their effect in stably transfected mouse neuroblastoma cell lines. Over-expression of the wild-type presenilin-1 gene induced formation of a well-extended, orderly organized network consisting of neurofilaments assembled from the L and H subunits, while in cells with the mutant gene this network was markedly reduced to short filaments concentrated in structures resembling cups. Cells expressing the mutant gene displayed altered processing of the transgene protein and neurofilament-H, suggesting that presenilin-1 is the mediator of changes targeted at neurofilaments. The two different mutations produced similar alterations, implying that this is a common pathogenic mechanism. Presenilin-1, neurofilament-H and tau proteins showed co-localization as evidenced by confocal microscopy, suggesting a possible physiological connection between these three proteins. Presenilin-1 appears to influence assembly of the H subunit into neurofilaments and the subsequent formation of new neurites. Mutations impair this function of presenilin-1, resulting in inhibition of neurite outgrowth. That presenilin-1 influences the assembly of neurofilaments may represent a novel pathway through which presenilin-1 mutations are involved in Alzheimer's disease pathology. In this hypothesis, presenilin-1 mutations will be associated with aberrant sprouting leading to synaptic loss, a key neuropathological feature of Alzheimer's disease.
The contact with the postsynaptic target induces structural and functional modifications in the serotonergic cell C1 of Helix pomatia. In previous studies we have found that the presence of a non-physiological target down-regulates the number of presynaptic varicosities formed by cultured C1 neurons and has a strong inhibitory effect on the action potential-evoked Ca(2+) influx and neurotransmitter release at C1 terminals. Since a large body of experimental evidence implicates the synapsins in the development and functional maturation of synaptic connections, we have investigated whether the injection of exogenous synapsin I into the presynaptic neuron C1 could affect the inhibitory effect of the wrong target on neurotransmitter release. C1 neurons were cultured with the wrong target neuron C3 for three to five days and then injected with either dephosphorylated or Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II-phosphorylated Cy3-labeled synapsin I. The subcellular distribution of exogenous synapsin I, followed by fluorescence videomicroscopy, revealed that only synapsin I phosphorylated by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II diffused in the cytoplasm and reached the terminal arborizations of the axon, while the dephosphorylated form did not diffuse beyond the cell body. Evoked neurotransmitter release was measured during C1 stimulation using a freshly dissociated neuron B2 (sniffer) micromanipulated in close contact with the terminals of C1. A three-fold increase in the amplitude of the sniffer depolarization with respect to the pre-injection amplitude (190+/-29% increase, n=10, P&lt;0.006) was found 5 min after injection of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II-phosphorylated synapsin I that lasted for about 30 min. No significant change was observed after injection of buffer or dephosphorylated synapsin I. These data indicate that the presence of synapsin I induces a fast increase in neurotransmitter release that overcomes the inhibitory effect of the non-physiological target and suggest that the expression of synapsins may play a role in the modulation of synaptic strength and neural connectivity.
AH neurons are intrinsic sensory neurons of the intestine that exhibit two types of slow synaptic event: slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials which increase their excitability for about 2-4 min, and sustained slow postsynaptic excitation which can persist for several hours, and may be involved in long-term changes in the sensitivity of the intestine to sensory stimuli. The effects of the neurokinin-3 tachykinin receptor antagonist, SR142801, on these two types of synaptic event in AH neurons of the myenteric ganglia of guinea-pig small intestine were compared. Slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials were evoked by stimulation of synaptic inputs at 10-20 Hz for 1s, and sustained slow postsynaptic excitation was evoked by stimulation of inputs at 1Hz for 4 min. SR142801 (1microM) reduced the amplitude of the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential to 26% of control, and also reduced the increase in input resistance and the extent of anode break excitation associated with the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. In contrast, SR142801 did not reduce the increase in excitability, the increase in input resistance or the depolarisation that occur during the sustained slow postsynaptic excitation. SR142801 did not change the resting membrane potential or the resting input resistance. We conclude that tachykinins, acting through neurokinin-3 receptors, are involved in the generation of the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential, but not in the sustained slow postsynaptic excitation, and that the release of transmitters from synaptic inputs to AH neurons is frequency coded.
Small conductance, calcium-activated potassium channels (SK channels) are present in most neurons, in denervated muscles and in several non-excitable cell types. In excitable cells SK channels play a fundamental role in the generation of the afterhyperpolarization which follows an action potential, thereby modulating neuronal firing and regulating excitability. To date, three channel subunits (SK1-3) have been cloned from mammalian brain. Since SK3 only has been shown to be expressed in muscles upon denervation, this channel may be involved in hyperexcitability and afterhyperpolarization observed in muscle cells in the absence of the nerve. Using confocal microscopy and SK3 specific antibodies, we demonstrate that SK3 immunoreactivity is present at the rat neuromuscular junction in denervated but also in innervated muscles. In denervated muscle fibers, SK3 is localized in the extrajunctional as well as the junctional plasma membrane, where it appears to be less abundant in the acetylcholine receptor-rich domains, corresponding to the crests of the postsynaptic folds. In innervated muscles, SK3 is not detectable in the muscle fiber but is present at the neuromuscular junction and seems to be localized presynaptically in the motor nerve terminals. Axonal accumulation of SK3 immunoreactivity occurs above and below a ligature of rat sciatic nerve, indicating that the SK3 protein is transported in both directions along the axons of the motor neurons. During rat development SK3 immunoreactivity is not found at the neuromuscular junction until day 35 of postnatal development when SK3 first appears in the motor neuron terminals. These results indicate that SK3 channels are components of the presynaptic compartment in the mature neuromuscular junction, where they may play an important regulatory role in synaptic transmission.
The spinal cord is rarely transected after spinal cord injury. Dysfunction of surviving axons, which traverse the site of spinal cord injury, appears to contribute to post-traumatic neurological deficits, although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. The subpial rim frequently contains thinly myelinated axons which appear to conduct signals abnormally, although it is uncertain whether this truly reflects maladaptive alterations in conduction properties of injured axons during the chronic phase of spinal cord injury or whether this is merely the result of the selective survival of a subpopulation of axons. In the present study, we examined the changes in axonal conduction properties after chronic clip compression injury of the rat thoracic spinal cord, using the sucrose gap technique and quantitatively examined changes in the morphological and ultrastructural features of injured axonal fibers in order to clarify these issues. Chronically injured dorsal columns had a markedly reduced compound action potential amplitude (8.3% of control) and exhibited significantly reduced excitability. Other dysfunctional conduction properties of injured axons included a slower population conduction velocity, a longer refractory period and a greater degree of high-frequency conduction block at 200 Hz. Light microscopic and ultrastructural analysis showed numerous axons with abnormally thin myelin sheaths as well as unmyelinated axons in the injured spinal cord. The ventral column showed a reduced median axonal diameter and the lateral and dorsal columns showed increased median diameters, with evidence of abnormally large swollen axons. Plots of axonal diameter versus myelination ratio showed that post-injury, dorsal column axons of all diameters had thinner myelin sheaths. Noninjured dorsal column axons had a median myelination ratio (1.56) which was within the optimal range (1.43-1.67) for axonal conduction, whereas injured dorsal column axons had a median myelination ratio (1.33) below the optimal value. These data suggest that maladaptive alterations occur postinjury to myelin sheath thickness which reduce the efficiency of axonal signal transmission.In conclusion, chronically injured dorsal column axons show physiological evidence of dysfunction and morphological changes in axonal diameter and reduced myelination ratio. These maladaptive alterations to injured axons, including decrease in myelin thickness and the appearance of axonal swellings, contribute to the decreased excitability of chronically injured axons. These results further clarify the mechanisms underlying neurological dysfunction after chronic neurotrauma and have significant implications regarding approaches to augment neural repair and regeneration.
In order to better delineate the intracellular signaling pathways underlying glial apolipoprotein E (apoE) expression and release, we have characterized an in vitro model of induction of glial apoE production induced by neuronal death. Exposure of mixed fetal cortical neuron/glia co-cultures to the neurotoxin N-methyl-D-aspartate results in increased apoE expression and release in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Increased expression of apoE messenger RNA precedes the increase in intracellular apoE, followed by accumulation of the holoprotein in the culture medium. Neuronal injury induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate is accompanied by a reactive astrogliosis as measured by an increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA and protein at 48 and 72h post-lesion, respectively. A similar microgliosis was observed using the microglial marker ED-1. Neuronal injury-induced glial apoE secretion is attenuated by the nuclear factor kappaB inhibitors, aspirin, Bay 11-7082 and MG-132, suggesting that this transcription factor is involved in both constitutive and induced glial apoE expression. The present data show that up-regulation of apoE is an early event in the glial activation triggered by neurodegeneration in vitro and that activation of nuclear factor kappaB directly or indirectly mediates the increase in apoE expression.
It has been hypothesized that morphine tolerance and dependence in mice following chronic exposure may reflect increased compensatory activity of antiopioid systems. The endogenous peptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ has been shown to have anti-opioid effects, for example antagonizing morphine analgesia. Moreover, chronic morphine administration increases synthesis of the peptide, and morphine tolerance and dependence can be attenuated or reversed by antagonists and agonists of the nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor, respectively. The present study seeks to confirm a role for nociceptin/orphanin FQ in opioid tolerance and dependence by comparing morphine ED(50) values and naloxone-precipitated withdrawal jumping in mice homozygous (knock-out) and heterozygous for a null mutation of the Npnc1 gene encoding the nociceptin/orphanin FQ propeptide, and their wild type littermates, following chronic morphine exposure. Relative to morphine-naive control mice, significant rightward shifts in the morphine dose-response curve, resulting in increased morphine ED(50) values (approximately two to three-fold), was observed for all genotypes following three days of repeated systemic morphine injections. However, no differences between genotypes in the magnitude of tolerance were observed. In contrast, knock-out mice displayed significantly increased naloxone-precipitated withdrawal jumping relative to heterozygous and wild-type mice following implantation with a morphine pellet (25mg) for 72h. Use of nociception/orphaninFQ transgenic knock-out mice thus demonstrate the differential involvement of nociceptin/orphanin FQ in morphine tolerance and dependence.
In the CNS, Bcl-2 is an antiapoptotic gene involved in the regulation of neuronal death. Transgenic mice overexpressing the human gene Bcl-2 (Hu-bcl-2 mice) showed delayed acquisition in two tasks requiring them to find a hidden platform starting from either a random or a constant starting location. The same mice were not deficient in another task requiring them to find a visible platform suggesting that the delay observed was not due to motor, visual or motivational deficits in the water. The delay observed in Hu-bcl-2 mice was more important in the random starting test in which the allocentric demand for navigation was stronger. The results suggested that allocentric navigation is particularly sensitive to abnormal CNS maturation following the overexpression of the bcl-2 gene. The specific deficits (motor learning, fear-related behavior and allocentric navigation) observed in Hu-bcl-2 mice suggest that the regulation of developmental neuronal death is crucial for multisensorial learning and emotional behavior.
The present study was performed to provide evidence that dynamic neural processes underlie the reduction in dorsal spinocerebellar tract and spinoreticular tract neuron activity that occurs during active sleep. To ascertain the effect of local inhibition on the spontaneous and glutamate-evoked spike discharge of sensory tract neurons, preliminary control tests were performed during the state of quiet wakefulness, where GABA or glycine was co-administered in a sustained fashion during pulsatile release of glutamate to dorsal spinocerebellar tract (n=3) or spinoreticular tract (n=2) neurons. Co-administration of GABA or glycine also resulted in a significant marked suppression of spontaneous spike activity and glutamate-evoked responses of these cells. Extracellular recording experiments combined with juxtacellular application of glutamate were then performed on 20 antidromically identified dorsal spinocerebellar tract and spinoreticular tract neurons in the chronic intact cat as a function of sleep and wakefulness. The glutamate-evoked activity of a group of 10 sensory tract neurons (seven dorsal spinocerebellar tract, three spinoreticular tract), which exhibited a significant decrease in their spontaneous spike activity during active sleep, was examined. Glutamate-evoked activity in these cells was significantly attenuated during active sleep compared with wakefulness. In contrast, the glutamate-evoked activity of a second group of eight sensory tract neurons (four dorsal spinocerebellar tract, four spinoreticular tract), which exhibited a significant increase in their spontaneous spike activity during active sleep, was not significantly altered in a state-dependent manner. These data indicate that, during natural active sleep, a dynamic neural process is engaged onto certain dorsal spinocerebellar tract and spinoreticular tract neurons, which in turn dampens sensory throughput to higher brain centers.
Stimulation of neurons in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray produces antinociception that is mediated in part by pontine noradrenergic neurons. Previous light microscopic analysis provided suggestive evidence for a direct projection from neurons in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray to noradrenergic neurons in the A7 cell group that innervate the spinal cord dorsal horn. Therefore, the present ultrastructural study used anterograde tracing combined with tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity to provide definitive evidence that neurons in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray form synapses with the somata and dendrites of noradrenergic neurons of the A7 cell group. Injections of the anterograde tracers biotinylated dextran amine or Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray of Sasco Sprague-Dawley rats yielded a dense innervation in the region of the lateral pons containing the A7 cell group. Electron microscopic analysis of anterogradely labeled terminals (n=401) in the region of the A7 cell group indicated that approximately 10% of these formed plasmalemmal appositions to tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive dendrites with no intervening astrocytic processes. About 23% of these were asymmetric synapses, 10% were symmetric synapses, and 67% did not exhibit clearly differentiated synaptic specializations. The majority of anterogradely labeled terminals (60%) formed plasmalemmal appositions with dendrites and somata that lacked detectable tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. About 35% of these were symmetric synapses, 9% were asymmetric synapses and 56% did not form synaptic specializations. Approximately 30% of all anterogradely labeled terminals displayed features characteristic of axo-axonic synapses.The present results provide direct ultrastructural evidence to support the hypothesis that the analgesia produced by stimulation of neurons in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is mediated, in part, by activation of spinally projecting noradrenergic neurons in the A7 catecholamine cell group.
Visually evoked behaviors mediated by the frog optic tectum require cholinergic activity, but the receptor subtypes through which acetylcholine acts are not yet identified. Using quantitative autoradiography and scintillation spectrometry, we examined the binding of [3H]pirenzepine and [3H]AF-DX 384 in the laminated optic tectum of the frog. In mammalian systems, these substances bind excitatory (m1 and m3 subtypes) and inhibitory (m2 and m4 subtypes) muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, respectively. Pharmacological analyses, including the use of specific muscarinic toxins, confirmed the subtype selectivity of the radioligands in the frog brain. Binding sites for [3H]pirenzepine were distinct from those for [3H]AF-DX 384. In the adult tectum, [3H]pirenzepine demonstrated specific binding in tectal layers 5-9. [3H]Pirenzepine binding was also present in tadpoles as young as stage V, but all sampled stages of tadpole tectum had significantly less binding when compared to adults. Lesioning of the optic nerve had no effect on [3H]pirenzepine binding. Specific [3H]AF-DX 384 binding was found in all layers of the adult tectum. All sampled tadpole stages exhibited binding sites for [3H]AF-DX 384, but the densities of these sites were also significantly higher in adults than they were in developing stages. Short-term lesions of the optic nerve reduced [3H]AF-DX 384 binding in all tectal layers of the deafferented lobe when compared to the afferented one. Long-term lesions decreased [3H]AF-DX 384 sites in both lobes.These results indicate that multiple muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding sites reside in the frog optic tectum at all stages of development, and their pharmacology resembles that of mammalian m1/m3, m2 and m4 subtypes. Our data indicate that few, if any, of these receptors are likely to be located on retinal ganglion cell terminals. Furthermore, the expression of inhibitory muscarinic subtypes seems to be regulated by different mechanisms than that for excitatory subtypes.
The nucleus lentiformis mesencephali and the nucleus of the basal optic root in birds, homologous to the nucleus of the optic tract and the terminal nuclei of the accessory optic tract in mammals, are involved in optokinetic nystagmus. The present study provides the first electrophysiological evidence that reversible blockade of the pigeon nucleus of the basal optic root by lidocaine can change visual responsiveness of pretectal neurons in a direction-dependent manner. Thirty pretectal cells examined were classified as unidirectional (80%), bidirectional (10%) and omnidirectional (10%) cells according to their directional selectivity. Among the unidirectional cells, seven cells changed firing rates in all directions of motion, 11 changed visual responses only in the preferred directions and six others did not change their responsiveness during lidocaine. Most of the bidirectional cells changed firing rates in the temporonasal direction, and two-thirds of the omnidirectional cells showed these changes in all directions. Thirteen lidocaine administration sites were marked within the nucleus of the basal optic root and 19 recording sites were marked within the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali. This histological verification indicates that the effects of lidocaine blockade in the accessory optic nucleus on the directional selectivity and visual responsiveness of pretectal cells appear to be related, to some extent, to the location of drug injections in the nucleus of the basal optic root. This study has found that visual neurons in the nucleus of the basal optic root, which predominantly prefer vertical and backward motion, could modulate the directional selectivity and visual responsiveness of neurons in the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, which mainly prefer horizontal motion. It is conceivable that both nuclei work together in coordination and in competition during optokinetic nystagmus.
Dextran-conjugated Ca(2+) indicators were injected into the accessory olfactory bulb of frogs in vivo to selectively fill presynaptic terminals of mitral cells at their termination in the ipsilateral amygdala. After one to three days of uptake and transport, the forebrain hemisphere anterior to the tectum was removed and maintained in vitro for simultaneous electrophysiological and optical measurements. Ca(2+) influx into these terminals was compared to synaptic transmission between mitral cells and amygdala neurons under conditions of reduced Ca(2+) influx resulting from reduced extracellular [Ca(2+)], blockade of N- and P/Q-type channels, and application of the cholinergic agonist carbachol. Reducing extracellular [Ca(2+)] had a non-linear effect on release; release was proportional to Ca(2+) influx raised to the power of approximately 3.6, as observed at numerous other synapses. The N-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, omega-conotoxin-GVIA (1 microM), blocked 77% of Ca(2+) influx and 88% of the postsynaptic field potential. The P/Q-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, omega-agatoxin-IVA (200 nM), blocked 19% of Ca(2+) influx and 25% of the postsynaptic field, while the two toxins combined to block 92% of Ca(2+) influx and 97% of the postsynaptic field. The relationship between toxin blockade of Ca(2+) influx and synaptic transmission was therefore only slightly non-linear; release was proportional to Ca(2+) influx raised to the power approximately 1.4. Carbachol (100 microM) acting via muscarinic receptors had no effect on the afferent volley, but rapidly and reversibly reduced Ca(2+) influx through both N- and P/Q-type channels by 51% and postsynaptic responses by 78%, i.e. release was proportional to Ca(2+) raised to the power approximately 2.5. The weak dependence of release on changes in Ca(2+) when channel toxins block channels suggests little overlap between Ca(2+) microdomains from channels supporting release or substantial segregation of channel subtypes between terminals. The proportionately greater reduction of transmission by muscarinic receptors compared to Ca(2+) channel toxins suggests that they directly affect the release machinery in addition to reducing Ca(2+) influx.
This study evaluated the capacity of mu-opioid and glutamate receptor agonists to differentially regulate the involvement of the GABAergic projection from the ventral pallidum to the mediodorsal thalamus in working memory and locomotor activity. Microinjection of either the ionotropic glutamate receptor agonist alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) or the mu agonist [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly-ol(5)]enkephalin into the ventral pallidum of male Sprague-Dawley rats produced a dose-dependent impairment in working memory, estimated using a forced delayed alternation task in a T-maze. Performance in a spatial discrimination task without delay was also impaired by glutamate, but not by mu receptor, stimulation. Involvement of the GABAergic projection from the ventral pallidum to the mediodorsal thalamus in mu-opioid-induced impairment of working memory was verified by showing that inhibiting GABA(B) receptors in the mediodorsal thalamus blocked the effect of [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly-ol(5)]enkephalin in the ventral pallidum. Similarly, either glutamate or mu-opioid receptor stimulation in the ventral pallidum elicited motor activity, and the motor stimulant effect of the mu agonist was blocked, while that of AMPA is not affected by GABA(B) receptor blockade in the mediodorsal thalamus. Distinction between mu and glutamate receptor stimulation was further revealed by the fact that stimulating mu receptors in the ventral pallidum caused a dose-dependent reduction in extracellular GABA levels, while AMPA was without effect on GABA in the ventral pallidum. These data indicate that stimulating mu-opioid receptors reduces GABAergic tone in the ventral pallidum, which increases activity in the GABAergic projection to the mediodorsal thalamus, thereby impairing working memory. Moreover, it is hypothesized that mu receptors in the ventral pallidum gate the recruitment of working memory into ongoing behavioral activity.
The ability of GABA(A) receptors in the ventral pallidum to modulate shell-specific behavior was studied. Injections of the non-selective acetylcholine receptor agonist, carbachol (5 microg), into the shell of the nucleus accumbens elicited contraversive circling, namely turning marked by normal stepping; in contrast, injections of a mixture of dopamine D(1) (SKF 38393, 5 microg) and D(2) (quinpirole, 10 microg) receptor agonists into this brain structure elicited contraversive pivoting, namely turning marked by abnormal hindlimb stepping. Unilateral injections of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol (10, 25 and 50 ng) into the ventral pallidum dose-dependently mimicked shell-specific circling, especially when given at a level +8.6mm anterior to the interaural line; this effect was GABA(A) receptor specific, because it was prevented by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (150 ng). Unilateral pallidal injections of a dose of muscimol that was ineffective per se (10 ng) abolished contraversive pivoting elicited by shell injections of dopamine receptor agonists; instead, it elicited moderate ipsiversive pivoting. Pallidal injections of bicuculline (150 ng) replaced the contraversive pivoting elicited by dopamine receptor agonist with ipsiversive circling. In contrast, unilateral pallidal injections of 10 ng muscimol (anterior +8.6mm level) suppressed the contraversive circling elicited by shell injections of carbachol; instead, it elicited moderate ipsiversive pivoting. Pallidal injections of bicuculline (150 ng) produced short-lasting ipsiversive circling that was followed by contraversive pivoting. We conclude that the ventromedial portion of the ventral pallidum contains GABA(A) receptors that are crucial for the transmission of information from the shell of the nucleus accumbens via the ventral pallidum towards other brain structures; this holds especially for information about shell-specific circling elicited by carbachol. The same portion of the ventral pallidum also contains GABA(A) receptors that control the transfer of information from the nucleus accumbens towards structures outside the ventral pallidum; this holds especially for information about shell-specific pivoting elicited by dopaminergic agonists.
We have recently shown that focal administration of dizocilpine hydrogen maleate (MK-801, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist) within the nucleus accumbens increases locomotor activity in a dopamine-independent manner. The purpose of this study was to investigate the neural network underlying locomotor stimulation induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade in the accumbens. In the first experiment, we examined the effect of different doses (1, 5 and 25 nmol) of the active and inactive enantiomers of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, (+)- and (-)-MK-801, respectively, focally administered in the nucleus accumbens. Only the active enantiomer induced a significant increase in locomotor activity; furthermore, the effect induced by the two highest doses of (+)-MK-801 was significantly different from that induced by (-)-MK-801. In the second part of the study, we performed ibotenic acid lesions to the major output nuclei of the accumbens, the ventral pallidum, mediodorsal thalamus, ventrolateral/ventromedial thalamus and pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, to observe their effect on locomotor activity induced by focal (+)-MK-801 (25 nmol) administration into the accumbens. None of the lesions had any effect on spontaneous locomotor activity. Hyperactivity induced by accumbens MK-801 administrations was unaffected by ibotenic acid lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, while lesions of the mediodorsal thalamus induced only a partial inhibition. In contrast, ibotenic acid lesions of the ventral pallidum and ventrolateral/ventromedial thalamus completely blocked the motor response induced by accumbens MK-801. These data indicate that the intact mediodorsal thalamus, which has been proposed as a part of the loop that relays accumbens information to the prefrontal cortex, does not seem to be a structure of primary importance in MK-801 locomotor activity. On the contrary, the motor nuclei of the thalamus appear to play a more relevant role, suggesting that different neural substrates may mediate dopamine and glutamate functional output from the nucleus accumbens.
Amino-acid neurotransmitters regulate a wide variety of developmental processes in the mammalian CNS including neurogenesis, cell migration, and apoptosis. In order to investigate the role of GABA in early development of forebrain interneurons, we determined the survival of parvalbumin-immunoreactive GABAergic interneurons in the adult rat striatum following prenatal exposure to either GABA(A) receptor agonist or antagonist. Unbiased stereology was used to quantify parvalbumin-immunoreactive neuron number in the neostriatum of adult rats exposed to the drugs in utero, and the results were compared to pair-fed or vehicle controls. Embryos were exposed to the GABA(A) antagonist (bicuculline) or agonist (muscimol) during previously defined proliferative or post-proliferative periods for parvalbumin-immunoreactive interneurons. Unbiased stereology using the optical fractionator was used to estimate the total number of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in neostriatum of experimental and control rats. No significant alteration in parvalbumin-immunoreactive neuron number was observed in rats treated with either bicuculline (1 or 2mg/kg/day) or muscimol (1mg/kg/day) during the proliferative phase. Administration of bicuculline during the post-proliferative phase significantly reduced parvalbumin-immunoreactive neuron number in the neostriatum. A concomitant decrease in neostriatal volume was also observed, suggesting that the effect is not restricted to parvalbumin-immunoreactive interneurons. Positional analysis revealed loss of normal regional distribution gradients for parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in neostriatum of rats exposed to bicuculline in the embryonic post-proliferative phase. This data collectively suggests that GABA promotes survival but not proliferation of parvalbumin-immunoreactive progenitors. GABA may also promote migration of subpopulations of interneurons that ultimately populate the ventral telencephalon.
This study examined the relationship between the development of cholinergic axons originating from the septum and a group of their target cells, the granule cells of the dentate gyrus of the rat. Acetylcholinesterase histochemistry was used to identify septal cholinergic afferents to the dentate gyrus; parallel studies used anterograde movement of a carbocyanine dye to label the septal projections. Septal cholinergic axons are present in the molecular layer of the internal blade of the dentate gyrus shortly after birth, but these axons do not reach the external blade until several days later. Results demonstrate that acetylcholinesterase positive septal axons grow into the external blade of the dentate gyrus only after the recently generated granule cells have coalesced to form a clearly defined layer. Results from studies using in situ hybridization techniques demonstrate that dentate gyrus granule cells express messenger RNAs for brain derived neurotrophic factor and for neurotrophic factor 3 shortly after formation of the granule cell layer. Ingrowth of septal cholinergic axons follows two days after the formation of the external blade of the dentate gyrus and the expression of neurotrophin messenger RNAs by the dentate granule cells. These data support the hypothesis that target cell development is a prerequisite for attracting the ingrowth of septal afferent axons.
Glucocorticoids may underlie the association between low birth weight and adult disorders such as hypertension, type 2 diabetes and affective dysfunction. We investigated the behavioural and molecular consequences of two paradigms of prenatal dexamethasone administration in rats. Rats received dexamethasone (100 microg/kg per day) throughout pregnancy (DEX1-3), in the last third of pregnancy only (DEX3) or vehicle. Both dexamethasone treatments reduced birth weight, only DEX1-3 offspring had reduced body weight in adulthood. In adult offspring, both prenatal dexamethasone paradigms reduced exploratory behaviour in an open field. In contrast, only DEX3 reduced exploration in an elevated plus-maze and impaired behavioural responses and learning in a forced-swim test. This behavioural inhibition may reflect increased baseline corticotrophin-releasing hormone mRNA levels (30% higher) in the central nucleus of the amygdala in both dexamethasone-exposed groups. Adult DEX3 offspring also showed increased corticotrophin-releasing hormone mRNA with unaltered glucocorticoid receptor mRNA in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and reduced hippocampal glucocorticoid- and mineralocorticoid receptor mRNA expression, suggesting reduced hippocampal sensitivity to glucocorticoid suppression of the stress axis. In contrast, DEX1-3 rats had no changes in hippocampal corticosteroid receptors, but showed increased mRNA levels for both receptors in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala. From this data we suggest that prenatal glucocorticoid exposure programs behavioural inhibition perhaps via increased amygdalar corticotrophin-releasing hormone levels, while DEX3 also impairs coping and learning in aversive situations, possibly via altered hippocampal corticosteroid receptor levels. Overexposure to glucocorticoids, especially late in gestation, may explain the link between reduced early growth and adult affective dysfunction.
It has been shown previously that the synthetic corticosteroid dexamethasone induces apoptosis of granule cells in the dentate gyrus and striatopallidal neurons in the dorsomedial caudate-putamen. We investigated whether or not dexamethasone can induce damage to other neuronal populations. This issue was addressed using OX42 immunohistochemistry to visualise activated microglia and thereby gauge the extent of dexamethasone-induced neuronal death. A single dose of dexamethasone (20mg/kg, i.p.) administered to young male Sprague-Dawley rats induced a strong microglial reaction which was restricted to the striatum, the dentate gyrus and all of the CA subfields of the hippocampus. Some OX42-immunoreactive cells were also seen in the lateral septal nucleus. Subsequent quantitative analysis of silver/methenamine-stained sections confirmed that acute administration of dexamethasone induced apoptosis in the striatum and all regions of the hippocampus at doses as low as 0.7mg/kg. In contrast, dexamethasone failed to induce apoptosis in the lateral septal nucleus at doses up to 20mg/kg. The levels of dexamethasone-induced striatal and hippocampal apoptosis were attenuated by pretreatment with the corticosteroid receptor antagonist RU38486 (Mifepristone), which implies that the cell death was mediated by a corticosteroid receptor-dependent process. We further determined whether dexamethasone induced sublethal damage to neurons by quantifying reductions in the number of microtubule-associated protein-2-immunoreactive striatal and hippocampal cells following injection of the corticosteroid. Dexamethasone induced dramatic decreases in the striatum, with the dorsomedial caudate-putamen being particularly affected. Similar damage was seen in the hippocampus, with the dentate gyrus and CA1 and CA3 subfields being particularly vulnerable.Equivalent corticosteroid-induced neuronal damage may occur in mood disorders, where the levels of endogenous corticosteroids are often raised. Corticosteroid-induced damage of striatal and hippocampal neurons may also account for some of the cognitive deficits seen following administration of the drugs to healthy volunteers.
The steroid hormone vitamin D has important biological roles in calcium transport, cell growth, and cell differentiation. Its cellular activities are mediated by high affinity interaction with the vitamin D receptor. In brain, autoradiographic, immunohistologic, and messenger RNA expression studies implicate a number of neuronal systems, including the hippocampus, as potential targets of vitamin D. However, cellular distribution and protein expression, and binding of the receptor to vitamin D response elements have yet to be established in hippocampus. This investigation was undertaken to characterize the vitamin D receptor in rat hippocampus with western blot, immunocytochemistry, and gel shift analyses. The presence of the receptor protein in hippocampus extracts was revealed with western blotting using an anti-rat vitamin D receptor antiserum. In vivo and in vitro immunocytochemical results confirmed the presence of vitamin D receptor in neuronal and glial cells. In the hippocampus, the receptor was localized in pyramidal and granule cell layers, CA1, CA2, and CA3 subfields and in the dentate gyrus. Double labeling for the vitamin D receptor and glial fibrillary acidic protein revealed that glia also expressed the receptor protein. Gel shift analyses evaluated with the murine osteopontin vitamin D response element indicated a specific, bound receptor-containing complex from hippocampal extracts. Altogether, these findings clearly document the localization of vitamin D receptor in rat hippocampus and that hippocampus contains vitamin D receptors capable of specifically binding to DNA. In combination with reports of a neuroprotective role for vitamin D in hippocampal cell survival, these data suggest that the endogenous vitamin D receptor may mitigate processes related to cellular homeostasis, perhaps through a calcium buffering mechanism.
The effect of toosendanin, a selective presynaptic blocker and effective antibotulismic agent, on large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels was studied in inside-out patches of pyramidal neurons freshly isolated from the hippocampal CA1 region of the rat. Toosendanin (1 x 10(-6)g/ml approximately 1 x 10(-4)g/ml) was found to inhibit large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels by reducing its open probability significantly in a concentration-dependent manner, although the effective concentration of toosendanin was lower in a symmetrical K(+) (150 mM) solution than under asymmetrical conditions (changing K(+) concentration in pipette solution to 5mM). The action was partially reversible by washing. By decreasing the slow open time constant, toosendanin shortened the open dwell time of large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels in a dose-dependent manner. A dose-dependent reduction of unitary current amplitude of the channel was detected after toosendanin perfusion. On elevating the intracellular free calcium concentration from 1 to 10 microM, a similar effect on large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels by toosendanin was also observed, but its efficacy was diminished. These results show that toosendanin inhibits large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels in hippocampal neurons by reducing the open probability and unitary current amplitude of the channel, and that Ca(2+) interferes with the effect. These data provide an explanation for toosendanin-induced facilitation of neurotransmitter release and the antibotulismic effect of the drug.
We analysed the influence of preweaning periodic maternal separation followed by postweaning chronic social isolation on the development of synaptic composition in the infralimbic cortex of Octodon degus, a South American species formerly classified as a caviomorph rodent but now considered to belong to Lagomorpha (rabbits). Three groups of animals were analysed: (1) control pups which remained undisturbed with their families; (2) pups which were exposed to individual periodic maternal deprivation [postnatal day 1 (P1) until P21], followed by social isolation (P22 until P45); and (3) pups which were handled daily without being removed from the families (P1 until P21) and thereafter remained undisturbed with the family (P22 until P45). The mean synaptic density and mean projected height of synapses were quantified using the &quot;dissector&quot; method. In the deprived group, significantly higher (up to 137.8%) mean synaptic densities were found in layer II of the infralimbic cortex compared to normal control animals. In handled pups, asymmetric shaft synapses were significantly decreased (down to 54%) compared to the control group.These results indicate that early postnatal changes in the socio-emotional environment change the number of synaptic connections in the infralimbic cortex. Since this subregion of the medial prefrontal cortex is involved in a variety of emotional behaviors and plays a role in associative learning tasks, these environmentally induced synaptic changes may be indicative, and perhaps the cause, of alterations of behavioral and cognitive capacities.
Recently, we described the occurrence of a dehydroascorbate reductase within the rat CNS. This enzyme regenerates ascorbate after it is oxidized during normal aerobic metabolism. In this work, we describe the neuronal compartmentalization of the enzyme, using transmission electron microscopy of those brain areas in which the enzyme was most densely present when observed under light microscopy. In parallel biochemical studies, we performed immunoblotting and measured the enzyme activity of the cytoplasm and different nuclear fractions. Given the abundance of ascorbate in the caudate-putamen, we focused mostly on the occurrence of dehydroascorbate reductase at the striatal subcellular level. We also studied cerebellar Purkinje cells, hippocampal CA3 pyramidal cells and giant neurons in the magnocellular part of the red nucleus. In addition to neurons, immunolabeling was found in striatal endothelial cells, in the basal membrane of blood vessels and in perivascular astrocytes. In neuronal cytosol, the enzyme was observed in a peri-nuclear position and on the nuclear membrane. In addition, in both the striatum and the cerebellum, we found the enzyme within myelin sheets. Dehydroascorbate reductase was also present in the nucleus of neurons, as further indicated by measuring enzyme activity and by immunoblotting selected nuclear fractions. Immunocytochemical labeling confirmed that the protein was present in isolated pure nuclear fractions. Given the great amount of free radicals which are constantly generated in the CNS, the discovery of a new enzyme with antioxidant properties which translocates into neuronal nuclei appears to be a potential starting point to develop alternative strategies in neuroprotection.
We previously proposed that L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is a neurotransmitter in the CNS. Receptor and transporter molecules for L-DOPA, however, have not been determined. In the present study, in order to localize the uptake sites of L-DOPA in the CNS, we performed autoradiographic uptake studies using L-[14C]DOPA and L-[3H]DOPA in the uptake study on rat brain slice preparations, and further analyzed the properties of L-DOPA uptake. Image analysis of the L-[14C]DOPA autoradiogram showed a unique heterogeneous distribution of uptake sites in the brain. The intensity was relatively high in the cerebral cortex, the hypothalamus, the cerebellum and the hippocampus, while the density was moderate or even low in the striatum and the substantia nigra. L-DOPA and phenylalanine, but not dopamine (10mM) were able to almost completely inhibit the uptake of L-[14C]DOPA to basal levels. Microautoradiographic studies using L-[3H]DOPA revealed accumulation of dense grains in the median eminence, the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus, the cerebral cortex (layer I) and the hippocampus. In the cerebellum, grains formed in clusters surrounding the Purkinje cells. This grain accumulation was concluded to be in Bergmann glial cells, since the morphological pattern of grain accumulation was similar to that of the immunoreactivity of the glutamate aspartate transporter, a marker protein for Bergmann glial cells. In the hippocampus, the grain density significantly decreased under Na(+)-free conditions. In addition, grain density also decreased in the absence of Cl(-). In contrast, grains in the choroid plexus and the ependymal cell layer, were not affected by the absence of Na(+). These findings indicated that the uptake of L-DOPA occurs via various types of large neutral amino acid transport mechanisms. It appears that neuronal and/or glial cells, which take up L-DOPA in a Na(+)-dependent manner, exist in the CNS. Our finding further supports the concept that L-DOPA itself may act as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator.
We demonstrated previously in the quail ciliary ganglion, that the immunoreactivity for the neural cell adhesion molecule labeling the postsynaptic specializations of intraganglionic synapses decreases when synaptic remodeling is induced by crushing the postganglionic ciliary nerves. Here we show, in the same experimental conditions, that the immunolabeling for its polysialylated non-stabilizing isoform, which promotes cell plasticity, increases at these subcellular compartments. In control ganglia, poor immunolabeling for the polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule was occasionally observed surrounding the soma of the ciliary neurons, in correspondence with the calyciform presynaptic ending and the perineuronal satellite cells sheath. At the electron microscope, several neuronal compartments, including some postsynaptic specializations, somatic spines and multivesicular bodies, were immunopositive. Three to six days after ciliary nerve crush, both the number of ciliary neurons labeled for the polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule and the intensity of their immunolabeling increased markedly. Electron microscopy revealed that, in parallel to the injury-induced detachment of the preganglionic boutons, numerous postsynaptic specializations were found to be immunopositive. Twenty days later, when intraganglionic connections were re-established, polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity was comparable to that observed in control ganglia. The increase in immunolabeling also involved the other neuronal compartments mentioned above, the perineuronal satellite cells and the intercellular space between these and the ciliary neurons. From these results we suggest that the switch, at the postsynaptic specializations, between the neural cell adhesion molecule and its polysialylated form may be among the molecular changes occurring in axotomized neurons leading to injury-induced synaptic remodeling. Moreover, from the increase in polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immunolabeling, observed at the somatic spines and at the interface between neurons and perineuronal satellite cells, we suggest that this molecule may be involved not only in synaptic remodeling, but also in other more general aspects of injury-induced neuronal plasticity.
The role of nociceptin, the endogenous ligand for the opioid receptor-like (ORL1) receptor, in nociceptive processing is controversial. Most studies demonstrate hyperalgesia following supraspinal administration, analgesia following intrathecal and peripheral administration at higher doses, and hyperalgesia following intrathecal and peripheral application at lower doses. The present study investigates the effect of nociceptin on synovial plasma extravasation and its ability to modulate 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced synovial plasma extravasation using the rat knee joint model of inflammation. Nociceptin alone does not alter synovial plasma extravasation from baseline. Nociceptin at concentrations up to 1 nM enhances 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced synovial plasma extravasation (up to 50%) and nociceptin at concentrations above 100 nM inhibits 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced synovial plasma extravasation (down to 45%). The novel, selective ORL1 receptor antagonist J-113397 potently inhibits the pro-inflammatory effect of nociceptin, but only partly inhibits, at higher concentrations, the anti-inflammatory effects of nociceptin.These findings demonstrate a dose-dependent bi-directional effect of nociceptin on inflammatory processes and may indicate a target for novel therapeutics.
The demonstration of preproenkephalin A gene expression in rat dorsal root ganglia has raised the question of the physiological role of met-enkephalin-containing primary afferent fibres. Recently, we showed that systemic infection with a recombinant Herpes simplex virus encoding preproenkephalin A (HSVLatEnk1) yielded a marked increase in the density of met-enkephalin-like material synthesising neurons in rat dorsal root ganglia. This study further investigated the synthesis, transport and release of met-enkephalin-like material in the central and/or peripheral processes of primary afferent fibres in HSVLatEnk1-infected and control rats. In controls, dorsal root ganglia neurons containing met-enkephalin-like material were scarce and only a few positively labelled processes were seen at the peripheral output of the dorsal root ganglia. Met-enkephalin-like material accumulated at the proximal side of ligatured sciatic nerve, but not in ligatured L4-L5 dorsal roots. In HSVLatEnk1-infected rats with numerous somas and fibres stained for met-enkephalin-like material in dorsal root ganglia, met-enkephalin immunoreactive material largely accumulated at the proximal side of the ligatured sciatic nerve and few positively stained fibres were also observed in ligatured dorsal roots. Electrical stimulation of L4-L5 dorsal roots attached to a dorsal slice of the lumbar enlargement produced an overflow of met-enkephalin-like material which was approximately 70% higher in HSVLatEnk1-infected rats compared to controls. At the periphery, subcutaneous microdialysis showed higher basal levels of met-enkephalin-like material in the interstitial fluid of hindpaw plantar area in HSVLatEnk1-infected rats, and electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral sciatic nerve resulted in an approximately three-fold-higher overflow of this material than in control rats. These data demonstrated that met-enkephalin synthesised in dorsal root ganglion of both control and preproenkephalin A overexpressing rats is preferentially transported into the peripheral processes of primary afferent fibres where the peptide reaches a releasable compartment, thus providing a neuronal source of peripheral met-enkephalin.
The neuropeptide galanin is upregulated in primary afferent and sympathetic neurones and might be involved in the development of sympathetic perineuronal baskets (&quot;rings&quot;) following nerve injury. Galanin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and tyrosine hydroxylase have been examined immunohistochemically in dorsal root ganglia and associated roots at times up to one year after transection of either sciatic or L5 spinal nerves in adult rats. Small diameter somata containing calcitonin gene-related peptide (with or without galanin) were reduced in number, whereas galanin (and, at later times, calcitonin gene-related peptide) appeared in medium to large diameter cells after both types of lesion. Galanin also appeared in axons in grey rami and somata in lumbar paravertebral ganglia. Within dorsal root ganglia, galanin-positive axons formed perineuronal rings of two types: (i) smooth coiled axons surrounded small (&lt; 30 microm diameter) somata from which they probably arose; these were rare after 12 weeks, particularly after a spinal nerve lesion; and (ii) varicose terminals encircled medium to large galanin-positive somata; some arose from brightly immunofluorescent somata nearby and took nearly a year to disappear. About 30% of varicose galanin-positive rings had associated calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive terminals (partly colocalized) whereas nearly 45% had associated tyrosine hydroxylase-positive terminals (partly colocalized). Synaptophysin was present in swollen axons and in some varicosities of all types. We conclude that, after peripheral nerve lesions, varicose perineuronal rings around large diameter dorsal root ganglion cells may be formed by axotomized primary afferent neurones (some containing calcitonin gene-related peptide) and sympathetic neurones, both of which contain upregulated galanin. Exocytosis from the varicosities may modify the excitability of mechanosensitive somata. Small galanin-positive somata disappear over several months after both lesions as calcitonin gene-related peptide reappears in medium to large neurones.
We examined the effects of systemic administration of a GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, or antagonist, phaclofen, on the expression of c-Fos protein induced 3h after electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion at low (0.1 mA) or high intensities (1.0 mA) in the urethane-anesthetized rat. In saline-treated rats, 10 min stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion induced c-Fos-immunopositive neurons throughout the full extent of the ipsilateral superficial layers of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis, and dorsal or dorsomedial part of the nuclei rostral to obex (trigeminal nucleus principalis, dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus oralis and dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus interpolaris). Animals stimulated at 1.0 mA induced a significantly higher number of labeled neurons in all the trigeminal sensory nuclei than animals stimulated at 0.1 mA. In rats treated with 20mg/kg i.p. baclofen and stimulated at 0.1 mA, the numbers of Fos-positive neurons in all the trigeminal sensory nuclei were significantly decreased compared to saline-treated controls. After stimulation at 1.0 mA in rats treated with baclofen, the numbers of Fos-positive neurons in all the trigeminal sensory nuclei were also significantly decreased. In rats treated with 2mg/kg i.p. phaclofen and stimulated at 1.0 mA, the numbers of Fos-positive neurons were significantly increased in all the trigeminal sensory nuclei. However, after stimulation at 0.1 mA in rats treated with phaclofen, the numbers of Fos-positive neurons were significantly decreased in the superficial layers and magnocellular zone of trigeminal nucleus caudalis and dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus oralis. These results indicate that the expression of c-Fos in the trigeminal sensory nucleus is differentially regulated through GABAB receptors in a manner that is dependent on the nucleus and the type of primary afferents that are activated by different stimulus intensities. Systemic administration of baclofen could inhibit both nociceptive and non-nociceptive sensory activity in the trigeminal sensory nucleus. Systemic administration of phaclofen could enhance nociceptive sensory activity but not non-nociceptive activity.
Fragile X syndrome is the most prevalent cause of mental retardation. It is usually caused by the transcriptional inactivation of the FMR-1 gene. Although the cognitive defect is the most recognized symptom of fragile X syndrome, patients also show behavioral problems such as hyperarousal, hyperactivity, autism, aggression, anxiety and increased sensitivity to sensory stimuli. Here we investigated whether fragile X mice (fmr-1 gene knockout mice) exhibit abnormal sensitivity to sensory stimuli. First, hyperreactivity of fragile X mice to auditory stimulus was indicated in the prepulse inhibition paradigm. A moderately intense prepulse tone, that suppresses startle response to a strong auditory stimulus, elicited a significantly stronger effect in fragile X than in control mice. Second, sensory hyperreactivity of fragile X mice was demonstrated by a high seizure susceptibility to auditory stimulation. Selective induction of c-Fos, an early-immediate gene product, indicated that seizures involve auditory brainstem and thalamic nuclei. Audiogenic seizures were not due to a general increase in brain excitability because three different chemical convulsants (kainic acid, bicuculline and pentylenetetrazole) elicited similar effects in fragile X and wild-type mice. These data are consistent with the increased responsiveness of fragile X patients to auditory stimuli. The auditory hypersensitivity suggests an abnormal processing in the auditory system of fragile X mice, which could provide a useful model to study the molecular and cellular changes underlying fragile X syndrome.
The reciprocal connections between the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus and the prefrontal cortex participate in a circuit that is essential to a number of higher cognitive processes. Projections from the dopamine-containing cells of the ventral mesencephalon to the prefrontal cortex are also critical for these cognitive abilities. It is unclear, however, whether dopamine axons innervate the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus in primates. In order to address this question, we examined the distribution of dopamine transporter-immunoreactive axons in the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus of macaque monkeys. Labeled axons were distributed quite heterogeneously in this nucleus, and did not strictly follow cytoarchitectonic subdivision boundaries. The ventral and lateral portions of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus, which include parts of the parvicellular and multiform subdivisions, had the highest density of dopamine transporter-immunoreactive axons. In contrast, the dorsomedial portion, which included primarily the magnocellular subdivision, had the lowest density of labeled axons. In both lightly and densely innervated portions of the nucleus, small, dense clusters of dopamine transporter-immunoreactive axons were present. Axons immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase were distributed in a pattern very similar to that of dopamine transporter-labeled axons. In contrast, noradrenergic axons, as revealed by dopamine beta-hydroxylase immunoreactivity, were present in higher density and were more evenly distributed throughout the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus. This dopamine innervation of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus reveals another possible anatomical substrate through which dopamine may influence the cognitive functions mediated by thalamo-prefrontal circuitry.
The function of a particular neuronal population is in part determined by its neurotransmitter phenotype. We have found that a neuronal-derived septal cell line (SN56), known for its cholinergic properties, also synthesizes and releases luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone. In addition, these cells express the messenger RNAs encoding estrogen and progesterone receptors. The activation of these receptors by their respective ligands cooperatively modulates the depolarization-induced release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone in these cells. We have also found that a number of septal neurons in postnatal (1-week-old) mice are immunoreactive to both choline acetyltransferase and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone. These results indicate that both neurotransmitters, acetylcholine and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, may co-exist in septal neurons of the CNS and that they could be modulated by gonadal hormones, and suggest that luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone could be involved in some of the actions of sex steroids on cholinergic neurotransmission.
The postsynaptic effects of acetylcholine in the striatum are largely mediated by muscarinic receptors. Two of the five cloned muscarinic receptors (M1 and M4) are expressed at high levels by the medium spiny neurons-the principal projection neurons of the striatum. Previous studies have suggested that M4 muscarinic receptors are found primarily in medium spiny neurons that express substance P and participate in the &quot;direct&quot; striatonigral pathway. This view is difficult to reconcile with electrophysiological studies suggesting that nearly all medium spiny neurons exhibit responses characteristic of M4 receptors. To explore this apparent discrepancy, the coordinated expression of M1-M5 receptor messenger RNAs in identified medium spiny neurons was assayed using single-cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction techniques. Nearly all medium spiny neurons had detectable levels of M1 receptor messenger RNA. Although M4 receptor messenger RNA was detected more frequently in substance P-expressing neurons (70%), it was readily seen in a substantial population of enkephalin-expressing neurons (50%). To provide a quantitative estimate of transcript abundance, quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction experiments were performed. These studies revealed that M4 messenger RNA was expressed by both substance P and enkephalin neurons, but was roughly five-fold higher in abundance in substance P-expressing neurons. This quantitative difference provides a means of reconciling previous estimates of M4 receptor distribution and function.
LIM homeodomain transcription factors play crucial roles in determining diverse aspects of neuronal development both in vertebrates and invertebrates. In the present study, we studied the expression pattern of Islet-1 (Isl-1), a member of the LIM homeodomain protein family, in the rat striatum during development. The developmental expression of Isl-1 in the striatum is highly dynamic and complex in terms of spatial and temporal regulation. The reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and ribonuclease protection assays demonstrated that Isl-1 messenger RNA was expressed in the developing striatum. The immunocytochemical study of Isl-1 protein expression showed that there were prominent mediolateral and caudorostral Isl-1 gradients in the developing striatum. Numerous Isl-1-positive cells appeared in the medial mantle zone of the developing striatal proper, and they co-expressed the postmitotic neuronal marker, microtubule-associated protein 2. The numbers of Isl-1-positive cells were decreased from the medial to the lateral regions, so that there were only a few Isl-1-positive cells scattered in the lateral striatum. These scattered Isl-1-positive cells were doubly labeled with tyrosine kinase receptor A and choline acetyltransferase, which indicated that they were cholinergic neurons. The Isl-1 gradients were most prominent in the embryonic day 18 and 20 striatum. With increases of time, the Isl-1 gradients were gradually reduced, and the gradients disappeared by postnatal day 7. Despite the general down-regulation of striatal Isl-1, a few Isl-1-positive cells were sustained into the adult striatum in which Isl-1 was nearly exclusively expressed by all cholinergic neurons and vice versa. Our study suggests that Isl-1 is likely to be initially expressed by postmitotic cholinergic precursors and some, if not all, non-cholinergic precursors in the developing striatum. During the progression of striatal differentiation, Isl-1 is down-regulated in non-cholinergic cells, but is sustained in cholinergic cells. The developmental restriction of Isl-1 to cholinergic neurons in the striatum may represent a novel mechanism by which LIM homeodomain proteins specify specific cell types in the striatum during development.
Using extracellular recording techniques in urethane- (1g/kg, i.p.) anaesthetized rats, we investigated the influence exercised by medial septal cholinergic neurons on dorsal hippocampus field CA1 neural responses to a hind paw injection of formalin (5%, 0.05 ml, s.c.). Cholinergic neurons of the medial septal region were destroyed by local microinjection of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin. Compared to control vehicle microinjected animals, immunotoxin-treatment attenuated the amplitude, but not frequency, of CA1 theta induced by intraseptal injection of carbachol. This suggested a selective destruction of medial septal cholinergic neurons by the immunotoxin. Such destruction also abolished; (i) intraseptal carbachol-induced suppression of CA1 population spike, and (ii) stimulation-intensity dependent increase in amplitude, but not frequency, of theta evoked on electrical stimulation in the region of oral part of pontine reticular nucleus. Further, in comparison to vehicle-treated animals, selective cholinergic destruction attenuated formalin-induced; (i) theta activation, (ii) suppression of CA1 pyramidal cell population spike and dendritic field excitatory post-synaptic potential, (iii) inhibition of complex spike cell extracellular activity, and (iv) excitation and theta-rhythmicity of local putative GABAergic interneurons. However, pretreatment with the immunotoxin did not alter the strength and proportion of complex spike cells excited following injection of formalin. From these findings we suggest that medial septal cholinergic neurons mediate, at least partly, the amplitude of theta and pyramidal cell suppression via an inhibitory network involving CA1 interneurons. The data also indicates that during formalin theta, the cholinergic-mediated inhibitory processing does not modulate the strength and selectivity of complex spike cell excitation. This points to formalin-induced, non-overlapping inhibitory and excitatory processes that might have different functional relevance.
The pathophysiology of brain ischemia and reperfusion injury involves perturbation of intraneuronal ion homeostasis. To identify relevant routes of ion flux, rat hippocampal slices were perfused with selective voltage- or ligand-gated ion channel blockers during experimental oxygen-glucose deprivation and subsequent reperfusion. Electron probe X-ray microanalysis was used to quantitate water content and concentrations of Na, K, Ca and other elements in morphological compartments (cytoplasm, mitochondria and nuclei) of individual CA1 pyramidal cell bodies. Blockade of voltage-gated channel-mediated Na+ entry with tetrodotoxin (1 microM) or lidocaine (200 microM) significantly reduced excess intraneuronal Na and Ca accumulation in all compartments and decreased respective K loss. Voltage-gated Ca2+ channel blockade with the L-type antagonist nitrendipine (10 microM) decreased Ca entry and modestly preserved CA1 cell elemental composition and water content. However, a lower concentration of nitrendipine (1 microM) and the N-, P-subtype Ca2+ channel blocker omega-conotoxin MVIIC (3 microM) were ineffective. Glutamate receptor blockade with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-subtype antagonist 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl) propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP; 100 microM) or the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subtype blocker 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX; 10 microM/100 microM glycine) completely prevented Na and Ca accumulation and partially preserved intraneuronal K concentrations. Finally, the increase in neuronal water content normally associated with oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion was prevented by Na+ channel or glutamate receptor blockade. Results of the present study demonstrate that antagonism of either postsynaptic NMDA or AMPA glutaminergic receptor subtypes provided nearly complete protection against ion and water deregulation in nerve cells subjected to experimental ischemia followed by reperfusion. This suggests activation of ionophoric glutaminergic receptors is involved in loss of neuronal osmoregulation and ion homeostasis. Na+ channel blockade also effectively diminished neuronal ion and water derangement during oxygen-glucose deprivation and reperfusion. Prevention of elevated Nai+ levels is likely to provide neuroprotection by decreasing presynaptic glutamate release and by improving cellular osmoregulation, adenosine triphosphate utilization and Ca2+ clearance. Thus, we suggest that voltage-gated tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ channels and glutamate-gated ionotropic NMDA or AMPA receptors are important routes of ion flux during nerve cell injury induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion.
We have recently characterized an animal model of status epilepticus induced by a single intraseptal injection of kainate. Under these conditions, there is a delayed expanding apoptotic hippocampal and amygdalar cell death. In order to further characterize this animal model, we have performed a detailed time-course analysis of the appearance of cell death, brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA expression and astroglial and microglial response in different brain areas related to the limbic system. We found a long-lasting delayed apoptotic cell death in the hippocampal formation, amygdala, medial thalamus, dorsal endopiriform nucleus and multiple cortical areas from two to 21 days post-injection. There was a spatiotemporal correlation between the appearance of cell death and induction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA expression in the areas studied, and interestingly this induction was found in non-degenerating cells. We conclude that our animal model of status epilepticus exhibits remarkable features of recurrent seizure activity and provides evidence for a neuroprotective role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor against seizure-induced apoptotic cell death.
Nicotine and alcohol are abused substances that are often used concurrently. Despite their combined usage, little is known about how they interact to produce changes in behavior and neural activity. Two experiments were conducted to identify interactions on both behavior and neural targets resulting from the co-administration of nicotine and alcohol. In Experiment 1, male C57BL/6J mice were administered saline, alcohol (2.4 g/kg, i.p.), nicotine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or an alcohol/nicotine mixture and returned to their home cage. In Experiment 2, a higher dose of nicotine (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) was included and animals were exposed to a novel environment. Several behavioral measures were analysed during novelty exposure. Immunohistochemical detection of inducible transcription factors (c-Fos and Egr1) was used in both experiments to identify changes in neural activation. Behavioral results suggested that the drugs were interacting in the production of behaviors. In particular, alcohol produced locomotor stimulation while it suppressed counts of rearing and leaning. When co-administered, nicotine appeared to counteract the alcohol-enhanced locomotor activity. Several brain regions were observed to have altered transcription factor expression in response to the different drug treatments, including amygdalar, hippocampal and cortical subregions. In a subset of these brain areas, nicotine and alcohol counteracted one another in the expression of transcription factors. These results identify several interactive target sites within the hippocampus, extended amygdala and cortical regions. The interactions appear to be a result of antagonizing actions of nicotine and alcohol. Finally, the results suggest that the combined use of nicotine and alcohol may offset the effects of the drug administered independently.
Freezing lesions to the developing cortical plate of rodents results in a focal malformation resembling human 4-layered microgyria, and this malformation has been shown to result in local and widespread disruptions of neuronal architecture, connectivity, and physiology. Because we had previously demonstrated that microgyria caused disruptions in callosal connections, we hypothesized that freeze lesions to the postero-medial barrel sub-field (PMBSF) in one hemisphere would affect the organization of this barrel field contralaterally. We placed freeze lesions in the presumptive PMBSF of neonatal rats and, in adulthood, assessed the architecture of the ipsilateral and contralateral barrel fields. Malformations in the PMBSF resulted in a substantial decrease in the number of barrels as identified by cytochrome oxidase activity. More importantly, we found an increase in the total area of the contralateral PMBSF, although there was no difference in individual barrel cross-sectional areas, indicating an increase in the area of inter-barrel septae. This increase in the septal area of the contralateral PMBSF is consistent with changes in callosal and/or thalamic connectivity in the contralateral hemisphere. These results are another example of both local and widespread disruption of connectional architecture following induction of focal microgyria.
Mice lacking the potassium channel subunit KCNA1 exhibit a severe epileptic phenotype beginning at an early postnatal age. The precise cellular physiological substrates for these seizures are unclear, as is the site of origin. Since KCNA1 mRNA in normal mice is expressed in the neocortex, we asked whether neurons in the neocortex of three to four week-old Kcna1-null mutants exhibit evidence of hyperexcitability. Layer V pyramidal neurons were directly visualized in brain slices with infrared differential-interference contrast microscopy and evaluated with cellular electrophysiological techniques. There were no significant differences in intrinsic membrane properties and action potential shape between Kcna1-null and wild-type mice, consistent with previous findings in hippocampal slice recordings. However, the frequency of spontaneous post-synaptic currents was significantly higher in Kcna1-null compared to wild-type mice. The frequency of spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic currents and miniature (action-potential-independent) inhibitory post-synaptic currents was also significantly higher in Kcna1-null compared to wild-type mice. However, the frequency of spontaneous and miniature excitatory post-synaptic currents was not different in these two groups of animals. Comparison of the amplitude and kinetics of miniature inhibitory and excitatory post-synaptic currents revealed differences in amplitude, rise time and half-width between Kcna1-null and wild-type mice. Our data indicate that the inhibitory drive onto layer V pyramidal neurons is increased in Kcna1 knockout mice, either directly through an increased spontaneous release of GABA from presynaptic terminals contacting layer V pyramidal neurons, or an enhanced excitatory synaptic input to inhibitory interneurons.
TREK-1 is a member of the two-pore-domain potassium channel family which is expressed predominantly in the CNS. Using an anti-peptide polyclonal antiserum, we have determined the distribution of TREK-1 in the brain and spinal cord of adult rats. Specificity of the antiserum was tested using a TREK-1-transfected cell line and confirmed with c-myc-tagged TREK-1. In thin tissue sections, immunoreactivity was widespread throughout the rat brain and spinal cord. TREK-1-like signals were observed in the cerebral cortex, basal ganglia, hippocampus, and various other subcortical nuclei in the hypothalamus, thalamus, mesencephalon and rhombencephalon. TREK-1 labelling appeared to be over the entire cell membrane, including the cell body and processes. Cells that morphologically resembled projection neurones and interneurones but not glial cells were labelled. As interneurones and known GABAergic projection neurones were the predominant population labelled, we investigated the possibility that TREK-1 is expressed in GABA-containing neurones using a specific anti-GABA antiserum. Expression of TREK-1 in GABA-containing neurones was observed in a number of areas, including the isocortex, hippocampus and thalamus. Thus, TREK-1 expression defines a unique and specific subset of interneurones and principal cells. These studies indicate a widespread distribution of TREK-1 potassium channels throughout the rat brain and spinal cord, with expression in a number of areas being demonstrated to be present on GABA-containing neurones.
In vitro studies have shown that the Alzheimer's disease-related presenilin-1 protein can mediate Notch-1 receptor cleavage during signalling. In the present study, we compared the distribution of presenilin-1 and Notch-1 receptor immunoreactivities in human embryonic CNS tissue during the first trimester of development. Our aim was to gain insight into whether these proteins are likely to interact functionally during human fetal brain development. CNS material was obtained from routine abortions, cryosectioned and studied by means of immunohistochemistry with antibodies to presenilin-1 and Notch-1. At very early stages of embryonic development (four to five gestational weeks) intensive presenilin-1 immunoreactivity could be seen predominantly in neurites in the ventral horn of the spinal cord, where it overlapped with 200-kDa neurofilament immunoreactivity. Presenilin-1 immunoreactivity was also seen in neuroblasts of the ventricular zone of the tel- and mesencephalon, as well as of the brainstem. Notch-1 receptor appeared in neuronal and ependymal cells throughout the CNS. Seven- to eight-week CNS tissue showed similar patterns of presenilin-1 and Notch-1 receptor expression in the spinal cord and cerebral cortex as was seen at five weeks. Both proteins were localised in the neuroepithelial cell layer lining the ventricles, as well as in the cortical plate layer, where immunoreactivity was seen in the cell bodies. In addition, presenilin-1 immunoreactivity was seen in thin neurites in the subplate of the developing cortex. At 10 weeks, presenilin-1 immunoreactivity was reduced in the spinal cord. These results show that, although presenilin-1 and Notch-1 receptor are localised to the same differentiating cell populations in the human cerebral cortex, making a direct interaction possible, these proteins are otherwise confined to different neurons or neuronal compartments, suggesting a role for presenilin-1 during early CNS differentiation that does not involve Notch-1 receptor processing. Double staining for presenilin-1 in the endoplasmic reticulum and presenilin-1 in the Golgi showed overlap to some extent in investigated CNS regions, but not in neurites. This suggests that presenilin-1 function during neurogenesis is not exclusively correlated to protein processing within the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi, but that presenilin-1 may also be involved in other processes, such as axonal and dendritic outgrowth or synaptic formation. In summary, our findings provide supportive evidence that the presenilin-1 protein is involved in the development and maturation of the human fetal CNS. The presence of presenilin-1 immunoreactivity in both the cell bodies and neurites of developing neurons strongly suggests divergent mechanisms of function for presenilin-1 during human brain development. These may include interactions with any of the Notch receptor proteins, as well as Notch-independent mechanisms.
This study was undertaken to investigate the dynamics of blood-brain barrier breakdown in an in vivo rat model of selective CNS vulnerability. 1,3-Dinitrobenzene was used to induce rapid glial degeneration in highly defined areas of the brainstem. Leakage of fluorescent dextran was used to demonstrate the breakdown of the blood-brain barrier, and antibodies to glial and neuronal specific proteins to assess the accompanying cell changes. Beginning 18 h after a toxic dose of dinitrobenzene and before loss of glial ensheathment, a sub-population of blood vessels became permeable to fluorescent dextrans below 500,000 mol. wt in size. By 24h most macroglial cells had been lost from within susceptible areas and vascular leakage had reached peak levels. Macrophage invasion was detected three days following dinitrobenzene. Vessels continued to leak up to four days after the lesion was formed, but by six days blood-brain barrier integrity was largely re-established. Multiple tracer injections over time demonstrated that a single sub-population of vessels was leaking during the experimental period. From these findings we conclude that blood-brain barrier breakdown in this model system is highly selective, graded in extent and molecular weight specificity and not a direct consequence of astrocyte degeneration or microglial activation. This system could be useful in modeling human CNS pathological processes with a vascular component and for understanding in vivo glial blood-brain barrier interactions.
We report a novel gene transfer system using electroporation. We used this technique to introduce a marker gene plasmid containing enhanced green fluorescent protein into mouse brains at embryonic day 12-17 without removing the embryos from the uterus. The embryos were allowed to continue to develop in utero, and more than 80% were born normally expressing the exogenous gene. Enhanced green fluorescent protein driven by the cytomegalovirus promoter was strongly expressed in the ventricular zone, radial fibers and migrating neuroblasts, but not in mature neurons, suggesting that the cytomegalovirus promoter is silenced after the cells differentiate into mature neurons. Since there is still no convenient way of visualizing the migrating neuroblasts, especially of distinguishing them from the surrounding mature neurons in the cortical plate, this system should provide a good tool for analysing neuronal migration. In the postnatal lateral cortex, neuroblasts migrated almost &quot;tangentially&quot; along the obliquely running &quot;radial&quot; fibers beneath the cortical plate, and after entering the cortical plate, turned towards the marginal zone and migrated radially. Neurons with primitive dendrites were observed only along the border between the marginal zone and the cortical plate, and never at other sites, such as in the middle of the cortical plate. These results imply that the neuroblasts do terminate migration and start differentiation to mature neurons when they encounter the marginal zone, as has long been suggested. By contrast, when elongation factor 1alpha promoter was used, prominent fluorescence allowed visualization of the entire mature neurons as well. The labeled neurons were observed to send axons to the contralateral cortex where they arborized extensively.Thus, this system is much easier and more efficient than virus-mediated gene transfer, and is useful for gain-of-function analysis of neural cell fate determination, migration, positioning and axon path-finding in mouse embryos.
In a variety of animal species, including primates, vocal communication is an essential part to establish and maintain social interactions, including the emotional bond between the newborn, its parents and siblings. The aim of this study in pups of the trumpet-tailed rat, Octodon degus, was to identify cortical and subcortical brain regions, which are involved in the perception of vocalizations uttered by the mother. In this species, which is characterized by an elaborated vocal repertoire, the (14C)-2-fluoro-deoxyglucose autoradiography was applied to measure region-specific metabolic activation in response to the presentation of a learned emotionally relevant acoustic stimulus, the maternal calls. Already at the age of eight days the precentral medial cortex, anterior cingulate cortex and the lateral thalamus could be identified by their enhanced metabolic activation in response to the presentation of the emotionally relevant maternal nursing calls, whereas other brain areas, such as the hippocampus and amygdala did not show stimulus-induced activation. Since in humans changes of activity patterns in relation to the emotional content of spoken language have been observed in similar brain regions, e.g. in the anterior cingulate cortex, Octodon degus may provide a suitable animal model to study the cellular and synaptic mechanisms underlying perception, production and processing of conspecific vocalizations.
The relationship between the genome and the evolution of the nervous system may differ between an animal like C. elegans with 302 neurons, and mammals with tens of billions of neurons. Here we report that a class of nonconserved potassium channels highly expanded in C. elegans may play a special role in the evolution of its nervous system. The C. elegans genome contains an extended gene family of potassium channels whose members fall into two evolutionary divergent classes. One class constitutes an ancient conserved &quot;set&quot; of K+ channels with orthologues in both humans and Drosophila and a second larger class made up of rapidly evolving genes unique to C. elegans. Chief among this second class are novel potassium channels having four transmembrane domains per subunit that function as regulated leak conductances to modulate cell electrical excitability. This inventory of novel potassium channels is far larger in C. elegans than in humans or Drosophila. We found that, unlike conserved channel genes, the majority of these genes are expressed in very few cells. We also identified DNA enhancer elements associated with these genes that direct gene expression to individual neurons. We conclude that C. elegans may maintain an exceptionally large inventory of these channels (as well as ligand-gated channels) as an adaptive mechanism to &quot;fine tune&quot; individual neurons, making the most of its limited circuitry.
While there have been numerous theoretical studies indicating that electrotonic coupling via gap junctions interacts with the intrinsic characteristics of the coupled neurons to modify their electrical behaviour, little experimental evidence has been provided in coupled mammalian neurons. Using an artificial electrotonic junction, two distant uncoupled neurons were coupled through the computer, and the coupling conductance was varied. Tonically firing CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons reduced their spike firing frequency when coupled to thalamic or pyramidal cells, showing that the electrical coupling can be considered as a low-pass filter. The strength of coupling needed to entrain spike bursts of pyramidal neurons was considerably lower than the coupling needed to synchronize two neurons with different cellular characteristics (thalamic and pyramidal cells). Coupling promoted burst firing in a non-bursting cell if it was coupled to a spontaneously bursting neuron. These results support modelling studies that indicate a role for gap-junctional coupling in the synchronization of neuronal firing and the expression of low-frequency bursting.
The developing axon is believed to navigate towards its target tissue in response to a concentration gradient of neurotrophic factors, among other diffusible and surface-bound stimuli. However, the minimum concentration gradient required for guidance over the maximum distance is still unknown, largely because well-defined systems have not been utilized to address this question. In this study, a linear concentration gradient of nerve growth factor was achieved across a 5-mm agarose membrane that separated a nerve growth factor source compartment from a sink compartment. The concentrations in both compartments were maintained constant (and different). Both concentration and concentration gradient were well defined across the membrane, allowing us to study the relative importance of concentration gradient vs concentration for neurite guidance. The orientation of PC12 cell neurites was studied in response to a series of nerve growth factor concentration gradients in vitro. For effective guidance of PC12 cell neurite outgrowth, a minimum concentration gradient of 133ng/ml per mm was required, below which guidance was ineffective. Higher gradients were effective for guidance yet were limited by the concentration of nerve growth factor in the source compartment. At a nerve growth factor concentration of 995ng/ml, the PC12 cells' receptors were saturated, thereby limiting the maximum effective distance for guidance to less than 7.5mm in response to a diffusible nerve growth factor cue. This distance exceeds the 0.5-2mm distance observed by others for effective neurite guidance. Using this model system, we propose that the minimum concentration gradient can be defined for other cells and growth factors. Ultimately, it is anticipated that such concentration gradients could be included in a device to promote regeneration.
We report the cloning of the zebrafish beta subunit of the glycine receptor and compare the anatomical distribution of three glycine receptor subunit constituents in adult zebrafish brain (alphaZ1, alphaZ2 and betaZ) to the expression pattern of homologous receptor subunits (alpha1, alpha2 and beta) in the mammalian adult CNS. Non-radioactive hybridization was used to map the distribution of the alphaZ1, alphaZ2 and betaZ glycine receptor subunit messenger RNAs in the adult zebrafish brain. The anterior-posterior expression gradient found in adult zebrafish brain was similar to that reported in mammalian CNS. However, the glycine receptor transcripts, notably the alphaZ1 subunit, were more widely distributed in the anterior regions of the zebrafish than in the adult mammalian brain. The isoform-specific distribution pattern was less regionalized in zebrafish than in the rat mammalian CNS. Nevertheless, there was some regionalization of alphaZ1, alphaZ2 and betaZ transcripts in the diencephalic and mesencephalic nuclei where different sensory and motor centers express either alphaZ1/betaZ or alphaZ2 subunits. In contrast to the widespread distribution of the beta subunit in adult mammalian brain, alphaZ2 messenger RNA presented the widest expression territory of all three glycine receptor subunits tested. alphaZ2 messenger RNA was expressed in the absence of alphaZ1 and betaZ messenger RNA in the outer nuclear layer of the retina, the inferior olive and the raphe of the medulla oblongata, as well as in the nucleus of Cajal of the medulla spinalis. In contrast, an identified central neuron of the reticular formation, the Mauthner cell, expresses all three glycine receptor subunits (alphaZ1, alphaZ2 and betaZ). This report extends the already described glycine receptor expression in the vertebrate CNS and confirms the importance of glycine-mediated inhibition in spinal cord and brainstem.
The complementary DNA for a novel alpha subunit of the glycine receptor, alphaZ2, was isolated from a zebrafish adult brain library. The molecular characteristics, phylogenetic relationships and messenger RNA length of this alphaZ2 subunit show it to be an alpha2-type glycine receptor subunit isoform. The leader peptide however, diverges from those of known glycine receptor alpha isoforms. Recombinantly expressed in Xenopus oocytes, alphaZ2 formed functional glycine receptor channels. These homomeric channels were activated by glycine and taurine, with apparent affinities similar to those reported for zebrafish alphaZ1 glycine receptor, and were also effectively antagonized by nanomolar concentrations of strychnine. However, during prolonged applications of agonists, ionic currents of alphaZ2 receptor channels declined to a much lower steady-state level than those of alphaZ1, indicating different desensitization properties. Analysis of messenger RNA revealed that alphaZ2 is specifically expressed in adult brain tissue and present in both adult and embryonic zebrafish. This report contributes to the characterization of the diversity of glycine receptor isoforms in vertebrates.
Orexins-A and -B are neuropeptides derived from a single precursor prepro-orexin. The mature peptides are mainly expressed in the lateral hypothalamic and perifornical areas. The orexins have been implicated in the control of arousal and appear to be important messengers in the regulation of food intake. Two receptors for orexins have been characterised so far: orexin-1 and -2 receptors. To gain a further understanding of the biology of orexins, we studied the distribution of the orexin-1 receptor messenger RNA and protein in the rat nervous system. We first assessed the expression profile of the orexin-1 receptor gene (ox-r1) in different regions by using quantitative reverse transcription followed by polymerase chain reaction. Using immunohistochemical techniques, we investigated the distribution of orexin-1 receptor protein in the rat brain using a rabbit affinity-purified polyclonal antiserum raised against an N-terminal peptide. The orexin-1 receptor was widely and strongly expressed in the brain. Thus, immunosignals were observed in the cerebral cortex, basal ganglia, hippocampal formation, and various other subcortical nuclei in the hypothalamus, thalamus, midbrain and reticular formation. In particular, robust immunosignals were present in many hypothalamic and thalamic nuclei, as well as in the locus coeruleus. The distribution of the receptor protein was generally in agreement with the distribution of the receptor messenger RNA in the brain as reported previously by others and confirmed in the present study. In addition, we present in situ hybridisation and immunohistochemical data showing the presence of orexin-1 receptor messenger RNA and protein in the spinal cord and the dorsal root ganglia. Finally, due to the shared anatomical and functional similarities between orexins and melanin-concentrating hormone, we present a comparison between the neuroanatomical distribution of the orexin-1 receptor and melanin-concentrating hormone receptor protein-like immunoreactivities in the rat central nervous system, and discuss some functional implications. In conclusion, our neuroanatomical data are consistent with the biological effects of orexins on food intake and regulation of arousal. In addition, the data suggest other physiological roles for orexins mediated through the orexin-1 receptor.
Prostaglandin E(2) exerts diverse physiological actions in the central nervous system with unknown mechanisms. We have reported the immunohistochemical localization of the EP3 receptor, one of the prostaglandin E receptor subtypes, in various brain regions including many monoaminergic nuclei. In the present study, a double immunofluorescence technique with an antibody to EP3 receptor and antibodies to markers for monoamine neurons was employed to examine the expression of the receptor in serotonin and catecholamine neurons, and to reveal the distribution of the receptor-expressing monoamine neurons in the rat brain. Almost all serotonergic cells in the medulla oblongata (B1-B4) exhibited EP3 receptor-like immunoreactivity, whereas mesencephalic and pontine serotonergic cell groups (B5-B9) contained relatively small populations of EP3 receptor-immunoreactive cells. In the catecholaminergic cell groups, many of the noradrenergic A7 cells in the subcoeruleus nucleus showed immunoreactivity for the receptor. The locus coeruleus exhibited EP3 receptor-like immunoreactivity densely in the neuropil and occasionally in neuronal cell bodies, all of which were immunopositive for dopamine beta-hydroxylase, as observed by confocal laser microscopy. Many of the other noradrenergic and adrenergic cell groups contained small populations of EP3 receptor-like immunoreactive cells. In contrast, no EP3 receptor-like immunoreactivity was detected in the noradrenergic A2 and A4, the adrenergic C2, and all the dopaminergic cell groups. The expression of EP3 receptor by most of the serotonergic, noradrenergic and adrenergic cell groups suggests that prostaglandin E(2) modulates many physiological processes mediated by widely distributed monoaminergic projections through activation of the EP3 receptor on the monoaminergic neurons; for instance, it may modulate nociceptive and autonomic processes by affecting the descending serotonergic pathway from the raphe magnus nucleus to the spinal cord.
The present studies were undertaken to characterize the regional and temporal patterns of neurotrophin messenger RNA and protein levels for beta-nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 in the developing CNS. We have examined the levels of these neurotrophin messenger RNAs with ribonuclease protection assays and corresponding protein levels with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays in the developing Long-Evans rat hippocampus, neocortex and cerebellum on postnatal days 1, 7, 14, 21, and 92. In addition, immunohistochemistry was used to localize the neurotrophins in these developing brain regions. Results indicated that in neocortex and hippocampus, messenger RNA for both nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor increased in an age-dependent manner, reaching a plateau by postnatal day 14. In the neocortex, nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein levels both peaked at postnatal day 14. In hippocampus, nerve growth factor protein peaked at postnatal day 7 while brain-derived neurotrophic factor peaked at postnatal day 14. In cerebellum, nerve growth factor messenger RNA levels were flat, while nerve growth factor protein peaked at postnatal day 7. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA increased in an age-dependent manner while the pattern for its protein levels was mixed. Neurotrophin-3 messeger RNA levels increased in an age-dependent manner in hippocampus, peaked at postnatal day14 in cerebellum, and no changes occurred in neocortex. Neurotrophin-3 protein was at its peak at postnatal day 1 and thereafter decreased at other postnatal days in all three brain regions. Results of neurotrophin immunohistochemistry often paralleled and complemented enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay data, demonstrating specific cell groups containing neurotrophin proteins in these regions. Within each region, patterns with regard to messenger RNA and respective protein levels for each neurotrophin were unique. No consistent relationship between patterns of neurotrophin messenger RNAs and their cognate proteins was observed between regions. The different regional patterns for neurotrophin messengerRNA and protein levels in each brain region indicate that messenger RNA studies of neurotrophin messenger RNA must be augmented by protein determination to fully characterize spatial and temporal neurotrophin distribution.
Internalization of spinal cord neurokinin-1 receptors following noxious stimulation provides a reliable measure of tachykinin signaling. In the present study, we examined the contribution of GABAergic mechanisms to the control of nociceptor processing involving tachykinins. Spinal administration of the GABA(B) receptor agonist R(+)-baclofen in the rat, at antinociceptive doses, significantly reduced the magnitude of neurokinin-1 receptor internalization in neurons of lamina I in response to acute noxious mechanical or thermal stimulation. By contrast, administration of even high doses of the GABA(A) receptor agonists, muscimol or isoguvacine, were without effect. CGP55845, a selective GABA(B) receptor antagonist, completely blocked the effects of baclofen, but failed to increase the incidence of internalization when administered alone. These results provide evidence for a presynaptic control of nociceptive primary afferent neurons by GABA(B) but not GABA(A) receptors in the superficial laminae of the spinal cord, limiting tachykinin release. Because CGP5584 alone did not increase the magnitude of neurokinin-1 receptor internalization observed following noxious stimulation, there appears to be little endogenous activation of GABA(B) receptors on tachykinin-releasing nociceptors under acute stimulus conditions. The contribution of pre- and postsynaptic regulatory mechanisms to GABA(B) receptor-mediated antinociception was also investigated by comparing the effect of baclofen on Fos expression evoked by noxious stimulation to that induced by intrathecal injection of substance P. In both instances, baclofen reduced Fos expression not only in neurons that express the neurokinin-1 receptor, but also in neurons that do not. We conclude that baclofen acts at presynaptic sites to reduce transmitter release from small-diameter nociceptive afferents. Presynaptic actions on non-tachykinin-containing nociceptors could similarly account for the reduction by baclofen of noxious stimulus-induced Fos expression in neurokinin-1 receptor-negative neurons. However, the inhibition of Fos expression induced by exogenous substance P indicates that actions at sites postsynaptic to tachykinin- and/or non-tachykinin-containing primary afferent terminals must also contribute to the antinociceptive actions of GABA(B) receptor agonists.
It is not known why expression of a protein with an expanded polyglutamine region is pathogenic in spinocerebellar ataxia, Huntington's disease and several other neurodegenerative diseases. Dietary supplementation with creatine improves survival and motor performance and delays neuronal atrophy in the R6/2 transgenic mouse model of Huntington's disease. These effects may be due to improved energy and calcium homeostasis, enhanced presynaptic glutamate uptake, or protection of mitochondria from the mitochondrial permeability transition. We tested the effects of a 2% creatine-supplemented diet and treatment with taurine-conjugated ursodeoxycholic acid, a bile constituent that can inhibit the mitochondrial permeability transition, on ataxia and Purkinje cell survival in a transgenic model of spinocerebellar ataxia type 1. After 24 weeks, transgenic mice on the 2% creatine diet had cerebellar phosphocreatine levels that were 72.5% of wildtype controls, compared to 26.8% in transgenic mice fed a control diet. The creatine diet resulted in maintenance of Purkinje cell numbers in these transgenic mice at levels comparable to wildtype controls, while transgenic mice fed a control diet lost over 25% of their Purkinje cell population. Nevertheless, the ataxic phenotype was neither improved nor delayed. Repeated s.c. ursodeoxycholic acid injections markedly elevated ursodeoxycholic acid levels in the brain without adverse effects, but provided no improvement in phenotype or cell survival in spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 mice. These results demonstrate that preserving neurons from degeneration is insufficient to prevent a behavioral phenotype in this transgenic model of polyglutamine disease. In addition, we suggest that the means by which creatine mitigates against the neurodegenerative effects of an ataxin-1 protein containing an expanded polyglutamine region is through mechanisms other than stabilization of mitochondrial membranes.
Both age and exercise training are associated with tissue specific alterations in the catecholaminergic system. We examined the effect of short-term exercise training on tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase gene expression in adrenals and specific brain regions with aging. In addition, we examined activator protein-1 and cyclic AMP response element transcription factor binding activity in the adrenal medulla. Male, six- and 24-month-old F-344 rats were exercised by treadmill running for five consecutive days. One group was killed immediately and a second group was killed 2h after the last training session. Exercise significantly elevated tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA equally in adrenals of both young and old rats. Training had no effect on dopamine beta-hydroxylase messenger RNA in adrenals of young, but levels were elevated in old rats. Binding activities of both activator protein-1 and cyclic AMP response element binding protein were diminished with age in the adrenal medulla. Exercise training had no significant effect on the binding activity of cyclic AMP response element binding protein in either young or old animals, whereas activator protein-1 binding activity increased equally in young and old animals. Exercise training revealed divergent changes in tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA in brain catecholaminergic neurons. In the locus coeruleus and the ventral tegmental areas, training elevated tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels only in young rats. In the substantia nigra, there was no change in young, but a 45% increase in tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA in old rats. In the ventral tegmental area, training increased tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression 80% in young but not in old rats. These results indicate that short-term exercise training increases tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels in young animals in the adrenals, the locus coeruleus and the ventral tegmental area. The responses for exercise training of aged animals differed from the young in brain noradrenergic and dopaminergic nuclei, especially in the substantia nigra, and to some extent in the locus coeruleus and the ventral tegmental area.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor and fibroblast growth factor 2, and their respective binding sites, tyrosine kinase B receptor and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2, are known to regulate neurite outgrowth and antioxidant enzyme activity. Several studies suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor and fibroblast growth factor are contained in the inferior colliculus. Previous work in our laboratories revealed dendritic and synaptic losses in the inferior colliculus of aged Fischer-344 rats, along with coincident increases in lipid peroxidation possibly linked to a decrease in activity of antioxidant enzymes. In an effort to identify potential causal mechanisms underlying age-related synaptic and dendritic losses that occur in the inferior colliculus, the present study attempted to determine if inferior colliculus levels of tyrosine kinase B receptor and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 expression are altered with age. Immunocytochemistry was performed in the inferior colliculus, hippocampus and cerebellum of 3-month-old F344 rats to study distributions of the full-length and truncated isoforms of tyrosine kinase B receptor, and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2. The latter two brain regions served as positive controls. For all three antigens, immunolabeling was localized primarily in somata and proximal dendrites in all subdivisions of the inferior colliculus, and in the dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn of the hippocampus. In the cerebellum, the somata and dendrites of the Purkinje cells were also immunolabeled.A significant reduction in levels of the full-length form of tyrosine kinase B receptor in 18- and 25-month-old rats (respectively, approximately 20% and 30% relative to 3-month-olds) was revealed using western blot analyses. Inferior colliculus and hippocampal levels of the truncated form were modestly decreased ( approximately 7%) as well in the two older age groups. In contrast, levels of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 in the inferior colliculus and hippocampus were elevated by approximately 35% in the two older age groups when compared to 3-month-olds. Changes in cerebellar levels of tyrosine kinase B receptor and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2, while similar to those in the inferior colliculus and hippocampus among the age groups, did not achieve statistical significance in this study. These findings give rise to the possibility that age-related reductions in tyrosine kinase B receptor levels could be a causal factor in the degenerative changes observed in the inferior colliculus of aged animals, including mitochondrial damage and dendritic regression. The observed increases in fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 levels may be compensatory to the increased oxidative stress. The effectiveness of the fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 response is questionable given the damage that occurs in the inferior colliculus and hippocampus of aged animals. However, the deficits could worsen in the absence of an increase in fibroblast growth factor receptor 2.
There is increasing evidence that acetylcholinesterase is organised in a lattice-like fashion in the intermediate layers of the mammalian superior colliculus. In a recent study, we described this organisation in rat by showing that it comprises a well formed honeycomb-like lattice with about 100 cylindrical compartments or modules occupying both the intermediate collicular layers. Considering this enzyme domain as a reference marker for comparing the organisation of collicular input-output systems, the present study investigates whether the principal sensori-motor systems in intermediate layers also have honeycomb-like arrangements. In 33 animals, the distributions of afferents (visual from extrastriate cortex; somatic from the primary somatosensory cortex, the trigeminal nucleus and the cervical spinal cord) and efferents (cells of origin of the crossed descending bulbospinal tract and uncrossed pathway to the pontine gray, the ascending system to the medial dorsal thalamus) were examined in a tangential plane following applications of horseradish peroxidase-wheatgerm agglutinin conjugate (used as an anterograde and retrograde tracer). In 22 of the 33 rats, axonal tracing was made within single tangential sections also stained for cholinesterasic activity in order to compare the neuron profiles with the cholinesterasic lattice.The results show that these afferent and efferent systems are also organised in honeycomb-like networks. Moreover, those related to the cortical, trigeminal and some of the spinal afferents are aligned with the cholinesterasic lattice. Likewise most of colliculo-pontine, colliculo-bulbospinal and half of colliculo-diencephalic projecting cells also tend to be in spatial register with the enzyme lattice. This indicates that the honeycomb-like arrangement is a basic architectural plan in the superior colliculus for the organisation of both acetylcholinesterase and major sensori-motor systems for orientation.
The neuropeptide neurotensin and two classes of its receptors, the neurotensin receptor-1 and 2, are present in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the mammalian hypothalamus. The suprachiasmatic nucleus houses the mammalian central circadian pacemaker, but the effects of neurotensin on cellular activity in this circadian pacemaker are unknown. In this study, we examined the effects of neurotensin on the spontaneous discharge rate of rat SCN cells in an in vitro slice preparation. Neurotensin (1-10 microM) increased cell firing rate in approximately 50% of cells tested, while approximately 10% of suprachiasmatic cells tested showed a decrease in firing rate in response to neurotensin. These effects of neurotensin were not altered by the GABA receptor antagonist bicuculline (20 microM) or the glutamate receptor antagonists, D-aminophosphopentanoic acid (50 microM) and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (20 microM). The neurotensin receptor selective antagonists SR48692 and SR142948a (10 microM) failed to antagonise neurotensin responses in the majority of cells examined. Compounds that function as agonists selective for the neurotensin-receptor subtypes 1 and 2, JMV-510 and JMV-431 respectively, elicited neurotensin-like responses in approximately 90% of cells tested. Six out of seven cells tested responded to both JMV-510 and JMV-431. Neuropeptide Y (100nM) treatment of suprachiasmatic nucleus slices was found to elicit profound suppression of neuronal firing rate. Co-application of neurotensin with neuropeptide Y significantly (P&lt;0.05) reduced the duration of the response, as compared to that elicited with neuropeptide Y alone. Together, these results demonstrate for the first time the actions of neurotensin in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and raise the possibility that this neuropeptide may play a role in modulating circadian pacemaker function.
We investigated the role played by the parafascicular thalamostriatal pathway, one of the major excitatory inputs to the striatum, in the D-1 receptor induction of c-fos messenger RNA expression in the rat striatum. The full D-1 receptor agonist, SKF-82958 (0.05, 0.1, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg, s.c., 30 min), dose-dependently induced c-fos messenger RNA in naive rat striatum as determined by northern blot analysis. One day following electrolytic lesion of the parafascicular thalamostriatal nucleus, striatal c-fos signal by itself was not altered but the stimulated expression of c-fos was strongly decreased. Sections of sham-operated and acute-lesioned dorsal striata of vehicle- or SKF-82958-treated rats were processed for in situ hybridization histochemistry at the single-cell level with an RNA probe for c-fos. The basal expression of striatal c-fos was poorly detectable in sham and lesioned groups. Sections of dorsal striata from sham-operated rats treated with SKF-82958 showed two types of labeled neurons for c-fos: the lightly and the very densely labeled neurons which are few in number. Thalamic lesion strongly reduced SKF-82958 stimulated expression of c-fos RNA in both types of labeled cells. The frequency distribution of c-fos labeling per neuron in dorsal striata of lesioned rats treated with SKF-82958 was shifted to the left, and its median was lower than in the sham-operated striata treated with the D-1 receptor agonist. The results provide evidence that the excitatory projections from the parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus, thought to operate primarily through the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, exert a facilitatory control over D-1 receptor-induced c-fos gene expression specifically in the dorsal striatum.
The efficacy of exogenous levodopa (L-DOPA) is attributed to its conversion to dopamine by the enzyme aromatic L-amino-acid decarboxylase in striatal dopaminergic terminals. However, there is controversy about the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic and adverse effects of L-DOPA after almost all striatal dopaminergic afferents have disappeared (i.e. in the later stages of Parkinson's disease). After administration of 30mg/kg or 100mg/kg of L-DOPA, rats subjected to unilateral dopaminergic denervation showed intense contraversive rotation and a high density of Fos-immunoreactive nuclei throughout the denervated striatum, with no significant induction of Fos in the intact striatum. Injection of the central aromatic L-amino-acid decarboxylase inhibitor NSD-1015 30min before and 15min after the injection of L-DOPA suppressed the rotational behavior and the striatal induction of Fos. Comparison of results obtained in rats subjected to unilateral and bilateral dopaminergic denervation indicated that the presence of contralateral dopaminergic innervation does not significantly modulate the effects of L-DOPA on the denervated striatum. Serotonergic denervation led to slight and statistically non-significant decrease in the rotational behavior and Fos expression induced by high doses of L-DOPA (100mg/kg) in the dopamine-denervated striatum, but totally suppressed the rotational behavior and Fos expression induced by low doses of L-DOPA (30mg/kg). The present data indicate that the major effects observed after administration of exogenous L-DOPA are not due to a direct action of L-DOPA on dopamine receptors, or to extrastriatal release of dopamine, but to conversion of L-DOPA to dopamine by serotonergic terminals and probably some intrastriatal cells. Given that serotonergic neurons appear to play an important role in the action of L-DOPA in the later stages of Parkinson's disease, strategies targeting the serotonergic system should be considered for the treatment of Parkinson's disease and for combating undesirable side effects of L-DOPA therapy.
Estrogens can influence the survival, plasticity and function of many adult neurons. Many of these effects, such as neurite outgrowth and increased dendritic spine density, are mediated by changes in neuronal cytoskeletal architecture. Since neurofilament proteins play a key role in the maintenance and remodeling of the neuronal cytoskeleton, we postulated that changes in neurofilament light chain mRNA may parallel some of the alterations in neuronal architecture which follow bilateral ovariectomy. We measured neurofilament light chain mRNA levels using a ribonuclease protection assay at two time-points after ovariectomy in mature female rats. One week after ovariectomy, neurofilament light chain mRNA levels (corrected for glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase mRNA) did not differ from sham-operated animals in the five brain regions examined (hypothalamus, striatum, hippocampus, frontal cortex and occipital cortex). Four months after ovariectomy, neurofilament light chain mRNA levels were similarly unchanged in the hypothalamus and striatum. In contrast, statistically significant increases in neurofilament light chain mRNA expression were observed in the three regions receiving basal forebrain projections (hippocampus, frontal cortex and occipital cortex). In situ hybridization demonstrated increases in neurofilament light chain mRNA expression involving subpopulations of smaller medial septal neurons. There also appeared to be an increased number of larger septal neurons following long-term ovariectomy. We propose that atrophic changes involving basal forebrain projection fibers are followed by compensatory axonal growth by other 'intact' basal forebrain neurons. Increased neurofilament light chain mRNA expression and somatic hypertrophy in medial septal neurons may both be reflective of the need to sustain an axonal network which is larger and more complex. In contrast, increased neurofilament light chain mRNA expression observed in basal forebrain targets following long-term ovariectomy may be reflective of compensatory changes taking place in local neurons.
The frontal cortex is an important brain area for divided attention. Lesions of the lateral agranular frontal cortex in rats disrupt divided attention in a simultaneous temporal processing task. In the present study, the activity of lateral agranular neurons was examined while rats performed a simultaneous temporal processing procedure. Rats were trained to time two stimuli (a light and a tone), each associated with a different fixed interval. Simple trials, in which a single stimulus was presented, and compound trials, in which both stimuli were presented simultaneously, occurred randomly in a session. Rats were able to divide attention between the two stimuli, as assessed by the pattern of lever presses. Approximately 50% of lateral agranular neurons responded to at least one phase of the task with four response patterns observed. The activity of type 1 cells (60%) was altered to compound, but not simple, stimuli. Type 2 cells (10%) responded to both types of simple stimuli and to compound stimuli. Type 3 cells (27%) had changes in firing rate to one type of simple stimulus and to compound stimuli. Type 4 cells (3%) responded to one type of simple stimulus, but were unresponsive to all other stimuli. The large proportion of type 1 cells supports the hypothesis that the lateral agranular cortex is important in divided attention. Previous studies have suggested that the lateral agranular cortex in rats is equivalent to the primary motor cortex. If so, the results from the present study provide evidence that the lateral agranular cortex may have some cognitive functions, in addition to being part of the motor system.
The prefrontal cortex in rhesus monkeys is a heterogeneous region by structure, connections and function. Caudal medial and orbitofrontal cortices receive input from cortical and subcortical structures associated with emotions, autonomic function and long-term memory, while lateral prefrontal cortices are linked with structures associated with working memory. With the aid of neural tracers we investigated whether functionally distinct orbitofrontal, medial and lateral prefrontal cortices have specific or common connections with an ascending modulatory system, the basal forebrain. Ascending projections originated in the diagonal band and the basalis nuclei of the basal forebrain in regions demarcated by choline acetyltransferase. Although the origin of projections from the basal forebrain to lateral, medial and orbitofrontal cortices partially overlapped, projections showed a general topography. The posterior part of the nucleus basalis projected preferentially to lateral prefrontal areas while its rostrally adjacent sectors projected to medial and orbitofrontal cortices. The diagonal band nuclei projected to orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal areas. Cortical and subcortical structures that are interconnected appear to have a similar pattern of connections with the basal forebrain. In comparison to the ascending projections, the descending projections were specific, originating mostly in the posterior (limbic) component of medial and orbitofrontal cortices and terminating in the diagonal band nuclei and in the anterior part of the nucleus basalis. In addition, prefrontal limbic areas projected to two other systems of the basal forebrain, the ventral pallidum and the extended amygdala, delineated with the striatal-related markers dopamine, adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate regulated phosphoprotein of M(r) 32kDa, and the related phosphoprotein Inhibitor-1. These basal forebrain systems project to autonomic nuclei in the hypothalamus and brainstem. We interpret these results to indicate that lateral prefrontal areas, which have a role in working memory, receive input from, but do not issue feedback projections to the basal forebrain. In contrast, orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal areas, which have a role in emotions and long-term memory, have robust bidirectional connections with the basal forebrain. Moreover, orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal cortices target the ventral pallidum and the extended amygdala, through which high-order association areas may activate motor autonomic structures for the expression of emotions.
Analyses of scalp-recorded sleep spindles have demonstrated topographically distinct slow and fast spindle waves. In the present paper, the electrical activity in the brain corresponding to different types of sleep spindles was estimated by means of low-resolution electromagnetic tomography. In its new implementation, this method is based on realistic head geometry and solution space is restricted to the cortical gray matter and hippocampus. In multichannel all-night electroencephalographic recordings, 10-20 artifact-free 1.25-s epochs with frontally, parietally and approximately equally distributed spindles were marked visually in 10 normal healthy subjects aged 20-35years. As a control condition, artifact-free non-spindle epochs 1-3s before or after the corresponding spindle episodes were marked. Low-resolution electromagnetic tomography demonstrated, independent of the scalp distribution, a distributed spindle source in the prefrontal cortex (Brodmann areas 9 and 10), oscillating with a frequency below 13Hz, and in the precuneus (Brodmann area 7), oscillating with a frequency above 13Hz. In extremely rare cases only the prefrontal or the parietal source was active. Brodmann areas 9 and 10 have principal connections to the dorsomedial thalamic nucleus; Brodmann area 7 is connected to the lateroposterior, laterodorsal and rostral intralaminar centrolateral thalamic nuclei. Thus, the localized cortical brain regions are directly connected with adjacent parts of the dorsal thalamus, where sleep spindles are generated. The results demonstrated simultaneously active cortical spindle sources which differed in frequency by approximately 2Hz and were located in brain regions known to be critically involved in the processing of sensory input, which is in line with the assumed functional role of sleep spindles.
In vivo recordings from Mauthner cells in adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) and goldfish (Carassius auratus) preparations with potassium chloride filled electrodes revealed a new class of long-lasting synaptic events in these cells. Their decay time constant ranged from 20 to 80ms, which is about 20 times longer than that of previously identified fast glycinergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in this neuron. The average time to peak of these slow events ranged from 1 to 6ms. We demonstrated that they are also inhibitory since (i) they were resistant to antagonists of the excitatory glutamatergic receptors; (ii) their amplitude was increased following chloride loading of the Mauthner cell; (iii) their reversal potential was the same as that of fast, glycinergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials; and (iv) they produced an inhibitory shunt of the cell's membrane resistance. Furthermore, as with the fast inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, the decay time of the slow events is voltage dependent, increasing when the Mauthner cell is depolarized. However, these inhibitory postsynaptic potentials had a different pharmacological profile to the fast glycinergic ones. That is, they persisted in the presence of strychnine at doses that abolished the fast ones and they were more sensitive to bicuculline. These data are compatible with the notion that these inhibitory postsynaptic potentials are mediated by activation of a different inhibitory receptor type, and may be GABAergic. In addition, the decay time constant of the fast inhibitory postsynaptic current was shorter than the first of the two components that contribute to the bi-exponential decay reported previously for miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents in Mauthner cells of larval zebrafish. This suggests developmental modifications and/or a switch in the assembly of glycine receptor subtypes. While amplitude distributions of the fast miniature inhibitory postsynaptic potentials recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin generally could fit with a single Gaussian function, the amplitude histograms of slow miniature events were skewed, often with multiple nearly equally spaced peaks, consistent with the synchronous release of several quantal units. These previously undescribed slow unitary inhibitory postsynaptic potentials contribute to inhibitory synaptic noise recorded in the Mauthner cells. Specifically, autocorrelation analysis revealed gamma-like rhythms (30-80Hz) in each of two phases, characterized as &quot;noisy&quot; and &quot;quiet&quot;, and dominated by the fast and slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, respectively. The major frequencies of these two states were significantly different (i.e. around 90 and 40Hz, respectively), suggesting that the fast and slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials are derived from different inhibitory networks. Chloride-filled Mauthner cells gradually hyperpolarized in the presence of tetrodotoxin, reflecting the effect of ongoing activity in the interneurons that produce the slow events. We conclude that this new class of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials contributes to the tonic inhibition which controls the Mauthner cell's excitability. In physiological conditions, this regulatory influence is expressed as a continuous shunt of this neuron's input resistance and responsiveness to sensory inputs.
A novel gene named Helix command-specific 2 (HCS2) was shown to be expressed predominantly in four giant parietal interneurons involved in withdrawal behavior of the terrestrial snail Helix lucorum L. and several single neurons in other ganglia. Decrease in spontaneous electrophysiological activity of neurons in the isolated CNS by 24h incubation in saline with elevated Mg(2+) concentration significantly decreased the number of HCS2-expressing neurons. Five short-term serotonin applications (each of 10microM), during a 24h incubation of the nervous system in saline induced expression of the HCS2 gene in many cells in cerebral, parietal, pleural and pedal ganglia. Dopamine applications under similar conditions were not effective. Application of anisomycin or cycloheximide, known to block protein synthesis, did not prevent the induction of HCS2 expression under serotonin influence. Skin injury elicited a significant increase in the number of HCS2-expressing cells 24h later in pleural and cerebral ganglia. Incubation of the isolated nervous system preparations for three days in culture medium elicited close to a maximum increase in number of HCS2-expressing cells. Elevation of the normal Mg(2+) concentration in the culture medium significantly decreased the number of cells demonstrating HCS2 expression. Application of the cAMP activator forskolin (10microM) increased the expression under Mg(2+), indicating that cAMP was involved in the up-regulation of HCS2. Application of thapsigargin (10microM), known to release Ca(2+) from intracellular stores, was also effective in increasing expression, suggesting participation of Ca(2+) in regulation of HCS2 expression. Cellular groups expressing the HCS2 gene under different conditions seem to be functionally related since it was demonstrated earlier that some neurons constituting these clusters are involved in the withdrawal behavior and the response of the organism to stress stimuli. From these results we suggest that the HCS2 pattern of expression can be down-regulated by a decrease in synaptic activity in the nervous system, and up-regulated by external noxious inputs, as well as the application of neurotransmitters and second messengers known to be involved in the withdrawal behavior and maintenance of isolated ganglia in culture medium. When up-regulated, the HCS2 expression appears, at least in part in neurons, to be involved in the withdrawal behavior.
Segregation of ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors is an important mechanism for determining the functionality of the nervous system. In the case of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, electrophysiological and anatomical studies have demonstrated that these receptors can be located at the somatodendritic and the axon terminal portions of neurons. Functionally, somatodendritic nicotinic receptors mediate fast excitatory transmission and possibly regulate other cell functions, while presynaptic nicotinic receptors enhance the release of neurotransmitters from axon terminals. Neurons in the mesencephalic lateral spiriform nucleus of the chick do not appear to restrict the localization of nicotinic receptors to specific membrane compartments, since receptors containing alpha5 and/or beta2 subunits are found both on the cell bodies and on the axonal projections of these neurons [Torrao A. S. et al. (1996) Brain Res. 743, 154-161]. We report here that, in contrast to lateral spiriform neurons, neurons in the nucleus semilunaris do appear to compartmentalize nicotinic receptors. The cholinergic nucleus semilunaris neurons express a high density of alpha7-containing nicotinic receptors on their somas [Britto L. R. G. et al. (1992) J. comp. Neurol. 317, 325-340]. However, when we examined the projections of these neurons in the lateral spiriform nucleus, we found no evidence for expression of alpha7-containing receptors on the cholinergic fibers from nucleus semilunaris neurons. Furthermore, patch-clamp electrophysiological recording from lateral spiriform neurons indicated an absence of presynaptic alpha7-containing nicotinic receptors capable of modulating the release of acetylcholine. We conclude that neurons are capable of segregating alpha7-containing nicotinic receptors to specific areas of their plasma membrane. Such targeting of nicotinic receptors would play an important role in determining their functional role in neurons.
The expression of interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor has previously been shown to be up-regulated in the spinal cord of several rat mononeuropathy models. This present study was undertaken to determine whether blocking the action of central interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor attenuates mechanical allodynia in a gender-specific manner in a rodent L5 spinal nerve transection model of neuropathic pain, and whether this inhibition occurs via down-regulation of the central cytokine cascade or blockade of glial activation. Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist or soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor was administered intrathecally via lumbar puncture to male Holtzman rats in a preventative pain strategy, in which therapy was initiated 1h prior to surgery. Administration of soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor attenuated mechanical allodynia, while interleukin-1 receptor antagonist alone was unable to decrease allodynia. Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist in combination with soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor, administered to both male and female rats in a preventative pain strategy, significantly reduced mechanical allodynia in a dose-dependent manner (P&lt;0.01). The magnitude of attenuation in allodynia was similar in both males and females. Immunohistochemistry on L5 spinal cord revealed similar astrocytic and microglial activation regardless of treatment. At days 3 and 7 post-transection, animals receiving daily interleukin-1 receptor antagonist in combination with soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor exhibited significantly less interleukin-6, but not interleukin-1beta, in the L5 spinal cord compared to vehicle-treated animals. In an existing pain paradigm, in which treatment was initiated on day 7 post-transection, interleukin-1 receptor antagonist in combination with soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor attenuated mechanical allodynia (P&lt;0.05) in male rats. These findings further support a role for central interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor in the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain through induction of a proinflammatory cytokine cascade.
The present study was designed to elucidate the spinal interneuronal mechanisms of motor inhibition evoked by stimulating the medullary reticular formation. Two questions were addressed. First, whether there is a parallel motor inhibition to motoneurons and to interneurons in reflex pathways. Second, whether the inhibition is mediated by interneurons interposed in known reflex pathways. We recorded the intracellular activity of hindlimb motoneurons in decerebrate cats and examined the effects of medullary stimulation on these neurons and on interneuronal transmission in reflex pathways to them. Stimuli (three pulses at 10-60microA and 1-10ms intervals) delivered to the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in alpha-motoneurons (n=147) and gamma-motoneurons (n=5) with both early and late latencies. The early inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were observed in 66.4% of the motoneurons and had a latency of 4.0-5.5ms with a segmental delay of more than 1.4ms. The late inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were observed in 98.0% of the motoneurons and had a latency of 30-35ms, with a peak latency of 50-60ms. Both types of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were evoked through fibers descending in the ventrolateral quadrant. The inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were not influenced by recurrent inhibitory pathways, but both types were greatly attenuated by volleys in flexor reflex afferents. Conditioning medullary stimulation, which was subthreshold to evoke inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in the motoneurons, neither evoked primary afferent depolarization of dorsal roots nor reduced the input resistance of the motoneurons. However, the conditioning stimulation often facilitated non-reciprocal group I inhibitory pathways (Ib inhibitory pathways) to the motoneurons in early (&lt;20ms) and late (30-80ms) periods. In contrast, it attenuated test postsynaptic potentials evoked through reciprocal Ia inhibitory pathways, and excitatory and inhibitory pathways from flexor reflex afferent and recurrent inhibitory pathways. The inhibitory effects were observed in both early and late periods. The present results provide new information about a parallel inhibitory process from the medullary reticular formation that produces a generalized motor inhibition by acting on alpha- and gamma-motoneurons, and on interneurons in reflex pathways. Interneurons receiving inhibition from flexor reflex afferents and a group of Ib interneurons may mediate the inhibitory effects upon motoneurons.
Prolonged muscle denervation results in poor functional recovery after nerve repair. The possible protective effect of temporary sensory innervation of denervated muscle, prior to motor nerve repair, has been examined in the rat. Soleus and gastrocnemius muscles were denervated by cutting the tibial nerve, and the peroneal nerve was then sutured to the transected distal tibial nerve stump either immediately or after two, four or six months. In half of the animals with delayed repair, the saphenous (sensory) nerve was temporarily attached to the distal nerve stump. Muscles were evaluated three months after the peroneal-to-tibial union, and were compared with each other, with unoperated control muscles and with untreated denervated muscles. After four to six months of sensory &quot;protection&quot;, gastrocnemius muscles weighed significantly more than unprotected muscles, and both gastrocnemius and soleus muscles exhibited better preservation of their structure, with less fiber atrophy and connective tissue hyperplasia. The maximum compound action potentials were significantly larger in gastrocnemius and soleus muscles following sensory protection, irrespective of the delay in motor nerve union. Isometric force, although less than in control animals and in those with immediate nerve repair, remained reasonably constant after sensory protection, while in unprotected muscles there was a progressive and significant decline as the period of denervation lengthened. We interpret these results as showing that, although incapable of forming excitable neuromuscular junctions, sensory nerves can nevertheless exert powerful trophic effects on denervated muscle fibers. We propose that these findings indicate a useful strategy for improving the outcome of peripheral nerve surgery.
Persistent nociceptive input increases neuronal excitability and induces a program of gene expression in the dorsal spinal cord. The alteration in gene expression commences with phosphorylation and induction of immediate early genes and proceeds to target genes. Only a few target genes have been identified as yet. The present report uses a polymerase chain reaction-based subtraction cloning procedure to obtain an &quot;anatomically focused&quot; complementary DNA library enriched in transcripts related to sensory spinal cord (rat dorsal horn minus ventral horn). A subset of clones from this library (n=158) was screened to verify dorsal horn enrichment and to identify those regulated by carrageenan-induced peripheral inflammation. Molecular classes which displayed enriched expression included a proto-oncogene not previously associated with sensory processes, two regulators of the Rho/Rac pathway which controls cell shape, and three genes involved in cytoskeletal regulation and scaffolding. Additional transcripts coded for proteins involved in intercellular communication or intracellular function. Within the set of 158 transcripts, one known and two unknown genes were induced by persistent noxious input. The known gene codes for the secreted cysteine proteinase inhibitor, cystatin C, suggesting that modulation of extracellular proteolytic activity occurs. Since it is secreted, cystatin C may also provide a cerebrospinal fluid bio-marker for persistent pain states. Using a combined anatomical and functional approach, we have extended the molecular repertoire of genes expressed and induced in second-order neurons or supporting glial cells in several new directions, with particular emphasis on regulation of cell morphology and plasma membrane dynamics. Some of these proteins reveal new pathways for information signaling in the sensory half of the spinal cord and require further research to understand their role in the adult spinal cord. The induced genes may provide new molecular targets for therapeutic development and provide new probes for investigating the dynamic state of cellular activity that occurs during persistent pain states.
Na(+)-independent K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporters function in the regulation of cell volume, control of CNS excitability and epithelial ion transport. Several K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter isoforms are expressed in the nervous system, and KCC3 in particular is expressed at significant levels in both the brain and spinal cord. The cellular localization of this transporter has, however, not been determined. In this study, we generated a polyclonal antibody against the KCC3 cotransporter in order to characterize and localize this protein in the brain. Western blot analysis of mouse kidney and brain demonstrated KCC3 proteins of different size, 150 and 170kDa, respectively; this disparity remained after deglycosylation. Northern blot confirmed the presence of two distinct forms of KCC3, KCC3a and KCC3b, generated by the inclusion of different first coding exons. KCC3a predominates in the brain, whereas KCC3b is more abundant in the kidney. Western blots with membrane protein from dissected mouse brain revealed abundant expression in all brain regions examined: the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, diencephalon, brainstem and cerebellum. The spinal cord showed the highest levels of KCC3 expression, whereas peripheral nerves did not contain immunoreactive KCC3 protein. Western blot analysis of whole brain from rats of various ages indicated increasing expression in the postnatal period, concurrent with CNS maturation and myelination. Immunofluorescence studies demonstrated strong signal in myelinated tracts of the spinal cord, consistent with individual myelin sheaths. Brain sections also showed white matter enhancement, but also cellular signal consistent with pyramidal neurons and Purkinje cells. The base of the choroid plexus epithelium was also strongly labeled. These data demonstrate the specificity and diversity of KCC3 expression in the mouse CNS.
Brain-specific cytoplasmic RNA 1 (BC1-RNA), a non-coding RNA polymerase III transcript, is a neuronal RNA that is specifically targeted to dendritic domains. It is co-localized with components of the dendritic protein synthetic machinery, and it has been suggested to operate in the regulation of local translation-related processes in postsynaptic microdomains, thus subserving long-term synaptic plasticity in neurons. To probe the relevance of BC1 expression in neuronal plasticity, we have analyzed the expression pattern of BC1 RNA in the rat nervous system. We found that BC1 RNA is expressed by a specific subset of neurons (but not by non-neuronal cells) in the central and peripheral nervous system of the adult rat. The BC1 labeling pattern indicates that the subcellular location of the RNA is typically postsynaptic which, depending on cell type, manifests itself in a predominantly somatic, somatodendritic, or dendritic location. Our results further show that BC1-expressing neurons typically co-express the messenger RNA for growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43). Such co-expression was observed in diverse brain areas, including the olfactory bulb, neocortex, and hippocampus, among others. While BC1 RNA was in many neuronal cell types detectable in distal dendritic domains, GAP-43 messenger RNA was typically more restricted to neuronal perikarya. In the mature nervous system, expression of GAP-43 has been described as an intrinsic determinant of predominantly presynaptic plasticity, while BC1 RNA has been implicated in postsynaptic plasticity. Co-expression of both RNAs, as reported here, thus identifies a distinct subset of neurons in the rat nervous system that exhibits both types of plasticity.
This study was performed using intracellular and multiunit extracellular recording techniques in order to characterize the role of nitric oxide in the afferent synaptic transmission of the vestibular system of the axolotl (Ambystoma tigrinum). Bath application of nitric oxide synthase inhibitors N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (0.01microM to 10microM) and N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (0.1microM to 1000microM) elicited a dose-dependent decrease in the basal discharge of the semicircular canal afferent fibers. N(G)-Nitro-L-arginine also diminished the response to mechanical stimuli. Moreover, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (1microM) produced a hyperpolarization associated with a decrease in the spike discharge and diminished the frequency of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials on afferent fibers recorded intracellularly. Nitric oxide donors were also tested: (i) S-nitroso-N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine (0.1microM to 100microM) increased the basal discharge and the response to mechanical stimuli. At the maximum effective concentration (100microM) this drug affected neither the amplitude nor the frequency of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials. However, it slightly depolarized the afferent neurons and decreased their input resistance. (ii) 3-Morpholino-sydnonimine hydrochloride did not significantly affect the basal discharge or the mechanically evoked peak response of afferent neurons at any of the concentrations used (1microM to 1000microM). However, after 10min of perfusion in the bath, 1microM and 10microM 3-morpholino-sydnonimine hydrochloride significantly modified the baseline of the mechanically evoked response, producing an increase in the mean spike discharge of the afferent fibers. These results indicate that nitric oxide may have a facilitatory role on the basal discharge and on the response to mechanical stimuli of the vestibular afferent fibers. Thus, nitric oxide probably participates in the sensory coding and adaptative changes of vestibular input in normal and pathological conditions.
The mammalian superior colliculus is an important subcortical integrator of sensorimotor behaviours. It is multi-layered, each layer containing specific neuronal types and possessing distinct input/output relationships. Here we use in situ hybridisation methods to map the distribution of seven neurotransmitters/neuromodulator systems in adult rat superior colliculus. Coronal sections were probed for preprotachykinin, cholecystokinin, somatostatin, proenkephalin, neuropeptide Y and the enzymes glutamic acid decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase, markers for GABA and acetylcholine respectively. Cells expressing glutamic acid decarboxylase messenger RNA were the most abundant, the highest density being found in the superficial layers. Many cells containing proprotachykinin messenger RNA were found in stratum zonale and the upper two-thirds of stratum griseum superficiale; cells were also located in deeper tectal laminae, particularly caudomedially. Most cholecystokinin messenger RNA expressing cells were located in the superficial layers with a prominent band in the middle third of stratum griseum superficiale. Cells expressing moderate to high levels of somatostatin messenger RNA formed a dense band in the lower third of stratum griseum superficiale/upper stratum opticum; two less distinct tiers of labelling were seen in deeper layers. These in situ hybridisation data reveal three distinct sub-laminae in rat stratum griseum superficiale. Cells expressing moderate to low levels of proenkephalin messenger RNA were located in lower stratum griseum superficiale/upper stratum opticum and intermediate laminae. A cluster of enkephalinergic cells was located medially in the deep tectal laminae. Expression of neuropeptide Y messenger RNA was relatively low and mostly confined to cells in stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum. No choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA was detected. This in situ analysis of seven different neurotransmitters/neuromodulator systems sheds new light on the neurochemical organisation of the rat superior colliculus. The data are related to what is known anatomically and physiologically about intrinsic and extrinsic tectal circuitry, and the potential involvement of different neuropeptides in these circuits is discussed. The work forms the basis for future developmental studies examining the effects of transplantation and visual deprivation/deafferentation on tectal neurochemistry and function.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus generates circadian rhythms which are synchronized to the environmental light-dark cycle via the retinohypothalamic tract. Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide and glutamate, two neurotransmitters co-stored in the retinohypothalamic tract of the rat, are able to phase shift the endogenous rhythm similar to light. The &quot;clock genes&quot; period1 (per1) and per2, which show circadian oscillation within the suprachiasmatic nucleus, have been attributed a role in light-induced resetting of the mammalian circadian clock due to rapid induction of the period (per) genes after light stimulation at night. Using a rat in vitro brain slice model, we demonstrate by quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry that the diurnal alteration in expression of both per genes in the suprachiasmatic nucleus was retained in vitro. In the model, we examined the effects of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide and glutamate alone and in combination on per1 and per2 gene expression at late subjective night (circadian time 19). Glutamate administration (10(-3)M) induced both per1 and per2 gene expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the brain slice within 1h. The per gene responses were similar to the induction of gene expression observed after light stimulation in vivo at late night. Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (10(-6)M) administered alone had no effect on the per gene expression, but when pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide in micromolar concentration was applied before glutamate, the neuropeptide blocked the glutamate-induced per1 and per2 gene expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. In contrast to the lack of effect of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide itself in micromolar concentration, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (10(-9)M) induced both per1 and per2 gene expression, an effect which was not augmented by co-application of glutamate. Our results provide the molecular substrate for the previous electrophysiological findings that pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide in high concentration is able to block glutamate-induced phase advance at late night, and that the peptide in low concentration can induce a phase advance similar to light and glutamate.
Galanin is widely distributed throughout the mammalian brain and has been implicated in the regulation of food intake, metabolism and reproduction-functions that are also thought to be under the control of leptin. To investigate the possible role of galanin in mediating the physiological effects of leptin in the mouse, we had three experimental objectives: first, to map the distribution of galanin messenger RNA-expressing cells in the brain of the mouse; second, to assess the effects of leptin on galanin gene expression in areas of the brain thought to be involved in the regulation of body weight and reproduction; and third, to determine whether galanin neurons in these regions express leptin receptor messenger RNA. We found the pattern of galanin messenger RNA expression in the mouse brain to be similar, but not identical, to that in the rat. Leptin treatment (2microg/g for six days) significantly reduced cellular levels of galanin messenger RNA in the hypothalamic periventricular nucleus of leptin-deficient obese (ob/ob) mice (P&lt;0.01) by approximately 30%; however, leptin did not appear to influence the expression of galanin in the arcuate or dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. Galanin-producing neurons in the arcuate, dorsomedial and periventricular nuclei did not appear to express leptin receptor messenger RNA (P&gt;0.05). These results demonstrate that galanin distribution patterns in the mouse brain are comparable to other species and, yet, possess unique features. In addition, galanin-expressing neurons in the hypothalamic periventricular nucleus are targets for regulation by leptin; however, the effect of leptin on galanin gene expression is likely to be mediated indirectly, perhaps through either proopiomelanocortin- or neuropeptide Y-expressing cells in the hypothalamus.
By using a double immunofluorescence method we have examined the distribution of cholinergic neurons expressing neuromedin K receptor (NK3) in the rat brain and spinal cord. The distribution of neuromedin K receptor-like immunoreactive neurons completely overlapped with that of choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in certain regions of the basal forebrain, e.g. the medial septal nucleus, nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca, magnocellular preoptic nucleus and substantia innominata. Partially overlapping distributions of neuromedin K receptor-like immunoreactive and choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons were found in the basal nucleus of Meynert, globus pallidus, ventral pallidum of the forebrain, tegmental nuclei of the pons and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Neurons showing both neuromedin K receptor-like and choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivities, however, were found predominantly in the medial septal nucleus, nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca and magnocellular preoptic nucleus of the basal forebrain: 66-80% of these choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons displayed neuromedin K receptor-like immunoreactivity. Neurons showing both neuromedin K receptor-like and choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivities were hardly detected in other aforementioned regions of the forebrain, brainstem and spinal cord. The present study has provided morphological evidence for direct physiological modulation or regulation of cholinergic neurons by tachykinins through the neuromedin K receptor in the basal forebrain of rats.
Striatal efferent neurons receive dopamine- and glutamate-utilizing afferents. Previous studies have shown that dopamine depletion increases gene expression in striatopallidal neurons and decreases it in striatonigral neurons. Previous work has also reported increased expression of the 2A subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in the dopamine-depleted striatum. The purpose of this study therefore was to determine whether dopamine depletion differentially alters the expression of the 2A subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in rat striatal neurons. 6-Hydroxydopamine (8microg/2microl) was infused unilaterally into the medial forebrain bundle. Rats were killed three weeks later. Double-label in situ hybridization was performed using an 35S-labeled ribonucleotide probe directed against the messenger RNA of the 2A subunit and a digoxigenin-labeled ribonucleotide probe directed towards preproenkephalin messenger RNA to mark striatopallidal neurons. Analysis of single-labeled film autoradiograms revealed a significant increase in the expression of 2A subunit messenger RNA in the ipsilateral, but not the contralateral, striatum of dopamine-depleted animals, consistent with other studies in the literature. Cellular analysis of 2A subunit expression indicated that as a consequence of dopamine depletion there is a significant increase in the expression of this subunit in both enkephalin-positive and enkephalin-negative neurons. From this study we conclude that dopamine depletion increases messenger RNA expression of the 2A subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in striatopallidal and presumed striatonigral (enkephalin-negative) neurons. Such alterations may affect the pharmacology and function of the resultant receptor, and thus alter glutamate transmission in both populations of medium spiny neurons after dopamine depletion.
We have previously shown that a large part of the D-amphetamine-induced release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens is not associated with an increase in locomotor activity, and that &quot;functional&quot; dopamine release (i.e. release of dopamine associated with locomotor activity) requires the distal facilitation of noradrenergic transmission through alpha1-adrenergic receptors in the prefrontal cortex. To determine the role of monosynaptic or polysynaptic projections from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens in these amphetamine responses, either AMPA/kainate (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, CNQX, 300microM), N-methyl-D-aspartate (D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphono-pentanoic acid, APV, 500microM) or metabotropic [(+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxy-phenylglycine, MCPG, 10mM] glutamate receptor antagonists were infused through a dialysis probe in the rat nucleus accumbens. CNQX and MCPG but not APV reduced the &quot;non-functional&quot; release of dopamine evoked by local (3microM) and systemic D-amphetamine (2mg/kg i.p.) treatments. However, the locomotor hyperactivity and functional dopamine release induced by systemic D-amphetamine were abolished by MCPG, but neither by CNQX nor by APV. MCPG treatment also abolished the hyperlocomotor activity and functional dopamine release evoked by bilateral morphine injection into the ventral tegmental area. The dopamine release evoked by this morphine treatment was 16-fold lower than that induced by the systemic D-amphetamine injection, although similar behavioral activations were observed. Altogether, our results further aid the discrimination of functional and non-functional release of dopamine. We suggest that the activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors in the nucleus accumbens is required for functional dopamine release following systemic D-amphetamine injection.
The effects of 17beta-estradiol and the anti-estrogen, tamoxifen, on methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system were examined in ovariectomized CD-1 mice. In Experiment 1, striatal dopamine concentrations from estrogen treated mice were significantly greater than that from non-estrogen treated mice following methamphetamine. Dopamine concentrations from estrogen+tamoxifen+methamphetamine treated mice were decreased compared to estrogen+methamphetamine treated mice and not significantly different from those of tamoxifen+methamphetamine treated mice or mice receiving methamphetamine alone. These results suggest that estrogen is functioning as a neuroprotectant of methamphetamine-induced nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity and that this neuroprotective effect of estrogen is abolished in the presence of tamoxifen. In Experiment 2, estrogen administration after methamphetamine treatment did not produce any significant changes in dopamine concentrations compared with methamphetamine treatment alone. The data from Experiment 2 show that estrogen cannot reverse the methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity upon the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. Similar results were observed for the potassium-stimulated dopamine outputs from these treatment conditions as evaluated with in vitro superfusion, although a difference between the two measures for the estrogen+methamphetamine treated group was obtained in Experiment 1. These results have important implications for estrogen-tamoxifen interactions upon the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system and the gender differences which are observed in Parkinson's disease and animal models of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity as well as for the proposed use of tamoxifen in pre-menopausal women at risk for breast cancer.
In this study we used immunohistochemistry and two-dimensional fingerprinting of oxidatively modified proteins (two-dimensional Oxyblot) together to investigate protein carbonyl formation in the Alzheimer's disease brain. Increased protein oxidation was detected in sections from the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus, superior and middle temporal gyri of six Alzheimer's disease and six age-matched control human subjects, but not in the cerebellum. In two brain regions severely affected by Alzheimer's disease pathology, prominent protein carbonyl immunoreactivity was localized in the cytoplasm of neurons without visual pathomorphological changes and degenerating neurons, suggesting that intracellular proteins might be significantly affected by oxidative modifications. Following two-dimensional electrophoresis the positions of some individual proteins were identified using specific antibodies, and immunoblot analysis for protein carbonyls was performed. These studies demonstrated the presence of protein carbonyl immunoreactivity in beta-tubulin, beta-actin and creatine kinase BB in Alzheimer's disease and control brain extracts. Protein carbonyls were undetectable in spots matching glial fibrillary acidic protein and tau isoforms. Specific protein carbonyl levels in beta-actin and creatine kinase BB were significantly higher in Alzheimer's disease than in control brain extract. beta-Tubulin did not demonstrate a significant increase in specific protein carbonyl content in Alzheimer's disease brains. We suggest that oxidative stress-induced injury may involve the selective modification of different intracellular proteins, including key enzymes and structural proteins, which precedes and may lead to the neurofibrillary degeneration of neurons in the Alzheimer's disease brain.
The present study tests the effects of glucose and choline, the biosynthetic precursors of acetylcholine, on passive avoidance behaviour and hippocampal acetylcholine release measured by microdialysis in awake mice. Glucose (10 and 30mg/kg) or choline chloride (6-60mg/kg), given by i.p. injection immediately after training, dose-dependently enhanced retention in an inhibitory avoidance task. Combinations of low doses of glucose (10mg/kg) and choline chloride (20mg/kg) which alone were submaximally effective significantly increased retention latencies in a synergistic manner, an effect which was sensitive to atropine (0.5mg/kg). This beneficial effect vanished when higher doses of glucose or choline were combined. Basal hippocampal acetylcholine release in mice habituated to their environment was not affected by administration of glucose and choline. However, when hippocampal acetylcholine release was stimulated either by infusion of scopolamine (0.3microM) or by transferring the mice into a novel environment, the combination of glucose plus choline further increased acetylcholine release to a significant extent. We conclude that low doses of glucose and choline act synergistically to improve memory storage, an effect which is due to facilitation of acetylcholine release. This finding reinforces the view that central cholinergic functions are influenced under certain conditions by dietary intake of precursors.
Substantial human and animal data suggest a correlation between hypertension and memory impairment that may appear prior to overt manifestations of cerebrovascular pathology. It is unclear, however, whether hypertension plays a causal role in these memory deficits, whether hypertension and cognitive impairment are each based in family history and not interdependent, or whether a combination of these factors is important. The purpose of this study was to assess whether deficits in memory performance and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors were present in Dahl salt-sensitive rats (as observed previously in spontaneously hypertensive rats) and whether the presence of hypertension per se (induced with an 8% Na(+) diet) contributed to the deficits. Memory was assessed in a passive avoidance task, an eight-arm radial arm maze and in a water maze task, and nicotinic receptors were measured via quantitative receptor autoradiography utilizing [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin and [3H]epibatidine. Salt-sensitive rats exhibited impaired performance in both spatial learning tasks, but not the passive avoidance task, compared to controls (salt-resistant strain) and they exhibited reductions in nicotinic receptors labeled by [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin but not [3H]epibatidine in some brain regions, including some areas important for memory (e.g. the hippocampus and amygdala). In the radial arm maze, the degree of memory impairment and in binding studies the reduced expression of nicotinic receptors each failed to correlate with the highest blood pressures, and the salt-sensitive animals were impaired relative to controls whether or not the high Na(+) diet was administered. In contrast, higher blood pressures did correlate with inferior task performance in the water maze. These findings may suggest that the genetics of the subjects were critical for performance when appetitive drives were involved, but diet (and perhaps hypertension) were key to performance when memory did not involve appetitive drives or mechanisms. Overall, the data obtained from Dahl rats appear to support the role of family history (selective breeding in rats) as underlying the reductions in central nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, whereas both family history and hypertension may contribute to poor cognitive performance.
Recent studies have demonstrated that hippocampal interneurons possess distinct cytoskeletal and cell-signaling proteins in comparison to hippocampal principal cells; however, little is known about the differences in the actin cytoskeleton between these two populations. This study examined the immunoreactivity of alpha-actinin-2, an actin binding/N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor linking protein, in the rat hippocampal formation using double-labelling immunofluorescence. Alpha-actinin-2 immunoreactivity is seen throughout the hippocampus with heavy labeling observed in the dendrites of granule cells, in CA2 pyramidal cells and in presumed interneuronal somata throughout the dentate gyrus and CA1. All the cells with heavy somatic alpha-actinin-2 immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus and CA1 were GABAergic interneurons labeled by glutamate decarboxylase (99%). Examination of the neurochemical marker content of the alpha-actinin-2 immunoreactive interneurons revealed that the majority of this population was neuropeptide-Y-positive and a minority was positive for calretinin. Fluid percussion head trauma did not result in significant alterations of alpha-actinin-2 immunoreactivity in hippocampal interneurons. The developmental profile of alpha-actinin-2 immunoreactivity showed the presence of alpha-actinin-2 in the hippocampus at P1, labeling of interneurons by P7 and the adult staining pattern seen by P21. This study demonstrates that principal cells and interneurons are differentially immunoreactive for alpha-actinin-2, and that alpha-actinin-2 staining is restricted to a subpopulation of interneurons. Each of the three classes of cytoskeletal elements have been shown to be differentially expressed in hippocampal interneurons and principal cells, suggesting that the cytoskeleton is a defining feature of neuronal populations. Additionally, the limited expression of alpha-actinin-2 could have important functional implications in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor localization and modulation.
This study re-examined the hyperactivity and disruption of prepulse inhibition induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate stimulation of the rat ventral hippocampus and compared how both effects were affected by pretreatment with either haloperidol or clozapine. While the hyperactivity is thought to depend on dopamine receptor activation in the nucleus accumbens, the dopamine D2-class receptor blocker haloperidol failed to antagonize the disruption of prepulse inhibition in previous studies. However, an ameliorative effect of the atypical neuroleptic clozapine on disruption of prepulse inhibition was suggested by our previous experiments [Zhang et al. (1999) NeuroReport 10, 1-6]. In the present study, bilateral infusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate (0.5microg/side) into the ventral hippocampus of Wistar rats increased open field locomotor activity and disrupted prepulse inhibition. Both effects were observed immediately after infusion but disappeared 24h later. Injection of haloperidol (0.2mg/kg) or clozapine (5mg/kg), 45min prior to N-methyl-D-aspartate infusion, totally antagonized the hyperactivity but did not affect the disruption of prepulse inhibition. We conclude that dopaminergic mechanisms are differentially involved in the hyperactivity and disruption of prepulse inhibition induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate stimulation of the ventral hippocampus. Activation of accumbal dopamine receptors, which is blocked by clozapine and haloperidol to a comparable extent, seems to be crucial for the hyperactivity but not the disruption of prepulse inhibition. The present finding that both clozapine and haloperidol failed to antagonize the disruption of prepulse inhibition induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate stimulation of the ventral hippocampus is discussed with respect to our previous contrary finding concerning the ameliorative effect of clozapine and with respect to the disruption of prepulse inhibition in rats being considered as a model of sensorimotor gating deficits in schizophrenia.
The effects of social isolation on prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle (PPI), electrophysiology and morphology of subicular pyramidal neurons and the densities of interneuronal sub-types in the hippocampal formation were examined. Wistar rats (male weanlings) were housed socially (socials, n=8) or individually (isolates, n=7). When tested eight weeks later, PPI was lower in isolates. Rats then received terminal anaesthesia before slices of hippocampal formation were made in which the electrophysiological properties of a total of 108 subicular neurons were characterized. There were no differences in neuronal sub-types recorded in socials compared with isolates. Intrinsically burst-firing and regular spiking pyramidal neurons were examined in detail. There were no differences in resting membrane potential or input resistance in isolates compared with socials but action potential height was reduced and action potential threshold raised in isolates. A limited morphological examination of Neurobiotin-filled intrinsically burst-firing neurons did not reveal differences in cell-body area or in number of primary dendrites. Sections from the contralateral hemispheres of the same rats were stained with antibodies to calretinin, parvalbumin and the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). In isolates, the density of calretinin positive neurons was increased in the dentate gyrus but unchanged in areas CA3, CA1 and subiculum. Parvalbumin and nNOS positive neuronal densities were unchanged. Hence in rats with environmentally induced reductions in PPI there are structural and functional abnormalities in the hippocampal formation. If the reduction in PPI stems from these abnormalities, and reduced PPI in rats is relevant to schizophrenia, then drugs that correct the reported electrophysiological changes might have antipsychotic effects.
The present study was designed to investigate the role of protein kinase C (PKC) isoform in the morphine-induced reinforcing effect in mice. An intracerebroventricular injection of calphostin C, a specific PKC inhibitor, produced a dose-dependent reduction in the morphine-induced place preference. The protein level of PKCgamma was significantly up-regulated in membrane preparations of the limbic forebrain obtained from the morphine-conditioned mice compared to that from the saline-conditioned mice. However, the protein levels of PKCalpha, betaI, betaII and epsilon were not affected in the same preparation. By contrast, there were no changes in the protein level of all five PKC isoforms in the lower midbrain. Furthermore, we investigated the rewarding properties of morphine in mice lacking PKCgamma gene. A significant place preference was observed following treatment with morphine in wild-type mice, whereas such an effect of morphine was not found in PKCgamma knockout mice. These findings suggest that activated PKCgamma in the limbic forebrain following the treatment with morphine may be critical for the development and/or maintenance of reinforcing effects induced by morphine in mice.
The present study was designed to investigate whether mild stress during pregnancy affects offspring behaviors, including learning performance. Prenatal stress was induced by short-lasting, mild restraint stress, which had previously been shown to facilitate the morphological development of fetal brain neurons. Adult offspring whose dams had been restrained in a small cage for 30min daily from gestation day 15 to 17 showed enhanced active avoidance and radial maze learning performance. In addition, the prenatally stressed rats showed weaker emotional responses than unstressed control, as indicated by decreases both in ambulation upon initial exposure to an open field and in Fos expression in the amygdala induced by physical stress. The observed effects of prenatal stress on learning performance and emotional behavior were attenuated by foster rearing by unstressed dams. Fos expression in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus following physical stress and corticosterone secretion during physical and psychological stress did not differ between the prenatally stressed and unstressed control rats. From these results we suggest that mild prenatal stress facilitates learning performance in the adult offspring. The enhancement of learning performance appears to be accompanied by reduced emotionality, but not by any apparent alterations in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal responses. In addition, the observation of differential behaviors in the adopted and non-adopted animals supports the notion that the postnatal environment modifies the behavioral effects of prenatal stress.
Alternative splicing of the Drosophila melanogaster Rdl gene yields four ionotropic GABA receptor subunits. The two Rdl splice variants cloned to date, RDL(ac) and RDL(bd) (DRC17-1-2), differ in their apparent agonist affinity. Here, we report the cloning of a third splice variant of Rdl, RDL(ad). Two-electrode voltage clamp electrophysiology was used to investigate agonist pharmacology of this expressed subunit following cRNA injection into Xenopus laevis oocytes. The EC(so) values for GABA and its analogues isoguvacine, muscimol, isonipecotic acid and 3-amino sulphonic acid on the RDL(ad) homomeric receptor differed from those previously described for RDL(ac) and DRC17-1-2 receptors. In addition to providing a possible physiological role for the alternative splicing of Rdl, these data delineate a hitherto functionally unassigned region of the N-terminal domain of GABA receptor subunits, which affects agonist potency and aligns closely with known determinants of potency in nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Thus, using expression in Xenopus oocytes, we have demonstrated differences in agonist potency for the neurotransmitter GABA (and four analogues) between splice variant products of the Drosophila melanogaster Rdl gene encoding homomer-forming GABA receptor subunits.
We studied the effect of several calcium channel blockers (omega-Conotoxin-GVIA, 1 and 3microM; omega-Agatoxin-IVA, 100nM; Nitrendipine, 1 and 10microM) on evoked transmitter release at singly and dually innervated endplates of the levator auris longus muscle from three- to six-day-old rats. In dually innervated fibers, a second endplate potential may appear after the first one when we increase the stimulation intensity. The lowest and highest endplate potential amplitudes are designated &quot;small endplate potential&quot; and &quot;large endplate potential&quot;, respectively. The percentage of doubly innervated junctions remains almost constant throughout the age range examined. Nevertheless, the percentage of junctions innervated by three or more terminal axons drops, whereas the singly innervated junctions increase. Therefore, between postnatal days 3 and 6, roughly half the neuromuscular junctions may experience the final process of axonal elimination. The synaptic efficacy of the large endplate potential in dual junctions, measured as the mean amplitude of the synaptic potential and mean quantal content, was the same as in the junctions that had become recently mono-innervated in the same postnatal period. In singly innervated fibers, the endplate potential size was strongly reduced by both the P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channel blocker omega-Agatoxin-IVA (79.17+/-4.02%; P &lt; 0.05) and the N-type voltage-dependent calcium channel blocker omega-Conotoxin-GVIA (56.31+/-7.80%; P &lt; 0.05), whereas endplate potential amplitude was not significantly changed by the L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel blocker Nitrendipine. In dually innervated fibers, the P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channel blocker omega-Agatoxin-IVA and L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel blocker Nitrendipine increased the size of the small endplate potential (161.29+/-47.87% and 109.32+/-11.03%, respectively; P &lt; 0.05 in both cases) and reduced the large endplate potential (74.42+/-15.32% and 70.91+/-10.04%, respectively; P &lt; 0.05 in both cases). The N-type voltage-dependent calcium channel blocker omega-Conotoxin-GVIA significantly increased the small endplate potential in the first few minutes after toxin application (at 10min: 90.23+/-17.38%; P &lt; 0.05). This increase was not maintained, while the large endplate potential was strongly inhibited (69.25+/-7.5%; P &lt; 0.05). In conclusion, in the dually innervated endplates of the newborn rat, presynaptic calcium channel types can have different roles in transmitter release from each of the two inputs, which suggests that nerve terminal voltage-dependent calcium channels are involved in neonatal synaptic maturation.
Kynurenine 3-mono-oxygenase, one of the key enzymes of the &quot;kynurenine pathway&quot;, catalyses the formation of 3-hydroxykynurenine and may direct the neo-synthesis of quinolinic and kynurenic acids. While 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinic acid have neurotoxic properties, kynurenic acid antagonizes excitotoxic neuronal death. Here we report that the expression and activity of kynurenine 3-mono-oxygenase significantly increased in the spinal cord of rats with experimental allergic encephalopathy, an experimental model of multiple sclerosis. As a consequence of this increase, the spinal cord content of 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinic acid reached neurotoxic levels. We also report that systemic administration of Ro 61-8048, a selective kynurenine 3-mono-oxygenase inhibitor, reduced the increase of both 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinic acid, and caused accumulation of kynurenic acid. In the brain and spinal cord of the controls, kynurenine 3-mono-oxygenase immunoreactivity was located in granules (probably mitochondria) present in the cytoplasm of both neurons and astroglial cells. In the spinal cord of rats with experimental allergic encephalopathy, however, cells with a very intense kynurenine 3-mono-oxygenase immunoreactivity, also able to express class II major histocompatibility complex and inducible nitric oxide synthase, were found in perivascular, subependymal and subpial locations. These cells (most probably macrophages) were responsible for the large increase in 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinic acid found in the spinal cords of affected animals. The results show that cells of the immune system are responsible for the increased formation of 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinic acid, two neurotoxic metabolites that accumulate in the central nervous system of rats with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. They also demonstrate that selective kynurenine 3-mono-oxygenase inhibitors reduce the neo-synthesis of these toxins.
Cells expressing nerve growth factor are implicated in development of hypersensitivity following nerve injury and cholinergic neurons are implicated in reduction of such hypersensitivity by alpha2-adrenergic agonists. Intrathecal injection of the cell toxin, saporin, linked to an antibody to the low-affinity nerve growth factor, p75 (192-IgG saporin), an agent which destroys cholinergic neurons in the brain, was used in the current study to further elucidate these mechanisms. Mechanical hypersensitivity was established in rats by ligation of the L5 and L6 spinal nerves. Animals were pretreated with intrathecal saline or 192-IgG saporin, and one week later received intrathecal clonidine or neostigmine. Spinal cords were removed for acetylcholine and norepinephrine analysis and for cholinergic and p75 immunohistochemistry. Treatment with 192-IgG saporin had no effect on mechanical hypersensitivity following spinal nerve ligation, but blocked the anti-hypersensitivity effects of intrathecal clonidine and neostigmine. Destruction of p75-expressing fibers in the superficial dorsal horn by 192-IgG saporin was not accompanied by changes in acetylcholine or norepinephrine content or by reduction in cholinergic neuronal number in the spinal cord dorsal horn. Unlike in the brain, 192-IgG saporin does not destroy cholinergic neurons in the spinal cord dorsal horn and cannot be used as a tool for this purpose. P75-expressing elements are not necessary for the maintenance of mechanical hyperalgesia in this model of neuropathic pain, but their destruction disrupts the targets or circuitry activated by alpha2-adrenergic and cholinergic agents to reduce hypersensitivity.
Decreases in durations of action potentials (C- and Adelta-fibre units) and afterhyperpolarisations (A-fibre units) occur in somata of nociceptive dorsal root ganglion neurons during hindlimb inflammation induced in young guinea-pigs by intradermal injections of Complete Freund's Adjuvant into the ipsilateral leg and foot. Here we present evidence that the single-point conduction velocity (i.e. estimated over a single conduction distance) of these nociceptive neurons is increased during this type of inflammation. The single-point conduction velocities in anaesthetised untreated guinea-pigs (control) were compared with those two and four days after Complete Freund's Adjuvant treatment in two types of experiment. The first involved intracellular voltage recordings from somata of ipsilateral L6 and S1 dorsal root ganglion neurons. Units were classified as C, Adelta or Aalpha/beta on the basis of their dorsal root conduction velocities and characterised as nociceptive, low-threshold mechanoreceptive or unresponsive according to their responses to mechanical and thermal stimuli. Compared with untreated animals, significant increases of 54% for C-fibre nociceptive units and 46% for A-fibre nociceptive units in the medians of dorsal root single-point conduction velocities were found four days after Complete Freund's Adjuvant treatment. These increases were greater at four days than at two days after Complete Freund's Adjuvant. A slight tendency in the same direction (10%) that was not significant was also seen in low-threshold mechanoreceptors four days after treatment, but not after two days. The increased velocities were confirmed with compound action potential recordings from ipsilateral S2 dorsal roots and sural nerves, in treated and control animals. Recordings showed a tendency for increased single-point velocities in C, Adelta and Aalpha/beta waves, with the upper border of the Adelta wave (i.e. the border between Adelta and Aalpha/beta waves) falling at a significantly higher conduction velocity in treated than control animals. This was seen both in S2 dorsal roots and in sural nerves. There was also a significant decrease in the mean electrical threshold for eliciting the C and Adelta components of compound action potentials of both dorsal root and sural nerves during inflammation. No evidence was found for a reduction in utilisation time for any components of the sural nerve compound action potential (C, Adelta or Aalpha/beta). The conduction velocity increases may be due to altered expression or activation/inactivation of certain ion channel types, such as Na(+) channels. The present experiments demonstrate that hindlimb inflammation caused a significant increase in conduction velocity of nociceptive but not of low-threshold mechanoreceptive primary afferent neurons during inflammation, as well as a significant decrease in the mean electrical threshold for eliciting the C and Adelta components of compound action potentials of both dorsal root and sural nerves. These changes, together with the previously described changes in the action potential shape of nociceptive neurons during inflammation, probably reflect alterations in membrane function that contribute to inflammatory hyperalgesia.
Changes in neuropeptide expression in afferent nerve fibres may play a role in the persistent sensory abnormalities that can be experienced following trigeminal nerve injuries. We have therefore studied changes in the expression of the neuropeptides substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, enkephalin, galanin, neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in the trigeminal ganglion following peripheral nerve injury. In anaesthetised adult female ferrets, the left inferior alveolar nerve was sectioned and recovery allowed for three days, three weeks or 12 weeks prior to perfusion-fixation. During a second procedure, one week prior to perfusion, the inferior alveolar nerve was exposed and an injection made central to the injury site using a mixture of 4 % Fluorogold and 4 % isolectin B4 conjugated to horseradish peroxidase to identify cell bodies with axons in the inferior alveolar nerve and cells with unmyelinated axons within this population, respectively. Control animals received tracer injection alone. After harvesting the tissue, sagittal sections were taken from both the right and left ganglia and immunohistochemical staining was used to reveal the presence of peptides and isolectin B4-horseradish peroxidase tracer. Within the Fluorogold-labelled population, cell counts revealed a significant reduction in the proportion of substance P-containing cells at three days (P = 0.0025), three weeks (P = 0.0094) and three months (P = 0.0149) after nerve section, and a significant reduction in the proportion of calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing cells at three days (P = 0.0003) and three weeks (P = 0.007). No significant changes were seen in the expression of the other peptides, or at other time periods. A significant reduction in the number of isolectin B4-horseradish peroxidase-positive cells (with unmyelinated axons) was seen at three days (P = 0.0025), three weeks (P = 0.0074) and three months after the injury (P = 0.0133). These results demonstrate a significant reduction in the expression of some neuropeptides in the early stages after inferior alveolar nerve section. Some of the results differ markedly from those reported previously in other systems, and may be related to the specific nerve studied, species variations or differences between spinal and trigeminal nerves.
In the lizard, Ctenophorus ornatus, the optic nerve regenerates but animals remain blind via the experimental eye, presumably as a result of axons failing to consolidate a retinotopic map in the optic tectum. Here we have examined immunohistochemically the expression of the growth-associated protein GAP-43 and the low-molecular-weight intermediate filament protein gefiltin, up to one year after optic nerve crush. Both proteins were found to be permanently up-regulated, suggesting that regenerating axons are held in a permanent state of re-growth. We speculate that, in the lizard, the continued expression of GAP-43 and the failure to switch from the expression of low- to high-molecular-weight intermediate filament proteins are associated with the inability to consolidate a retinotopic projection.
The effects of hypothermia on ischemia-reperfusion injury of the cochlea were studied in gerbils. Hearing was assessed by sequentially recording compound action potentials before, during and after the ischemia. The degree of hair cell loss in the organ of Corti was evaluated in specimens stained with rhodamine-phalloidin and the dye Hoechst 33342. Ischemic insult was applied to the animals by occluding the bilateral vertebral arteries for 15 min under normothermic or hypothermic (rectal temperature 32 degrees C) conditions. Interruption of the blood supply to the cochlea caused a tremendous increase in the compound action potential threshold, which usually recovered to some extent with reperfusion. In the ischemia/normothermic group, the threshold did not return to the pre-ischemic level. The average increase in the threshold seven days after ischemia was 20.0 dB. Histologically, the hair cell loss increased gradually until four days after the ischemic insult. On the seventh day, the mean loss of inner and outer hair cells at the basal turn was 31.1 % and 2.4 %, respectively. In the ischemia/hypothermic group, the threshold returned to the pre-ischemic level within 30 min after reperfusion and remained stable thereafter. The mean loss of inner and outer hair cells on the seventh day was 0.1 % and 0.2 %, respectively. These results indicate that hypothermia can prevent inner ear damage, which otherwise occurs after transient ischemia of the cochlea.
Inhibition by GABA is important for auditory processing, but any adaptations of the ionotropic type A receptors are unknown. Here we describe, using in situ hybridization, the subunit expression patterns of GABA(A) receptors in the rat cochlear nucleus, superior olivary complex, and dorsal and ventral nuclei of the lateral lemniscus. All neurons express the beta3 and gamma2L subunit messenger RNAs, but use different alpha subunits. In the dorsal cochlear nucleus, fusiform (pyramidal) and giant cells express alpha1, alpha3, beta3 and gamma2L. Dorsal cochlear nucleus interneurons, particularly vertical or tuberculoventral cells and cartwheel cells, express alpha3, beta3 and gamma2L. In the ventral cochlear nucleus, octopus cells express alpha1, beta3, gamma2L and delta. Spherical cells express alpha1, alpha3, alpha5, beta3 and gamma2L. In the superior olivary complex, the expression profile is alpha3, alpha5, beta3 and gamma2L. Both dorsal and ventral cochlear nucleus granule cells express alpha1, alpha6, beta3 and gamma2L; unlike their cerebellar granule cell counterparts, they do not express beta2, gamma2S or the delta subunit genes. The delta subunit's absence from cochlear nucleus granule cells may mean that tonic inhibition mediated by extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors is less important for this cell type. In both the dorsal and ventral nuclei of the lateral lemniscus, alpha1, beta3 and gamma2L are the main subunit messenger RNAs; the ventral nucleus also expresses the delta subunit. We have mapped, using in situ hybridization, the subunit expression patterns of the GABA(A) receptor in the auditory brainstem nuclei. In contrast to many brain regions, the beta2 subunit gene and gamma2S splice forms are not highly expressed in auditory brainstem nuclei. GABA(A) receptors containing beta3 and gamma2L may be particularly well suited to auditory processing, possibly because of the unique phosphorylation profile of this subunit combination.
Motor learning abilities on the rotorod and motor skills (muscular strength, motor coordination, static and dynamic equilibrium) were investigated in three-, nine-, 15- and 21-month-old Lurcher and control mice. Animals were subjected to motor training on the rotorod before being subjected to motor skills tests. The results showed that control mice exhibited decrease of muscular strength and specific equilibrium impairments in static conditions with age, but were still able to learn the motor task on the rotorod even in old age. These results suggest that, in control mice, efficiency of the reactive mechanisms, which are sustained by the lower transcerebellar loop (cerebello-rubro-olivo-cerebellar loop), decreased with age, while the efficiency of the proactive adjustments, which are sustained by the upper transcerebellar loop (cerebello-thalamo-cortico-ponto-cerebellar loop), did not. In spite of their motor deficits, Lurcher mutants were able to learn the motor task at three months, but exhibited severe motor learning deficits as soon as nine months. Such a deficit seems to be associated with dynamic equilibrium impairments, which also appeared at nine months in these mutants. By two months of age, degeneration of the cerebellar cortex and the olivocerebellar pathway in Lurcher mice has disrupted both lower and upper transcerebellar loops. Disruption of the lower loop could well explain precocious static equilibrium deficits. However, in spite of disruption of the upper loop, motor learning and dynamic equilibrium were preserved in young mutant mice, suggesting that either deep cerebellar nuclei and/or other motor structures involved in proactive mechanisms needed to maintain dynamic equilibrium and to learn motor tasks, such as the striatopallidal system, are sufficient. The fact that, in Lurcher mutant mice, motor learning decreased by the age of nine months suggests that the above-mentioned structures are less efficient, likely due to degeneration resulting from precocious and focused neurodegeneration of the cerebellar cortex. From this behavioral approach of motor skills and motor learning during aging in Lurcher mutant mice, we postulated the differential involvement of two transcerebellar systems in equilibrium maintenance and motor learning. Moreover, in these mutants, we showed that motor learning abilities decreased with age, suggesting that the precocious degeneration of the cerebellar Purkinje cells had long-term effects on motor structures which are not primarily affected. Thus, from these results, Lurcher mutant mice therefore appear to be a good model to study the pathological evolution of progressive neurodegeneration in the central nervous system during aging.
A weight drop model of focal cerebellar injury was used to identify heat shock protein induction and motor function deficits in the anesthetized, adult male, Sprague-Dawley rat. All animals were trained on a beam walking test prior to surgery. Groups of animals received severe, mild or sham weight drop injury to the lateral/paravermal region of the cerebellum. The mild and sham-injured animals showed no motor deficits in the beam walking test, whereas animals with severe cerebellar injury showed significant motor deficits in the beam walking test that approached recovery of motor function 20 days after injury. Following severe injury, induction of heat shock protein of 27kDa was observed in Purkinje cells and in neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei, as well as Bergmann glial cells, glial cells located in the granule cell layer and the underlying white matter. Following mild injury, heat shock protein of 27kDa induction was observed in Purkinje cells and glial cells, but not in neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei. The labeled Purkinje cells were widely distributed in the ipsilateral cerebellar cortex. Many of the glial cells that were immunostained with heat shock protein of 27kDa co-localized with cells immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein. After severe injury, heat shock protein of 72kDa was localized mainly in granule cells at the site of the trauma and in the ipsilateral deep cerebellar nuclei whereas, after mild injury, light labeling was observed only in the granule cell layer. The results demonstrate that focal cerebellar injury has profound effects on motor behavior and induces different families of heat shock proteins in specific groups of neurons and glial cells in the cerebellum.
Intracellular recordings were made in a mid-pontine slice preparation of the rat brain containing the nucleus locus coeruleus. Focal electrical stimulation evoked biphasic synaptic potentials consisting of early depolarizing (d.p.s.p.) and late hyperpolarizing (i.p.s.p.) components. The alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan inhibited the i.p.s.p. without altering the d.p.s.p. All of the following experiments were carried out in the presence of kynurenic acid and picrotoxin to block the glutamatergic and GABAergic fractions of the d.p.s.p., respectively. Guanethidine, which is known to inhibit noradrenaline and ATP release from nerve terminals of postganglionic sympathetic nerves, depressed both the d.p.s.p. and the i.p.s.p. in a concentration-dependent manner. Damage of catecholaminergic nerve terminals by 6-hydroxydopamine also decreased both the d.p.s.p. and the i.p.s.p. The P2 receptor antagonist pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS) depressed the d.p.s.p., whereas the i.p.s.p. remained unaffected. The further application of PPADS did not increase the depression of the d.p.s.p. by guanethidine. Superfusion with the mixed alpha-adrenoceptor agonist noradrenaline or the selective P2 receptor agonist adenosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) inhibited both the d.p.s.p. and the i.p.s.p. The inhibitory effects of these agonists were prevented by the respective antagonists idazoxan or suramin. In the presence of suramin noradrenaline failed to inhibit the residual d.p.s.p. Superfused noradrenaline potentiated rather than inhibited responses to pressure-applied alpha,beta-methylene-ATP; superfused adenosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) did not interact with pressure-applied noradrenaline. In conclusion, we present electrophysiological evidence for the co-release of ATP and catecholamines in the CNS. At the cell somata of neurons in the locus coeruleus, noradrenaline and ATP activate inhibitory alpha(2)-adrenoceptors and excitatory P2 receptors, respectively. In addition, inhibitory presynaptic autoreceptors of the alpha(2) and P2 types appear to regulate release of the two co-transmitters.
Intrastriatal injection of 3-nitropropionic acid results in secondary excitotoxic local damage and retrograde neuronal cell loss in substantia nigra pars compacta, thus mimicking salient features of striatonigral degeneration, the core pathology underlying Parkinsonism associated with multiple system atrophy. We used 3-nitropropionic acid to create a rat model of advanced striatonigral degeneration in order to assess the effects of embryonic allografts upon rotational and complex-motor behavioural abnormalities. Following stereotaxic intrastriatal administration of 500nmol 3-nitropropionic acid in male Wistar rats we observed consistent amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced ipsiversive rotation. Furthermore, there were marked deficits of contralateral paw reaching. Subsequently, animals received intrastriatal implantations of either E14 mesencephalic or striatal or mixed embryonic cell suspensions. In addition, one group received sham injections. Grafted rats were followed for up to 21 weeks and repeated behavioural tests were obtained during this period. Drug-induced rotation asymmetries and complex motor deficits measured by paw reaching tests were not compensated by embryonic grafts. Persistence of drug-induced rotations and of paw reaching deficits following transplantation probably reflects severe atrophy of adult striatum, additional nigral degeneration as well as glial demarcation of embryonic grafts. We suggest that dopamine rich embryonic grafts fail to induce functional recovery in a novel 3-nitropropionic acid rat model of advanced striatonigral degeneration (multiple system atrophy).
To assess the pattern of mesocorticolimbic dopamine activity associated with drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior, we recorded impulse activity of ventral tegmental area neurons during intravenous heroin self-administration in trained rats. Although these neurons had considerable variability, two major groups-units with triphasic long-duration spikes and biphasic short-duration spikes-were identified. Relative to a slow and irregular basal activity of long-spike units, the first self-administration of each session was preceded by a phasic neuronal activation and followed by a more sustained drug-induced activation that reached a maximum at the time of the second self-injection. After each subsequent heroin self-injection, the discharge rate transiently decreased, correlating with the blockade of preceding motor activation and the appearance of freezing, but slowly and gradually increased again in parallel with searching behavior, reaching a maximum at the time of the next self-injection. Passive drug injections in either drug-naive, freely moving or drug-experienced, anesthetized rats caused much smaller, tonic increases in activity of long-spike units; these monophasic increases changed into biphasic responses with repeated injections. Although short-spike units had highly varying discharge rate and showed phasic activation during movement, during heroin self-injections they generally mimicked the activity pattern seen in long-spike units. Our results indicate that in behaving animals indirect &quot;identification&quot; of dopamine cells based on their distinctive electrophysiological features is more complex than in vitro and in anesthetized preparations. With respect to long-spike units, a candidate group of presumed dopamine neurons, our data agree with the view that mesocorticolimbic dopamine activation is important for the activational and/or motivational aspects of heroin-taking behavior and suggest the role of an abrupt termination of dopamine activation for drug reinforcement (reward). Although the neurochemical nature of long- and short-spike units is obviously different, similar changes in their activity may indicate that they are regulated by similar afferent inputs and that these inputs change similarly during drug-taking behavior.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection selectively targets the striatum, a region rich in opioid receptor-expressing neural cells, resulting in gliosis and neuronal losses. Opioids can be neuroprotective or can promote neurodegeneration. To determine whether opioids modify the response of neurons to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat protein-induced neurotoxicity, neural cell cultures from mouse striatum were initially characterized for mu and/or kappa opioid receptor immunoreactivity. These cultures were continuously treated with morphine, the opioid antagonist naloxone, and/or HIV-1 Tat (1-72) protein, a non-neurotoxic HIV-1 Tat deletion mutant (TatDelta31-61) protein, or immunoneutralized HIV-1 Tat (1-72) protein. Neuronal and astrocyte viability was examined by ethidium monoazide exclusion, and by apoptotic changes in nuclear heterochromatin using Hoechst 33342. Morphine (10nM, 100nM or 1microM) significantly increased Tat-induced (100 or 200nM) neuronal losses by about two-fold at 24h following exposure. The synergistic effects of morphine and Tat were prevented by naloxone (3microM), indicating the involvement of opioid receptors. Furthermore, morphine was not toxic when combined with mutant Tat or immunoneutralized Tat. Neuronal losses were accompanied by chromatin condensation and pyknosis. Astrocyte viability was unaffected. These findings demonstrate that acute opioid exposure can exacerbate the neurodegenerative effect of HIV-1 Tat protein in striatal neurons, and infer a means by which opioids may hasten the progression of HIV-associated dementia.
We examined the effects of the neuropeptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ on activity of the limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (also known as the stress axis) in rats. This axis regulates important metabolic functions, and initiates critical neuroendocrine responses that cope with environmental threats and challenges to homeostatic functioning. Disregulation of the limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is associated with impaired physical and psychological health. In the present experiments, rats were treated with intracerebroventricular injections of nociceptin/orphanin FQ in the presence or absence of acute stressors. Plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone and corticosterone concentrations were assayed 15 or 30min after injections. In the rats that were not exposed to stress, nociceptin/orphanin FQ produced dose-orderly elevations of circulating adrenocorticotrophic hormone and corticosterone concentrations. These effects were also found after administration of the nociceptin/orphanin FQ analogues, des-Phe orphanin FQ and [Phe(1)psi(CH(2)-NH)Gly(2)]nociceptin((1-13))NH(2). In rats that were exposed to the mild stress of a novel environment, nociceptin/orphanin FQ administration enhanced the stress-induced elevations of plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone concentrations and prolonged the stress-induced elevations of plasma corticosterone concentrations. In rats that were exposed to restraint stress, nociceptin/orphanin FQ administration did not augment the stress-induced elevations in plasma hormones, perhaps because of a ceiling effect. We conclude that administration of nociceptin/orphanin FQ activates neuroendocrine activity of the limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis even in the absence of a stressor, and may delay the shutdown of these physiological responses after exposure to acute mild stress. In light of the known functions of this axis, it appears that nociceptin/orphanin FQ participates in the regulation of important metabolic functions, and may be implicated in physiological responses to stress. This interaction between nociceptin/orphanin FQ and the limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis implicates nociceptin/orphanin FQ in important aspects of physiological and psychological well-being.
The integrative properties of neurons depend strongly on the number, proportions and distribution of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs they receive. In this study the three-dimensional geometry of dendritic trees and the density of symmetrical and asymmetrical synapses on different cellular compartments of rat hippocampal CA1 area pyramidal cells was measured to calculate the total number and distribution of excitatory and inhibitory inputs on a single cell.A single pyramidal cell has approximately 12,000 microm dendrites and receives around 30,000 excitatory and 1700 inhibitory inputs, of which 40 % are concentrated in the perisomatic region and 20 % on dendrites in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare. The pre- and post-synaptic features suggest that CA1 pyramidal cell dendrites are heterogeneous. Strata radiatum and oriens dendrites are similar and differ from stratum lacunosum-moleculare dendrites. Proximal apical and basal strata radiatum and oriens dendrites are spine-free or sparsely spiny. Distal strata radiatum and oriens dendrites (forming 68.5 % of the pyramidal cells' dendritic tree) are densely spiny; their excitatory inputs terminate exclusively on dendritic spines, while inhibitory inputs target only dendritic shafts. The proportion of inhibitory inputs on distal spiny strata radiatum and oriens dendrites is low ( approximately 3 %). In contrast, proximal dendritic segments receive mostly (70-100 %) inhibitory inputs. Only inhibitory inputs innervate the somata (77-103 per cell) and axon initial segments. Dendrites in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare possess moderate to small amounts of spines. Excitatory synapses on stratum lacunosum-moleculare dendrites are larger than the synapses in other layers, are frequently perforated ( approximately 40 %) and can be located on dendritic shafts. Inhibitory inputs, whose percentage is relatively high ( approximately 14-17 %), also terminate on dendritic spines. Our results indicate that: (i) the highly convergent excitation arriving onto the distal dendrites of pyramidal cells is primarily controlled by proximally located inhibition; (ii) the organization of excitatory and inhibitory inputs in layers receiving Schaffer collateral input (radiatum/oriens) versus perforant path input (lacunosum-moleculare) is significantly different.
In this study, we performed in situ hybridization analysis of the expression pattern of two growth-associated proteins, stathmin and SCG10, in the hippocampus after unilateral lesion of the perforant pathway, the main excitatory input from the entorhinal cortex to the hippocampus. Stathmin is one of the major neural-enriched cytosolic phosphoproteins and a potential target of cyclic-AMP-dependent kinases [Jin L. W. et al. (1996) Neurobiol. Aging 17, 331-341; Leighton I. A. et al. (1993) Molec. Cell Biochem. 127/128, 151-156]. Three days after the lesion, stathmin messenger RNA was up-regulated ipsilaterally in the hilus, in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus and in the pyramidal cell layer of the CA1 region. Simultaneously, the hilar region of the contralateral dentate gyrus showed an increased stathmin messenger RNA expression. This altered expression pattern was observed until 15 days after lesion. Stathmin messenger RNA expression returned to a normal level until 21 days after lesion in all regions analysed. SCG10, a membrane-bound neuronal growth-associated protein belonging to the SCG10/stathmin gene family, did not show any alteration of messenger RNA expression after perforant path lesion. The temporal changes of stathmin messenger RNA expression in the ipsilateral hippocampus correspond well to the process of reactive synaptogenesis. The enhanced messenger RNA expression in the hilar region of the contralateral dentate gyrus might suggest a role in neurite elongation, since this region is the origin of commissural fibres involved in the sprouting response in the deafferented hippocampus. The present study provides evidence that the induction of specific growth-associated proteins is differentially regulated in the hippocampus.
The role of excitatory amino acid transporter 1 in neonatal rat neuronal damage was studied following hypoxia-ischemia. To induce hypoxia-ischemia injury, rats on postnatal day 7 were exposed to 8 % oxygen for 2 h following unilateral common carotid artery ligation. According to brain damage scoring based on Cresyl Violet staining, the neuronal damage time-dependently changed in the ischemic regions following hypoxia-ischemia. Immunohistochemical studies showed that excitatory amino acid transporter 1 expression was mainly observed in the cerebral cortex ipsilateral to common carotid artery ligation and markedly increased at 24 h and 48 h following hypoxia-ischemia. Combined with confocal laser scanning microscopic analysis, double staining showed that excitatory amino acid transporter 1 positive staining appeared in neurons as well as astrocytes after hypoxia-ischemia. Most excitatory amino acid transporter 1 positive staining cells exhibited regular morphological characteristics and only a few were double-stained by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridinetriphosphate nick-end labeling. Down-regulation of excitatory amino acid transporter 1 expression by intraventricular administration of specific antisense oligonucleotide exacerbated neuronal damage in hypoxia-ischemia brain. These results suggest that the increase of excitatory amino acid transporter 1 expression may be involved in a pathophysiological process of hypoxia-ischemia brain damage and may reflect a self-compensative mechanism for protecting neurons from further injury.
We used the waking electroencephalogram to study the homeostatic sleep regulatory process in human short sleepers and long sleepers. After sleeping according to their habitual schedule, nine short sleepers (sleep duration &lt; 6 h) and eight long sleepers (&gt; 9 h) were recorded half-hourly during approximately 40 h of wakefulness in a constant routine protocol. Within the frequency range of 0.25-20.0 Hz, spectral power density in the 5.25-9.0 and 17.25-18.0 Hz ranges was higher in short sleepers than in long sleepers. In both groups, increasing time awake was associated with an increase of theta/low-frequency alpha activity (5.25-9.0 Hz), whose kinetics followed a saturating exponential function. The time constant did not differ between groups and was similar to the previously obtained time constant of the wake-dependent increase of slow-wave activity (0.75-4.5 Hz) in the sleep electroencephalogram. In addition, the time constant of the decrease of slow-wave activity during extended recovery sleep following the constant routine did not differ between groups. However, short sleepers showed an abiding enhancement of theta/low-frequency alpha activity during wakefulness after recovery sleep that was independent of the homeostatic process. It is concluded that, while the kinetics of the homeostatic process do not differ between the two groups, short sleepers live under and tolerate higher homeostatic sleep pressure than long sleepers. The homeostat-independent enhancement of theta/low-frequency alpha activity in the waking electroencephalogram in the short sleepers may be genetically determined or be the result of long-term adaptation to chronically short sleep.
Using Xenopus nerve-muscle co-cultures, we have examined the contribution of calcium-activated potassium (K(Ca)) channels to the regulation of transmitter release evoked by single action potentials. The presynaptic varicosities that form on muscle cells in these cultures were studied directly using patch-clamp recording techniques. In these developing synapses, blockade of K(Ca) channels with iberiotoxin or charybdotoxin decreased transmitter release by an average of 35%. This effect would be expected to be caused by changes in the late phases of action potential repolarization. We hypothesize that these changes are due to a reduction in the driving force for calcium that is normally enhanced by the local hyperpolarization at the active zone caused by potassium current through the K(Ca) channels that co-localize with calcium channels. In support of this hypothesis, we have shown that when action potential waveforms were used as voltage-clamp commands to elicit calcium current in varicosities, peak calcium current was reduced only when these waveforms were broadened beginning when action potential repolarization was 20% complete. In contrast to peak calcium current, total calcium influx was consistently increased following action potential broadening. A model, based on previously reported properties of ion channels, faithfully reproduced predicted effects on action potential repolarization and calcium currents. From these data, we suggest that the large-conductance K(Ca) channels expressed at presynaptic varicosities regulate transmitter release magnitude during single action potentials by altering the rate of action potential repolarization, and thus the magnitude of peak calcium current.
We used western blotting to examine the developmental profiles (at embryonic day 16 and postnatal days 1, 13, 23, 33 and 105) of protein expression for three sodium-hydrogen exchanger isoforms (1, 2 and 4) and for a sodium-bicarbonate co-transporter in three CNS regions (cortex, cerebellum and brainstem-diencephalon). In microsomal preparations, sodium-hydrogen exchanger isoform 1 and sodium-bicarbonate co-transporter protein expression in the CNS increases gradually from embryonic day 16 (25-40% of the adult level) to postnatal day 105. In contrast, sodium-hydrogen exchanger isoform 2 and 4 expression reaches a maximum (three to 20 times the adult level) at around three to four weeks of age. There is significant regional heterogeneity in the expression of sodium-hydrogen exchanger and sodium-bicarbonate co-transporter proteins in the rat CNS. Sodium-hydrogen exchanger isoform 1 was highly expressed in the brainstem-diencephalon, whereas the sodium-bicarbonate co-transporter was robustly expressed in the cerebellum and brainstem-diencephalon. These data indicate that the expression of sodium-hydrogen exchanger and sodium-bicarbonate co-transporter proteins varies as a function of both development and specific brain region.
Small conductance calcium-activated potassium channels are voltage independent potassium channels which modulate the firing patterns of neurons by activating the slow component of the afterhyperpolarization. The genes encoding a family of small conductance calcium-activated potassium channels have been cloned and up to now three known members have been described and named small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel type 1, small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel type 2 and small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel type 3; the distribution of their messenger RNA in the rat CNS has already been performed but only in a limited detail. The present study represents the first detailed analysis of small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel type 3 mRNA distribution in the adult rat brain and resulted in a strong to moderate expression of signal in medial habenular nucleus, substantia nigra compact part, suprachiasmatic nucleus, ventral tegmental area, lateral septum, dorsal raphe and locus coeruleus. Immunohistological experiments were also performed and confirmed the presence of small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel type 3 protein in medial habenular nucleus, locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe. Given the importance of dorsal raphe, locus coeruleus and substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area for serotonergic, noradrenergic and dopaminergic transmission respectively, our results pose the morphological basis for further studies on the action of small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel type 3 in serotonergic, noradrenergic and dopaminergic transmission.
Histamine H(2) receptor expression was studied in adult and developing rat brain. Northern blot and in situ hybridizations indicated that histamine H(2) receptor messenger RNA expression is widespread and not limited to neurons in the adult rat brain. Prominent H(2) receptor expression in the adult brain was seen in the dentate gyrus, hippocampal subfields CA1-CA3, piriform cortex and in some diencephalic nuclei, e.g. in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and the red nucleus. Most of the adult brain nuclei displayed a very low H(2) receptor expression. Histamine H(2) receptor was also expressed during development in widespread areas of the central nervous system, coinciding with the transient production of histamine in the raphe neurons at embryonic day 15. From embryonic days 16 and 17 until birth, histamine H(2) receptor expression in the cortical plate coincided with the development and sprouting of histaminergic fibers into the cerebral cortex. The widespread and diffuse expression of histamine H(2) receptors in the adult rat brain suggests that the H(2) receptor modulates the excitability of neuron and astrocyte functions in many brain areas rather than mediating targeted cell-to-cell signals. During development, histamine H(2) receptor expression is seen in several target areas for the histaminergic fibers. This could indicate that histamine, through the H(2) receptor, regulates fetal development of the brain.
Neuronal axons are cellular extensions that can reach more than a meter in length. To maintain such a structure, macromolecules synthesized in cell bodies must be transported to the distal axons. Proteins associated with membranous organelles are generally transported in several fast transported groups, while cytoplasmic proteins, mostly composed of cytoskeletal proteins, are transported in slowly transported groups. Neurofilaments are a main component in the slowly transported group. Composed of three polypeptide subunits (NF-H, NF-M and NF-L), they are the most abundant cytoskeletal element in large myelinated axons. In various neurological or neurotoxic disorders, selective accumulation of neurofilaments was observed in different compartments of a neuron (cell bodies, proximal or distal axons). The underlying mechanism for this regional selectivity has been unclear. Using the classical pulse labeling method, we examined the changes in neurofilament transport velocity in transgenic mice that overexpress different neurofilament subunits. We present evidence that at least three velocities of neurofilament transport exist along peripheral motor axons. Each of these velocities was altered differently depending on which neurofilament subunit was overexpressed. We suggest that neurofilament transport in motor axons consists of multiple successive stages and that each of these stages is carried out by different transport mechanisms. These differences provide a basis for the regional deficiencies in axonal transport associated with several neurological disorders.
While clinical characteristics of diabetic painful neuropathy are well described, the underlying electrophysiological basis of the exaggerated painful response to stimuli, as well as the presence of spontaneous pain, are poorly understood. In order to elucidate peripheral contributions to painful diabetic neuropathy, we quantitatively evaluated the function of C-fibers in a rat model of painful diabetic neuropathy, diabetes induced by the pancreatic beta-cell toxin streptozotocin. While there was no significant effect of diabetes on conduction velocity, mechanical threshold or spontaneous activity, the number of action potentials in response to sustained threshold and suprathreshold mechanical stimuli was significantly increased in the diabetic rats. Moreover, there was a clustering of responses of C-fibers in diabetic rats; while two-thirds of C-fibers fired at the same mean frequency as C-fibers in control rats, one-third of C-fibers in diabetic rats were markedly hyper-responsive, demonstrating a threefold increase in firing frequency. The high-firing-frequency C-fibers in rats with diabetes also had faster conduction velocity than the low-firing-frequency C-fibers in rats with diabetes or in C-fibers in control rats. The hyper-responsiveness was characterized by a selective increase of the shortest interspike intervals (&lt;100ms) in the burst component (first 10s) of the response to a sustained suprathreshold stimulus; in the plateau phase (last 50s) of the response to a 60-s suprathreshold stimulus, we found a selective increase of interspike intervals between 100 and 300ms in hyper-responsive C-fibers in rats with diabetes. The hyper-responsiveness did not correlate with mechanical threshold, presence of spontaneous activity or location of the fiber's receptive field. In summary, in an established model of painful diabetic neuropathy in the rat, a subset of C-fibers demonstrated a marked hyper-responsiveness to mechanical stimuli. The subset was also found to have a greater mean conduction velocity than the fibers not demonstrating this hyper-responsivity. The present findings suggest that study of individual neurons in vitro may allow elucidation of the ionic basis of enhanced nociception in diabetic neuropathy.
The cloning of the receptor for capsaicin, vanilloid receptor 1, has shown it to be non-selective cation channel with a high calcium permeability which can be opened by noxious heat as well as capsaicin. Here we compare the calcium signals produced by native and recombinant capsaicin receptors when activated by either heat or capsaicin by imaging intracellular calcium levels ([Ca2+](i)) in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons and Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with the rat vanilloid receptor, vanilloid receptor 1. Vanilloid receptor 1 transfected cells and a subset of dorsal root ganglion neurons responded to both capsaicin and to heating to 50 degrees C with rapid, substantial and reversible rises in [Ca2+](i). All except one of the dorsal root ganglion neurons responsive to capsaicin also showed sensitivity to heat, and most, but not all, heat-sensitive neurons also responded to capsaicin. Both capsaicin and heat responses were dependent on the presence of extracellular Ca2+. Non-transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells and non-responsive dorsal root ganglion neurons showed only small rises in [Ca2+](i) in response to heat which did not depend on the presence of external Ca2+. Responsive dorsal root ganglion neurons and vanilloid receptor 1 transfected cells showed a clear temperature threshold, above which [Ca2+](i) increased rapidly. This was estimated to be 42.6+/-0.3 degrees C for vanilloid receptor 1 transfected cells and 42.0+/-0.6 degrees C for dorsal root ganglion neurons. The competitive capsaicin antagonist capsazepine (10microM) abolished [Ca2+](i) increases stimulated by capsaicin in both dorsal root ganglion neurons and vanilloid receptor 1 transfected cells. However, responses to heat of a similar magnitude in the same cells were inhibited by only 37% by capsazepine (10microM). In vanilloid receptor 1 transfected cells, Ruthenium Red (10microM) blocked responses to both capsaicin and heat. These results demonstrate that imaging of [Ca2+](i) can identify dorsal root ganglion neurons which are responsive to both heat and capsaicin. They show that heat and capsaicin responses mediated by native and recombinant capsaicin receptors are similar with respect to the characteristics and pharmacology examined, suggesting that expression of recombinant vanilloid receptor 1 in cell lines accurately reproduces the properties of the native receptor.
Lamina I of the spinal dorsal horn contains a diverse mixture of neurons. Among these, a group of giant neurons (Waldeyer cells) has long been recognized. In this study we have used immunocytochemistry to characterize a population of Waldeyer cells which were identified by the presence of high levels of the glycine receptor-associated protein gephyrin on their cell bodies and proximal dendrites. Most of these cells (27/29) were retrogradely labelled after injection of cholera toxin B subunit into the parabrachial area, and the majority (26/30) expressed the protein product of immediate-early gene c-fos, Fos, following noxious stimulation. Unlike many lamina I projection neurons, these cells either lacked the neurokinin 1 receptor, or expressed it at a very low level. Most of the gephyrin puncta on the cells were adjacent to axons that contained glutamate decarboxylase (and were therefore presumably GABAergic), which suggests that the cells are under powerful inhibitory control. Only around 35% of the puncta were associated with axons that expressed the glycine transporter GLYT2 (a marker for glycinergic axons); however, the glycine receptor alpha1 subunit was present at all of the gephyrin puncta on these cells. The cells received synapses from axons that contained nitric oxide synthase, most of which were also GABAergic, and in some cases this input was so dense that it outlined the cell bodies and dendrites. The innervation by nitric oxide synthase-containing axons was selective for these cells, compared to other neurons in the dorsal horn. From the results of this study we suggest that the gephyrin-rich cells form a specific population of lamina I projection neurons which convey noxious information to the brain. These cells are under powerful inhibitory control, and the study provides further evidence that inhibitory circuits in the dorsal horn are organized in a specific manner.
Several lines of evidence have suggested that acetylcholine is a possible neurotransmitter/neuromodulator involved in vestibular compensation. Further, the central vestibular system, oculo- and spino-motor neurons and peripheral vestibular efferents contain abundant cholinergic neurons. However, details of cholinergic effective sites during vestibular compensation remain to be clarified. In the present study, we selectively damaged rat vestibulo-floccular and vestibulo-uvulonodular cholinergic mossy fibers using ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ions. In these treated animals, unilateral labyrinthectomy caused more severe vestibulo-ocular deficits especially during the initial stage. From these findings we suggest that vestibulo-floccular and vestibulo-uvulonodular cholinergic mossy fibers contribute to the restoration of a balance between intervestibular nuclear activities for the induction of vestibular compensation during the initial stage.
Transgenic mice bearing a transgene coding for a glucocorticoid receptor antisense mRNA, which partially blocks glucocorticoid receptor expression, were used to investigate the long-term effect of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis dysfunction on brain dopamine transmission. Compared to control mice, the transgenic animals showed increased amphetamine-induced locomotor activity and increased concentrations of striatal dopamine and its metabolites dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid. Binding of [3H]SCH 23390 and [3H]spiperone to, respectively, D1 and D2 dopamine receptors was increased in transgenic mice. In contrast, autoradiography of striatal [3H]GBR 12935 binding to the dopamine transporter was decreased and the mRNA levels of this transporter, measured by in situ hybridization, remained unchanged in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The effect of chronic treatment for two weeks with amitriptyline or fluoxetine was compared in control and transgenic mice. No significant changes were observed in control mice following antidepressant treatment, whereas in transgenic mice both antidepressants reduced striatal [3H]SCH 23390 and [3H]raclopride specific binding to D1 and D2 receptors. Amitriptyline, but not fluoxetine, increased striatal [3H]GBR 12935 binding to the dopamine transporter, whereas its mRNA level in the substantia nigra pars compacta was decreased in fluoxetine, compared to vehicle- or amitriptyline-treated transgenic mice. From these results we suggest that hyperactive dopaminergic activity of the nigrostriatal pathway controls motor activity in the transgenic mice. Furthermore, antidepressant treatment corrected the increased striatal D1 and D2 receptors and decreased dopamine transporter levels in the transgenic mice.
Neuron death in Alzheimer's disease is believed to be triggered by an increased production of amyloidogenic beta-amyloid peptides, involving both increased oxidative stress and activation of a conserved death program. Bcl-xL, an anti-apoptotic protein of the Bcl-2 family, is expressed at high levels in the adult nervous system. Exposure of neuronal cultures to subtoxic concentrations of beta-amyloid peptide 1-40 (1-10microM) or the fragment 25-35 (1-10microM) up-regulated both bcl-xL mRNA and Bcl-xL protein levels, determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis. Bcl-xL protein was also up-regulated during oxidative stress induced by exposure to hydrogen peroxide (3-100microM) or ferric ions (1-10microM). In contrast, apoptotic stimuli (exposure to staurosporine or serum withdrawal) actually decreased neuronal Bcl-xL expression. To investigate the role of Bcl-xL in cell death relevant to Alzheimer's disease, we stably overexpressed Bcl-xL in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Cells overexpressing Bcl-xL were significantly protected from beta-amyloid neurotoxicity and staurosporine-induced apoptosis compared to vector-transfected controls. In contrast, Bcl-xL overexpression only conferred a mild protection against oxidative injury induced by hydrogen peroxide. We conclude that up-regulation of Bcl-xL expression in response to subtoxic concentrations of beta-amyloid is a stress response that increases the resistance of neurons to beta-amyloid neurotoxicity primarily by inhibiting apoptotic processes.
Loss of cholinergic neurons is found in the medial septum and nucleus basalis of Meynert in Alzheimer's disease. Recent observations suggest that cholinergic neurons down-regulate their phenotype and that growth factors may rescue cholinergic neurons. The aim of this study was to investigate whether cholinergic neurons of the basal nucleus of Meynert can be cultured in rat organotypic slices, and if nerve growth factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor can rescue the cholinergic phenotype. In the organotypic slices, glial cells, GABAergic and cholinergic neurons were visualized using immunohistochemistry. The number of cholinergic neurons was found to be very low in slices cultured without exogenous nerve growth factor. Analysis of nerve growth factor tissue levels by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed very low endogenous tissue levels. When slices were incubated with 100ng/ml nerve growth factor during the initial phase of culturing, a stable expression of choline acetyltransferase was found for up to several weeks. After eight weeks in culture with nerve growth factor or two to three weeks after nerve growth factor withdrawal, numbers of detected cholinergic neurons decreased. Neurons incubated with nerve growth factor displayed a significantly enlarged cell soma compared to neurons without growth factors. In cultures incubated for up to nine weeks, it was also found that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor was capable of restoring the cholinergic phenotype. The low-affinity p75 and high-affinity trkA receptors, as well as the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor receptor GFRalpha-1, could be visualized in slices using immunohistochemistry. In conclusion, it is shown that, in the axotomized organotypic slice model, the number of cholinergic neurons is decreased, but can be partly restored by nerve growth factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor.
Resting and evoked extracellular dopamine levels in the striatum of the anesthetized rat were measured by fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in conjunction with carbon fiber microelectrodes. Identification of the substance detected in vivo was achieved by inspection of background-subtracted voltammograms. Intrastriatal microinfusion of kynurenate, a broad-spectrum antagonist of ionotropic glutamate receptors, caused a decrease in the resting extracellular level of dopamine. The kynurenate-induced decrease was unaffected by systemic pretreatment with pargyline, an inhibitor of monoamine oxidase, but was significantly attenuated by systemic pretreatment with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, an inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase. Although glutamate by itself did not affect resting extracellular dopamine levels, glutamate did attenuate the kynurenate-induced decrease. Kynurenate decreased dopamine release in response to electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle, an effect that was also attenuated by glutamate. These results suggest that both spontaneous and evoked dopamine release in the rat striatum are under the local tonic excitatory influence of glutamate. Interactions between central dopamine and glutamate systems that have been implicated in the etiologies of Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, stress, and substance abuse. The precise nature of those interactions, however, remains a matter of some controversy.
Dual-probe microdialysis in the awake rat was employed to investigate the effects of intranigral perfusion with the tridecapeptide neurotensin on local dialysate glutamate and GABA levels in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and on dialysate GABA levels in the ventral thalamus. Intranigral neurotensin (10-300nM, 60min) dose-dependently increased (+29+/-3% and +46+/-3% vs basal for the 100 and 300nM concentrations, respectively) local dialysate glutamate levels, while the highest 300nM concentration of the peptide exerted a long-lasting and prolonged reduction in both local and ventral thalamic (-20+/-4% and -22+/-2%, respectively) GABA levels. Intranigral perfusion with the inactive neurotensin fragment neurotensin(1-7) (10-300nM, 60min) was without effect. Furthermore, the non-peptide neurotensin receptor antagonist SR 48692 (0.2mg/kg) and tetrodotoxin (1microM) fully counteracted the intranigral neurotensin (300nM)-induced increase in local glutamate. SR 48692 (0.2mg/kg) also counteracted the decreases in nigral and ventral thalamic GABA release induced by the peptide. In addition, intranigral perfusion with the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist raclopride (1microM) fully antagonized the neurotensin (300nM)-induced decreases in nigral and ventral thalamic GABA levels. The ability of nigral neurotensin receptor activation to differently influence glutamate and GABA levels, whereby it increases nigral glutamate and decreases both nigral and ventral thalamic GABA levels, suggests the involvement of neurotensin receptor in the regulation of basal ganglia output at the level of the nigra.
The existence of presynaptic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA)-type glutamate autoreceptors on glutamate nerve terminals in vitro has recently been demonstrated using synaptosomal and brain slice preparations. In the present study we have used a modification of a rapid dual-label intracerebral microdialysis method, previously developed by Young and co-workers(80,81) for the study of presynaptic mechanisms of neurotransmitter release, to investigate whether presynaptic AMPA receptors also play a role in the control of striatal glutamate release in vivo. For comparative purposes, the action of locally applied AMPA on striatal GABA release in vivo was also monitored. Local application of AMPA (0.01-100 microM), by reverse dialysis, into the striatum resulted in concentration-dependent increases in the Ca(2+)-dependent efflux of both [3H]L-glutamate and [14C]GABA. Maximum responses reached 142.0+/-6.5% and 166.8+/-7.7% of basal efflux for [3H]L-glutamate and [14C]GABA, respectively. No marked behavioural changes were observed at any dose of the agonist. Unexpectedly, the AMPA-evoked responses were not potentiated by the AMPA receptor desensitization inhibitors cyclothiazide (10-100microM) or aniracetam (1mM). Consistent with this finding, AMPA-stimulated [3H]L-glutamate and [14C]GABA efflux were significantly attenuated by co-perfusion with the selective, competitive AMPA receptor antagonist 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo(F)quinoxaline-2,3-dione (100microM) but not 1-(aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylendioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine (100microM), a non-competitive AMPA receptor antagonist known to interact with the cyclothiazide site to control AMPA receptor function. The broad spectrum ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, kynurenic acid (100-1000microM) also markedly inhibited the AMPA-evoked responses in the striatum in vivo. None of the antagonists, when given alone, influenced basal efflux of [3H]L-glutamate suggesting a lack of tonic regulatory control of glutamate release via presynaptic AMPA-type autoreceptors in the rat striatum. These results demonstrate the presence of presynaptic AMPA receptors, of a novel cyclothiazide- and aniracetam-insensitive subtype, on presynaptic nerve terminals in the rat striatum in vivo, acting to enhance glutamate and GABA release. Our data support the concept of AMPA receptor heterogeneity in vivo, a finding which may facilitate the development of novel, more selective drugs for the treatment of a range of neurological disorders associated with abnormal cerebral glutamate release. The pharmacological profile of these novel presynaptic receptors is currently under investigation.
The aim of the present study was to determine whether early environment affects the morphology of the dentate gyrus granule cells in the guinea-pig, a rodent whose brain is at an advanced stage of maturation at birth. Male and female guinea-pigs were assigned at six to seven days of age to either a control (social) or an isolated environment where they remained for 80-90 days. The dendritic tree and somata of the granule cells were quantified in Golgi-Cox-stained brains. The granule cells of isolated males had fewer dendritic branches and a shorter dendritic length than those of control males in the inner two-thirds of the dendritic tree, but a larger number of branches and a larger dendritic length in the distal one-fourth. In contrast, the granule cells of isolated females had a larger number of branches and a larger dendritic length than control females in the inner one-half of the dendritic tree and a reduced number of branches and a shorter dendritic length in the distal one-fourth. The granule cell somata were smaller in isolated than in control males. No such difference was observed in females. Sex differences were found in the granule cell morphology. In the control environment, the granule cells of males had more branches and a greater dendritic length in the inner one-half of the dendritic tree than those of females but fewer dendritic branches and a shorter dendritic length in the distal one-fourth. In the isolated environment, the granule cells of males had fewer branches and a shorter dendritic length in the inner two-thirds of the dendritic tree than females, but more dendritic branches and a greater dendritic length in the distal one-fourth. In the control environment male granule cells had a larger soma than those of females. The opposite occurred in the isolated environment. The results of this study indicate that early isolation induces remarkable structural changes in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus in a rodent whose brain is at an advanced stage of maturation at birth. They also indicate that the effects of environment are different at different levels of the dendritic tree and in the two sexes.
Neuronal accumulation of excess Ca2+ has been implicated in cellular death following several forms of physical and chemotoxic insult. Recent studies have suggested that exposure to agonists at brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors reduces cytotoxic consequences of increased intracellular Ca2+ following some insults. In the present study, the ability of chronic exposure to (-)-nicotine to reduce cytotoxicity and attenuate increases in intracellular Ca2+ caused by exposure to N-methyl-D-aspartate were examined in organotypic cultures of rat hippocampus. Cultures were exposed to nicotine (0.1-10.0 microM) for five days prior to excitotoxic insult with N-methyl-D-aspartate. Exposure to N-methyl-D-aspartate produced concentration-dependent increases in both accumulation of 45Ca and in early and delayed cell death in the CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus regions of cultures. The CA1 region of the hippocampus displayed the greatest sensitivity to cytotoxic effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate exposure; however, this regional difference was not associated with increased accumulation of 45Ca. Prior exposure to nicotine markedly attenuated N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced early and delayed cell death in each hippocampal region at concentrations as low as 0.1microM. However, nicotine did not alter the initial N-methyl-D-aspartate-stimulated influx of 45Ca or enhance extrusion of accumulated 45Ca measured at several time-points after insult. Five days of exposure to nicotine markedly increased immunoreactivity of the Ca2+ binding protein calbindin-D28K in each region of hippocampal cultures, effects reduced by mecamylamine co-exposure. These findings suggest that the potent protective effects of chronic nicotine exposure against neuronal overexcitation are not likely attributable to attenuations of Ca2+ accumulation, but are likely related to increased buffering of accumulated Ca2+.
The postsynaptic density is a highly dynamic structure, which is reorganized in an activity-dependent manner. An animal model for temporal lobe epilepsy, i.e. kainate-induced limbic seizures in rats, was used to study changes in postsynaptic density composition after extensive synaptic activity. Six hours after kainate injection, the protein content of the postsynaptic density fractions from rats that developed strong seizures was increased three-fold compared to saline-treated controls. Immunoblot analysis revealed that the relative amounts of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha, N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein, protein kinases C, Fyn and TrkB, as well as the neuronal nitric oxide synthase, were significantly higher in seizure-developing than in control rats. In contrast, the relative contents of the kainate receptor KA2 subunit, beta-actin, alpha-adducin and the membrane-associated guanylate kinase homolog SAP90/PSD-95 were decreased. The relative amounts of additional postsynaptic density proteins, including alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits, calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase type II, casein kinase 2, tubulin, microtubule-associated protein 2B, the membrane-associated guanylate kinase homolog SAP102, and proline-rich synapse-associated protein 1/cortactin binding protein 1/Shank2 remained essentially unchanged. To assess possible changes in postsynaptic performance, postsynaptic densities were isolated from control and epileptic rats, incorporated into giant liposomes and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor currents were recorded. A significant reduction in the mean conductance was observed in patches containing postsynaptic densities from animals with high seizure activity. This was due to the presence of reduced conductance levels in each membrane patch compared to control postsynaptic density preparations. From these data, we suggest that intense synaptic activity associated with seizures modifies the composition of postsynaptic densities and has profound consequences on the function of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors present in them. This rearrangement may accompany impairment of synaptic plasticity.
Entorhinal cortex layer V occupies a critical position in temporal lobe circuitry since, on the one hand, it serves as the main conduit for the flow of information out of the hippocampal formation back to the neocortex and, on the other, it closes a hippocampal-entorhinal loop by projecting upon the superficial cell layers that give rise to the perforant path. Recent in vitro electrophysiological studies have shown that rat entorhinal cortex layer V cells are endowed with the ability to generate subthreshold oscillations and all-or-none, low-threshold depolarizing potentials. In the present study, by applying current-clamp, voltage-clamp and single-channel recording techniques in rat slices and dissociated neurons, we investigated whether entorhinal cortex layer V cells express a persistent sodium current and sustained sodium channel activity to evaluate the contribution of this activity to the subthreshold behavior of the cells. Sharp-electrode recording in slices demonstrated that layer V cells display tetrodotoxin-sensitive inward rectification in the depolarizing direction, suggesting that a persistent sodium current is present in the cells. Subthreshold oscillations and low-threshold regenerative events were also abolished by tetrodotoxin, suggesting that their generation also requires the activation of such a low-threshold sodium current. The presence of a persistent sodium current was confirmed in whole-cell voltage-clamp experiments, which revealed that its activation &quot;threshold&quot; was negative by about 10mV to that of the transient sodium current. Furthermore, stationary noise analysis and cell-attached, patch-clamp recordings indicated that whole-cell persistent sodium currents were mediated by persistent sodium channel activity, consisting of relatively high-conductance ( approximately 18pS) sustained openings. The presence of a persistent sodium current in entorhinal cortex layer V cells can cause the generation of oscillatory behavior, bursting activity and sustained discharge; this might be implicated in the encoding of memories in which the entorhinal cortex participates but, under pathological situations, may also contribute to epileptogenesis and neurodegeneration.
We have qualitatively and quantitatively analysed the anatomical connections within and between rat primary visual cortex (V1) and the rim region surrounding area V1, using both ortho- and retrograde anatomical tracers (biotinylated dextran amine, biocytin, cholera toxin b subunit). From the analysis of the projection patterns, and with the assumption that single points in the rat visual cortex, as in other species, have projection fields made up of multiple patches of terminals, we have concluded that just two V1 recipient areas occupy the entire rim region: an anterolateral area, probably homologous with V2 in other mammals, previously named Oc2L, and a medial area, corresponding to Oc2M. A non-reciprocal projection from the anterolateral area to the medial area was identified. Small injections (300-600microm uptake zone diameter) of the anatomical tracers in area V1, or in the rim region, label orthograde intra-areal connections from each injection site to offset small patches. This is found in all regions of the rim and within at least the relatively expanded central dorsal field representation of V1. From the extent of these projections in V1 and the two rim regions, we have estimated that the neurons at the injection site send diverging laterally spreading projections to other neurons whose receptive fields share any part of the area included in the pooled receptive fields of the neurons at the injection site. Orthogradely labelled inter-areal feedforward projections from V1 to either rim region are estimated to diverge in their projections to neurons that share any part of the area of the pooled receptive fields of the V1 intra-areal connectional field of the same injection. The orthogradely labelled feedback projections to V1, from injection sites in either rim region, reach V1 neurons whose pooled receptive fields match those of the neurons in the rim injection site, i.e. with no divergence. Despite patchy anatomical connectional fields, our estimates indicate that visual space is represented continuously in the receptive fields of neurons postsynaptic to each intra- or inter-areal field of orthograde label. We suggest that, despite the absence of regularly mapped functions in rat V1 (e.g. regularly arranged orientation specificity), which in other species (e.g. primates and cats) relate to the patchy connectional patterns, the rat visual cortex intra- and inter-areal anatomical connections follow similar patterns and scaling factors to those in other species.
In vivo chronic partial isolation of neocortical islands results in epileptogenesis that involves pyramidal neurons of layer V. To test whether an alteration in glutamate receptors might contribute to the epileptiform activity, we analysed the time-course of light microscopic changes in expression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptors using subunit-specific antibodies. The isolation caused a rapid down-regulation of immunoreactivity for GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits in deep layer V pyramidal neurons within the neocortical island which was evident 24h post-lesion, and within three days was reduced to about 40-60% of the control level. Many pyramidal cells in deep layer V completely lacked GluR2. Between one and four weeks of survival, down-regulation of GluR2/3 and GluR2 involved the majority of pyramidal layer V neurons, except for cells in the upper part of layer V, and those within narrow areas of all sub-laminae of layer V (&quot;micro-islands&quot;). Initial down-regulation was also observed one to three days post-lesion for subunits 1 and 2 of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, but in contrast to GluR2/3 immunoreactivity, NMDAR2A/B immunoreactivity was enhanced three weeks post-lesion. The present data provide evidence for plastic changes in glutamate receptors in neurons of partially isolated neocortical island. A sub-population of layer V neurons remains relatively unaffected, and would presumably be capable of generating fast glutamatergic synaptic potentials necessary for the development of synchronous epileptiform activity.
In the present work, we investigated lasting changes induced by olfactory learning at different levels of the olfactory pathways. For this, evoked field potentials induced by electrical stimulation of the olfactory bulb were recorded simultaneously in the anterior piriform cortex, the posterior piriform cortex, the lateral entorhinal cortex and the dentate gyrus. The amplitude of the evoked field potential's main component was measured in each site before, immediately after, and 20 days after completion of associative learning. Evoked field potential recordings were carried out under two experimental conditions in the same animals: awake and anesthetized. In the learning task, rats were trained to associate electrical stimulation of one olfactory bulb electrode with the delivery of sucrose (positive reward), and stimulation of a second olfactory bulb electrode with the delivery of quinine (negative reward). In this way, stimulation of the same olfactory bulb electrodes used for inducing field potentials served as a discriminative cue in the learning paradigm. The data showed that positively reinforced learning resulted in a lasting increase in evoked field potential amplitude restricted to posterior piriform cortex and lateral entorhinal cortex. In contrast, negatively reinforced learning was mainly accompanied by a decrease in evoked field potential amplitude in the dentate gyrus. Moreover, the expression of these learning-related changes occurred to be modulated by the animals arousal state. Indeed, the comparison between anesthetized versus awake animals showed that although globally similar, the changes were expressed earlier with respect to learning, under anesthesia than in the awake state. From these data we suggest that associative olfactory learning involves different neural circuits depending on the acquired value of the stimulus. Furthermore, they show the existence of a functional dissociation between anterior and posterior piriform cortex in mnesic processes, and stress the importance of the animal's arousal state on the expression of learning-induced plasticity.
Unilateral olfactory deprivation in the rat induces changes in the catecholaminergic system of the olfactory bulb. Nevertheless, evidence suggests that unilateral deprivation does not fully prevent stimulation of the deprived bulb. The present report analyses the response of the catecholaminergic system of the olfactory bulb in fully deprived rats obtained by bilateral naris occlusion. The complete deprivation produces more rapid and dramatic changes in both the intrinsic and extrinsic catecholaminergic systems of the olfactory bulb. Intrinsic responses involve a rapid decrease in dopamine-containing cells to about 25% of controls, correlated with a decreased Fos expression in juxtaglomerular cells of all olfactory glomeruli, with the only exception of those of the atypical glomeruli which maintain unaltered expression of both markers. In parallel with these events, there is a progressive increase in the density of extrinsic noradrenergic axons arising from neurons in the locus coeruleus, which shows, in parallel, a progressive increase in Fos expression. This model demonstrates plastic changes in the catecholaminergic system of the olfactory bulb forming a valid morphological substrate for lowering thresholds in the processing of olfactory information. In addition to this generalized response, there is another one, directed to a specific subset of olfactory glomeruli (atypical glomeruli) involved in the processing of odor pheromone-like cues related to behavioral responses, that could be responsible for keeping active this reduced and selected group of glomeruli carrying crucial olfactory information. These results indicate the existence of adaptive changes in the catecholaminergic system of the olfactory bulb as a response to the lack of afferent peripheral stimulation. These changes involve dopamine- and noradrenaline-immunoreactive elements, in a strategy presumably directed at maintaining to the highest possible level the ability to detect olfactory signals.
Rat brain presynaptic 5-HT3 serotonin receptors, members of the ligand-gated ion channel superfamily, induce changes in nerve terminal [Ca2+]i in a manner distinct from that found for somatic 5-HT3 receptors. Here, we assessed the role of postsynaptic target in regulating the nature of presynaptic receptor-induced responses, using the hybrid neuroblastoma cell line NG108-15 as a model neuronal system that expresses 5-HT3 receptors. Using immunocytochemistry, 5-HT3 receptors were found to be present on the presynaptic-like varicosities of differentiated NG108-15 cells, indicating that these receptors possess an inherent ability to localize to potential presynaptic sites. In the absence of postsynaptic target, 5-HT3 receptors localized to the varicosities induce rapid but transient changes in [Ca2+]i that were initiated by voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, as assessed using Ca2+ channel blockers, these properties being typical of those found for somatic 5-HT3 receptors. In co-cultures containing rat myotubes, with which NG108-15 cells form functional cholinergic synapses, the 5-HT3 receptor-induced changes in [Ca2+]i in the axonal varicosities shifted over time (three to 10 days) to that found for brain nerve endings: sustained responses that were insensitive to blockade by antagonists of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. The effect of co-culturing myotubes with the NG108-15 cells was mimicked by conditioned media from myotube cultures. These results indicate that regulatory molecules from the target postsynaptic cell dictate the functional responses elicited by presynaptic 5-HT3 receptors. Because the target-induced changes required several days before they were evident, we hypothesize that changes in protein expression, perhaps the consequence of altered gene regulation, underlie the changes in the responses to 5-HT3 receptor activation in the axonal varicosities of this neuronal cell line.
Cholinergic neurons have both a low-affinity and a high-affinity choline transport process. The high-affinity choline transport is sodium dependent and thus it can be referred to as choline cotransport. Choline cotransport has been shown to be up-regulated by neuronal activity. Protein kinase C has also been shown to regulate choline cotransport. Both forms of regulation appear to modulate transport by altering the numbers of choline cotransporters in the nerve terminal membrane. The present study centers on choline cotransporter trafficking in Limulus brain hemi-slice preparations. The competitive, reversible, non-permeant ligand, [3H]hemicholinium-3, was used in binding studies to estimate the relative number of choline cotransporters in plasma membranes. The hemicholinium-3 mustard derivative has been shown to be an irreversible, highly selective, non-permeant ligand for the choline cotransporter, and was also used. Hemicholinium-3 mustard binding to the choline cotransporter blocked [3H]choline transport and [3H]hemicholinium-3 binding. Antecedent elevated potassium exposure of cholinergic tissues has been shown to up-regulate choline transport by the recruitment of additional choline cotransporters to surface membranes. This treatment was also effective in the recruitment of cotransporters following maximal inhibition by hemicholinium-3 mustard of brain hemi-slices. Long-term washout of hemicholinium-3 mustard in hemi-slices resulted in a time-dependent restoration of choline cotransport. Full recovery occurred within 2h. In uninhibited slice preparations, both staurosporine and chelerythrine, protein kinase C inhibitors, stimulated choline uptake. However, within a 1-h washout recovery of uptake following hemicholinium-3 mustard inhibition, the staurosporine responsive but not chelerythrine responsive transport had returned. On the basis of these findings, we hypothesize the existence of two distinct populations of cycling choline cotransporters, which includes inactive or &quot;silent&quot; transporters.
We have investigated the effect of free radicals on the electrical gap junctions between horizontal cells in the carp retina. In our previous study, L-buthionine sulfoximine, an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, caused uncoupling of horizontal cells four days after injection. In the present study, we have used paraquat, a generator of exogenous reactive oxygen species, to investigate whether it was the depletion of glutathione or an increase in the level of reactive oxygen species which resulted in horizontal cell uncoupling after L-buthionine sulfoximine injection. Intracellular recordings were made from L-type horizontal cells at various time-points after intravitreal injection of paraquat. Injection of 25nmol paraquat caused an increase in response amplitude to central spot light stimuli by two days after injection, which continued for a further two to three days and had almost disappeared by seven days after injection. There was also a sharp increase in reactive oxygen species production, peaking at four days and disappearing by seven days after injection, and an accompanying depletion and a restoration of glutathione levels with a similar time-course. Marking cells with Lucifer Yellow clearly illustrated uncoupling of horizontal cells after paraquat injection. If paraquat and L-buthionine sulfoximine were injected simultaneously, the increase in response to central spots was observed as early as one day after injection. This response amplitude was not more enhanced than that observed after L-buthionine sulfoximine injection alone, although a dramatic increase in the level of reactive oxygen species was observed. From these results, we suggest that reactive oxygen species are involved in uncoupling, while recovery from uncoupling is dependent on glutathione. Furthermore, we conclude that a balance between glutathione and reactive oxygen species levels is the most important factor controlling gap junctional intercellular communication of L-type horizontal cells in the carp retina.
The calcium ion serves many major roles in cellular processes, and therefore, its specific role in the regrowth of neurites after transection has been difficult to define. In the present study the effect of calcium on regrowth of transected rat superior cervical ganglion neurons in culture independent of its effects on neuronal survival was examined. Superior cervical ganglion neurons in culture for 10-14 days were preloaded with the calcium chelator 1,2 bis-(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid acetoxymethyl ester (BAPTA-AM), and then the neurites were transected. The chelation of calcium inhibited the initiation of regrowth, and also decreased the number of branches in the regrowing neurite. In a second experiment, neurites were transected in zero calcium medium to eliminate calcium influx, and no regrowth was observed for up to 6h after transection. At this time the medium was changed to 1.8mM calcium, and the neurites showed regrowth 2h afterwards. After neurite transection in 1.8mM calcium there was a rise in calcium in the soma demonstrated with the calcium indicator dye Fluo-3 AM. This rise was attenuated with BAPTA-AM preloading or transection in zero calcium medium. Cultures were also grown in compartmented chambers which allowed isolation of the cell body from the neurite environment, and then the neurites were transected with the neurites in 1.8mM calcium medium, and the cell bodies immersed in zero calcium medium. Under these conditions the majority of neurons showed a marked delay of initiation of regrowth. From these data we suggest the following about mammalian neurite regrowth after transection. (1) Calcium is necessary for the initiation of regeneration. (2) Calcium entry at the cell body is necessary for optimal initiation of neurite regrowth. (3) Intracellular calcium is necessary for the branching of regrowing neurites.
Formalin injected subcutaneously into the paw is a widely used model of pain. This procedure evokes a short-lasting period of flinching (phase 1) and a long-lasting period of intense flinching (phase 2) following a very short period of quiescence. Phase 2 has been extensively used to support the involvement of central (spinal cord) sensitization in inflammatory hyperalgesia. The present study evaluated the contribution of stimulation of peripheral nociceptors by the release of endogenous mediators at the site of lesion. The participation of histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine was demonstrated by the treatment of the rat hindpaws with selective histamine H1 (pyrilamine and meclizine) and histamine H2 (cimetidine) receptor antagonists or selective 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) (WAY100,135) and 5-hydroxytryptamine(4/3) (tropisetron) receptor antagonists. The co-administration of pyrilamine or meclizine with formalin (1%) significantly reduced phases 1 and 2, while cimetidine had no effect. Pyrilamine administration during the period of quiescence (10min after formalin administration) caused strong dose-related inhibition of phase 2. The co-administration of tropisetron with formalin caused a blockade of both phases, while with WAY100,135 caused only inhibition of the phase 2. In contrast, tropisetron administrated during the period of quiescence did not cause antinociception. Histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors could be strongly activated in nave animals by administration of a mixture of both agonists or compound 48/80 (2microg/paw) which is known to release both mediators from mast cells. Pretreatment of the paws with a mast cell stabilizer, sodium cromoglycate, significantly reduced the second phase of the formalin injection model. From these results we suggest that phases 1 and 2 of the formalin test are dependent upon the ongoing afferent input. Furthermore, while histamine H1 participates in both phases, 5-hydroxytryptamine(4/3) participates in phase 1 and 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) in phase 2.
Using immunohistochemistry we examined the distribution of corticotropin-releasing factor-positive cerebellar afferents and the topological relationship between their projections and the distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive Purkinje cells in an ataxic mutant, rolling mouse Nagoya. In the mutants, some climbing fibers were more intensely stained for corticotropin-releasing factor, but their zonal distribution remained the same as in non-ataxic littermates (control mice). These climbing fibers arose from the dorsal accessory nucleus, the ventral lamella of principal nucleus, the dorsomedial cell group, the subnucleus A, the beta subnucleus and the ventrolateral protrusion of the inferior olive, since perikarya in these olivary subdivisions were more intensely stained for corticotropin-releasing factor than in controls. Some mossy fiber rosettes in the vermal lobules, the simple lobule, the crus I of ansiform lobule, the copula pyramidis and the flocculus also exhibited corticotropin-releasing factor immunoreactivity and were more densely stained in the mutants than in controls. Double immunostaining for corticotropin-releasing factor and tyrosine hydroxylase in the mutant cerebellum revealed that the distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive Purkinje cells corresponded to terminal fields of corticotropin-releasing factor-positive climbing fibers but not corticotropin-releasing factor-positive mossy fibers. This study indicated an increased corticotropin-releasing factor immunoreactivity in some climbing or mossy fibers in the cerebellum of rolling mouse Nagoya. We also found that the distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive Purkinje cells corresponded to terminal fields of corticotropin-releasing factor-positive climbing fibers in the mutant cerebellum. As the transcription of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene is facilitated by Ca2+, abnormal tyrosine hydroxylase expression in the mutant Purkinje cells may indicate functional abnormality by alterations in intracellular Ca2+ concentrations. Therefore, we suggest that an increased level of corticotropin-releasing factor in a specific population of climbing fibers may alter the function of their target Purkinje cells.
The influence of neonatal serotoninergic lesion (performed with s.c. injection of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine) on the plasticity of the developing corticotectal projection was studied in the gray short-tailed opossum (Monodelphis domestica). As a first step, the placement and density of neurons projecting from the visual cortical areas to the superior colliculus was established in the adult opossum. Injections of retrogradely transported fluorescent dyes into the superior colliculus of intact three-month-old animals labeled neurons of cortical layer V. In this species, there are three visual areas: the striate area and two secondary areas, the laterally placed peristriate area and the medial visual area. The population of the labeled neurons was denser in peristriate and medial visual areas than in the striate area. Secondly, the influence of neonatal monocular enucleation on the extent of this projection was investigated, alone or in combination with a serotoninergic lesion. Injection of dyes into the superior colliculi of three-month-old animals that were unilaterally enucleated on the second postnatal day also labeled neurons of cortical layer V. However, the density of the cortical neurons projecting to the superior colliculus contralateral to the remaining eye was much lower. This reduction was most profound in the striate visual area. No significant modifications of this projection were found on the side ipsilateral to the remaining eye. In another group of opossums, unilateral enucleation on the second postnatal day was combined with serotoninergic lesion. Brains of some of the treated pups were immunostained for serotonin on the fifth postnatal day. At this age, 70-80% of serotoninergic axons in the brain were missing. However, in about three weeks these axons had regrown, and their density in the neocortex was approximately the same as in the control animals. We conclude that severe reduction of the serotoninergic innervation during the early postnatal period did not influence the plastic changes induced in the corticotectal projection by unilateral enucleation.
Activation of the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray produces immobility and antinociception. It has been argued that these behaviors are part of either a defensive fear response to threat or a recuperative quiescence response to deep tissue injury. Data collected in anesthetized animals showing that activation of the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray has a hypotensive effect supports the quiescence hypothesis. Our objective was to determine whether activation of the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray in awake, freely moving rats results in a decrease in blood pressure as it does in anesthetized animals. Changes in blood pressure produced by microinjection of the neuroexcitant D,L-homocysteic acid were measured using radio telemetry while rats were awake and while anesthetized with pentobarbital. Consistent with earlier reports, microinjection of D,L-homocysteic acid into the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray caused a decrease in blood pressure in anesthetized rats. In contrast, microinjection at the same ventrolateral periaqueductal gray sites while rats were awake had no effect on blood pressure, even though the animals became immobile and heart rate decreased. Thus, the immobility evoked from ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is not associated with a fall in mean arterial pressure. Two conclusions can be drawn from these data. (1) Caution must be used in generalizing from data collected in anesthetized animals. (2) The ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is as likely to contribute to defensive fear as to recuperative quiescence.
We reported that the activities of phospholipase A2, phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase and phosphoethanolamine cytidylyltransferase, key phospholipid metabolic enzymes, are low in substantia nigra of normal human brain and that this might reduce the ability of nigral neurons to repair damage to cell membranes. To determine whether adaptive changes in nigral phospholipid metabolism can occur in idiopathic Parkinson's disease we compared activities of 11 catabolic and anabolic enzymes in autopsied brain of 10 patients with Parkinson's disease to those in control subjects. Nigral activity of the catabolic enzyme phospholipase A2 was normal in the Parkinson's disease group, whereas that of the biosynthetic enzymes phosphoethanolamine cytidylyltransferase, phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase, and phosphatidylserine synthase were elevated 193, 48 and 38%, respectively, possibly representing a compensatory response to repair membrane phospholipids. Enzyme activities were normal in all other brain areas with the exception of increased (+26%) activity of calcium-stimulated phospholipase A2 in putamen, a change which could be consequent to either decreased dopaminergic striatal input or to a dopamine nerve terminal degenerative process. Our data indicate that the normally low rate of membrane phospholipid synthesis in the substantia nigra, the primary area of neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease, is increased during the course of the disorder. We suggest that pharmacotherapies which augment this compensatory response might have utility as a treatment for Parkinson's disease.
We have used several anatomical tracing techniques to study the organization of the lateral ventromedial thalamic nucleus in the rat, a region that is selectively activated by cutaneous nociceptive inputs from any part of the body. The lateral ventromedial thalamic projections are organized as a widespread dense band covering mainly layer I of the dorsolateral anterior-most aspect of the cortex. This band diminishes progressively as one moves caudally, disappearing completely at 1mm caudal to bregma level. These widespread projections contrast with the circumscribed projections to the deep layers of the primary somatosensory and insular cortices from the adjacent ventral posteromedial and ventroposterior parvicellular thalamic regions, respectively. Injections into the lateral part of the ventromedial thalamic nucleus of an anterograde/retrograde tracer showed that the cortical layer I areas showing the densest projections from this thalamic region also contain the greatest number of retrogradely labeled cells in cortical layers V and VI. The same injections retrogradely labeled numerous cells which were confined to the dorsal subnucleus reticularis dorsalis in an area that contains a concentration of neurons with widespread nociceptive convergence. Finally, the lateral part of the ventromedial thalamic nucleus was also differentially labeled following a topical application of tetramethylrhodamine-labeled dextran on the dorsolateral anterior cortex. These findings suggest that lateral ventromedial thalamic neurons could be part of a spino-reticulo-thalamo-cortical network that allows signals of pain from any part of the body surface to spread across widespread cortical areas.
Several cortico-cortical and limbic-related circuits are enriched in zinc, which is considered as an important modulator of glutamatergic transmission. While heavy metals have been detected in the thalamus, the specific presence of zinc has not been examined in this region. We have used two highly sensitive variations of the Timm method to study the zinc-rich innervation in the rat thalamus, which was compared to the distribution of acetylcholinesterase activity. The origin of some of these zinc-rich projections was also investigated by means of retrograde transport after intracerebral infusions of sodium selenium (Na2SeO3). The overall zinc staining in the thalamus was much lower than in the neocortex, striatum or basal forebrain; however, densely stained terminal fields were observed in the dorsal tip of the reticular thalamic nucleus, the anterodorsal and lateral dorsal thalamic nuclei and the zona incerta. In addition, moderately stained zinc-rich terminal fields were found in the rostral intralaminar nuclei, nucleus reuniens and lateral habenula. Intracerebral infusions of Na2SeO3 in the lateral dorsal nucleus resulted in retrogradely labeled neurons that were located in the postsubiculum, and also in the pre- and parasubiculum. These results are the first to establish the existence of a zinc-rich subicular-thalamic projection. Similar infusions in either the intralaminar nuclei or the zona incerta resulted in labeling of neurons in several brainstem structures related to the reticular formation. Our results provide morphological evidence for zinc modulation of glutamatergic inputs to highly selective thalamic nuclei, arising differentially from either cortical limbic areas or from brainstem ascending activation systems.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the amygdala are known to be crucial for the learning of conditioned fear, although the molecular cascades that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors regulate are not well understood. Recent experiments from our laboratory have shown that messenger RNA expression of the immediate-early messenger gene, early growth response gene 1, increases in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala following contextual fear conditioning. However, the regulation of the increase in early growth response gene 1 expression is not known. To determine if N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors regulate both fear conditioning and the increase in early growth response gene 1 expression in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala, rats were infused i.c.v. with 2.5microg of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. Most rats were killed 30min following one-trial contextual fear conditioning and their brains were processed for in situ hybridization detection of early growth response gene 1 messenger RNA expression. The remainder of the rats was tested for retention of fear conditioning 24h later. In DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate-treated rats, post-shock freezing remained intact, whereas fear-conditioned freezing during the retention test was abolished. Image analysis of early growth response gene 1 messenger RNA revealed that DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate blocked the fear-conditioning-associated increase in early growth response gene 1 expression in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala. In addition, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate significantly increased early growth response gene 1 expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala. The results reveal differential regulation of early growth response gene 1 messenger RNA in the amygdala by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and argue for a functional role of early growth response gene 1 in the formation of long-term memory for contextual fear. Furthermore, the results indicate a functional neuroanatomical circuit within the amygdala that includes dampening of excitatory and activation of inhibitory processes in distinct amygdala nuclei, resulting in the reduction of fear conditioning.
This study employed in situ hybridization to directly compare the effects of cocaine and methamphetamine on neurotensin/neuromedin N and preprotachykinin messenger RNAs in distinct striatal regions. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats received a single administration of 15mg/kg methamphetamine (s.c.) or 30mg/kg cocaine (i.p.) and were killed 30min or 3h later. Methamphetamine and cocaine produced significant increases in preprotachykinin messenger RNA in the striatum after 3h, but often in different subregions. Both drugs produced similar effects on preprotachykinin messenger RNA in the rostral striatum. However, methamphetamine produced significant increases in all regions of the caudal striatum, whereas cocaine-induced preprotachykinin messenger RNA expression was limited to dorsal regions of this striatal area. Methamphetamine also produced a significant increase in preprotachykinin messenger RNA in the caudal striatum after 30min, whereas cocaine had no significant effect on preprotachykinin messenger RNA at this early time-point. The pattern of changes in neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA caused by methamphetamine and cocaine after 3h was even more distinct. Cocaine produced significant increases in neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA in all regions of the rostral striatum, whereas methamphetamine had no effect in these areas. Furthermore, in more caudal sections, cocaine predominantly affected neurotensin/neuromedin N expression in dorsal aspects of the striatum, whereas methamphetamine significantly increased neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA in all regions. There was much less effect of either drug on neuropeptide expression in the nucleus accumbens. The only significant effect was an increase in neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA in the core region 3h after methamphetamine administration. These results indicate that methamphetamine and cocaine increase preprotachykinin and neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNAs in distinct regions of the striatum. The ability of methamphetamine and cocaine to alter neuropeptide messenger RNA expression in unique regions of the striatum may be important for the long-term effects of these drugs, such as sensitization, since the striatum is not homogeneous in its connections and function.
The leukocyte common antigen-related (LAR) receptor, composed of an extracellular region with three immunoglobulin-like and eight fibronectin type III-like domains, and a cytoplasmic region containing two protein tyrosine phosphatase domains, is thought to play a role in axonal outgrowth and guidance during neural development. LAR mutant mice were generated completely lacking the two cytoplasmic protein tyrosine phosphatase domains, resulting in the loss of ability to bind intracellular associating proteins, but (may be) still containing the ability to perform extracellular functions. A reduction in size of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and diminished hippocampal innervation reported for knockout mice that contain a leaky gene trap inserted into the 5' part of the LAR gene [Yeo T. T. et al. (1997) J. Neurosci. Res. 47, 348-360] warranted a computer-assisted quantitative image analysis throughout the basal forebrain and hippocampus of our LAR mutant mice. The total number, longest diameter and cell body area were calculated for the choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the medial septum and vertical diagonal band, and optical density measurements were performed to determine the extent of acetyl cholinesterase-positive fibre innervation of the different layers in the dentate gyrus. In LAR mutant mice, the number of cholinergic cells was significantly reduced (approximately 25%) in the vertical diagonal band. Also, the cross-sectional area of the cholinergic neurons in the medial septum and vertical diagonal band was reduced (5%). These findings were paralleled by a diminished cholinergic innervation of the supragranular (18%) and molecular (4%) layers of the dentate gyrus. Thus, LAR protein tyrosine phosphatase activity appears crucial for size, number and target projection of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, further strengthening a role for LAR in CNS development.
Widespread lesions of forebrain cholinergic or noradrenergic projections by intraventricular administration of 192 IgG-saporin or 6-hydroxydopamine, respectively, accelerate kindling epileptogenesis. Here we demonstrate both quantitative and qualitative differences between the two lesions in their effects on hippocampal kindling in rats. Epileptogenesis was significantly faster after noradrenergic as compared to cholinergic denervation, and when both lesions were combined, kindling development resembled that in animals with 6-hydroxydopamine lesion alone. Furthermore, whereas the 192 IgG-saporin lesion promoted the development only of the early stages of kindling, administration of 6-hydroxydopamine or both neurotoxins accelerated the late stages also. To investigate the contribution of different subparts of the basal forebrain cholinergic system to its seizure-suppressant action in hippocampal kindling, 192 IgG-saporin was injected into medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca or nucleus basalis magnocellularis, leading to selective hippocampal or cortical cholinergic deafferentation, respectively. The denervation of the hippocampus facilitated kindling similar to the extensive lesion caused by intraventricular 192 IgG-saporin, whereas the cortical lesion had no effect. These results indicate that although both noradrenergic and cholinergic projections to the forebrain exert powerful inhibitory effects on hippocampal kindling epileptogenesis, the action of the cholinergic system is less pronounced and occurs specifically prior to seizure generalization. In contrast, noradrenergic neurons inhibit the development of both focal and generalized seizures. The septo-hippocampal neurons are responsible for the antiepileptogenic effect of the cholinergic system in hippocampal kindling, whereas the cortical projection is not significantly involved. Conversely, we have previously shown [Ferencz I. et al. (2000) Eur. J. Neurosci., 12, 2107-2116] that seizure-suppression in amygdala kindling is exerted through the cortical and not the hippocampal cholinergic projection. This shows that, depending on the location of the primary epileptic focus, i.e. the site of stimulation, basal forebrain cholinergic neurons operate through different subsystems to counteract seizure development in kindling.
The role of interleukin-6 in hippocampal tissue damage after injection with kainic acid, a rigid glutamate analogue inducing epileptic seizures, has been studied by means of interleukin-6 null mice. At 35mg/kg, kainic acid induced convulsions in both control (75%) and interleukin-6 null (100%) mice, and caused a significant mortality (62%) only in the latter mice, indicating that interleukin-6 deficiency increased the susceptibility to kainic acid-induced brain damage. To compare the histopathological damage caused to the brain, control and interleukin-6 null mice were administered 8.75mg/kg kainic acid and were killed six days later. Morphological damage to the hippocampal field CA1-CA3 was seen after kainic acid treatment. Reactive astrogliosis and microgliosis were prominent in kainic acid-injected normal mice hippocampus, and clear signs of increased oxidative stress were evident. Thus, the immunoreactivity for inducible nitric oxide synthase, peroxynitrite-induced nitration of proteins and byproducts of fatty acid peroxidation were dramatically increased, as was that for metallothionein I+II, Mn-superoxide dismutase and Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase. In accordance, a significant neuronal apoptosis was caused by kainic acid, as revealed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling and interleukin-1beta converting enzyme/Caspase-1 stainings. In kainic acid-injected interleukin-6 null mice, reactive astrogliosis and microgliosis were reduced, while morphological hippocampal damage, oxidative stress and apoptotic neuronal death were increased. Since metallothionein-I+II levels were lower, and those of inducible nitric oxide synthase higher, these concomitant changes are likely to contribute to the observed increased oxidative stress and neuronal death in the interleukin-6 null mice. The present results demonstrate that interleukin-6 deficiency increases neuronal injury and impairs the inflammatory response after kainic acid-induced seizures.
GABA(A) receptor subunits show a specific regional distribution in the CNS during development and in the adult animal. In the hippocampal formation, individual subsets of GABAergic interneurons are highly immunoreactive for the alpha1-subunit, whereas granule and pyramidal cells show a strong expression of the alpha2-subunit. Using confocal microscopy and digital image analysis, we demonstrate that in the dentate gyrus the alpha1-subunit immunolabeling appears in differently sized clusters. The large clusters, which are confined to dendrites of interneurons, show no alpha2 labeling, whereas the smaller ones coincide with alpha2-subunit-positive clusters. In the molecular layer, the clusters of both alpha-subunits co-localize with the anchoring protein gephyrin. In the granule cell layer and hilus, we found alpha1- and alpha2-subunit-positive clusters which were devoid of gephyrin labeling. Lesions of the medial entorhinal cortex led to the deafferentation of dendrites in the middle molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. This resulted in a significantly increased concentration of alpha2-subunit-positive clusters. We also observed an increase of alpha1-subunit immunolabeling in the deafferented area. We found no change in the co-localization between alpha1 and alpha2, and no significant change in the number of large alpha1-positive clusters along individual dendritic segments of interneurons. In a previous study, we demonstrated that calbindin-immunoreactive dendrites of granule cells revealed a significant increase in gephyrin immunoreactivity following lesion, whereas parvalbumin-positive dendrites showed no such alterations. The predominant localization of small gephyrin clusters in dendrites of granule cells, which was also described in this study, leads to the conclusion that the increase of the alpha2-subunit-positive clusters, demonstrated in the present study, indicates that, following entorhinal cortex lesion, new GABAergic synapses may be formed and that they contact predominantly granule cell dendrites.
The temporospatial expression pattern of the nuclear DNA repair enzyme redox factor-1 (ref-1), the p53-activated gene (pag) 608 and the effector caspase-3 was examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry in gerbils subjected to two 10-min episodes of unilateral common carotid artery occlusion, separated by 5h. Gene responses were correlated with the metabolic state, as revealed by regional adenosine 5'-triphosphate bioluminescent imaging, and with the degree of histological damage, as assessed by haematoxylin-eosin staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL), in order to evaluate the role of these genes in the maturation of injury. Focal infarcts developed in the dorsolateral cerebral cortex at the bregma level and the nucleus caudate-putamen within four days after repeated unilateral ischemia, as indicated by a secondary adenosine 5'-triphosphate loss after initial adenosine 5'-triphosphate recovery and by histomorphological signs of pannecrosis. The more caudal cortex at hippocampal levels and the hippocampus (CA1&gt;CA3 area), however, exhibited selective neuronal injury without adenosine 5'-triphosphate depletion. TUNEL+ cells appeared starting 5h after repeated unilateral ischemia. TUNEL+ cells reached maximum levels in the caudate-putamen at 12-24h, but much later in the cortex and hippocampus at two days after ischemia. Remarkably few TUNEL+ cells were noticed in the thalamus, where adenosine 5'-triphosphate state did not recover after reperfusion. Following repeated unilateral ischemia, a transient elevation of ref-1 mRNA was detected after 5h in the cerebral cortex and hippocampal CA1 area. Ref-1 mRNA levels decreased within 12-24h, before the onset of tissue damage. Subsequently, pag608 and caspase-3 mRNA levels increased, closely in parallel with the appearance of DNA fragmented cells, but slightly prior to the deterioration of adenosine 5'-triphosphate state. In the caudate-putamen, pag608 and caspase-3 mRNAs reached maximum levels already 12-24h after repeated common carotid artery occlusion, when DNA fragmentation was most prominent, and declined thereafter. In the cortex and hippocampal CA1-3 areas, where DNA damage appeared more slowly, pag608 and caspase-3 mRNAs were induced starting 24h after ischemia, and remained elevated even after two to four days. The levels of pag608 and caspase-3 mRNAs were similar at rostral and caudal levels of the cortex, as well as in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 area, although the degree of injury differed considerably between these structures. Notably, pag608 and caspase-3 mRNAs were not elevated in the thalamus after repeated unilateral ischemia. The present report shows a close temporal association between the induction of ref-1, pag608 and caspase-3 mRNAs, the manifestation of cell injury and the secondary adenosine 5'-triphosphate depletion in infarcting brain areas, suggesting (i) that de novo responses of these genes may be involved in the maturation of cell injury and (ii) that apoptotic programs and the secondary deterioration of cerebral energy state may interfere with each other after ischemia.
A second isoform of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent-kinase II inhibitor protein (CaM-KIIN) has been identified using the yeast two-hybrid screen. The 1.8kb message encodes a 78 residue CaM-KIINalpha that is 65% identical in its putative open-reading frame and 95% identical in its inhibitory domain to the previously characterized CaM-KIINbeta. CaM-KIINalpha exhibits inhibitory properties towards recombinant mouse CaM-kinase IIalpha indistinguishable from CaM-KIINbeta. The 27 amino acid inhibitory peptide (CaM-KIINtide) derived from CaM-KIIN has the ability to inhibit brain CaM-kinase II activity from multiple organisms including rat, Drosophila and goldfish. Northern analysis of various rat tissues indicates that CaM-KIINalpha is specific to brain whereas CaM-KIINbeta message is also present in testis. In situ hybridization shows a general distribution of both isoforms in rat brain with stronger localization of CaM-KIINbeta in cerebellum and hindbrain and CaM-KIINalpha in frontal cortex, hippocampus and inferior colliculus. An antibody that recognizes both isoforms shows a distribution of CaM-KIIN in rat brain that correlates with immunoreactivity of CaM-kinase II. In cultured mature hippocampal neurons, CaM-KIIN is present in cell bodies and dendrites but, unlike CaM-kinase II, does not display punctate staining at synapses. These results suggest a localized function for CaM-KIIN in inhibiting specialized pools of CaM-kinase II.
Mental function has as its cerebral basis a specific dynamic structure. In particular, cortical and limbic areas involved in &quot;higher brain functions&quot; such as learning, memory, perception, self-awareness and consciousness continuously need to be self-adjusted even after development is completed. By this lifelong self-optimization process, the cognitive, behavioural and emotional reactivity of an individual is stepwise remodelled to meet the environmental demands. While the presence of rigid synaptic connections ensures the stability of the principal characteristics of function, the variable configuration of the flexible synaptic connections determines the unique, non-repeatable character of an experienced mental act. With the increasing need during evolution to organize brain structures of increasing complexity, this process of selective dynamic stabilization and destabilization of synaptic connections becomes more and more important. These mechanisms of structural stabilization and labilization underlying a lifelong synaptic remodelling according to experience, are accompanied, however, by increasing inherent possibilities of failure and may, thus, not only allow for the evolutionary acquisition of &quot;higher brain function&quot; but at the same time provide the basis for a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders. It is the objective of the present paper to outline the hypothesis that it might be the disturbance of structural brain self-organization which, based on both genetic and epigenetic information, constantly &quot;creates&quot; and &quot;re-creates&quot; the brain throughout life, that is the defect that underlies Alzheimer's disease (AD). This hypothesis is, in particular, based on the following lines of evidence. (1) AD is a synaptic disorder. (2) AD is associated with aberrant sprouting at both the presynaptic (axonal) and postsynaptic (dendritic) site. (3) The spatial and temporal distribution of AD pathology follows the pattern of structural neuroplasticity in adulthood, which is a developmental pattern. (4) AD pathology preferentially involves molecules critical for the regulation of modifications of synaptic connections, i.e. &quot;morphoregulatory&quot; molecules that are developmentally controlled, such as growth-inducing and growth-associated molecules, synaptic molecules, adhesion molecules, molecules involved in membrane turnover, cytoskeletal proteins, etc. (5) Life events that place an additional burden on the plastic capacity of the brain or that require a particularly high plastic capacity of the brain might trigger the onset of the disease or might stimulate a more rapid progression of the disease. In other words, they might increase the risk for AD in the sense that they determine when, not whether, one gets AD. (6) AD is associated with a reactivation of developmental programmes that are incompatible with a differentiated cellular background and, therefore, lead to neuronal death. From this hypothesis, it can be predicted that a therapeutic intervention into these pathogenetic mechanisms is a particular challenge as it potentially interferes with those mechanisms that at the same time provide the basis for &quot;higher brain function&quot;.
Dendrites of pyramidal cells perform complex amplification and integration (reviewed in Refs 5, 9, 12 and 20). The presence of a large proximal apical dendrite has been shown to have functional implications for neuronal firing patterns (13) and under a variety of experimental conditions, the largest increases in intracellular Ca2+ occur in the apical shaft.(4,8,15,16,19,21-23) An important step in understanding the functional role of the proximal apical dendrite is to describe the nature of synaptic input to this dendritic region. Using light and electron microscopic methods combined with in vivo labeling of rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells, we examined the total number of GABAergic and non-GABAergic inputs converging onto the first 200microm of the apical trunk. The number of spines associated with excitatory terminals increased from &lt;0.2 spines/microm adjacent to the soma to 5.5 spines/microm at 200microm from the soma, whereas the number of GABAergic, symmetric terminals decreased from 0.8/microm to 0.08/microm over the same anatomical region. GABAergic terminals were either parvalbumin-, cholecystokinin- or vasointestinal peptide-immunoreactive. These findings indicate that the apical dendritic trunk mainly receives synaptic input from GABAergic interneurons. GABAergic inhibition during network oscillation may serve to periodically isolate the dendritic compartments from the perisomatic action potential generating sites.
Tissue transglutaminase is a normal constituent of the central and peripheral nervous systems and in rats transglutaminase activity in brain and spinal cord is highest during fetal stages when axonal outgrowth is occurring. Further, treatment of human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells with retinoic acid results in the cells withdrawing from the cell cycle and extending neurites, in the same time frame that tissue transglutaminase expression significantly increases. Considering these and other previous findings, this study was carried out to determine whether tissue transglutaminase is involved in neuronal differentiation of SH-SY5Y cells. For these studies SH-SY5Y cells stably overexpressing wild-type tissue transglutaminase, an inactive tissue transglutaminase mutant (C277S) or an antisense tissue transglutaminase construct (which decreased endogenous tissue transglutaminase below detectable levels) were used. SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing wild-type tissue transglutaminase spontaneously differentiated into a neuronal phenotype when grown in low-serum media. In contrast, cells overexpressing inactive tissue transglutaminase or the antisense tissue transglutaminase continued to proliferate and exhibit a flat polygenic morphology even when maintained in low-serum conditions. In addition, increased tissue transglutaminase expression in response to retinoic acid was abolished in the antisense tissue transglutaminase cells, and antisense and mutant tissue transglutaminase expressing cells did not extend neurites in response to retinoic acid. Moreover, wild-type and inactive tissue transglutaminase exhibited differential intracellular localization. These data indicate that tissue transglutaminase is necessary and sufficient for neuronal differentiation of human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells.
N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate is a putative neurotransmitter and acts as a weak agonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate also acts as an agonist at the metabotropic glutamate receptor 3. N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate is hydrolyzed by N-acetylated-alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase to liberate N-acetyl-aspartate and glutamate. Recently, a specific inhibitor of N-acetylated-alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase, 2-(phosphonomethyl)pentanedioic acid, has been reported. In the present study, we examined the effect of i.t. administered 2-(phosphonomethyl)pentanedioic acid in the rat formalin test (a model of inflammatory pain) and the rat hot plate test. In the formalin test, drugs were administered 10min before (pre-treatment study) or 7min after (post-treatment study) the formalin injection. The paw formalin injection induces biphasic flinching (phase 1: 0-2min; phase 2: 10-60min) of the injected paw. In the pre-treatment study, i.t. administered 2-(phosphonomethyl)pentanedioic acid depressed both phases 1 and 2 flinching behavior in a dose-dependent manner but 2-(phosphonomethyl)pentanedioic acid had no effect on the flinching behavior in the post-treatment study. In the pre-treatment study, the potency of 2-(phosphonomethyl)pentanedioic acid in depressing the phase 2 response is greater than that in depressing the phase 1 response. Intrathecal injection of 2-(phosphonomethyl)pentanedioic acid had no effect in the hot plate test. We suggest that N-acetylated-alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase plays an important role in spinal nociceptive transmission and that inhibition of spinal N-acetylated-alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase produces an antinociceptive effect during the rat formalin test but not during the hot plate test.
Deep dorsal horn neurons present plateau properties involved in non-linear integration of nociceptive inputs, in the windup of the discharge, and in the expression of long-lasting afterdischarges. In vitro experiments using intracellular recordings in a slice preparation of the rat spinal cord have established that they are supported in part by voltage-dependent calcium currents, and positively modulated by metabotropic glutamate receptor activation. In the present study, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in acutely isolated soma of dorsal horn neurons (n=48) were used to analyse the voltage-dependent calcium currents involved.Deep dorsal horn neurons expressed both inactivating and non-inactivating calcium currents with Ca(2+) or Ba(2+) used as a charge carrier. The non-inactivating component activated at intermediate threshold (-55mV), and was blocked mostly by nifedipine (61+/-6%). Although voltage-dependent facilitation of whole-cell calcium currents could be obtained by prepulses to +100mV, repetitive depolarization at potentials compatible with the plateau (-45mV and -10mV) failed to induce facilitation of calcium currents. No direct modulation of somatic calcium currents by application of (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, a selective group I metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist and 1S,3R-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid, a group I and II metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, was found, while application of the metabotropic GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen induced a significant decrease in calcium currents.Thus, the present voltage-clamp study shows that rat deep dorsal horn neurons express a non-inactivating, nifedipine sensitive, intermediate threshold (-55mV) calcium current which could provide the depolarizing drive to generate plateau potentials near threshold. Our results also indicate that calcium currents are not sensitized following repetitive stimulation, and not modulated by metabotropic glutamate receptor activation. They provide, however, the first evidence for a direct modulation of voltage-gated calcium channels in dorsal horn neurons by GABA(B) receptor activation, which may contribute to the mechanism of baclofen's antinociceptive activity.
The possibility that phospholipase C contributes to intracellular signaling in the cochlea was investigated by immunostaining for eight different isoforms of the enzyme. In the mature gerbil cochlea, expression of the isozymes varied widely among different cell types. The phospholipase C-beta1 isoform was detected in inner and outer hair cells, and spiral ganglion neurons where it may participate in regulating Ca(2+) flux. The beta3 isozyme was expressed in epithelial cells thought to mediate lateral and medial circulation of potassium. The beta2 isozyme was present in border, inner phalangeal and Hensen cells, the stria vascularis, and suprastrial and supralimbal fibrocytes where it also may be involved in regulating ion transport activities. The phospholipase C-gamma isozymes were expressed in supporting cells, the stria vascularis, and certain fibrocytes where they possibly participate in activating tyrosine kinase and modulating ion conductances. The delta2 isoform was found in pillar, outer sulcus and strial marginal cells as well as spiral ganglion neurons and their radial processes. Documentation of changes in the expression pattern of phospholipase C isoforms during postnatal development and knowledge of their distribution in several positive control tissues provided further data for speculation about the biologic significance of the cochlear reactivity. The results demonstrate a wide diversity of isozyme distribution in the cochlea and suggest that the enzymes affect activities of various cochlear cell types in different ways.
To investigate whether cholinergic hypofunctions in the brain influence hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity, we examined the effects of cholinergic neurotoxin ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion on basal and stress-induced levels of corticosterone in rats. Blood sampling from rats following intracerebroventricular injection of saline (5 microl, as a control) or this neurotoxin (5 nmol/5 microl) was performed over a day in one series, and was taken before, during and after an immobilization stress exposure in another series. Plasma levels of corticosterone and adrenocorticotropin were determined by the radioimmunoassay. The basal levels of plasma corticosterone and adrenocorticotropin over a day were significantly higher in the neurotoxin-treated rats, compared with the control rats (corticosterone, P&lt;0.001; adrenocorticotropin, P&lt;0.05). Further, relative adrenal gland weight of the neurotoxin-treated rats was significantly greater than that of the control rats (P&lt;0.05). However, responses in plasma corticosterone level caused by the immobilization stress in the neurotoxin-treated rats were not different from those in the control rats. The present study demonstrated that damage to the cholinergic neurons in the brain increased hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity over a day, probably due to freedom from inhibitory influences of the hippocampal cholinergic system, but that this damage did not influence stress-induced changes in plasma glucocorticoid level.
Type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors are phosphorylated by cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase A at serines 1589 and 1755, with serine 1755 phosphorylation greatly predominating in the brain. Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor protein kinase A phosphorylation augments Ca(2+) release. To assess type 1 protein kinase A phosphorylation dynamics in the intact organism, we developed antibodies selective for either serine 1755 phosphorylated or unphosphorylated species. Immunohistochemical studies reveal marked variation in localization. For example, in the hippocampus the phosphorylated type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor is restricted to CA1, while the unphosphorylated receptor occurs ubiquitously in CA1-CA3 and dentate gyrus granule cells. Throughout the brain the phosphorylated type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor is selectively enriched in dendrites, while the unphosphorylated receptor predominates in cell bodies. Focal cerebral ischemia in rats and humans is associated with dephosphorylation of type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors, and glutamatergic excitation of cerebellar Purkinje cells mediated by ibogaine elicits dephosphorylation of type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors that precedes evidence of excitotoxic neuronal degeneration. We have demonstrated striking variations in regional and subcellular distribution of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor phosphorylation that may influence normal physiological intracellular Ca(2+) signaling in rat and human brain. We have further shown that the subcellular distribution of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor phosphorylation in neurons is regulated by excitatory neurotransmission, as well as excitotoxic insult and neuronal ischemia-reperfusion. Phosphorylation dynamics of type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors may modulate intracellular Ca(2+) release and influence the cellular response to neurotoxic insults.
Decreased levels of dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate have been hypothesized to contribute to increased vulnerability of the ageing or stressed human brain to ischemia. To help to address the question of whether of dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate has a possible neuroprotective effect against ischemic neuronal injury, we tested its effect on the neurodegeneration induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation in rat cultured cerebellar granule cells. Dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate added to the medium after injury demonstrated a neuroprotective effect with a median inhibitory concentration of 0.5 microM. At 10 microM concentration almost full neuroprotection was observed. Even more pronounced neuroprotective effect was found when dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate was added for 48h before injury. Furthermore, partial neuroprotection of dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate was also found against 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, colchicine, glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced toxicity. Further analysis demonstrated that dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate eliminated the apoptotic features of the oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced neuronal death: DNA fragmentation and nuclear condensation/fragmentation.Thus, our data suggest that dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate may have therapeutic potential in the prevention and treatment of ischemic/hypoxic neuronal damage. The neuroprotective action of dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate was inhibited by both a GABA(A) receptor-linked chloride channel agonist and an antagonist, pentobarbital and picrotoxin, respectively. It seems that GABA(A) receptor-mediated neuronal inhibition as well as neuronal excitation can reduce the neuroprotective action of dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate.
Parvalbumin is a calcium-binding protein that is contained in certain neuronal populations in the brain. Although the exact function of parvalbumin is not clear, it has been found to be a useful marker for studying the connections of specific cell types in immunohistochemical studies. In the present investigation immunohistochemical techniques were used to study the morphology of parvalbumin-containing neurons in the rat basolateral amygdala. These neurons were found to be a morphologically heterogeneous subpopulation of non-pyramidal interneurons. Parvalbumin-positive axons in the basolateral amygdala were observed to form &quot;pericellular baskets&quot; that enveloped the perikarya of pyramidal neurons. In addition, some parvalbumin-immunoreactive axons formed &quot;cartridges&quot; that appeared to surround non-immunoreactive processes. The morphology of parvalbumin-positive neurons closely resembled that of neurons containing calbindin, a related calcium-binding protein. Analysis of adjacent sections stained for each protein using the mirror technique revealed that approximately 80% of parvalbumin neurons also contained calbindin, and that approximately 60% of calbindin neurons also contained parvalbumin. This study demonstrates that parvalbumin-containing neurons constitute an important subpopulation of non-pyramidal interneurons in the rat basolateral amygdala. The axonal configurations of these cells indicate that they may exert a potent inhibitory influence over pyramidal projection neurons. We suggest that parvalbumin-containing neurons can control emotional responses mediated by the basolateral amygdala by controlling the output from this important brain region.
Glutamate is known to increase neuronal excitability in the subfornical organ, a circumventricular organ devoid of the blood-brain barrier. To understand the synaptic mechanism of neuronal excitation by glutamate in this nucleus, we examined the effects of glutamate on GABAergic spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents recorded from subfornical organ neurons in the rat brain slice. The baseline frequency, amplitude and decay time-constant of such spontaneous synaptic currents were 5.60 Hz, 119 pA and 17.3 ms, respectively. Glutamate (10-1000 microM) selectively inhibited the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (half-maximal effective concentration=47 microM) with little effects on their amplitudes and decay time constants. The inhibitory effect of glutamate on the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic postsynaptic currents was not blocked by tetrodotoxin (1 microM), or by the antagonists of ionotropic glutamate receptors. In contrast, such inhibitory effect of glutamate was mimicked by general or group II selective metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists such as DCGIV (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (half-maximal effective concentration=112 nM), but not by the agonists for group I or group III metabotropic glutamate receptors. Under current clamp mode, glutamate reduced the frequencies of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and action potentials in subfornical organ neurons. Our data indicate that glutamate decreases the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents by acting on the group II metabotropic glutamate receptors on axonal terminals in the subfornical organ. From these results we suggest that the glutamate-induced modulation of tonic GABAergic inhibitory synaptic activity can influence the excitability of subfornical organ neurons.
Acute administration of haloperidol induces the expression of the immediate-early gene c-fos in the striatum and nucleus accumbens via dopamine D(2) receptor antagonism. Dopaminergic transmission in the striatum and nucleus accumbens is modulated by glutamate via N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Indeed, haloperidol-induced c-fos expression is dependent on NMDA receptor activation in the dorsolateral part of the striatum. However, the role that NMDA receptors play in haloperidol-induced c-fos expression in other functionally distinct areas of the striatum and nucleus accumbens has not yet been established. Therefore, in the present study the entire rostrocaudal extent of the rat striatum and nucleus accumbens was examined to determine the role that NMDA receptors play in haloperidol-induced c-fos expression. Pretreatment with MK-801, a non-competitive antagonist of NMDA receptors, significantly reduced the number of neurons showing c-fos immunoreactivity in the rostral aspect of the dorsolateral striatum and the entire rostrocaudal extent of the ventrolateral striatum following an acute injection of haloperidol. However, the same treatment did not modify the pattern of haloperidol-mediated c-fos expression in the medial or central parts of the striatum. Similarly, MK-801 pretreatment significantly suppressed the number of neurons expressing c-fos immunoreactivity following haloperidol injection in the entire rostrocaudal extent of the shell region of nucleus accumbens, but not in the core region. The results indicate that haloperidol-induced c-fos expression is dependent on NMDA receptors only in the rostral aspect of the dorsolateral striatum and the rostrocaudal extent of the ventrolateral striatum, the areas involved in motor function. The differential role that NMDA receptors play in modulating haloperidol-mediated dopamine D(2) receptor antagonism between motor and associative areas of the striatum may contribute to the development of extrapyramidal symptoms following chronic haloperidol treatment. Furthermore, the attenuation of the haloperidol-induced c-fos expression by MK-801 was restricted to the nucleus accumbens shell, an area often implicated in the therapeutic effect of haloperidol. Therefore, the NMDA-dopamine D(2) receptor interaction may also play a role in mediating the therapeutic effects of haloperidol.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of intrastriatal blockade of GABA(A) receptors on dopamine D(1)/D(2) receptor interactions in the intact rat striatum. Muscarinic receptors mediate the ability of the D(2) receptor antagonist, eticlopride, to block an increase in striatonigral neuropeptide messenger RNA stimulated by the full D(1) agonist, SKF-82958. However, because D(2) receptor antagonists activate striatopallidal neurons, it is possible that increased GABA release from local medium spiny axon collaterals also contributes to the ability of eticlopride to block the effects of SKF-82958. This hypothesis was addressed by infusing the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, into the dorsal striatum in rats treated with eticlopride and SKF-82958. In contrast to the actions of the muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine, bicuculline did not affect the increase in behaviors induced by SKF-82958 or the ability of eticlopride to block them. Quantitative in situ hybridization demonstrated that bicuculline did not significantly affect basal preprodynorphin messenger RNA, nor did it affect the ability of eticlopride to decrease SKF-82958-induced preprodynorphin messenger RNA. However, the level of the preprodynorphin hybridization signal in bicuculline plus SKF-82958-treated rats was significantly lower than in saline plus SKF-82958-treated rats. In contrast, bicuculline, eticlopride or SKF-82958 by themselves increased basal preproenkephalin messenger RNA. However, there was no significant interaction among bicuculline, eticlopride and SKF-82958 on preproenkephalin messenger RNA levels.These data indicate that blockade of striatal GABA(A) receptors has only a subtle effect on acute dopamine agonist-induced changes in gene expression. These results are discussed in the context of local intrastriatal interactions.
Galea and McEwen [Galea and McEwan (1999) Neuroscience 89, 955-964] found that cell proliferation was suppressed in female meadow voles trapped during the breeding season relative to females trapped during the non-breeding season. We investigated the effect of reproductive status and estradiol level on cell proliferation and cell survival in adult laboratory-reared female meadow voles to control for the variables of age, experience and pregnancy that could confound the results derived from a wild sample. Voles were housed in either a long- or short-photoperiod to simulate season and a male or female cage partner was introduced to influence reproductive status. Because females are reflex ovulators, exposure to a male rapidly induces behavioural estrous and high levels of estradiol. Forty-eight hours after introducing a cage partner, we injected either bromodeoxyuridine or [3H]thymidine to mark cell synthesis and then examined labelled cells 2h (cell proliferation) or five weeks (cell survival) later, respectively. To determine whether estradiol mimicked the effect of reproductive status, groups of reproductively inactive females were given a single injection of estradiol benzoate (10 microg) either four or 48h prior to bromodeoxyuridine labelling. The density of proliferating cells in the granule cell layer and the hilus was elevated in reproductively inactive females compared to reproductively active females and was correlated negatively with serum estradiol level. Exposure to estradiol benzoate initially increased cell proliferation (within 4h) but subsequently suppressed cell proliferation (within 48h). In addition, the density of surviving cells was greater in reproductively inactive females relative to reproductively active females but reproductively active females had a greater rate of cell survival than did reproductively inactive females. Reproductive status did not influence the number of pyknotic cells in the dentate gyrus (at either 2h or five weeks).We conclude that reproductive status regulates cell proliferation in adult female meadow voles, possibly via an estradiol-regulated mechanism. The results from the present study showed that reproductively active female meadow voles have suppressed rates of cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus relative compared with reproductively inactive female meadow voles. Administering estradiol initially (within 4h) elevates the cell proliferation within the dentate gyrus of adult females but subsequently (within 48h) suppresses cell proliferation. However, more new cells survived in females with high endogenous levels of estradiol (reproductively active females). In conclusion, reproductive status regulates the level of cell proliferation and survival through a complex estradiol regulated mechanism(s).
Medications that selectively increase 5-hydroxytryptamine are currently the most commonly prescribed antidepressants. However, it is not known which receptors for 5-hydroxytryptamine, nor which post-receptor cellular signals, mediate the antidepressant actions of 5-hydroxytryptamine. The hippocampus is highly innervated by serotonergic neurons and appears to be an ideal region of the brain for studying the antidepressant role of 5-hydroxytryptamine. Treatment with antidepressants has been shown to cause increased expression of proteins in the hippocampus that appear to be protective against stress-induced atrophy. This suggests a role for pathways, such as mitogen-activated protein kinase, that regulate protein synthesis. In the present study we found that 5-HT(7) receptors, expressed by cultured rat hippocampal neurons, couple to stimulation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase extracellular signal-regulated kinases ERK1 and ERK2. The 5-HT(1/7) receptor-selective agonist 5-carboxamidotryptamine maleate (5-CT) as well as the 5-HT(1A/7) receptor-selective agonists 8-hydroxy-N,N-dipropyl-aminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and N,N-dipropyl-5-carboxamidotryptamine maleate (dipropyl-5-CT) were found to activate extracellular signal-regulated kinase with equal efficacy to 5-HT. However, the EC(50) for 8-OH-DPAT was approximately 200-fold greater than that of 5-HT, a difference in potency consistent with the pharmacology of 5-HT(7), but not 5-HT(1A), receptors. Additionally, pretreatment with pertussis toxin, which would be expected to block the actions of 5-HT(1,) but not 5-HT(7,) receptors caused no inhibition. 4-Iodo-N-[2-[4-(methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]N-2-pyridinyl-benzamide hydrochloride (p-MPPI) and N-[2-[4-(2-Methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinyl-cyclohexanecarb oxamide maleate (WAY-100635), antagonists selective for 5-HT(1A) receptors, similarly caused no inhibition of the activity of 5-HT.In summary, these studies are the first to demonstrate that 5-hydroxytryptamine activates the mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK in primary neuronal cultures. That 5-HT(7) receptors couple to activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase in hippocampal neurons suggests a possible role for 5-HT(7) receptors in mediating some of the actions of antidepressants that increase 5-hydroxytryptamine.
Transient brain ischemia induces significant alterations in lipid structures of neuronal membranes, which are believed to result from lipid peroxidation and free radical attack. Such a membrane structural change may serve as an important histological marker of cell injury. In the present study, we examined how the dynamics of DiI/membrane incorporation may reflect early membrane metabolism and dynamic changes following sodium-potassium pump inhibition. Ouabain (1mM) was stereotactically co-administered with either 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate DiI (50 microg/ml) or ethidium homodimer (4 microM) into the granule cell layer of the adult rat hippocampus. Tissue was cryosectioned and examined with epifluorescence microscopy at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 and 72h post-injection. Alternate sections were stained with thionine or haematoxylin and eosin to evaluate morphological changes. Ouabain-induced pump inhibition resulted in a dramatic increase in DiI fluorescence in granule cell layer neurons as early as 4h post-injection. This increase in DiI incorporation coincided both spatially and temporally with the appearance of reactive changes characterizing early neuronal injury. However, the fluorescence increase was not a result of membrane breakdown because ethidium homodimer, a membrane-impermeable nucleic acid probe used for labeling cells with compromised membranes, when applied in a similar fashion, failed to show any fluorescence changes. The results of this study suggest that pump inhibition results in a specific increase in membrane lipophilicity possibly due to altered lipid structure.
Hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide, an undecapeptide originally isolated from the hippocampus of young rats, enhances acetylcholine synthesis in rat medial septal nucleus in vitro. Hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide is derived from the N-terminal region of its 21-kmol.wt precursor protein. The highest expression of the hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide precursor protein messenger RNA is in hippocampal pyramidal neurons. In an in vitro rat hippocampal slice, preparation in which electrical stimulation could be delivered to the Schaffer collateral-CA1 pyramidal cell synapse, semi-quantitative non-radioisotopic in situ hybridization, demonstrated that expression of the hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide precursor protein messenger RNA is regulated by neuronal activity. Selective inhibition with pharmacological agents revealed that the constitutive hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide precursor protein messenger RNA level can be up-regulated by D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphono-valeric acid, and that activity-dependent transcription can be inhibited by tetrodotoxin, nifedipine, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, and scopolamine, but not by mecamylamine. These results indicate that septal cholinergic neurons and hippocampal glutamatergic neurons exert a reciprocal influence over the expression of hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide precursor protein messenger RNA in the hippocampus, and that the activity-dependent and constitutive expressions of hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide precursor protein messenger RNA may be regulated by different routes, involving calcium influx via L-type Ca(2+) channels and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
Chronic stress has been shown to induce time-dependent neurodegeneration in the hippocampus, ranging from a reversible damage to a permanent neuronal loss. This damage has been proposed to impair cognitive function in hippocampus-dependent learning tasks. In this study, we have used a 21-day restraint stress procedure in rats, previously reported to induce reversible atrophy of apical dendrites of CA3 pyramidal cells, to assess whether it may influence subsequent performance in the contextual fear conditioning task under experimental conditions involving high stress levels (1 mA shock intensity as the unconditioned stimulus). In addition, we were interested in the study of the possible cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in the reversible phase of neural damage. Cell adhesion molecules of the immunoglobulin superfamily, such as the neural cell adhesion molecule and L1, are cell-surface macromolecules that, through their recognition and adhesion properties, regulate cell-cell interactions and have been reported to play a key role in cognitive functioning. A second aim of this study was to evaluate whether chronic stress would modulate the expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule, its polysialylation, and L1 in the hippocampus. The results showed that chronic stress facilitated subsequent contextual fear conditioning. They also showed that chronically stressed rats displayed reduced hippocampal neural cell adhesion molecule, but increased polysialylated expression as well as a trend towards exhibiting increased L1 expression. In summary, these results support the view that a 21-day chronic stress regimen predisposes individuals to develop enhanced contextual fear conditioning responses. They also indicate that cell adhesion molecules might play a role in the structural remodelling that occurs in the hippocampus as a consequence of chronic stress exposure.
The subiculum is a major source of output projections from hippocampus to cortical and subcortical regions. Our previous studies have demonstrated the selective loss of CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus, and operant and spatial learning impairment in subicular lesioned rats [Govindaiah et al. (1997) Brain Res. 745, 121-126; Laxmi et al. (1999) Brain Res. 816, 245-148]. In the present study, the effect of ibotenate lesions of the subiculum on the dendritic morphology of CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus was investigated in 30-day-old male Wistar rats. The ventral subiculum was lesioned bilaterally with multiple injections of ibotenic acid, stereotaxically. The dendritic branching points and intersections were studied in apical and basal dendrites up to 320 and 160 microm, respectively, in Golgi-impregnated CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus. The results revealed a significant (P&lt;0.001) decrease in the number of dendritic branching points, intersections and total number of dendrites in both apical and basal dendrites of CA1, as well as CA3 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus. It is surprising that the subicular lesions caused dendritic atrophy of CA3 neurons without affecting the cell density. The results of the present study demonstrate the dendritic atrophy of hippocampal neurons following selective subicular lesions. This might be responsible for the impairments in operant and spatial learning tasks in these rats as observed in our earlier studies. In addition, hippocampal damage is also associated with an impairment in the process of the active monitoring of movements in space, rather than place learning per se [Whishaw (1998) Neurosci. biobeh. Rev. 22, 209-220]. Accordingly, further studies are required to correlate the differential effect of subicular lesions on impairments in learning and movement in space in rats.
The GAL879-881QQQ mutation in the cytoplasmic S4-S5 linker of domain 2 of the rat brain IIA sodium channel (Na(v)1.2) results in slowed inactivation and increased persistent current when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. The neuron-specific enolase promoter was used to direct in vivo expression of the mutated channel in transgenic mice. Three transgenic lines exhibited seizures, and line Q54 was characterized in detail. The seizures in these mice began at two months of age and were accompanied by behavioral arrest and stereotyped repetitive behaviors. Continuous electroencephalogram monitoring detected focal seizure activity in the hippocampus, which in some instances generalized to involve the cortex. Hippocampal CA1 neurons isolated from presymptomatic Q54 mice exhibited increased persistent sodium current which may underlie hyperexcitability in the hippocampus. During the progression of the disorder there was extensive cell loss and gliosis within the hippocampus in areas CA1, CA2, CA3 and the hilus. The lifespan of Q54 mice was shortened and only 25% of the mice survived beyond six months of age. Four independent transgenic lines expressing the wild-type sodium channel were examined and did not exhibit any abnormalities. The transgenic Q54 mice provide a genetic model that will be useful for testing the effect of pharmacological intervention on progression of seizures caused by sodium channel dysfunction. The human ortholog, SCN2A, is a candidate gene for seizure disorders mapped to chromosome 2q22-24.
In CA3 neurons of disinhibited hippocampal slice cultures the slow afterhyperpolarisation, following spontaneous epileptiform burst events, was confirmed to be Ca(2+) dependent and mediated by K(+) ions. Apamin, a selective blocker of the SK channels responsible for part of the slow afterhyperpolarisation reduced, but did not abolish, the amplitude of the post-burst afterhyperpolarisation. The result was an increased excitability of individual CA3 cells and the whole CA3 network, as measured by burst duration and burst frequency. Increases in excitability could also be achieved by strongly buffering intracellular Ca(2+) or by minimising Ca(2+) influx into the cell, specifically through L-type (but not N-type) voltage operated Ca(2+) channels. Notably the L-type Ca(2+) channel antagonist, nifedipine, was more effective than apamin at reducing the post-burst afterhyperpolarisation. Nifedipine also caused a greater increase in network excitability as determined from measurements of burst duration and frequency from whole cell and extracellular recordings. N-methyl D-aspartate receptor activation contributed to the depolarisations associated with the epileptiform activity but Ca(2+) entry via this route did not contribute to the activation of the post-burst afterhyperpolarisation. We suggest that Ca(2+) entry through L-type channels during an epileptiform event is selectively coupled to both apamin-sensitive and -insensitive Ca(2+) activated K(+) channels. Our findings have implications for how the route of Ca(2+) entry and subsequent Ca(2+) dynamics can influence network excitability during epileptiform discharges.
We have previously demonstrated that integrin-associated protein is involved in memory consolidation of one-way inhibitory avoidance learning in rats and mice. In the present study, we examined the effects of functional blocking of integrin-associated protein on memory retention, long-term potentiation and glutamate release in mice as well as on cell attachment to extracellular matrix protein in primary cultures. The results indicated that integrin-associated protein monoclonal antibody miap301, when directly injected into the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus at moderate doses, significantly impairs memory retention in mice in the same one-way inhibitory avoidance task and decreases the amplitude of tetanic stimulation-induced long-term potentiation in dentate gyrus neurons. At a dose that effectively impairs both memory retention and long-term potentiation, integrin-associated protein monoclonal antibody also significantly blocks potassium chloride-induced glutamate release from the hippocampus in vivo. Results from western blot confirmed the presence of integrin-associated protein at the synaptic area. Cell adhesion experiments further revealed that integrin-associated protein monoclonal antibody markedly inhibits granular cell attachment to thrombospondin, the extracellular matrix protein known to bind integrin-associated protein, but not to collagen and laminin, the extracellular matrix proteins known to bind integrin. From these results we suggest that integrin-associated protein monoclonal antibody may impair synaptic plasticity and behavioral plasticity in mice through blockade of granular cell attachment to extracellular matrix protein and the subsequent signal transduction, and through inhibition of glutamate release from the hippocampus.
Transient increases in the concentration of extracellular Ca(2+) play an essential role in various physiological and/or pathological implications. Here the effect of low temperatures on synaptic transmission modulated by a brief increase in extracellular high Ca(2+) was studied in CA1 area of hippocampal slices from hamsters. A high Ca(2+) pulse (4.5 mM) induced a long-lasting enhancement at 25, 20, or 17 degrees C, but not at 15 degrees C. While the temperature was lowered to 17 degrees C, the overall expression of synaptic responses following a high Ca(2+) pulse was separated into two sequential enhanced components: an initial component (approximately 30-40 min in duration), followed by a delayed-onset component that was sustained throughout the remainder of the experiment. Application of 100 microM D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, a selective antagonist of N-methyl-D-asparate receptors, or (RS)-alpha-Methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, a selective antagonist of metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors, during a high Ca(2+) pulse at 17 degrees C blocked the development of the delayed-onset enhanced component without affecting the initial enhanced component significantly. In contrast, the application of D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate or (RS)-alpha-Methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine immediately after a high Ca(2+) pulse at 17 degrees C had no discernible effects on the development of both components. These results indicate that low temperatures (e.g. 17 degrees C) unmasked two enhanced components that cannot be seen as separate components in the overall potentiation, while long-lasting enhancement was generated at higher temperatures (e.g. 25 degrees C). The development of the delayed-onset enhanced component primarily depended on coactivation of N-methyl-D-asparate and mGlu receptors during a high Ca(2+) challenge at 17 degrees C. The findings here may provide new understanding of the use of low temperatures and promise significant insight into a novel therapeutic intervention in the CNS while the glutamatergic signaling pathway is abnormally activated by certain ambient insults, such as transient increases in the concentration of extracellular Ca(2+).
Lipopolysaccharide is derived from the cell wall of gram-negative bacteria and is a potent endotoxin which causes the release of cytokines in the CNS. We examined the effect of lipopolysaccharide on synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity in the hippocampal area CA1-subicular pathway in vivo. We found that lipopolysaccharide did not affect baseline synaptic transmission in this pathway; it did, however, reduce the magnitude of paired-pulse facilitation, a form of short-term plasticity thought to be primarily presynaptic in origin. We then examined the interaction between lipopolysaccharide and two common models for the biological basis of memory: high-frequency stimulation induced long-term potentiation and low-frequency stimulation induced long-term depression of synaptic transmission. We found that lipopolysaccharide blocked long-term potentiation following high-frequency stimulation and also induced potentiation of synaptic transmission after low-frequency stimulation. Lipolysaccharide blocked paired-pulse facilitation selectively at short rather than longer interstimulus intervals. Thus, lipopolysaccharide has different effects on synaptic transmission in this pathway depending on the frequency and length of stimulation. These results provide new insights into the action of lipopolysaccharide on various forms of plasticity in the hippocampus, an area known to play a vital role in learning and memory.
In this study 16 unilateral upper extremity amputees participated in a comprehensive psychophysiological examination that included the assessment of painful and non-painful phantom and stump sensations, thermal and electric perception as well as two-point discrimination thresholds, the detailed analysis of referred sensation and the measurement of reorganizational changes in primary somatosensory cortex using neuroelectric source imaging. Reorganization of the primary somatosensory cortex was associated with increased habitual phantom limb pain, telescoping, non-painful stump sensations and painful referred sensation induced by painful stimulation. It was unrelated to non-painful phantom sensations, non-painful referred sensation elicited by painful or non-painful stimulation, painful referred sensation elicited by non-painful stimulation, perception thresholds and stump pain. These data substantiate the hypothesis that painful and non-painful phantom phenomena are mediated by different neural substrates.
Throughout experiments on multiple-site voltage-sensitive dye recordings of neural activity in embryonic chick brain preparations, we have found a novel type of depolarization waves which spread widely from the brainstem to the whole brain region at a rapid rate (mm/s). This depolarization wave was triggered by glutamate-mediated postsynaptic potentials and was especially correlated to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function. Evidence that the spreading depolarization wave is eliminated by octanol or 18beta-glycyrrhetinic acid suggests that the depolarization wave depends on functions of gap junctions. The profile obtained with Ca(2+)-imaging experiments also suggests that the propagation of the depolarization wave is accompanied by a calcium wave. These results provide new evidence for intercellular functional communication between neural cells in the vertebrate central nervous system during embryonic development.
Repeated administration of amphetamine-like psychostimulants produce a progressive and long-lasting hypersensitivity to their behavioural effects known as behavioural sensitization. Previous studies have shown that administration of the purinergic P2 receptor agonist 2-methylthio ATP into the nucleus accumbens of rats raises the extracellular level of dopamine accompanied with enhanced locomotion in a similar manner. Furthermore, the quantitative EEG after application of 2-methylthio ATP or amphetamine was characterized by an elevation of the alpha1-power. However, purinergic P2 receptor antagonists decreased the basal level of dopamine in the NAc and in addition prevented the effects of 2-methylthio ATP. The purpose of the present study was to investigate, whether endogenous ATP acting via purinergic P2 receptors is involved in the process of amphetamine-induced sensitization. Rats were treated systemically for five successive days with d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg) and tested in an open field with respect to their locomotor response. The enhanced locomotor activity after the first injection of amphetamine was diminished by the previous intracerebroventricular application of the purinergic P2 receptor antagonist pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2'4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS; 0.6 nmol) (P&lt;0.05). The challenge with a lower dose of amphetamine (0.75 mg/kg) produced an increased locomotion in comparison to the response after the first amphetamine application indicating the expression of a behavioural sensitization. Pretreatment with PPADS prior to each amphetamine administration prevented the increase of locomotor activity after the challenge with amphetamine (P&lt;0.05). In summary, the present study demonstrates that PPADS blocks both the acute locomotor effects of amphetamine and the development of behavioural sensitization to the psychostimulant. We suggest that the activation of purinergic P2 receptors by endogenous ATP is necessary for the expression of these effects.

Brucellosis is an infection caused by gram negative cocobacilli (Brucellae). Presentation is usually non-specific and diagnosis depends on high index of suspicion. Nervous system involvement in children is rare as only 47 cases were reported until 1998. We are reporting two patients with neurobrucellosis. The first case was an 8-year-old boy who presented with papillodeoma, and neck stiffness of one month duration. Cerebrospinal fluid pressure was 360mm/water, protein 0.63gm/dl, and cerebrospinal fluid sugar/serum sugar 0.2/4.7mmol. Brucella titer was high in serum and cerebrospinal fluid. The second case was a 3-year-old girl with congenital hydrocephalus, with history of fever, loss of weight, and abdominal cyst around the distal end of ventriculo-peritoneal shunt tube. Brucella mellitenesis was isolated from cerebrospinal fluid and blood. Both cases were treated successfully by 3 antibiotics for 8-12 week.










The rapid evolution of molecular biology over the past few decades has revolutionised our knowledge in pathophysiology and pharmacotherapeutics of many diseases including the immune and nervous systems. The growth factors, neurotrophins, happened to be orchestra conductors for many biological systems and their potential use especially for therapeutic purposes cannot be overlooked.
Many students, residents and generalists consider examining the nervous system as one of the most difficult parts of the physical examination. Certain problems frequently face the junior physician including organizing a complete examination in a short period, and consistently eliciting the physical signs. Certainly, repeated examinations and experience play an important role, however, solid knowledge and use of proper techniques are crucial for eliciting and interpreting neurological signs. In this paper we present an outline for the examination of the nervous system based on the medical literature and author`s personal experience. Various techniques of eliciting physical signs and possible pitfalls in the examination will be discussed.
Since the report from the International Study on extracranial-intracranial bypass was presented in 1985, an abrupt stop to almost all bypass surgery was introduced. The clear goals of the bypass study to reduce repeated strokes based on extracranial-intracranial bypass could not be documented. This review emphasizes the drawbacks of this previous study and why its conclusions were too sweeping, including statements that the study could not validate. The present status on cerebral hemodynamics and possible augmentations of reduced cerebral vascular reserve using extracranial-intracranial bypass are given. It is concluded that in hemodynamic proven cases extracranial-intracranial bypass may definitely benefit the patients. This group of patients, among all stroke victims in the International Study, could not be deducted due to the study design. The high frequency of repeated serious strokes occurring among patients with hemodynamic insufficiency and its prevention by bypass surgery is documented. The right operation was carried out among a large group of `wrong` patients. The prevention of repeated strokes that an extracranial-intracranial bypass allows us today, indicates that this operative method should also be possibly applied in the Kingdom under well defined hemodynamic circumstances.
Cysticercosis is a helmenthic infection involving pigs and man. Most cases of cysticercosis occur in developing countries. The disease is very rare in Islamic countries, as moslems are supposed to abstain from eating pork meat. In the last 10 years, reports of cysticercosis among moslems were published. Imigrants from endemic countries, who work as housemaids and food handlers played a role in transmitting the disease. Man becomes a definitive host if he ingests insufficiently cooked pork meat, which contains viable Iarvae of Taenia Solium or cysticerci. Neurocysticercosis denotes presence of a Taenia Solium larva cysts (Cysticercus cellulosae) in the brain parenchyma, meninges, or ventricular spaces. Neuroimaging by computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are the best procedures to diagnose neurocysticercosis. Serological tests (EITB) or ELISA) are not sensitive as more than 50% of patients with neurocysticercosis have negative serology. Alpendazole and praziquentel are the most effective antihelmenthic drugs. Prevention of the disease and its complications as epilepsy is the management corner stone. A single dose of praziquentel for every emigrant from endemic areas will eradicate the adult tapeworm and reduce the incidence of neurocysticercosis. Physicians in moslem countries should be aware about the disease not only among immigrants but among moslems. We reviewed the available information about the disease epidemiologically, clinically, radiologically, laboratory tests, and methods of prevention.
THE FUTURE OF neurosurgery is intimately related to the future of neuroscientific research. Although the field of neuroscience is immense and not subject to brief review, it is clear that certain trends have become critical to future thinking regarding neurosurgery. An important theme that recurs in much of the current research and that will become more prominent in the future is the concept of plasticity. This refers not only to the changes in cortical representation that can occur after a variety of perturbations but also to a wide variety of neurologically relevant biological processes. In this review, we describe three areas of plasticity, i.e., the response of the brain to ischemia, cortical representational changes, and the potential for stem cell biological processes to allow us to manipulate plasticity. We posit that these trends will be crucial to the future of our specialty.
Modern neurosciences are now able to open new avenues concerning an experimental approach to clinical neurosciences and psychiatry. Detection and prediction of potential vulnerabilities such as behavioral disturbances and neurodegenerative diseases, are urgent tasks leading to prevention that must be encouraged in parallel to the enormous efforts displayed for treatments. Besides possible genetic origins of diseases, environmental factors are now coming under scrutiny, and especially deleterious and challenging life events and stress occurring during prenatal and postnatal critical periods may orient brain functions towards deleterious developments. The hypothesis that will be examined is that early events might be at the origin of pathological transformations and symptoms after long periods of apparent normal abilities and behavioral homeostasis. We used models of prenatal stress and postnatal manipulations such as cross-fostering. It will be demonstrated that such events induce long-term changes, cognitive and emotional modifications appearing first, when offspring are adults, followed by cognitive defects later in life. Increased sensitivity of the hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA), the endocrine system controlling the secretion of stress hormones (corticoids), appears to be a major element of pathogenesis. HPA axis dysfunction appears very early after birth (3 days) and lasts for months. Cumulative exposure to high levels of hormones seems to be detrimental for some brain regions, especially the hippocampus and major neurotransmitter systems such as dopamine neurons. We evidenced that neuronal modifications in hippocampal region are correlated with behavioral and cognitive defects, relating environment, stress in early life, hormonal changes, long-term neuropathological processes and impaired cognition in aging. Moreover appears in offspring, when adults, a proneness to engage in drug dependence. These data emphasize the need to consider early environmental life events as etiological factors for delayed neuropsychiatric disturbances, neurodegenerative defects included. Moreover, they strengthen the interest for a longitudinal approach to promote experimental psychopathology.
Clinical neurophysiologic examination of the pelvic floor is performed worldwide, but there is no consensus on the choice of tests, nor on technical details of individual methods. Standardized methods are, however, necessary to obtain their valid application in different laboratories for the purpose of collection of normative data, comparison of patient data and organization of multi-center studies. It is proposed that in patients with suspected &quot;lower motor neuron&quot; type lesions concentric needle electromyography (CNEMG) is the most informative test to detect pelvic floor denervation/reinnervation, and the external anal sphincter (EAS) muscle is the most appropriate muscle to be examined (either in isolation-when a selective lesion is suspected-or in addition to examination of other muscles). An algorithm consisting of standardized tests including a standardized approach to CNEMG examination of the EAS is presented. The proposed electrophysiologic assessment consists of a computer-assisted analysis of denervation and reinnervation features of the CNEMG signal, a qualitative assessment of reflex and voluntary activation of EAS motor units, and of electrical (or mechanical) elicitation of the bulbocavernosus reflex in those patients in whom manual anogenital stimulation failed to elicit a robust response in the EAS. The proposed protocol could serve as a basis for further studies on validity, sensitivity and specificity of electrophysiologic assessment in patients with different types of &quot;lower motor neuron&quot; involvement of pelvic floor muscles and sacral dysfunction.
Aims of scientific research on post-human genome(post-genome sequence) era would be analysis of molecular structure and function of gene products, analysis of particular phenomenon of higher organisms, and development of the way of treatment and prevention of human diseases. Particularly, in the research field of neuroscience and neurological disorders, the progress of human molecular genetics would greatly facilitate the elucidation of molecular pathophysiology of the neurological disorders and finally develop molecular therapy for the diseases. In molecular therapy, fundamental technique of gene therapy should be combined with stem cell-based cell transplantation and new drug design based of scientific evidence.
The genes of the majority neurodegenerative disorders have been identified for the past decade. Diseases of early onset are usually transmitted as autosomal recessive trait and caused by the deficiency of the gene products, becoming good candidates for gene or protein transfers. Late onset diseases are usually transmitted dominantly where the gains of function by the mutant gene accumulate into specific lesion. The pathophysiology following gene mutation need to be clarified for the therapeutic approach. Recent progresses on neurodegenerative mechanism have specified crucial targets for the treatments. Stimulation to intrinsic mechanisms, i.e., chaperon, ubiquitin-proteasome system and stress response in endoplasmic reticulum and/or antagonize the toxic cascade by caspases, mitochondria insufficiency are argued as therapeutic targets, hoping that in this decade we can propose effective therapies for these devastating disorders.

This retrospective cross-sectional study of median hearing threshold levels of males employed in two specific occupations shows that the trend with decreasing noise-induced hearing loss in Sweden during the 1970s and 1980s continues into the 1990s. In the occupational categories mechanical work and wood processing men in age groups 30-39, 40-49 and 50-59 years old examined during the time period 1971-76, 1981-86 and 1991-96 were compared. Possible explanations to the improvement might be a wider use of hearing protectors at work and less exposure to noise during military service. The results show that the awareness of noise-induced occupational hearing loss has improved but the hearing conservation programs are still necessary as hearing threshold levels in these occupational groups continue to be poorer than expected in relation to age.
Quality management and quality control of health services have become increasingly important. Central to the concept of quality of care is the consumer's (the patient's) own view of the care provided. UKU (Udvalg for Kliniske Undersgelser), a task force within the Scandinavian Society for Psychopharmacology, has designed a brief consumer satisfaction rating scale, the UKU-ConSat. The UKU-ConSat rating scale was applied in a randomised comparative two-year study of two community-based treatment programs. The study included 84 patients with schizophrenic disorders according to DSM-IV. The major finding was a significantly increased consumer satisfaction with the new community-based program &quot;Integrated Care&quot; in comparison with best-established practice, called &quot;Rational Rehabilitation.&quot; Thus, the new UKU-ConSat rating scale can detect differences, not only for in-patients as has previously been shown, but also between programs in community care settings. By per item analysis it was possible to discriminate between various elements of consumer satisfaction. There were significant correlations between the UKU-ConSat total scores and other clinical outcome domains, viz. symptoms, social function, and patient as well as carer's distress. To conclude, the UKU-ConSat rating scale is suitable for quality management and monitoring of treatment programs in mental health services.
A self-rating version of the UKU Side Effect Rating Scale has been developed. The present study examines the agreement between patients' self-assessment of side effects and the attending clinicians' ratings. The patient sample consisted of 63 patients with schizophrenia under maintenance treatment with risperidone, clozapine or classical antipsychotics. Approximately two thirds of the patients used concomitant medication with e.g. benzodiazepines, SSRIs, anticholinergics. Most inter-correlations between scores for single, corresponding items, subscores of Psychic, Neurological, Autonomic and Other side effects, as well as the Total Score from the patient version of the UKU Side Effect Self Rating Scale (UKU-SERS-Pat) and the clinician version (UKU-SERS-Clin) were found to be statistically significant. Patients reported side effects more frequently and or rated symptoms more severe than the clinicians. The results support the validity of the SERS-Pat and suggest that patient rated side effects may provide important clinical information not detected by clinician rated interviews. Such information can be utilised both in clinical investigations, in development of treatment programs and for individual patients in clinical practice.
This was a cross-sectional study investigating factors related to satisfaction with care among long-term mentally ill patients diagnosed with schizophrenia, selected from an outpatient register. Demographic factors, personality variables, and health-related factors were related to their satisfaction with care. Satisfaction with care showed no relationships to demographic factors such as age, living conditions, or civil status. However, significant associations indicated that patients who had never been hospitalized for mental illness, who were native Swedes, or who had an independent living rated their satisfaction with care higher. Personality, measured with the Temperament and Character Inventory, showed a relationship to satisfaction with care on only one dimension, self-directedness, of seven. Some of the results indicated a relationship between subjective measures and satisfaction with care, and some did not, but, taken together, the findings suggested a partial influence from a subjective factor on both subjective measures of well-being and on satisfaction with care. However, associations between interviewer-rated measures of health-related variables and satisfaction with care proposed that the better-functioning patients were more satisfied with the care, in turn indicating that the services better suited these patients. Thus, assuming that the influence of treatment was controlled for through the selection of long-term mentally ill subjects, this study pointed to two determinants of satisfaction with care: a selectively working subjective factor and the services being better designed for the better-functioning patients.
This study was conducted to assess trauma scores and posttraumatic stress symptoms among Kurdistanian refugee children and their parents in Sweden and a comparable group of Swedish children and their parents. Comparative Kurdistanian and Swedish samples composed of 32 children each and their parents were interviewed by means of a specially devised trauma instrument (HUTQ-C), to identify traumatic events and to measure trauma scores, and with (PTSS-C) and (HTQ) to diagnose posttraumatic stress syndrome (PTSD) among children and adults, respectively. Although Kurdistanian parents reported considerably more traumatic events than Swedish parents, children in both samples showed more similarities than differences, both with regard to types and levels of traumatic events. Kurdistanian parents showed higher PTSD frequencies than Swedish parents. However, these differences proved to be significant with regard to both the mother's and the father's lifetime and current PTSD symptom scores. Kurdistanian parents have experienced more war traumas and differ with regard to trauma exposure and its consequences when compared with Swedish parents. Children from the two samples showed more similarities than differences with regard to reported trauma and PTSD-related symptoms. These results underline the significance of child-specific factors in trauma and PTSD.
The aim of this project was to approach subjects who committed parasuicide but did not primarily receive or accept a recommendation for care through the regular routines after referral to a general hospital. Three hundred and twenty-nine consecutive parasuicides in 10- to 89-year-olds (162 men and 167 women) were studied. One hundred were subsequently hospitalized in the departments of psychiatry, 130 were followed up at outpatient facilities, and 96 left without any follow-up. A psychiatric liaison consultation was made in 57% of the total sample. The 96 subjects without follow-up were compared with the subjects who received follow-up. The sample was somewhat younger and included slightly more men. They were single in 54% and unemployed in 43% of the cases. According to the DSM-IV, 27% had a concurrent depression. According to the CAGE questions, 57% had indication of substance addiction. Fifty-four per cent had currently low global functioning, less than 50 points on the GAF. They had not been in contact with psychiatric care previously to the same extent as the others. About 34% of these who did not receive or rejected follow-up initially after a second approach agreed to follow-up when contacted by the project team, referring them to appropriate authorities such as social welfare offices, family counselling, or psychosocial staff within psychiatry or primary care. This may imply that the group delineated is at risk for eventual suicide and that the acceptance of follow-up should be interpreted as an indication that a substantial number needs help and can be successfully encountered by means of a case manager approach.
To ascertain whether benzodiazepines (BZDs) cause behavioural side effects other than those already known or trigger latent mental illness processes, the medical records of 32 patients who had submitted claims for BZD-induced side effects to the Swedish Pharmaceutical Insurance (SPI) claims office during 1985-92 were re-assessed by two psychiatrists on the basis of the DSM-IV system to determine whether a psychiatric syndrome existed before, during, or after the prescription of BZDs. Of the 32 case reports entered into the study, 22 concerned women; mean age at the time of SPI claim submission was 47 years, and the mean duration of BZD treatment was 11.7 years. The BZD dosages were in most cases within recommended therapeutic limits. Twenty-five claimants had also been using other psychotropic drugs. In 28 of the 32 cases a psychiatric syndrome in accordance with DSM-IV was present before the start of BZD treatment-in most cases an anxiety syndrome or anxious personality trait. In the other four cases no diagnosis could be given owing to paucity of information. In the 12 cases of claimants who fulfilled BZD dependence criteria at some point during treatment, withdrawal syndromes might have affected the clinical picture to some extent. Four claimants received additional post-BZD-treatment Axis I diagnoses, but in all four cases the new diagnoses were clearly related to the pre-existing symptom pattern. Thus, apart from the dependence on the drug there was no evidence of psychiatric morbidity caused by the BZDs. The symptoms reported by the claimants as evidence of BZD-induced psychiatric morbidity seem in most cases to have been a feature of pre-existing psychopathology which became more manifest after discontinuation of BZD treatment.
In contrast to other non-psychotic psychiatric populations, subjects with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are more prone to have personality disorder from cluster A (the odd and eccentric cluster). The present study aims at further investigating the relationship between these and other personality traits in OCD subjects and their relation to high functioning autism (HFA) and Asperger disorder. Sixty-four subjects with OCD were included. Personality traits were assessed with the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP), and personality disorders with DSM-adapted questionnaires. In addition, autistic traits were assessed in 29 videotaped subjects, by 3 independent raters. Twenty percent of the subjects with OCD were identified as also having autistic traits. These subjects scored higher on KSP scales measuring muscular tension, psychasthenia, and inhibition of aggression and lower on socialization as compared with OCD subjects without autistic traits. Additionally, subjects with autistic traits fulfilled criteria for anxious personality disorders and paranoid personality disorders significantly more often than subjects without autistic traits. We propose that OCD is often related to HFA and Asperger disorder. Self-report questionnaires may be useful in establishing the diagnosis. However, those with the most obvious autistic features seem to be less able to identify these traits in themselves.
In order to assess poor mental development, we must be aware of the normal development against which to measure up what is supposed to be delayed, deviant or malfunctioning. Experimental Child Psychology has traced parameters of the developing cognitive system of the infant which are important factors that influence the configuration of a normally balanced, or equilibrated, composition of intelligence in later life. The Developmental Neuroscience approach gives a scientific explanation to what parents might experience as unresponsiveness, lack of distress and rage control, or excessive clinging of a demanding child.
In the past decade or so, a convincing link between oxidative stress and degenerative conditions has been made and with the knowledge that oxidatiye changes may actually trigger deterioration in cell function, a great deal of energy has focussed on identifying agents which may have possible therapeutic value in combating oxidative changes. One agent which has received attention, because of its powerful antioxidative effects, particularly in neuronal tissue, is lipoic acid.
Previously, in monkeys undergoing 20 min whole brain ischemia we demonstrated that the activated calpain-induced lysosomal disruption with the resultant leakage of cathepsins B and L, causes neuronal death in the cornu Ammonis (CA) 1 sector on day 5. Selective cathepsin inhibitors significantly protected ischemic CA1 neurons from delayed necrosis. Recently, pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) and pyridoxal (hydrochloride) (PL) were demonstrated to inhibit cathepsins B and L in vitro, because the active aldehyde at position 4 of the pyridine ring has an affinity for the active site -SH of cysteine residues of cathepsins. Here, we studied whether PLP and PL can, in vivo, protect monkey CA1 neurons from ischemic insult. In monkeys undergoing 20 min whole brain ischemia, 15 mg/kg body weight/day of drugs were intravenously injected for 10 days before and after the ischemic insult. Histological analysis of the surviving CA1 neurons was done using the hippocampus resected on day 5 after ischemia. For PLP or PL, approximately 17% (P = 0.0639) or 54% (P &lt; 0.0001) of the total population (100%) of control CA1 neurons were, respectively, saved from the ischemia-induced neuronal death, showing a remarkable contrast to the surviving neurons (approximately 3.9%) in non-treated monkeys. These data suggested that PL (perhaps PLP intracellularly) is useful as a novel neuroprotectant in primates.
Dietary sulfur amino acid content is a major determinant of glutathione concentration in some tissues. We examined whether brain glutathione (GSH), a key component of antioxidant defense important for minimizing ischemic injury, was also responsive to short-term sulfur amino acid deficiency. Female Long-Evans adult rats were fed a sulfur-deficient L-amino acid defined diet for five days; the control diet was supplemented with L-cystine and L-methionine (n = 6). Sulfur amino acid deficiency was confirmed by a reduction in liver cysteine and GSH concentrations, marked decreases in food intake, and weight loss. GSH concentration analyzed by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography was significantly depressed in the neocortex and thalamus of deficient rats. Brain cysteine was not decreased in a parallel manner. Classical glutathione peroxidase activity was increased in the liver and brain of sulfur amino acid deficient rats. This suggests an upregulation of antioxidant defense but these findings may be complicated by alterations in tissue composition. The depletion of brain GSH by a reduced supply of dietary precursors may be important during brain ischemia when the rate of GSH utilization and the need for synthesis are increased.
This study reports from a survey investigating psychiatric occupational therapists' (n=292) use of verbal interaction on a regular basis with their clients. Among predefined areas of verbal interaction, routine occupations, self-image and ego-strengthening interventions were among the most frequently given alternatives. Verbal interaction with clients was more common among occupational therapists in outpatient care than among those in inpatient care. Verbal interaction with clients was also more common among occupational therapists with advanced education in psychodynamically oriented psychotherapy. The respondents' use of theoretical frames of reference was related to the focus of their verbal interaction with clients. Interventions to reach certain goals emerged as the most common category of verbal interactions. It was concluded that verbal interaction with clients is essential to the occupational therapy process. Future research needs to investigate the interplay between verbal and non-verbal components of interaction in occupational therapy and how patients benefit from these elements.
The validity of use of two artist-rendered and two photographic sets of grading scales (grading 'systems') designed for gauging the severity of contact lens-related ocular pathology was assessed in terms of precision and reliability. Thirteen observers each graded 30 images--by interpolation or extrapolation to the nearest 0.1 increment--of each of the three contact lens complications (corneal staining, conjunctival redness and papillary conjunctivitis) that were common to all four grading systems. This entire procedure was repeated approximately two weeks later, yielding a total data base comprising of 9360 individual grading estimates. Analysis of variance revealed statistically significant differences in both precision and reliability between systems, observers and conditions (p &lt; 0.03 for system reliability; p = 0.0001 for all other combinations). The artist-rendered systems generally afforded lower grading estimates and better grading reliability than the photographic systems. Corneal staining could be graded less reliably than conjunctival redness and papillary conjunctivitis. Grading reliability was generally unaffected by the severity of the condition being assessed. Notwithstanding the above differences, all four grading systems are validated for clinical use and practitioners can initially expect to use these systems with average 95% confidence limits of +/- 1.2 grading scale units (observer range +/- 0.7 to +/- 2.5 grading scale units). In view of the significant between-system differences revealed in this study, it is advisable to consistently use the same grading system. It may be possible to reduce between-observer differences by applying personalised correction factors to normalise grading estimates.

The nature and information content of neural signals have been discussed extensively in the neuroscience community. They are important ingredients in many theories on neural function, yet there is still no agreement on the details of neural coding. There have been various suggestions about how information is encoded in neural spike trains: by the number of spikes, by temporal correlations, through single spikes, or by spike patterns in one, or across many neurons. The latter scheme is most general and encompasses many others. We present an algorithm which can recover a coarse representation of a pattern coding scheme, through quantization to a reproduction set of smaller size. Among many possible quantizations, we choose one which preserves as much of the informativeness of the original stimulus/response relation as possible, through the use of an information-based distortion function. This method allows us to study coarse but highly informative models of a coding scheme, and then to refine them when more data becomes available. We shall describe a model in which full recovery is possible and present example for cases with partial recovery.
Peripheral inflammation induced with a knee joint injection of a mixture of kaolin/carrageenan (k/c) produces primary and secondary hyperalgesia. Inflammatory pain is thought to involve a variety of transmitters released from nerve terminals, including amino acids, substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). In the present study, mice deficient in the calcitonin/alpha CGRP gene (CGRP(-/-)) displayed normal responses to noxious stimuli. However, the CGRP knockout mice failed to demonstrate development of secondary hyperalgesia after induction of knee joint inflammation in two tests that assess central sensitization, through testing at sites remote from the primary insult. Nociceptive behavioral responses were assessed using the hot-plate test and paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to radiant heat applied to the hindpaw. The CGRP(-/-) mice showed no signs of secondary hyperalgesia after development of knee joint inflammation, while the expected significant decrease in the PWL was observed in the CGRP(+/+) mice as control. The CGRP(-/-) mice also had a prolonged rather than a shortened response latency in the hot-plate test 4 h after knee joint injection of k/c. Immunohistological study showed that CGRP-like immunoreactivity (CGRP-LI) was absent in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia taken from the CGRP(-/-) mice. These results indicate that endogenous CGRP plays an important role in the plastic neurogenic changes occurring in response to peripheral inflammatory events including the development of nociceptive behaviors.
A midline dorsal column lesion has been shown to be an effective surgical treatment for the relief of pelvic visceral pain in patients. The aim of this study was to examine the effectiveness of a dorsal column lesion upon: (i) increased electrophysiological responses of neurons in the ventral posterolateral thalamic nucleus in anesthetized rats evoked by the application of bradykinin to the surface of the pancreas, and (ii) pain-related behaviors observed after pancreatic infusion with bradykinin. In rats anesthetized with pentobarbital, recordings from individual thalamic neurons were made using tungsten electrodes. Brief application of bradykinin (10 microg/ml) to the surface of the pancreas resulted in an increased firing rate in approximately 20% of neurons recorded. A dorsal column lesion or intrathecal administration of morphine greatly reduced the excitatory effects of pancreatic bradykinin application on thalamic neurons. In a separate group of rats, bradykinin was infused into the pancreas through a previously implanted catheter resulting in a decrease in exploratory behavior and an increase in other pain-related behaviors, e.g. licking of the abdomen. A dorsal column lesion made prior (1 week) to the bradykinin infusion reduced the decrease in exploratory behavior but did not return exploratory behavior to control levels. In conclusion, nociceptive information relayed to the thalamus about the pancreas is transmitted from the spinal cord through the dorsal columns, possibly by the post-synaptic dorsal column pathway. However, the dorsal column pathway may not be the sole route for relaying information about noxious stimulation of the pancreas, particularly that impacting complex behavioral responses.
Anatomical studies demonstrate the presence of glutamate receptors on unmyelinated axons in peripheral cutaneous nerves. Pharmacological studies show that intraplantar injection of glutamate or glutamate agonists in the glabrous skin results in nociceptive behaviors. The present study describes a novel in vitro skin-nerve preparation using the glabrous skin from the rat hindpaw. In the first series of experiments, recordings were obtained from 141 fibers that responded to a strong mechanical search stimulus. Based on their conduction velocity they were classified as C (27%), A delta (28%) and A beta (45%) fibers. The C and A delta fibers typically exhibited sustained firing during suprathreshold mechanical stimuli whereas both rapidly (66%) and slowly (34%) adapting responses were obtained from A beta fibers. Noxious heat excited 46% of the C fibers but only 12% of the A delta units. In another series of experiments application of an ascending series of glutamate concentrations (10, 100, 300, and 1000 microM) to A delta (n=14) and C (n=19) nociceptors resulted in a significant excitation of 43% (6/14) A delta fibers and 68% (13/19) C fibers. At these concentrations, there was no excitation of A beta units (n=13). Superfusion of the receptive fields of either mechanoheat-sensitive A (AMH, n=10) or C fibers (CMH, n=12) for 2 min with 300 microM glutamate resulted in sensitization of 90% (9/10) AMH and 92% (11/12) CMH fibers to subsequent thermal stimulation. This was evidenced by a significant (1) decrease in thermal threshold for activation, (2) increase in discharge rate, and (3) increase in peak instantaneous frequencies during the second heat trial. Glutamate-induced sensitization to heat occurred in the absence of either a glutamate-induced excitation or an initial heat response. Exposure of A delta or C fibers to glutamate did not result in a decrease in von Frey thresholds. These data provide a physiological basis for the nociceptive behaviors that arise following intraplantar injection of glutamate or glutamate agonists. Furthermore, demonstration of glutamate-induced excitation and heat sensitization of nociceptors indicates that local or topical administration of glutamate receptor antagonists may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of pain.
The results of the studies on our model combination Trichobilharzia ocellata-Lymnaea stagnalis, presented in this review, lead to the conclusion that schistosomes use multiple strategies to reach their goals, i.e. to propagate and to continue their life cycle. They have to escape from being attacked by the internal defence system (IDS) of the snail host and to profoundly affect the host's energy flow, of which reproduction and growth are the main determinants, for their own benefit. These physiological changes they establish mainly by interfering with the two regulatory systems in the snail host, the IDS and the neuroendocrine system (NES). Moreover, these two regulatory systems clearly interact with each other. Parasitic E/S products affect the host's IDS both in a direct and an indirect way. The neuropeptides or neuropeptide-like substances that are secreted by parasite glands into the host directly suppress haemocyte activity in the snail. The indirect effects include effects of (1) peptides from connective tissue cells and (2) neuropeptides from NES and/or IDS. Parasitic E/S products also induce the effects on energy flow in the host. These E/S products act either directly on a target, as shown for the inhibiting effect of the parasite on the development of the male copulation organ, or on the NES regulating reproductive activity, e.g. on gene expression. Indirect effects of E/S products on the NES (hormone-receptor interaction, electrical activity) are mediated by a factor from connective tissue cells, presumably belonging to the IDS. The physiological changes in the snail host are obviously of vital importance for the parasites, since they make use of different strategies to bring them about.
We investigated whether cytoplasmic or nuclear extracts of human peripheral blood lymphocytes contain AVP in samples from healthy controls and patients diagnosed as depressed or schizophrenic. Both the cytoplasmic and nuclear extracts contained AVP as determined by radioimmunoassay. AVP and other peptides were detected in the purified samples by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry. It is the first time that AVP has been characterized in human lymphocytes of patients with depression or schizophrenia. This finding demonstrates the presence of another important component within the potential regulatory loop between immune and neuro-endocrine tissues.
To examine the combined effects of gravitational and optical stimulation on perceived target elevation, we independently altered gravitational-inertial force and both the orientation and the structure of a background visual array. While being exposed to 1.0, 1.5, or 2.0 Gz in the human centrifuge at NASA Ames Research Center, observers attempted to set a target to the apparent horizon. The target was viewed against the far wall of a box that was pitched at various angles. The box was brightly illuminated, had only its interior edges dimly illuminated, or was kept dark. Observers lowered their target settings as Gz was increased; this effect was weakened when the box was illuminated. Also, when the box was visible, settings were displaced in the same direction as that in which the box was pitched. We attribute our results to the combined influence of otolith-oculomotor mechanisms that underlie the elevator illusion and visual-oculomotor mechanisms (optostatic responses) that underlie the perceptual effects of viewing pitched visual arrays.
The objective of the study was to measure the interactions between visual thresholds for a simple light (the secondary task) presented peripherally and a simultaneously performed cognitive task (the primary task) presented foveally The primary task was highly visible but varied according to its cognitive complexity. Interactions between the tasks were determined by measuring detection thresholds for the peripheral task and accuracy of performance of the foveal task. Effects were measured for 5, 10, 20, and 30 deg eccentricity of the peripherally presented light and for three levels of cognitive complexity. Mesopic conditions (0.5 lx) were used. As expected, the concurrent presentation of the foveal cognitive task reduced peripheral sensitivity. Moreover, performance of the foveal task was adversely affected when conducting the peripheral task. Performance on both tasks was reduced as the level of complexity of the cognitive task increased. There were qualitative differences in task interactions between the central 10 deg and at greater eccentricities. Within 10 deg there was a disproportionate effect of eccentricity, previously interpreted as the 'tunnel-vision' model of visual field narrowing. Interactions outside 10 deg were less affected by eccentricity. These results are discussed in terms of the known neurophysiological characteristics of the primary visual pathway.
It is well known that optic flow--the smooth transformation of the retinal image experienced by a moving observer--contains valuable information about the three-dimensional layout of the environment. From psychophysical and neurophysiological experiments, specialised mechanisms responsive to components of optic flow (sometimes called complex motion) such as expansion and rotation have been inferred. However, it remains unclear (a) whether the visual system has mechanisms for processing the component of deformation and (b) whether there are multiple mechanisms that function independently from each other. Here, we investigate these issues using random-dot patterns and a forced-choice subthreshold summation technique. In experiment 1, we manipulated the size of a test region that was permitted to contain signal and found substantial spatial summation for signal components of translation, expansion, rotation, and deformation embedded in noise. In experiment 2, little or no summation was found for the superposition of orthogonal pairs of complex motion patterns (eg expansion and rotation), consistent with probability summation between pairs of independent detectors. Our results suggest that optic-flow components are detected by mechanisms that are specialised for particular patterns of complex motion.
What happens to the pictorial content of fixations when we move our eyes? Previous studies demonstrate that observers are very poor at detecting changes in natural scenes that occur across saccades, blinks, and artificial interruptions ('change blindness'). They suggest that the visual 'snapshots' of what is on the retina during a fixation are not retained and fused over successive fixations. I find similar results when volunteers are performing the complex real-life task of making a cup of tea. Volunteers can access the snapshot of the current fixation but not those of previous fixations. I suggest that volunteers are reporting the content of a low-level visual store that holds a veridical snapshot of the current fixation, rather than the retina itself. The snapshots are not 'wiped' by the saccade and remain in the buffer until they are overwritten by a new snapshot. The overwrite occurs in an all-or-none manner and can be at any time within the first 400 ms of each new fixation, with 50% of overwrites being within the first 100 ms.
We try to explain perceptual continuation and depth in the visual-phantom illusion in terms of perceptual transparency. Perceptual continuation of inducing gratings across the occluder in stationary phantoms could be explained with unique transparency, a notion proposed by Anderson (1997 Perception 26 419-453). This view is consistent with a number of previous reports including that of McCourt (1994 Vision Research 34 1609-1617) who criticized the stationary phantom illusion from the viewpoint of his counterphase lightness induction or grating induction, which might involve invalid transparency. Here we confirm that the photopic phantom illusion (Kitaoka et al, 1999 Perception 28 825-834) really gives in-phase lightness induction and involves bistable transparency. It is thus suggested that perceptual continuation and depth in the visual-phantom illusion depend on perceptual transparency.
Because of the aperture problem, local motion measurements must be combined across space. However, not all motions should be combined. Some arise from distinct objects and should be segregated, and some are due to occlusion and should be discounted because they are spurious. Humans have little difficulty ignoring spurious motions at occlusions and correctly integrating object motion, and are evidently making use of form information to do so. There is a large body of theoretical and empirical evidence supporting the importance of form processes involving junctions in the way motion is integrated. To assess the role of more complex form analysis, we manipulated nonlocal form cues that could be varied independently of local junctions. Using variants on diamond and plaid stimuli used in previous studies, we found that manipulations distant from the junctions themselves could cause large changes in motion interpretation. Nonlocal information often overrides the integration decisions that would be expected from local cues. The mechanisms implicated appear to involve surface segmentation, amodal completion, and depth ordering.
New variations of the spiral illusion are demonstrated. They include spiral illusions of the Caf Wall illusion and the Zllner illusion, as well as other new orientation illusions. Thus the spiral illusion is not limited to the Fraser illusion. We discuss the role that detectors of spirals in a higher visual area might play in the spiral illusion.
It is known that rotation of a furnished room around the roll axis of erect subjects produces an illusion of 360 degrees self-rotation in many subjects. Exposure of erect subjects to stationary tilted visual frames or rooms produces only up to 20 degrees of illusory tilt. But, in studies using static tilted rooms, subjects remained erect and the body axis was not aligned with the room. We have revealed a new class of disorientation illusions that occur in many subjects when placed in a 90 degrees or 180 degrees tilted room containing polarised objects (familiar objects with tops and bottoms). For example, supine subjects looking up at a wall of the room feel upright in an upright room and their arms feel weightless when held out from the body. We call this the levitation illusion. We measured the incidence of 90 degrees or 180 degrees reorientation illusions in erect, supine, recumbent, and inverted subjects in a room tilted 90 degrees or 180 degrees. We report that reorientation illusions depend on the displacement of the visual scene rather than of the body. However, illusions are most likely to occur when the visual and body axes are congruent. When the axes are congruent, illusions are least likely to occur when subjects are prone rather than supine, recumbent, or inverted.
Here we draw attention to similarity between Petter's effect and the visual phantom illusion. Phantoms are visible when the spatial frequency of the inducing grating is low or the occluder is thin, whereas phantoms are invisible when the spatial frequency of the inducing grating is high or the occluder is thick. Moreover, phantoms are perceived in front of the occluder when they are visible, whereas the occluder is seen in front of the inducing gratings when phantoms are invisible. These characteristics correspond to Petter's effect, in which the thicker region tends to be perceived in front of the thinner region when two regions of the same lightness and of different sizes overlap, since 'thick' corresponds to low spatial frequency of the inducing grating or a thick occluder while 'thin' corresponds to high spatial frequency of the inducing grating or a thin occluder.
This study investigated the distribution of beta3 in human tissues and the functional effects of the human beta3 subunit on the gating properties of brain and skeletal muscle alpha subunits. Using RT-PCR of human cDNA panels, beta3 message was detected in brain, heart, kidney, lung, pancreas and skeletal muscle. Both alphaIIA and SkM1 expressed in Xenopus oocytes inactivated with a time course described by two exponential components representing fast and slow gating modes, while co-expression of human beta3 with alphaIIA or SkM1 significantly increased the proportion of channels operating by the fast gating mode. In the presence of beta3 a greater proportion of alphaIIA or SkM1 current was described by the fast time constant for both inactivation and recovery from inactivation. beta3 caused a hyperpolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of inactivation of alphaIIIA and reduced the slope factor. The voltage dependence of inactivation of SkM1 was described by a double Boltzmann equation. However, SkM1 co-expressed with beta3 was described by a single Boltzmann equation similar to one of the Boltzmann components for SkM1 expressed alone, with a small positive shift in V1/2 value and reduced slope factor. This is the first study demonstrating that beta3 is expressed in adult mammalian skeletal muscle and can functionally couple to the skeletal muscle alpha subunit, SkM1.
The human brain voltage-gated Na+ channel type IIA alpha subunit was cloned and stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells and its biophysical and pharmacological properties were studied using whole-cell voltage-clamp. Fast, transient inward currents of up to -8,000 pA were elicited by membrane depolarization of the recombinant cells. Channels activated at -50 mV and reached maximal activation at -10 mV to 0 mV. The reversal potential was 62 +/- 2 mV which is close to the Na+ equilibrium potential. The half-maximal activation and inactivation voltages were -24 +/- 2 mV and -63 +/- 1 mV, respectively. Currents were reversibly blocked by tetrodotoxin with a half-maximal inhibition of 13 nM. The effects of four commonly used anti-convulsant drugs were examined for the first time on the cloned human type IIA channel. Lamotrigine and phenytoin produced concentration- and voltage-dependent inhibition of the type IIA currents, whereas, sodium valproate and gabapentin (up to 1 mM) had no effect. These results indicate that recombinant human type IIA Na+ channels conduct tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ currents with similar properties to those observed in recombinant rat brain type IIA and native rat brain Na+ channels. This stable cell line should provide a useful tool for more detailed characterization of therapeutic modulators of human Na+ channels.
Six novel monoamine reuptake inhibitors were screened for their intrinsic effects on brain stimulation reward (BSR), as well as for their potential to reduce cocaine-induced reward-enhancement in that paradigm. Two of the compounds, nocaine-3B and 5-ara-74A (disubstituted piperidines) significantly reduced locus of rise (LOR), threshold measure of reward, at some doses. One compound, 1-RV-96A (a hybrid of the GBR and WIN-like agents) significantly reduced reward (increased LOR), but only at the highest dose tested. No effect of dose was found for MC9-20 (a GBR-like acyclic analogue of the N-bisarylmethoxyethyl-N'-phenylpropyl piperazine), nocaine-250B or 4-ara-42C (disubstituted piperidines). When cocaine (10 mg/kg, ip) and selected, hedonically neutral doses of novel compounds were combined, the following findings were obtained: MC9-20 (2.5 mg/kg, ip) showed a significant increase in cocaine-induced reward enhancement (0.2 log units or 53%). In contrast, nocaine-250B and 1-RV-96A (both at 10 mg/kg, ip) demonstrated a significant reduction (0.13 log units or 41%) in cocaine-induced reward enhancement (P&lt;.01 and P&lt;.05, respectively), as measured by changes in LOR. There were no differences in the maximum behavioral output (MAX) at either dose of each of the six drugs, or when selected doses were combined with cocaine. These results indicate that nocaine-250B and 1-RV-96A constitute two potential anticocaine compounds worthy of further behavioral and biochemical evaluation.
We used a real-skull phantom head to investigate the performances of representative methods for EEG source localization when considering various head models. We describe several experiments using a montage with current sources located at multiple positions and orientations inside a human skull filled with a conductive medium. The robustness of selected methods based on distributed source models is evaluated as various solutions to the forward problem (from the sphere to the finite element method) are considered. Experimental results indicate that inverse methods using appropriate cortex-based source models are almost always able to locate the active source with excellent precision, with little or no spurious activity in close or distant regions, even when two sources are simultaneously active. Superior regularization schemes for solving the inverse problem can dramatically help the estimation of sparse and focal active zones, despite significant approximation of the head geometry and the conductivity properties of the head tissues. Realistic head models are necessary, though, to fit the data with a reasonable level of residual variance.
The capacity with which a system of independent neuron-like units represents a given set of stimuli is studied by calculating the mutual information between the stimuli and the neural responses. Both discrete noiseless and continuous noisy neurons are analyzed. In both cases, the information grows monotonically with the number of neurons considered. Under the assumption that neurons are independent, the mutual information rises linearly from zero, and approaches exponentially its maximum value. We find the dependence of the initial slope on the number of stimuli and on the sparseness of the representation.
Any behavioral testing induces stress to some degree. A meaningful interpretation of behavioral results can be difficult if stress, caused by handling or the testing situation, modifies the experimental outcome. Especially for neurological animal models, it is important to know how stress affects motor and sensory performance. Therefore, we investigated the effects of varying degrees of stress on several motor and sensory tasks that are frequently used to assess functional recovery after lesion-induced impairments in adult rats. Acute, subchronic, and chronic stress impaired ladder walking and prolonged the duration of grasping a bar. Stress also altered walking patterns by increasing the base of support and foot rotation and reducing stride length. Furthermore, chronic stress induced hypersensitivity to painful stimuli, but did not significantly influence the latency to remove sticky papers from the hindpaws (sticky paper test). In the light--dark (L/D) test, stress reduced the latency to enter the dark compartment and enhanced the number of transitions supporting that cold swim stress modifies the animal's level of anxiety. These data point towards a critical influence of acute or chronic stress on motor control and sensory performance of rats, suggesting that stress might be a critical intervening variable of the outcome of behavioral tests.


In order to meet the need for a controlled terminology in neuroinformatics, we have integrated the extensive terminology of NeuroNames into the Foundational Model of anatomy. We illustrate the application of foundational principles for the establishment of an inheritance hierarchy, which accommodates anatomical attributes of neuroanatomical concepts and provides the foundation to which other information may be linked.
Injuries to specific areas of the brain (such as cerebrovascular accidents or surgical procedures) and particularly to the primary visual cortex, yield profound visual defects. The level of spared visual functions or residual vision depends on the extent and location of the lesion as well as the age at which the trauma occurs. For instance, in primate as well as non-primate species, it is well established that lesions in adulthood have a more profound effect than those occurring in young animals. The recovery of visually guided behavior observed after massive destruction of the occipital cortex in young animals across many species has been generally associated with the reorganization of the pathways from the extrageniculate thalamus to the spared visual cortex, i.e. the extrastriate areas. In this chapter, we present some evidence that the lateral posterior-pulvinar (LP-pulvinar) complex may contribute to maintaining visual capacities in brain-damaged cats. Our data indicate that the overall visual responsiveness of the lateral part of the LP (LPl) cells is not altered by the early removal of the visual cortex. However, some specific properties differ from those of intact animals: on average, LPl neurons in brain-damaged animals are more broadly tuned for orientation than that in intact cats. Spatial frequency tuning functions are also affected since most units in lesioned animals are of the low-pass type. Moreover, most LPl cells of lesioned cats responded to drifting gratings with modulated discharges and a linear spatial summation within their receptive field, a characteristic that is infrequently observed in intact animals. The change in LPl response properties observed in the present study is likely to come from the reorganization of cortical and retinal fibers reaching this extrageniculate nucleus.
Thalamic nuclei have long been considered as passive relay stations for sensory signals en route to the cerebral cortex, where higher level processing occurs. In recent years, it has been proposed that thalamic nuclei may actively participate in the processing of specific information in conjunction with cortical areas. In support of this hypothesis, we recently discovered that neurons in the main extrageniculate visual nucleus, the pulvinar, exhibit higher-order visual properties that were, until now, only associated with higher-order cortical areas. Pulvinar neurons can indeed code the veridical direction of a moving plaid pattern, indicating that these cells can integrate ambiguous signals into a coherent percept. This finding as well as our demonstration that there are cortico-thalamo-cortical loops involved in complex motion analysis open promising avenues in unraveling the function of the pulvinar complex in normal vision.
Blindsight, residual visual function in the absence of conscious awareness, can sometimes be found within the scotomas of patients with lesions to primary visual cortex. However, cases in which blindsight is distributed across large regions of a scotoma are extremely rare. In contrast, blindsight is relatively frequent within small islands of residual visual function. We review the evidence for the existence of these islands. We argue that blindsight is likely to depend on vestiges of geniculostriate function, and that in humans the secondary retinotectal pathway has little functional utility in the absence of geniculostriate support. To account for the frequency of blindsight within residual islands of function, we speculate that patients may be unaware of such islands precisely because they are islands, which are isolated from the integrated network of neural activity that represents visual space. The relationship of blindsight to the hemispatial neglect is considered in this context.
Neurotrophins are a family of secreted molecules that have multiple, profound actions on the structure and function of both developing and mature neurons. Neurotrophins exert their influences by signaling through the trk family of receptor tyrosine kinases and the p75 low affinity neurotrophin receptor. Here we review the contributions of neurotrophins to the development of neural circuitry in the mammalian visual system. We emphasize: (1) the role of neurotrophins as components of the cellular mechanisms by which neuroelectric activity sculpts pattern of brain connectivity; and (2) the results of recent experiments suggesting that the trafficking of neurotrophin proteins may be activity dependent.
The neuropeptide oxytocin has been implicated in the initiation of maternal behavior, based on studies in rats and sheep. Females in both of these species naturally avoid infants until parturition when they begin to show an intense interest in maternal care. Oxytocin pathways in the brain appear to be important for this transition from avoidance to approach of the young. Recent studies in mice with a null mutation of the oxytocin gene suggest a different scenario. These mice, which completely lack oxytocin, exhibit full maternal and reproductive behavior, except for a deficit in milk ejection. Apparently, oxytocin is not essential for maternal behavior in this species. Consistent with the role of oxytocin for the transition from avoidance to approach in rats and sheep, nulliparous mice show full maternal behavior and therefore do not require the peptide for the initiation of maternal care. The species differences in the behavioral effects of oxytocin are associated with profound species differences in the location of oxytocin receptors in the brain. Recent transgenic studies suggest that these species differences in the neuroanatomical distribution of oxytocin receptors may be a function of inter-species variation in the flanking region of the oxytocin receptor gene. So, who needs oxytocin? For maternal care, not mice and (possibly) other species, like primates, with promiscuous parental care. Most important, in considering the behavioral or cognitive functions of oxytocin, one cannot accurately extrapolate across species unless one knows the species have the same neuroanatomical location of oxytocin receptors.
Puerperal psychosis, an episode of mania or psychosis precipitated by childbirth follows approximately one in 1000 deliveries. The evidence of clinical, outcome and genetic studies supports the hypothesis that the majority of puerperal psychotic episodes are manifestations of an affective disorder diathesis with a puerperal trigger. Furthermore the available evidence supports the hypothesis that genes are involved in susceptibility to both diathesis and trigger. For complex genetic disorders such as affective illness there are marked benefits in focussing on a homogeneous subtype which allows a subset of hypotheses to be tested. Molecular genetic studies of puerperal psychosis provide an excellent example of this strategy, allowing a hierarchy of hypotheses concerning the involvement of neurosteroid pathways in pathophysiology to be tested. Puerperal psychosis results in considerable suffering to a woman and her family. Elucidating the pathophysiological basis of this disorder will lead to better prevention and treatment and, it is anticipated, inform research on affective disorders more generally.
The vital role played by prolactin during pregnancy and lactation is emphasized by the physiological adaptations that occur in the mother to maintain a prolonged state of hyperprolactinemia. In many species the placenta provides a source of lactogenic hormones in the circulation, ensuring the continued presence of a hormone capable of activating the prolactin receptor throughout pregnancy. In addition, the tuberoinfundibular dopamine neurons, which normally maintain a tonic inhibitory influence over prolactin secretion, show a reduced ability to respond to prolactin during late pregnancy and lactation, allowing high levels of prolactin to be maintained unopposed by a regulatory feedback mechanisms. There is clear evidence that systemic prolactin gains access to the cerebrospinal fluid, from where it can diffuse to numerous brain regions. Prolactin receptors are expressed in several hypothalamic nuclei, including the medial preoptic and arcuate nuclei, and we have observed marked increases in expression of prolactin receptors in these nuclei during lactation. Moreover, a number of hypothalamic nuclei, including the paraventricular, supraoptic and ventromedial nuclei, in which prolactin receptors were not detected in diestrous rats, were found to express significant amounts of prolactin receptor during lactation. These observations have important implications for the variety of documented actions of prolactin on the brain. Prolactin has been reported to influence numerous brain functions, including maternal behavior, feeding and appetite, oxytocin secretion, and ACTH secretion in response to stress. In light of the high circulating levels of prolactin during pregnancy and lactation and the increased expression of prolactin receptors in the hypothalamus, many of these effects of prolactin may be enhanced or exaggerated during lactation. Hence, prolactin may be a key player in the coordination of neuroendocrine and behavioral adaptations of the maternal brain.
Adverse early experience, including prenatal maternal psychosocial stress, has the potential to negatively influence developmental processes through both physiological and behavioral mechanisms. This in turn may have adverse consequences for the mental and physical health, well-being and aging of the individual throughout the entire life-span. We have initiated a program of research on humans to examine the consequences of maternal stress and related factors in pregnancy on the length of gestation, fetal growth, and brain development. We have also investigated the physiological mechanisms that are involved. In this chapter we outline the theoretical rationale for this work and give an overview of our findings to date. These findings support a significant and independent role for behavioral processes such as maternal prenatal stress in the etiology of prematurity-related outcomes, and suggest that these effects are mediated, in part, by the maternal-placental-fetal neuroendocrine axis; specifically by placental corticotropin-releasing hormone. Using a fetal challenge paradigm as a novel method for quantifying fetal neurologic maturity in utero, we have found that the maternal environment exerts a significant influence on the fetal autonomic nervous system and on central nervous system processes related to recognition, memory and habituation. Finally, our findings provide preliminary evidence to support the notion that the influence of prenatal stress and maternal-placental hormones on the developing fetus may persist after birth, as assessed by measures of temperament and behavioral reactivity in the first 3 years of postnatal life. The implications of these studies for life-span development and health are discussed.



In conclusion, glial cells control not only ECS ionic composition, but also ECS size and geometry. Since ECS ionic and volume changes have been shown to play an important role in modulating the complex synaptic and extrasynaptic signal transmission in the CNS, glial cells may thus affect neuronal interaction, synchronization and neuron-glia communication. As shown in Fig. 2, a link between ionic and volume changes and signal transmission has been proposed as a model for the non-specific feedback mechanism suppressing neuronal activity (Sykov, 1997; Ransom, 2000). First, neuronal activity results in the accumulation of [K+]e, which in turn depolarizes glial cells, and this depolarization induces an alkaline shift in glial pHi. Second, the glial cells extrude acid and the resulting acid shift causes a decrease in the neuronal excitability. Because ionic transmembrane shifts are always accompanied by water, this feedback mechanism is amplified by activity-related glial swelling compensated for by ECS volume shrinkage and by increased tortuosity, presumably by the crowding of molecules of the ECS matrix and/or by the swelling of fine glial processes. This, in turn, results in a larger accumulation of ions and other neuroactive substances in the brain due to increased diffusion hinderance in the ECS. Astrocyte hypertrophy, proliferation and swelling influence the size of the ECS volume and tortuosity around neurons, slowing diffusion in the ECS. Their organization may also affect diffusion anisotropy, which could be an underlying mechanism for the specificity of extrasynaptic transmission, including 'cross-talk' between distinct synapses (Barbour and Hausser, 1997; Kullmann and Asztely, 1998). An increased concentration of transmitter released into a synapse (e.g. repetitive adequate stimuli or during high frequency electrical stimulation which induces LTP) results in a significant activation of high-affinity receptors at neighboring synapses. The efficacy of such synaptic cross-talk would be dependent on the extracellular space surrounding the synapses, i.e. on intersynaptic geometry and diffusion parameters. Other recent studies have also suggested an important role for proteoglycans, known to participate in multiple cellular processes, such as axonal outgrowth, axonal branching and synaptogenesis (Hardington and Fosang, 1992; Margolis and Margolis, 1993) that are important for the formation of memory traces. Recent observation of a decrease of fibronectin and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan staining in the hippocampus of behaviorally impaired aged rats (Sykov et al., 1998a,b) supports this hypothesis. It is reasonable to assume that besides neuronal and glial processes, macromolecules of the extracellular matrix contribute to diffusion barriers in the ECS. It is therefore apparent that glial cells play an important role in the local architecture of the CNS and they may also be involved in the modulation of signal transmission, in plastic changes, LTP, LTD and in changes of behavior and memory formation.




Cells with the phenotypic characteristics of oligodendrocyte progenitors (NG2+/PDGF alpha R+/O4+) are found throughout the adult mammalian CNS in numbers similar to microglia. They are a reactive glial cell population and respond to demyelination by increasing in number, thereby repopulating the lesion site with cells capable of differentiating into remyelinating oligodendrocytes. Direct evidence that they differentiate into remyelinating cells is missing, although this is the most likely scenario. Cells with the same phenotype are found in normal human CNS tissue and also in chronic MS lesions. Further studies on this intriguing cell type are necessary in order to understand the molecular signals involved in their reaction to injury, particularly in multiple sclerosis.













1. Violence and aggression are major public health problems. 2. The authors have used techniques of electrical brain stimulation, anatomical-immunohistochemical techniques, and behavioral pharmacology to investigate the neural systems and circuits underlying aggressive behavior in the cat. 3. The medial hypothalamus and midbrain periaqueductal gray are the most important structures mediating defensive rage behavior, and the perifornical lateral hypothalamus clearly mediates predatory attack behavior. The hippocampus, amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, septal area, cingulate gyrus, and prefrontal cortex project to these structures directly or indirectly and thus can modulate the intensity of attack and rage. 4. Evidence suggests that several neurotransmitters facilitate defensive rage within the PAG and medial hypothalamus, including glutamate, Substance P, and cholecystokinin, and that opioid peptides suppress it; these effects usually depend on the subtype of receptor that is activated. 5. A key recent discovery was a GABAergic projection that may underlie the often-observed reciprocally inhibitory relationship between these two forms of aggression. 6. Recently, Substance P has come under scrutiny as a possible key neurotransmitter involved in defensive rage, and the mechanism by which it plays a role in aggression and rage is under investigation. 7. It is hoped that this line of research will provide a better understanding of the neural mechanisms and substrates regulating aggression and rage and thus establish a rational basis for treatment of disorders associated with these forms of aggression.
1. The human immunodeficiency virus invades the central nervous system early after infection where it later gives rise to cognitive, motor, and behavioral manifestations in children and adults. 2. Ranging from mild impairments to frank dementia, CNS manifestations can be diagnosed and measured with standard neuropsychological test batteries. 3. Great strides have been made with treatment: CNS manifestations are treatable, as are depression, psychosis, and delirium which sometimes accompany HIV disease at different stages. 4. With startling advances in antiretroviral therapy and lower mortality, patients face a constellation of new concerns stemming from HIV's transformation to a more chronic disease. 5. There are many compelling research directions ahead, including the psychosocial impact of living with HIV as a chronic disease, the development of medications expressly targeted to the CNS, and basic research on neuropathogenesis, including trafficking of virus into the CNS.
This review of the work from our laboratory describes initial studies in which base excision repair in mtDNA was first seen. It considers the results of experiments in which the substrates for mtDNA repair were identified. The discussion then focuses on studies during which the sequence context for mtDNA damage and repair were explored. Next, it addresses factors that have been identified that influence mtDNA repair. Finally, it summarizes the results of studies that evaluated cell-specific differences in the repair of mtDNA and explored some of the biological consequences of these differences.
Monoamine oxidase A and B (MAO A and B) are the major neurotransmitter-degrading enzymes in the central nervous system and in peripheral tissues. MAO A and B cDNAs from human, rat, and bovine species have been cloned and their deduced amino acid sequences compared. Comparison of A and B forms of the enzyme shows approximately 70% sequence identity, whereas comparison of the A or B forms across species reveals a higher sequence identity of 87%. Within these sequences, several functional regions have been identified that contain crucial amino acid residues participating in flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) or substrate binding. These include a dinucleotide-binding site, a second FAD-binding site, a fingerprint site, the FAD covalent-binding site, an active site, and the membrane-anchoring site. The specific residues that play a role in FAD or substrate binding were identified by comparing sequences in wild-type and variants of MAO with those in soluble flavoproteins of known structures. The genes that encode MAO A and B are closely aligned on the X chromosome (Xp11.23), and have identical exon-intron organization. Immunocytochemical localization studies of MAO A and B in primate brain showed distribution in distinct neurons with diverse physiological functions. A defective MAO A gene has been reported to associate with abnormal aggressive behavior. A deleterious role played by MAO B is the activation of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a proneurotoxin that can cause a parkinsonian syndrome in mammals. Deprenyl, an inhibitor of MAO B, has been used for the treatment of early-stage Parkinson's disease and provides protection of neurons from age-related decay.



The existence of body orientation mental imagery was tested by examining whether self roll tilt imagery affects the subjective visual vertical (SVV). Twenty healthy subjects judged the orientation of a dim luminous bar with respect to gravitational vertical, while normally seated in complete darkness with their head firmly restrained earth vertically. SVV was measured in three conditions: a reference condition with no imagery, and a left and a right imagery condition, during which the bar orientation was to be judged while the subjects imagine themselves roll-tilted towards left or right, respectively. The imagined roll tilts were of the same magnitude as roll tilts which generally induce an E-effect, i.e., an SVV lean toward the side opposite to those of body tilt. If imagery and perception of self roll tilt share common processes, self roll tilt imagery should induce an E-like effect. Results show an imagery-induced E-like effect, which strongly supports the idea that humans can perform mental imagery of body orientation about gravity.
Two experiments examined performance in a sequence learning task. Participants were trained on a repeating sequence which was presented as a visual display and learning was measured via the increase in reaction time to respond to a new sequence. Some participants made a response to each stimulus while others merely observed the sequence. In Experiment 1 participants responding to the display via a keypress showed learning, but those merely observing did not. Five possible reasons for the failure to find observational learning were considered and the Experiment 2 attempted to resolve these. This second experiment confirmed the findings of Experiment 1 in a non-spatial sequence display using a cover story which encouraged attention to the display but not rule-search strategies. The results are discussed in relation to applied and theoretical aspects of implicit learning.
In a series of five experiments we investigated whether observers could focus attention on a restricted visual area that was demarcated by Kanizsa-like subjective contours, and whether this effect also occurred in the case of overlapping figures. The task was a simple reaction time to a luminance increment and the basic finding was that reaction time was faster when the imperative stimulus fell inside the focus of attention than when it fell outside. The first two experiments showed that the extent of the attentional focus could be adapted to a region that was demarcated by subjective contours, thus extending the results of previous studies that used regions demarcated by real contours. The last three experiments showed that, regardless of the type of margins, focusing was more efficient for the figure that was perceived as lying in front in a pair of overlapping figures.
In the current revival of interest in the emotional and mental lives of animals, many investigators have focused attention on mammalian infants that emit distress vocalizations when separated from the home environment. Perhaps the most intensively studied distress vocalization is the ultrasonic vocalization of infant rats. Since its discovery, this vocalization has been interpreted both as a communicatory signal for the elicitation of maternal retrieval and as the manifestation of emotional distress. In contrast, the authors examined the cardiovascular causes and consequences of the vocalization, and on the basis of this work, they hypothesized that the vocalization is the acoustic by-product of the abdominal compression reaction (ACR), a maneuver that results in increased venous return to the heart. Therefore, the vocalization may be analogous to a sneeze, serving a physiological function while incidentally producing sound.







The mammalian auditory system contains descending pathways that originate in the cortex and relay at various intermediate levels before reaching the peripheral sensory organ of Corti. The last link in this chain consists of the olivocochlear bundle. The activity of this bundle can be measured through otoacoustic emissions, which are acoustic signatures of the cochlear biomechanical activity. In the present study, it was hypothesized that frequency-specific activation of the olivocochlear bundle in the contralateral ear would show up as frequency-specific variations in otoacoustic emission amplitude in the ipsilateral ear. Two groups of young adult subjects participated in this experiment. Evoked otoacoustic emissions were recorded in the ipsilateral ear at two test frequencies (1 and 2 kHz). Subjects had to detect probe tones at a given frequency in background noise in the contralateral ear. Larger efferent activation was measured at test frequencies on which attention is focused. This result provides evidence for an influence of attention on the auditory periphery via descending projections.
The activity of the agonist muscles was recorded during the performance of a two-choice visual reaction time (RT) task in which the compatibility of the stimulus-response mapping was manipulated. Correct trials were distinguished according to whether or not the activation of the agonist of the required response was preceded by an activation of the agonist of the nonrequired response. Double activation trials were more numerous for the incompatible than for the compatible mapping. Furthermore, these trials yielded longer RTs than the single muscular activation trials. These results suggest that initial activations of nonrequired responses are more frequently aborted and corrected when the mapping is incompatible than when it is compatible. This finding supports the dimensional overlap model of stimulus-response compatibility (S. Kornblum, T. Hasbroucq, &amp; A. Osman, 1990).

The influence of personality factors on the appraisal of subjective quality of life in individuals with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder is not much investigated. The present study examined this relationship in a sample of 104 patients living in the community. The temperament and character inventory was used to assess personality and the Lancashire quality of life profile was used to assess quality of life. The results showed that lower levels of harm avoidance and higher levels of self-directedness were significantly correlated to a better subjective quality of life. Regression analyses controlling for psychopathology revealed that a higher level of self-directedness was significantly associated with a better subjective quality in all aspects measured and explained the variance in the latter in the range of 4-12%. It is concluded that personality factors are involved in severely mentally ill individuals' assessment of their quality of life and should be accounted for in evaluations of quality of life assessments. The strength and directions of this influence require further studies.
Recent work at the zebrafish neuromuscular junction (NMJ) has shown that positively charged acetylcholine (ACh), at the high concentrations reached in the cleft during neuromuscular transmission, blocks acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) as soon as they open. Thus after two ACh molecules bind and open the channel, a third molecule enters and blocks the pore at a site resembling that for block by local anesthetics, suggesting that ACh is the endogenous anesthetic of the NMJ. Recovery from open channel block results in a rebound synaptic current only after ACh is cleared from the cleft. Kinetic modeling of other AChRs suggests that a rebound current is generated at all vertebrate NMJs, from fish to frogs to mammals. Open channel block prolongs the current at fast zebrafish NMJs in order to more effectively spread charge along the fibers, akin to multiple central synapses spread over dendrites. Together these findings indicate the need for a fundamental revision of current thinking about neuromuscular transmission at many levels, including channel structure, function and pharmacology.
Recent studies using immunofluorescence confocal microscopy (Aizman et al., Nature neuroscience (2000) 3, 226-230) present compelling evidence for colocalization of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors on neurons in the striatum and nucleus accumbens. To examine some of the biochemical consequences of colocalization we coexpressed the D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in HEK293 cells. Dopamine D1 and D2 receptors couple to stimulation and inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, respectively. In cells expressing only the D1 receptor, dopamine stimulated cAMP formation with an EC50 of 2.15 nM. In cells expressing only the D2L receptor, dopamine inhibited cAMP formation by 80% with an EC50 of 0.02 nM. The effect of dopamine on the D2L receptor was antagonized by the selective antagonist spiperone with an IC50 of 0.31 nM. In cells coexpressing both the D1 and D2L receptors, dopamine caused an increase in cAMP that was only 20% of that observed with the D1 receptor alone. In this case, increasing concentrations of spiperone caused a change in the dose-response curve from hyperbolic to bell-shaped as the concentration of spiperone was increased. Using pharmacological constants determined from studies on the individually expressed receptors, the curves obtained in cells co-expressing the two receptors could be modeled by kinetic expressions derived by summing the contributions from each receptor. The model leads to a re-interpretation of the pharmacology of dopaminergic ligands. Hence, one consequence of colocalization is that D2 receptor antagonists become functional agonists of cAMP formation.
Biogenic amines are important in the regulation of neuronal functions and complex behavior in the brain. However, putative contributions of glial cells to physiological effects of aminergic transmitters and their pathophysiological implications are poorly understood. Astrocytes are known to respond to dopamine (DA) with calcium transients that can be blocked by the D1- and D2-receptor subtype specific antagonists SCH23390 and Sulpiride. We demonstrate here that DA-sensitivity of cortical and striatal astrocytes is changed by application of either DA or epinephrine (EP), but not serotonin (5-HT). Exposure of cortical and striatal astroglial cultures for less than 1h to DA (&gt; or = 10 micromol/l) or EP (&gt; or = 1 micromol/l) leads to a significant reduction of astroglial DA-sensitivity. Whereas the DA-mediated downregulation of astroglial DA-sensitivity can be reverted by SCH23390 (&gt; or = 1 micromol/l), and Sulpiride (&gt; or = 10 micromol/l), EP-mediated effects are insensitive to these antagonists. In contrast to receptor function, expression of D1- and D2-DA-receptors is not altered by either DA or EP in cortical and striatal astroglial cells as revealed by western blot analysis. Our results demonstrate that sensitivity of astroglial cells to DA is modulated by DA and EP, adding new evidence to a role of astrocytes as targets for physiological and pathological effects of aminergic transmitters.
Increasing evidence suggests an important role of oxidant-induced damage in the progress of senescent changes, providing support for the free radical theory of aging proposed by Harman in 1956. However, considering that biological organisms continuously renew their structures, it is not clear why oxidative damage should accumulate with age. No strong evidence has been provided in favor of the concept of aging as an accumulation of synthetic errors (e.g. Orgel's 'error-catastrophe' theory and the somatic mutation theory). Rather, we believe that the process of aging may derive from imperfect clearance of oxidatively damaged, relatively indigestible material, the accumulation of which further hinders cellular catabolic and anabolic functions. From this perspective, it might be predicted that: (i) suppression of oxidative damage would enhance longevity; (ii) accumulation of incompletely digested material (e.g. lipofuscin pigment) would interfere with cellular functions and increase probability of death; (iii) rejuvenation during reproduction is mainly provided by dilution of undigested material associated with intensive growth of the developing organism; and (iv) age-related damage starts to accumulate substantially when development is complete, and mainly affects postmitotic, cells and extracellular matrix, not proliferating cells. There is abundant support for all these predictions.
Axon regeneration in the mammalian brain requires that injured neurons upregulate a specific set of growth-associated genes. To investigate the mechanisms that control the intrinsic growth properties of adult central neurons, we have examined the response to injury and regenerative potential of different cerebellar and precerebellar neuron populations. Axotomised neurons in the inferior olive, deep cerebellar nuclei and lateral reticular nucleus upregulate growth-associated molecules and regenerate their neurites into growth-permissive transplants. In contrast, Purkinje cells fail to respond to injury and show extremely poor regenerative capabilities. Targeted overexpression of GAP-43 promotes Purkinje axon plasticity, indicating that the weak regenerative potential of these neurons is mainly due to the inability to activate growth-associated genes. Application of neutralising antibodies against the myelin-associated protein Nogo-A induces cell body changes and axonal sprouting in intact Purkinje cells. In addition, immature injured Purkinje cells respond to axotomy and regenerate transected neurites, but they progressively lose this ability during postnatal development in parallel with myelin formation and the establishment of intracortical connections. These results indicate that the intrinsic growth potential of Purkinje cells is constitutively inhibited by environmental signals directed at stabilising the mature connectivity and preventing aberrant neuritic plasticity. Such a strict control eventually leads to restrict the regenerative capabilities of these neurons after injury.
Mature neurons display a wide range of regenerative capabilities. As a general rule, peripheral neurons have the highest regenerative abilities both in the form of terminal sprouting and of axonal elongation following axotomy, regardless of the distance of the lesion from the cell body. In contrast, in central neurons reactive sprouting has been demonstrated in a limited number of neuronal populations and this type of growth may be dependent on the constitutive presence of specific growth-associated proteins. Central axon elongation is critically dependent on the presence of suitable environment and on the intrinsic capabilities of each neuronal population. These capabilities are controlled at least in part by repressive signals that are mainly located along the axons. They are more easily disclosed when a short axon stump is left after axotomy. The adult olivary neurons offer a unique model in the central nervous system for their remarkable plastic properties: i) they undergo extensive remodeling of their terminal arborizations following target manipulations or under the influence of electrical activity; ii) they are capable of axonal regeneration in a suitable environment; iii) their response to injury does not depend on the distance of the axotomy from the cell body. In this respect they are similar to peripheral neurons and likely their target cells are the main source of the repressive signals control-ling growth genes. The demonstration that this pathway is also able to find the proper target cells provides a striking example of how the mature brain may be repaired through appropriate manipulations.
Axon growth is characterized by a distinctive program of gene expression. We present evidence here that this program is regulated through a purine-sensitive mechanism, and that it can be re-activated in mature CNS neurons to induce extensive axon growth in vitro and in vivo. In dissociated goldfish retinal ganglion cells, the purine nucleoside inosine acts intracellularly to stimulate axon outgrowth by inducing the expression of GAP-43, Talpha-1 tubulin, and other growth-associated proteins. The purine analog 6-thioguanine (6-TG) acts in the opposite fashion, blocking axon growth and the underlying program of molecular changes. Prior studies in PC12 cells have shown that 6-TG selectively inhibits the activity of N-kinase, a 47-49 kDa serine-threonine kinase. Inosine acts as a competitor of 6-TG, suggesting that it acts as an N-kinase agonist, and that this kinase is part of a modular signal transduction pathway controlling axon growth. Following unilateral transections of the corticospinal tract in mature rats, inosine applied to the intact sensorimotor cortex stimulated layer 5 pyramidal cells to upregulate GAP-43 expression and to sprout axon collaterals that crossed the midline and reinnervated regions of the cervical spinal cord which had lost their normal afferents. It will now be important to identify the molecular changes that lie upstream and downstream of N-kinase, and to explore the clinical potential of activating this pathway in patients who have sustained CNS injury.

cDNA microarrays provide an efficient method to analyze gene expression patterns in thousands of genes in parallel. In some cases, large unfocused collections of cDNAs have been used in hybridization studies, in others small logically defined collections of tissue specific arrays have been used. Here we describe the bioinformatic selection of 1152 named human cDNAs specifically designed for neuroscience applications, arrayed on nylon membranes at high density. cDNAs were chosen which represent all the major cellular types of the brain including; neurons, astrocytes, microglia, and oligodendrocytes. Gene families chosen include cell type specific markers, ion-channels, transporters, receptors, and cell adhesion molecules among many others. These arrays were used with region specific samples from human brain to determine MRNA expression profiles for each region. Used with 33p labeled complex probes, this is a low cost, highly sensitive approach for tbc investigator to focus on tissue specific genes of interest where samples of limiting amounts of RNA are used. This selected set of brain-relevant cDNAs should be widely useful in the analysis of gene expression patterns from brain tissues as well as neural cell lines.
Recent advances in DNA microarray technology have enabled the simultaneous evaluation of thousands of genes and the subsequent generation of massive amounts of biological data relevant to injury or diseases of the central nervous system (CNS). This technology has the potential to bridge the gap between molecular and systems neuroscience by efficiently revealing the discrete molecular aspects underlying the perturbations of complex systemic insults such as those resulting from traumatic brain injury (TBI). One of the more intriguing and as of yet not understood aspects of TBI that can be efficiently explored with DNA microarrays, is the sequence of molecular events that results in pronounced cell death in specific areas of the brain. The elucidation of these changes in gene expression underlying the mechanism of cell death following brain injury is of central importance in the design of future therapeutic agents. This review focuses on the technical aspects of microarray manufacture (photolithography, microspotting, and ink jet technology) and their utility in elucidating the molecular sequelae of brain injury.



Functional gastrointestinal disorders are collections of symptoms attributable to the gastrointestinal tract in the absence of mucosal, structural, or biochemical disease. The two most common disorders, irritable bowel syndrome and functional dyspepsia, have common etiopathogenetic features, notably psychosocial disturbances, dysmotility, heightened sensitivity, and, possibly, an association with a postinfective state. The third condition is constipation, in which transit disorders and abnormal evacuation represent disturbances of function that are amenable to therapy. This review is an update of the control mechanisms, pathophysiology, investigation, and potential pharmacotherapies of these disorders. Serotonergic and adrenergic agents and neurotrophic factors are among the novel approaches that may have a significant impact on these disorders.

The mitogen-activated protein kinase, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), has been studied extensively in recent years for its involvement in synaptic plasticity and memory function. Activation of ERK is coupled to stimulation of cell-surface proteins via several different upstream signaling pathways, and contributes to the regulation of diverse cellular processes, ranging from cell excitability to gene expression. We herein review evidence for ERK's role in different forms of synaptic plasticity and different types of learning paradigms, drawing on examples from different systems in molluscs as well as the mammalian brain. The picture that emerges is that ERK activation in response to conditions that give rise to synaptic and behavioral modification contributes to that modification in a multitude of functionally distinct ways. The functional diversity is likely to be achieved by the operation of multiple, parallel ERK cascades that differ with respect to the subcellular compartments in which ERK exerts its effects and the temporal windows during which the effects are manifested. We conclude that our understanding of the mechanisms by which ERK contributes to synaptic plasticity and memory has much to gain by further study of the signaling events up- and downstream of ERK activation and the spatiotemporal characteristics of ERK activation in association with activity-dependent synaptic modification and information processing.
During recent years, many reports have indicated that in addition to the progressive neuropathology observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD), there are also plasticity-related changes in the AD brain. It is thought that these plastic events are an attempt by the brain either to try to restore structure and function or to compensate for the damage caused by the disease. Alternatively, it is possible that these changes are a part of the disease's pathologic cascade. Here we discuss our recent findings on highly polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) and neuronal-expressed calcium-binding proteins in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex of controls and patients with AD in relation to the other findings which suggest that structural plasticity is an integral part of the disease process of AD.
The thalamic input to the neocortex is communicated by glutamatergic synapses. The properties and organization of these synapses determine the primary level of cortical processing. Similar to intracortical synapses, both AMPA and NMDA receptors in young and mature animals mediate thalamocortical transmission. Kainate receptors participate in thalamocortical transmission during early development. The shape of thalamocortical synaptic potentials is similar to the shape of intracortical potentials. On the other hand, thalamocortical synapses have on average a higher release probability than intracortical synapses, and a much higher number of release sites per axon. As a result, the transmission of each thalamocortical axon is significantly more reliable and efficient than most intracortical axons. Thalamic axons specifically innervate a subset of inhibitory cells, to create a strong and secure feed-forward inhibitory pathway. Thalamocortical connections display many forms of synaptic plasticity in the first postnatal week, but not afterwards. The implications of the functional organization of thalamocortical synapses for neocortical processing are discussed.
Long-term depression (LTD) comprises a persistent activity-dependent reduction in synaptic efficacy which typically occurs following repeated low frequency afferent stimulation. Hippocampal LTD has been a subject of particular interest due to the established role of the hippocampus in certain forms of information storage and retrieval. Recently, it was reported that LTD in the CA1 region may be associated with novelty acquisition in rats. CA1 LTD expression may also be increased in stressful conditions. This suggests a more complex role for this form of plasticity than the oft-cited hypothesis that it simply serves to prevent synapse saturation, by means, for example, of enabling reversal of long-term potentiation (LTP). One possibility is that LTD may be directly involved in the creation of a memory trace. Alternatively, LTD may prime a synapse in readiness for the expression of LTP, thereby contributing indirectly to information storage. There is increasing evidence that LTD is not mechanistically the reverse of LTP. Although some common processes exist, molecular, biochemical, electrophysiological and pharmacological studies all point to several quite distinct induction and maintenance mechanisms for this form of synaptic plasticity. Taken together these findings suggest that hippocampal LTD must be considered in a new light. This review focuses on the interpretation of novel and established information with regard to LTD in the hippocampal CA1 region in terms of its possible role as a cellular basis for learning and memory.
This review describes research that combines cellular physiology with behavioral neuroscience, to study the cellular mechanisms underlying learning and memory in the mammalian brain. Rats were trained with an olfactory conditioning paradigm, in which they had to memorize odors in order to be rewarded with drinking water. Such training results in rule learning, which enables enhanced acquisition of odor memory. Training results in the following learning-related physiological modifications in intrinsic and synaptic properties in olfactory (piriform) cortex pyramidal neurons: 1. increased neuronal excitability, indicated by reduced afterhyperpolarization, and 2. increased synaptic transmission, indicated by reduced paired-pulse facilitation. These modifications are correlated to enhanced learning capability rather than to storage of memory for specific odors. In addition, using a different paradigm of odor-training, it is shown that NMDA and betra-adrenergic receptors are involved at different stages of long-term memory consolidation.
We address in this review the various types of chemical reactions that underlie memory storage in biological systems. Using examples from both invertebrate and mammalian learning systems, we describe three types of memory-storing reactions: short-term reactions mediated by transient changes in second messenger levels, long-term reactions mediated by species with long half lives, and ultralong-term or mnemogenic reactions that can store memory indefinitely, even in the face of ongoing turnover of the molecules involved.






























































The concomitant occurrence of hearing and visual impairment was investigated as part of an epidemiological longitudinal study of elderly people. An age cohort. originally consisting of 973 elderly people, was examined with visual and hearing tests three times at ages 70, 81-82 and 88. The best-corrected visual acuity was assessed. The hearing was measured by pure-tone audiometry and whispered and spoken voice (WSV). At age 70 there was no co-existence of visual and hearing impairments, and about 70% had normal vision and hearing. At 81-82 years 3-6% (WSV and audiometry. respectively) had low vision (VA &lt; or = 0.3) and moderate to severe hearing loss, and more than one-tenth had normal vision and hearing. At 88 years 8-13% had low vision and moderate to severe hearing loss, and none of the men and less than one-tenth of the women had normal vision and hearing. At age 88 three times as many women as men had the combination of low vision and normal hearing. Normal vision with the combination of moderate to severe hearing loss was more often found in 88-year-old men. Mild impairments of the two senses were found in 0.5% at age 70 in 22%, 11% (WSV, audiometry) at age 81-82 and in 23%, 9% at age 88 years. At age 70 there was a statistical correlation between visual acuity and hearing measured with pure-tone audiometry in the male group. Those men with better hearing had slightly better visual capacity than those with hearing loss. No correlations were found for women at age 70 nor for women and men at ages 81-82 and 88. Ophthalmologists and audiology physicians should cooperate closely in the rehabilitation process to reduce disability and improve function and wellbeing among the oldest old.
The present study assesses the experiences with bilateral amplification in a group of 144 people provided with two hearing aids between May 1994 and July 1997. Two-thirds of the participants preferred to use both prescribed hearing aids. The participants reported that they used their hearing aids frequently. Bilateral amplification was appreciated especially for recognizing speech, for sound localization and for superior sound quality. Situations in which the subjects showed the highest appreciation of two hearing aids were when attending lectures and theatre performances and for communication in noisy background situations. There were statistically significant differences between users of bilateral and unilateral hearing aids regarding judgement of sound quality of hearing aid processed signals and localization ability in favour of bilateral hearing aid amplification. The self-assessed advantages of bilateral amplification demonstrated in this study should motivate a generous prescription strategy of two hearing aids.
An education programme for individuals with Parkinson's disease. People with Parkinson's disease (PD) have to face a lot of ongoing sickness - depending on limitations in daily life and society. Ability for optimal living demands knowledge about the sickness, medications, side-effects and knowledge about the best way to go on living with PD. In this study, 43 persons with PD participated in an outpatient programme based on the structure of connection model. The programme consisted of two weekly 2-h sessions for 5 weeks. Each session consisted of 1 h of dialogue and 1 h of physical performance. The two teachers in the programme were registered nurse and registered physiotherapist. The programme was evaluated with focus on participants' psychosocial situation, mobility and activity in daily living. Participating in the programme gave these individuals an improved psychosocial situation and improved mobility pattern. However, these improvements were not transferred to habitual daily life, which suggests that task-oriented training provides the best solution.
Coping strategies as assessed by a projective coping instrument, showed only a weak relationship to perceived family burden and participation in care among 78 close relatives of voluntarily and compulsorily admitted psychiatric patients in this study conducted in two psychiatric services in Sweden in 1997. The results rather indicate that problem solving coping strategies are used when the relatives are in situations amenable to change and that emotion-focused coping strategies are used in situations that are chronic and unchangeable. Furthermore, no differences in coping strategies were found between the relatives and a Swedish normative sample. No relationships were found between coping strategies and when the relative thought that the patient's mental health had led to mental problems in the relative or if the relative experienced that the relationship with the patient had been negatively affected by the mental illness. The usefulness of coping instruments based on personality components in research on family burden is called into question, and a reconsideration of qualitative research methods is recommended.
The aim of this study was to describe the conditions for rehabilitation of older patients with dementia and hip fracture from the perspective of their next of kin. Twenty patients at orthopaedic wards were examined postfracture using a short cognitive test. The same number of next of kin answered four open-ended questions about rehabilitation as well as about the patient's physical function. Qualitative content analysis was used to identify categories. The findings indicate that the conditions for rehabilitation of older patients with dementia and hip fracture are related to the patients' competence, specific needs of support in the light of competence, environmental factors and classification of the rehabilitation activities. The study confirms that the conditions for rehabilitation are related to symptoms of dementia disease and arise from a decline in competence making the patient unable to cope with the environmental pressure and to perform rehabilitation activities. Because of difficulties in assessing competence, patients with dementia are being judged as incapable of managing rehabilitation. A supportive strategy is necessary to encourage the recovery process.
This study addresses caring staff experiences of hindrances and help in the support of daily occupations among people with developmental disabilities. Data were collected by means of a questionnaire consisting of open-ended questions about the staff perceptions of their work experiences. The respondents (n = 81), corresponding to 94.1% of all care staff employed in a geographically defined care area in southern Sweden, worked in various day activity units supporting the daily occupations of their clients. A constant comparative method of data analysis was used. Staff expressions were classified in two main categories of caring dynamics: an operational level and a managerial level. Four areas were identified at the operational level: encountering realities of practice, attitudes to the clients and work demand, using the potential of knowledge and strategies and applying helping actions to the client. The managerial level included two areas, generalized work strategy and individualized work strategy. It is suggested that to develop the quality of interventions for supporting daily activities among persons with developmental disabilities, efforts should be made to identify caring dynamics as experienced by the caring staff.
The aim was to illuminate elderly persons' experiences of living with venous leg ulcer. Fifteen persons 74-89 years of age with active leg ulcer were interviewed. Data were analysed utilizing a phenomenological-hermeneutic approach inspired by Ricoeur. The analysis includes dialectic movement between understanding and explanation of the text as a whole and its parts. In the structural analysis four themes were identified: emotional consequences of altered body image, living a restricted life, achievement of well-being in connection with a painful wound and bandage, and struggle between hope and despair with regard to a lengthy healing process. The comprehensive understanding indicated that the meaning of living with venous leg ulcer can be understood as a dialectal relationship between, on the one hand the feeling of being imprisoned in the body, the bandage and the home, and on the other hand, hope of freedom from a burdensome body. The results indicate that the concept, body of image, is vitally relevant to the caring of elderly people with venous leg ulcer. The study shows the importance of recognizing the persons' perceptions of their leg ulcers and the impact of these perceptions on well-being. Nurses can thereby anticipate problems and provide more sensitive care.
The histochemical analysis of cholecystokinin (CCK) systems in sensory systems has revealed involvement of CCK-ergic mechanisms both at the spinal level and in the viscero-sensory vagal pathway, with distinct differences between these two systems as well as between species. Thus, the CCK1 receptor is particularly abundant in rat nodose ganglion neurons which express the food intake-suppressing cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptide(s), representing a likely link between gastrointestinal CCK and central feeding-regulatory centers. In contrast, rat dorsal root ganglions have lower numbers of CCK1 receptor mRNA-positive neurons, and CART is only expressed sparingly in this system. The CCK2 receptor is normally almost absent from both systems but is strongly upregulated after peripheral nerve injury, suggesting a role in regenerative and trophic phenomena as well as, at the spinal level, in nerve injury-induced pain. In man and monkey the CCK1 receptor seems important in the dorsal horn under normal conditions, indicating distinct species differences.
Although neurodevelopmental models of schizophrenia are now widely accepted, there is minimal direct human evidence of dysmaturation in schizophrenia to support this theory. This is especially the case regarding maturational changes during late childhood and adolescence, which immediately precede the typical age of onset of the disorder. By integrating new noninvasive methods of functional magnetic resonance imaging with techniques of developmental cognitive neuroscience, it is now possible to begin systematic research programs to directly test hypotheses of neurodevelopmental abnormalities in schizophrenia. In this article, we describe strategies for characterizing developmental changes taking place during the critical period of adolescence that can elucidate dysmaturation processes in schizophrenia. We emphasize the need for studies characterizing normal development before examining at-risk or clinical populations, and the potential value of using neurobehavioral and neuroimaging approaches to directly characterize the dysmaturation associated with schizophrenia.
One of the leading theories of the neuropathology of schizophrenia is that it is a developmental disorder of &quot;neural connectivity.&quot; To assess this theory, it is first necessary to understand how precise neural connections normally are established. Sensory-driven neural activity has been widely recognized as crucial for this process. Recent studies have revealed a similar requirement for endogenous neural activity generated by the nervous system itself, long before there is any sensory input. These patterns of sensory-driven and endogenously generated neural activity sculpt the precise circuits that are crucial to the many complex functions of the adult brain. This article summarizes the principles of activity-dependent neural development as determined from basic neuroscience experiments, particularly those done using the mammalian visual system, to illustrate the role of patterned activity, neuronal competition, and critical periods in shaping neural circuitry. The potential molecular mechanisms involved in these features of activity-dependent neurodevelopment are discussed and possible links to the etiology of schizophrenia are briefly explored.


There have recently been a number of new pathological findings of specimens from epileptic foci that have increasingly been highlighted as opportunities for surgical treatment. These findings include a wide range from hippocampal sclerosis-related lesions of temporal lobe epilepsy to newly established malformative lesions. As to the former, special interest has been paid to additional knowledge regarding the pathology inside and outside the medial temporal regions, such as the significance of 1) accumulation of corpora amylacea in hippocampal sclerotic lesions, 2) dispersion of the granular layer of the dentate gyrus, 3) various pathologic features in the lateral temporal lobe, and 4) dual pathology in extratemporal areas. As increasing opportunities for surgical treatment of intractable epilepsy, new categories of malformative lesions are being established, including focal cortical dysplasia and microdysgenesis, the latter of which can be diagnosed only by pathological examination after surgery. In the field of surgical pathology of epilepsy patients, further clues to clarify the pathomechanism of epilepsy remain to be discovered.
This study was designed to assess the effects of behavioural treatment on seizure recurrence, on seizure precipitants, and on associated psychiatric disturbances in 22 adolescents and young adults (age range 16-32 years, male : female ratio 10 : 12) with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) who showed seizure relapses despite rational AED therapy. The neurological assessment and a systematic search for seizure precipitants preceded to the use of psychiatric interviews and rating scales for anxiety and depression. After a structured counselling aiming at the elimination of seizure precipitants, the patients were assigned to one of two treatment modalities (an antistress programme or an individual cognitive behavioural therapy). Structured counselling was associated with complete seizure control in eight patients. In other 14 subjects with uncontrolled seizures, the psychotherapeutic treatment had two types of effects. First, the patients' fears and other unadapted responses, in the form of anxiety states and/or insomnia were significantly decreased during behavioural treatment. Second, a significantly lower rate of relapses occurred during behavioural treatment than during the baseline period. The results encourage the use of adjunctive behavioural treatment methods in decreasing seizure frequency, seizure precipitants and some types of comorbid psychopathology in patients with JME.
Research utilizing animal models has been responsible for major advances in understanding psychiatric disorders. The first data based integrative theories of psychopathology grew largely out of animal research. A variety of animal models that have been developed have been critical in broadening our understanding of human development and in providing empirical support for the importance of early experiences for behavioral and neurobiologic development. The development of many widely used clinical psychopharmacologic agents has depended on the use of animal models. The above examples represent substantive contributions of animal models to investigations of fundamental aspects of psychopathology. There is no &quot;perfect,&quot; complete or comprehensive single animal model for any specific psychiatric disorder and contentious debates about the validity and/or usefulness of specific animal models persist. Animal models of diseases in medicine need to be understood in a historical and evolutionary perspective and their advantages as well as limitations recognized. There will likely never be an animal model in any field of medicine that is a perfect fit with the human condition, rather the emphasis in the development and study of disease models in animals needs to be on specific components of the human illness. Neither overextended cross-species comparisons nor unjustified negativism about animal models seems defensible. A major challenge in the continuing development and use of biobehavioral animal models in psychiatry is their relationship to the molecular neurosciences, including genetics, in understanding the mechanisms of mental disorders.
The importance of nasal obstruction in the pathogenesis of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) has not yet been totally defined. Numerous studies have reported an association between nasal obstruction and OSAS, but the precise nature of this relationship remains to be clarified. This study was undertaken to evaluate the prevalence of nasal obstruction disorders in a group of OSAS patients. For this purpose, we analyzed the nasal resistance of 36 OSAS patients by performing a traditional basal anterior active rhinomanometry test (AAR) and a positional AAR, with the patient in a supine position. Seven patients had a pathologic nasal resistance in the seated position that increased further in the supine position; 9 patients had normal resistance in the seated position but a pathologic resistance in the supine position. In 20 patients, nasal resistance was normal in both positions. No statistically significant differences in the degree of apnea/hypopnea index (AHI) was found between the 20 patients with normal positional AAR and the 16 with pathologic positional AAR (p = 0.13). Moreover, no statistically significant differences in the degree of AHI was found between the 7 patients with pathologic basal and positional AAR and the 9 patients with normal basal AAR and pathologic positional AAR (p = 0.38).
Alcohol research has two important goals. The first of these is to evaluate existing therapies for treating alcoholism. The second, more long term goal is to increase understanding of the biology of alcoholism. The second, more long term goal is to increase understanding of the biology of alcoholism and to use this understanding to develop new targeted medications to prevent alcohol use problems and to improve treatment outcome. Considerable research progress has been made over the past three decades toward achieving each goal. The careful study of existing therapies and the development of both behavioral strategies and medications, such as naltrexone, have helped improve treatment success. New neuroscience techniques have led to an increased understanding of how alcohol's actions in the brain are related to the phenomenon of addiction, and new imaging techniques have permitted scientists to study alcohol's effects on the brain and to link these effects to behavior in ways not even possible just a few years ago. Finally, genetics researchers are using both animal and human genetics techniques to identify the genes that confer vulnerability to alcoholism and developing ways to apply this information to clinical populations. As a result of increased understanding of the biology of alcohol dependence, future clinicians will need to understand not just the traditional behavioral nuances of alcoholism treatment, but the biology of alcohol dependence as well.
Recent studies indicate that electrical coupling among cortical neurons may persist throughout development; electrophysiological recordings made in cortical slices from young rats reveal that numerous GABAergic neurons are electrically coupled. To determine whether these in vitro findings reflect an inhibitory neural circuit that could be functionally relevant in vivo in adult rodents, we sought to identify whether inhibitory, parvalbumin-containing neurons of the mature cortex express gap junction proteins. Immunohistochemistry was used to examine the laminar distribution of the gap junction-forming proteins connexin 32 (Cx32), connexin 36 (Cx36) and connexin 43 (Cx43) in the somatosensory cortex of the adult mouse. Double labeling immunofluorescence identified Cx32, Cx36 and Cx43 in cortical neurons that were immunoreactive (-ir) for the neuronal markers neurofilament 145 kDa and neuronal nuclei (NeuN). Parvalbumin-ir neurons throughout the cortical laminae were labeled with Cx32-ir, Cx36-ir and Cx43-ir. Stereological methods were used to quantify the extent of parvalbumin colocalization with connexins. Analysis indicated that approximately 40% of parvalbumin-ir neurons were double labeled with either Cx32-ir or Cx43-ir, and approximately 50% of parvalbumin-ir neurons were double labeled with Cx36. These findings establish an anatomical substrate for widespread electrical coupling of neurons in somatosensory cortex and suggest that gap junctions among inhibitory interneurons may persist into adulthood, providing an important mechanism for neuronal communication.
The beneficial effects of stereotactic third ventriculostomy versus ventriculoperitoneal shunt were evaluated in 62 paediatric patients and analysed in relation to age, sex, clinical history, presence of meningomyelocele, magnetic resonance imaging measurements of hydrocephalus and third ventricle floor size. The third ventriculostomy were done on 50 patients using the Richard-Wolf Caemaert Endoscope and the Leksell Stereotactic Frame Model G. These patients were operated using the 4-French Fogarty catheter to open the base of the third ventricle. During the same period of study 12 paediatric patients with aqueduct stenosis who were managed by ventriculoperitoneal shunt were included. Both surgical procedures were compared. Statistically univariate analysis revealed that those patient with an age group of more than six months undergoing ventriculostomy had good outcome. Multivariate analysis revealed that past history of haemorrhage and/or meningitis were predictors of poor outcome. Sex, size of lumbar meningocele at birth, abnormal ventricular anatomy or narrow third ventricular floor size were non predictors of bad outcome in these patients. There was no difference in outcome in both the shunt or ventriculostomy group.
Stereotactic and functional operations represent, altogether, about 20% of all surgeries in a large number of Neurological Institutions, and this percentage is steadily increasing. To a large extent, stereotactic surgery has essentially merged with general neurosurgery. Therefore stereotactic techniques, at least to perform biopsies, should be available to any well-trained neurosurgeon. Functional neurosurgery is increasingly dependent upon clinical neurophysiology, not only for guidance of the procedure, but also for better selection of patients and objective assessment of results. Therefore, the concept of interventional neurophysiology must be recognized and acknowledged.
As part of interventional neurophysiology's growing armamentarium, we present two intraoperative mapping techniques that can be used to guide the neurosurgeon during spinal cord procedures. They are: (1) Dorsal Column Mapping (DCM) and (2) Mapping of the Corticospinal Tract (CT) within the spinal cord. These two techniques are currently in different stages of development and clinical trials.



While computers have been able to work with true 3D models for a long time, the same does not apply to the users in common. Over the years, a number of 3D visualization techniques have been developed to enable a scientist or a student, to see not only a flat representation of an object, but also an approximation of its Z-axis. In addition to the traditional flat image representation of a 3D object, at least four established methodologies exist: Stereo pairs. Using image analysis tools or 3D software, a set of images can be made, each representing the left and the right eye view of an object. Placed next to each other and viewed through a separator, the three dimensionality of an object can be perceived. While this is usually done on still images, tests at Mednet have shown this to work with interactively animated models as well. However, this technique requires some training and experience. Pseudo3D, such as VRML or QuickTime VR, where the interactive manipulation of a 3D model lets the user achieve a sense of the model's true proportions. While this technique works reasonably well, it is not a &quot;true&quot; stereographic visualization technique. Red/Green separation, i.e. &quot;the traditional 3D image&quot; where a red and a green representation of a model is superimposed at an angle corresponding to the viewing angle of the eyes and by using a similar set of eyeglasses, a person can create a mental 3D image. The end result does produce a sense of 3D but the effect is difficult to maintain. Alternating left/right eye systems. These systems (typified by the StereoGraphics CrystalEyes system) let the computer display a &quot;left eye&quot; image followed by a &quot;right eye&quot; image while simultaneously triggering the eyepiece to alternatively make one eye &quot;blind&quot;. When run at 60 Hz or higher, the brain will fuse the left/right images together and the user will effectively see a 3D object. Depending on configurations, the alternating systems run at between 50 and 60 Hz, thereby creating a flickering effect, which is strenuous for prolonged use. However, all of the above have one or more drawbacks such as high costs, poor quality and localized use. A fifth system, recently released by Barco Systems, modifies the CrystalEyes system by projecting two superimposed images, using polarized light, with the wave plane of the left image at right angle to that of the right image. By using polarized glasses, each eye will see the appropriate image and true stereographic vision is achieved. While the system requires very expensive hardware, it solves some of the more important problems mentioned above, such as the capacity to use higher frame rates and the ability to display images to a large audience. Mednet has instigated a research project which uses reconstructed models from the central nervous system (human brain and basal ganglia, cortex, dendrites and dendritic spines) and peripheral nervous system (nodes of Ranvier and axoplasmic areas). The aim is to modify the models to fit the different visualization techniques mentioned above and compare a group of users perceived degree of 3D for each technique.
We present an integrated environment for stereoscopic acquisition, off-line 3D elaboration, and visual presentation of biological hand actions. The system is used in neurophysiological experiments aimed at the investigation of the parameters of the external stimuli that mirror neurons visually extract and match on their movement related activity.
The peripheral topography of the supraorbital (SON) and supratrochlear (STN) nerves and the superficial temporal branch of the auriculotemporal nerve (ATN) was investigated in 10 cadavers. The aim was to define the optimal locations for anaesthetic nerve blocks, as well as to help surgeons prevent nerve injuries. Specific measurements on the nerve &quot;exits&quot; in relation to defined landmarks are presented. The variability of the supraorbital notches and peripheral branching of the dissected nerves suggests several methods for anaesthetic blocks in cases of surgical and clinical head pain. The optimum injection site for a selective SON block is 20-30 mm from the midline (range 15-33 mm); reinjection at 30-50 mm from the midline might complete inefficient nerve block. For selective SON block the distance between the main SON and STN branches (mean 15.3 mm) should also be considered. The ATN is best blocked at a point located at the level with and 10-15 mm (range 8-20 mm) anterior to the upper origin of the helix. Separate exits for the medial and lateral SON branches were observed in eight of the 20 nerves examined. Twenty of the 28 exits were foraminae completed by bony or connective tissue. In many cases both the SON and STN ascended close to the associated artery: in six cases a tissue band covered the nerve and vessel at the orbital exit. Some of the observed structures associated with the nerve might be pain-generators, however the present study does not provide any evidence for such a hypothesis.
In 2001 the centennial of the first Nobel Prizes is celebrated. This essay, which portrays the Nobel Laureate in Physiology or Medicine in 1906 Don Santiago Ramn y Cajal, should be seen as a contribution to that celebration. The aim of the essay is to present one of the founders of modern neuroscience and greatest scientists of all time, his life history, personality, working methods and driving forces as well as his scientific contributions. The title of the essay &quot;Ideas -- like the white water-lily - flourish only in tranquil waters&quot; is a quotation from Ramn y Cajal which characterizes him very well as a scientist. He was extremely productive, he made fundamental contributions to a number of fields within neurobiology with a very few mistakes, and he did it all by himself.
A neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine (MA) produces long-term depletions in neostriatal dopamine and serotonin concentrations. In addition to evidence of dopaminergic and serotonergic neurotoxicity, there is evidence of MA-induced behavioral changes. In this regard, stereotypic behavior elicited by MA is greater in rats treated previously with a neurotoxic regimen of MA than in control animals. The present study was designed to determine whether the enhanced stereotypy observed in MA-treated rats is due to the MA-induced loss of dopamine (neurotoxicity) or to the repeated exposure to MA (sensitization). Rats were treated with MA (10 mg/kg every 2 h for four injections) or vehicle at either a normal (24 degrees C) room temperature or a cold (4 degrees C) room temperature, which has been shown to attenuate the MA-induced loss of dopamine. Stereotypy was assessed 7 days after treatment. Rats that had received a neurotoxic regimen of MA at 24 degrees C exhibited 49% and 45% reductions in neostriatal dopamine and serotonin concentrations, respectively, whereas rats treated with MA at 4 degrees C had no significant neurochemical depletions. Stereotypy elicited by MA (5.0 mg/kg) was significantly greater in rats treated with a neurotoxic regimen of MA regardless of the initial treatment temperature. In addition, an injection of apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) elicited an enhanced stereotypic response in MA-treated rats. These data suggest that the augmented stereotypic behavior observed in rats treated with a neurotoxic regimen of MA is not due to the loss of dopamine, but rather the manifestation of behavioral sensitization, possibly due to an increase in dopamine receptor sensitivity.

Currently, no effective therapy has been approved for the treatment of addiction to stimulant drugs (e.g., cocaine, amphetamine and its methylated derivatives). However, preclinical studies indicate that the naturally-occurring indole alkaloid, ibogaine, and a synthetic iboga alkaloid congener, 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), attenuate stimulant self-administration in laboratory animals. The in vivo pharmacological interactions between iboga agents and stimulant drugs are unclear. Ibogaine enhances the increase in accumbal dopamine produced by the acute administration of stimulant drugs. Consistent with these data, both ibogaine and 18-MC potentiate the expression of stimulant-induced motor behaviors in acute and chronic stimulant-treated animals. To account for the paradox between their effects on self-administration and motor behavior, we proposed that iboga agents interfere with stimulant self-administration by increasing sensitivity to their psychomotor-activating effects. However, this interpretation is contradicted by very recent observations that 18-MC is without effect on the dopamine response to acute cocaine and that both ibogaine and 18-MC block the expression of sensitized levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens produced by chronic cocaine administration. Thus, a positive relationship exists between the effects of iboga pretreatment on stimulant-induced dopamine sensitization and stimulant self-administration behavior. These data indicate that iboga agents might attenuate stimulant self-administration by reversing the neuroadaptations theoretically implicated in drug craving and compulsive drug-seeking behavior.
New imaging techniques in cognitive neuroscience have produced a deluge of information correlating cognitive and neural phenomena. Yet our understanding of the inter-relationship between brain and mind remains hampered by the lack of a theoretical language for expressing cognitive functions in neural terms. We propose an approach to understanding operational laws in cognition based on principles of coordination dynamics that are derived from a simple and experimentally verified theoretical model. When applied to the dynamical properties of cortical areas and their coordination, these principles support a mechanism of adaptive inter-area pattern constraint that we postulate underlies cognitive operations generally.

'Independent component analysis' is a technique of data transformation that finds independent sources of activity in recorded mixtures of sources. It can be used to recover fluctuations of membrane potential from individual neurons in multiple-detector optical recordings. There are some examples in which more than 100 neurons can be separated simultaneously. Independent component analysis automatically separates overlapping action potentials, recovers action potentials of different sizes from the same neuron, removes artifacts and finds the position of each neuron on the detector array. One limitation is that the number of sources--neurons and artifacts--must be equal to or less than the number of simultaneous recordings. Independent component analysis also has many other applications in neuroscience including, removal of artifacts from EEG data, identification of spatially independent brain regions in fMRI recordings and determination of population codes in multi-unit recordings.
In recent years, it has been argued by some neuroanatomists that three-dimensional (3-D) counting approaches must be used in studies of neural systems, so that 'unbiased' counts of neurons can be obtained. By contrast, two-dimensional (2-D) cell-counting methods are said to be 'assumption-based' and to yield inaccurate results. Working from the premise that all scientific methodologies are assumption-based and suffer from inherent biases, the current review considers the relative strengths and weaknesses of 2-D versus 3-D counting approaches. This comparison is from the standpoint of predictive performance with respect to bias, variance and fidelity to the actual spatial arrangements of cells in the tissue under study. When these considerations are taken, together with the human resources that are required in using either methodology, 2-D methods offer more practical alternatives that might even provide more scientifically accurate estimates compared with their 3-D counterparts.



Genes encoding glutamate receptor channel subunits were identified in genomes from Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans by homology search with amino acid sequences that participate in the conserved channel pore. The predicted sequences of the putative glutamate receptor subunits revealed a distinct channel pore signature for each receptor subtype and for most of them, related members were found in C. elegans and Drosophila.
The paper describes basic scientific and practical results obtained in the past decade at the Research Institute of Neurology, Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, in the following areas: cerebrovascular diseases, degenerative and demyelinating diseases of the nervous system. Particular attention is paid to the development of national criteria for brain death, a concept of structural and functional levels of the vascular system, that of brain pathology in atherosclerosis and essential hypertension, rapid methods for evaluating neuronal apoptosis, a new method for diagnosing prionic diseases caused by a classical viruses, and a new method for histochemical diagnosis of the degree of reparative peripheral nerve processes in polyneuropathies and to the discovery of two new hereditary nervous system diseases, to direct DNA diagnosis of torsion dystonia, Wilson-Konovalov disease, Friedreich's disease, to the setting up of a national representative family register and DNA data bank for monogenous hereditary diseases, to the development of indications for craniocerebral bypass of cerebral vessels in multiple occlusions of great cerebral arteries and indications for programmable plasmapheresis in a number of autoimmune diseases of the nervous system, to the development of rehabilitative programmes for stabilogram biocontrol, markers of an active embologenous atherosclerotic plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the brain, etc.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a neuronal messenger molecule that mediates pathway refinement in some brain regions. We used nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPHd) histochemistry to examine the development of NO expression in the superior colliculus (SC) of kittens aged E28-E58 and P2-P57 and adults in order to determine if NO expression is correlated with pathway refinement. At E28, labeled cells were seen only within the subventricular zone (SVZ). At E36-E41, labeled cells were also found within the deep gray layer (DGL) of SC. At E51 and E58, a few labeled neurons were also present in the intermediate gray layer (IGL). These neurons already had extensive dendritic fields and well-developed morphologies at the time that they first expressed nitric oxide synthase (NOS). The number of neurons labeled in the DGL and IGL increased postnatally, reaching a peak density between P14 and P35. Neurons within the optic (OL) and superficial gray layers (SGL) were first visible at P7 and increased slightly in number until adulthood. However, SGL-labeled neurons were relatively limited in number and lightly labeled at all ages examined. We conclude that (1) NADPHd expression occurs in SC beginning in the second trimester in kittens and progresses in a ventral to dorsal pattern between E36-P35; (2) few neurons in kitten SGL are labeled by NADPHd and these appear relatively late in postnatal development; and (3) there is no correlation between NOS expression and retinocollicular pathway refinement in kittens, a result different from that seen in rodents.
The present study has examined the spatial and temporal expression patterns of various proteins associated with the structure and function of mature photoreceptor outer segments in the developing ferret's retina using immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR. One set of proteins, including rod opsin, arrestin, and recoverin, was detected progressively in photoreceptors as they became postmitotic, being expressed well before the differentiation of outer segments. A second set of proteins, including beta- and gamma-transducin, cGMP-phosphodiesterase, phosducin, rhodopsin kinase, rod cGMP-gated cation channel protein, and peripherin, displayed a contrasting temporal onset and pattern of spatial emergence. These latter proteins first became detectable either shortly before or coincident with outer segment formation, and were expressed simultaneously in both older and younger photoreceptor cells. A third set, the short wavelength-sensitive (SWS) and medium wavelength-sensitive (MWS) cone opsin proteins, was the last to be detected, but materialized in a spatio-temporal pattern reminiscent of the neurogenetic gradient of the cones. These different spatial and temporal patterns indicate that cellular maturation must play a primary role in regulating the onset of expression of some of these proteins, while extrinsic signals must act to coordinate the expression of other proteins across photoreceptors of different ages.
We describe the temporal pattern of mRNA expression of some of the molecular components of the NO/cGMP second messenger system in the developing rat visual cortex and the effect of dark rearing on their expression levels using semiquantitative RT-PCR. mRNA expression for these molecules was altered by dark rearing in one of three ways: (1) no change--rod, olfactory, and cone/testis CNG channels, nonselective cation channels gated by cyclic nucleotides and highly permeable to Ca2+; (2) decrease--cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases which regulate cyclic nucleotide levels, and soluble guanylyl cyclase, the key synthetic enzyme producing cGMP and potently activated by nitric oxide; and (3) increase--cGMP kinase 1, a key enzyme activated by cGMP to phosphorylate a variety of intracellular proteins including cytoskeletal elements. These data suggest important and distinct roles for the cGMP system in both early and late developmental events in the rat visual cortex.
This paper summarizes recent experiments conducted by the authors - experiments that studied the behavioral characteristics of large gaze shifts and the neural bases of coordinated movements of the eyes and head.
A coordinated movement of the eyes and head in the head-unrestrained condition is often used to change orientation between targets. Under natural conditions, these gaze shifts are typically generated with the eyes roughly centered in the orbits. To achieve experimental control of eye and head positions, a miniature laser was mounted on the head implants of monkeys that were trained to point the head to one target and direct gaze to another before generating a head-unrestrained gaze shift to a third target (dissociation paradigm). For comparison, monkeys were also required to make gaze shifts between stimuli, without any constraints on eye and head positions (standard paradigm). Analyses indicated that movement parameters, limited to horizontal gaze shifts, were similar for both behavioral conditions. Thus, the proposed technique and behavioral paradigm, when used in conjunction with electrophysiological and pharmacological experiments, may facilitate the study of neural control of gaze.
Patients with lesions in the primary visual cortex (V1) may show processing of visual stimuli presented in their field of cortical blindness even when they report being unaware of the stimuli. To elucidate the neuroanatomical basis of their residual visual functions, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging in two hemianopic patients, FS and GY. In the first experiment, a rotating spiral stimulus was used to assess the responsiveness of dorsal stream areas. Although no response was detectable within denervated or destroyed early visual cortex, motion-sensitive areas (hMT+/V5) ipsilateral to the lesion showed a strong sustained hemodynamic response. In GY, this activation was at least as strong as that of his contralesional hMT+/V5 to the stimulus in the normal hemifield. In the second experiment, coloured images of natural objects were used to assess the responsiveness of ventral stream areas. Again, no activity was detectable in ipsilesional early visual areas, but extrastriate areas in the lateral occipital cortex (hMT+/V5 and LO) and within the posterior fusiform gyrus (V4/V8) showed a robust sustained hemodynamic response. In both experiments, we observed that ipsilesional areas responded to stimuli presented in either hemifield, whereas the normal hemisphere responded preferentially to stimuli in the sighted hemifield. As only one subject occasionally noticed the onset of stimulation in the impaired field, the unexpectedly strong sustained activity in ipsilesional dorsal and ventral cortical areas appears to be insufficient to generate conscious vision.
Visual-spatial attention involves modulations of activity in human visual cortex as indexed by electrophysiological and functional neuroimaging measures. Prior studies investigating the time course and functional anatomy of spatial attention mechanisms in visual cortex have used higher-order discrimination tasks with complex stimuli (e.g. symbol matching in bilateral stimulus arrays, or letter discrimination), or simple detection tasks but in the presence of complex distracting information (e.g. luminance detection with superimposed symbols as distractors). Here we tested the hypothesis that short-latency modulations of incoming sensory signals in extrastriate visual cortex reflect an early spatially specific attentional mechanism. We sought evidence of attentional modulations of sensory input processing for simple, isolated stimuli requiring only an elementary discrimination (i.e. size discrimination). As in prior studies using complex symbols, we observed attention-related changes in regional cerebral blood flow in extrastriate visual cortex that were associated with changes in event-related potentials at a specific latency range. These findings support the idea that early in cortical processing, spatially-specific attentional selection mechanisms can modulate incoming sensory signals based on their spatial location and perhaps independently of higher-order stimulus form.
We have used surface-based atlases of the cerebral cortex to analyze the functional organization of visual cortex in humans and macaque monkeys. The macaque atlas contains multiple partitioning schemes for visual cortex, including a probabilistic atlas of visual areas derived from a recent architectonic study, plus summary schemes that reflect a combination of physiological and anatomical evidence. The human atlas includes a probabilistic map of eight topographically organized visual areas recently mapped using functional MRI. To facilitate comparisons between species, we used surface-based warping to bring functional and geographic landmarks on the macaque map into register with corresponding landmarks on the human map. The results suggest that extrastriate visual cortex outside the known topographically organized areas is dramatically expanded in human compared to macaque cortex, particularly in the parietal lobe.
Many types of neurons and glia exhibit oscillatory changes in membrane potentials and cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentrations. In neurons and neuroendocrine cells an elevation of intracellular Ca2+ concentration is associated with neurosecretion. Since both oscillatory membrane potentials and intracellular Ca2+ oscillations have been described in primary LHRH neurons and in GT1 cells, it is evident that an endogenous pulse-generator/oscillator is present in the LHRH neuron in vitro. The hourly rhythms of LHRH neurosecretion appear to be the synchronization of a population of LHRH neurons. How a network of LHRH neurons synchronizes their activity, i.e., whether by the result of synaptic mechanisms or electrical coupling through gap junctions or through a diffusible substance(s), remains to be clarified. Even though LHRH neurons themselves possess an endogenous pulse-generating mechanism, they may be controlled by other neuronal and nonneuronal elements in vivo. NE, NPY, glutamate, and GABA are neurotransmitters possibly controlling pulsatile LHRH release, and NO, cAMP, and ATP may be diffusible substances involved in pulsatile LHRH release without synaptic input. Although synaptic inputs to the perikarya of LHRH neurons could control the activity of LHRH neurons, a line of evidence suggests that direct neuronal and nonneuronal inputs, especially those from astrocytes to LHRH neuroterminals, appear to be more important for pusatile LHRH release.

Over the course of the last 50 years it has been possible to solve a number of basic problems in neurobiology. Interest is now turning more and more to problems concerning so-called &quot;higher&quot; brain functions, including cognition. Examples from the visual system in primates are presented. First relatively elementary problems are illustrated, such as how long it takes to perceive an object or to respond to a stimulus or combinations of stimuli. Top-down modification of perception by expectation is demonstrated in an illusion of misdirected gaze. Interdisciplinary questions straddling the sciences and the humanities are also approached, such as which part of the brain mediates conscious perception. Finally, the problem of causality and freedom of will is addressed, taking into account the knowledge accumulated in the neurosciences during the last 5 decades.
Sodium butyrate is well known in stimulating growth and differentiation of cancer cells. In the present study, butyrate treatment caused decreases in thymidine incorporation in the early passages (45-60) of C6 glioma cells. In addition, butyrate also caused decreases in inositol incorporation and transient ATP-stimulated Ca2+ mobilization suggesting that butyrate altered general mechanisms of Ca2+ signaling in these cells. To gain direct insight into the crosstalk between sodium butyrate and Ca2+ signaling in transcriptional regulation, we investigated the induction of the Ca2+-sensitive immediate early genes (IEGs), c-fos, nur77 and c-myc. Sodium butyrate per se enhanced the expression of c-fos mRNA, and the enhanced levels were maintained for 24 h, but over the same time period, the initially increased levels of nur77 expression tailed off, while c-myc expression was slightly reduced. Increasing intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) by thapsgargin and A23187 induced the expression of both c-fos and nur77 mRNA expression, and synergistic effects were observed when cells were incubated with sodium butyrate plus thapsgargin and A23187. However, removal of both extracellular Ca2+ by EGTA, or intracellular free Ca2+ with BAPTA did not affect the sodium butyrate-induced c-fos and nur77 mRNA. These results suggest that although sodium butyrate altered Ca2+ signaling which is an important regulatory mechanism for c-fos and nur77 expression, nevertheless the sodium butyrate-induced c-fos and nur77 expression may be not in fact mediated through Ca2+ signaling.
From a global perspective, two external developments are having dramatic effects upon the field of statistical genetics: improved genetic data, for example, human DNA sequence, and new technologies, for example, microarray technology. Meiotic mapping techniques will have to be adapted to benefit from the improved data, for example, allelic association studies have to be extended to multiple markers to profit from the new genetic map of SNP markers. Changing technology has led to ever-increasing knowledge about gene function which has enabled novel gene mapping strategies which we refer to as functional mapping. Functional mapping has great potential for mapping complex disease genes since it uses pathway fractions to intermediate between genotype and phenotype information. Methods used in whole-genome gene expression studies are used to illustrate concepts of functional mapping.
The ERM proteins, ezrin, radixin, and moesin, regulate cell motility by linking cortical F-actin to the plasma membrane in different cell types. Myosin regulatory light chain interacting protein (MIR) is a recently cloned ERM-like protein which was shown to be involved in neurite outgrowth. Here we have studied the occurrence and expression of MIR in rats during brain development. As shown using Western blotting, MIR is present in different regions both in developing and adult brain. Immunohistochemistry and double labelling studies showed that MIR is localized especially to neurons in hippocampus and cerebellum. A search using the gene bank showed that the MIR gene localised to human chromosome 6 in the interval 6p22.3-23, the loss of which is characterized by mental retardation and different malformations in man. The presence of MIR in brain neurons during development together with its known effects on neurite outgrowth suggest an important function of the protein in the regulation of nerve cell motility and cytoskeletal interactions.
The majority of terminals contacting spherical bushy cell bodies in the guinea-pig anteroventral cochlear nucleus contain GABA, glycine or both (colocalizing). Double labeling with antibodies to each amino acid and the plasma membrane transporter for the other was performed using different sizes of gold particles. The transporter for GABA occurs in the plasma membranes of some terminals containing glycine and vice versa suggesting that colocalizing terminals can retrieve both amino acids.
Systemic subchronic oxytocin treatment significantly and substantially increased the B(max) values of the alpha 2 agonist [(3)H]UK14.304 binding sites in the hypothalamus, the amygdala and the paraventricular thalamic nucleus of the rat as shown by quantitative receptor autoradiography. These results suggest that long-term modulation of autonomic and neuroendocrine functions and emotional behaviours elicited by brain oxytocin may involve enhancement of central alpha 2-adrenoceptor function.
The need to achieve a clearer understanding of relations between hippocampal theta characteristics and cholinergic septohippocampal neuron activity, prompted us to re-examine, in the urethane-anaesthetised rat, the statistical relationships between the electrophysiological and neurochemical variables using a procedure which is believed to enhance significantly the degree of confidence with which parameters of theta recorded with classic macroelectrodes can be related to concomitant acetylcholine output measured by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Firstly, the theta rhythm and the acetylcholine content were derived from the same hippocampus. Secondly, the hippocampal electroencephalogram was quantified using spectral analysis which permits the more objective quantitative evaluation of selected electroencephalogram samples. Thirdly, a larger number of rats than in our previous study was used here, thus enhancing the validity of statistical results. This procedure yielded, in our time-course determination, two main findings. The first finding is that acetylcholine release was positively correlated with frequency at the peak power of the theta band which reflects the frequency of the theta signal. This finding had not been reported yet. The second finding is that hippocampal acetylcholine outflow also covaried with relative power of the theta band which reflects the amplitude of the theta signal. This finding is consistent with our previous study in which EEG was quantified by means of a traditional method. These findings suggest that the cholinergic component of the septohippocampal system, which is the main source of hippocampal acetylcholine, and neurophysiological mechanisms involved in the modulation of both the amplitude and the frequency of theta are functionally related. The possibility that, at least in the urethane-anaesthetised rat, hippocampal acetylcholine is involved in these modulator mechanisms is discussed.
To characterize the electrophysiological properties of neurons in the medial agranular frontal cortex (Fr2) with respect to arousal level and locus coeruleus (LC) activity, we recorded spontaneous and auditory-evoked single unit activity in these areas simultaneously during different states of arousal in the rat. In the low-arousal state, as determined by EEG, 14/56 Fr2 neurons showed a tonic increase in spontaneous firing rate and 9/56 presented a clear inhibitory response to tone (onset latency 37 ms, duration 200 ms). The inhibitory response was not clear during the high-arousal state. Cross-correlation analysis of pairs of Fr2 and LC units, excluding activity during the actual tone, also showed a negative correlation from 120 ms before, to 170 ms after, Fr2 discharge in 5/63 pairs, only during low arousal. Significantly, 4/5 of the Fr2 neurons having this negative correlation with LC were included in that population which showed a tonic increase in spontaneous firing rate and inhibited to tone during low arousal. LC neurons, on the other hand, all showed excitation to tone stimulation (peak latency 30 ms), and response amplitude was not affected by changes in arousal level. The negative correlation in spontaneous activity, as well as their differential responses to tone, suggests an interaction between a select population of Fr2 neurons and the LC during the low-arousal state. Future studies with lesion or pharmacological manipulations would be necessary to confirm the presence of this interaction.
Whole brain spheroids provide a suitable model to study neurodevelopment. In the literature a role for the nitric oxide (NO)-cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) signalling pathway during development has frequently been suggested. In this study we investigated whether functional cGMP pathways were present in differentiated spheroids. In 3-week-old spheroids soluble guanylate cyclase was stimulated with N-methyl D-aspartic acid or sodium nitroprusside (NO donor). The results showed that the NO synthase-cGMP pathway is present in the culture system. Soluble guanylate cyclase-dependent cGMP formation was found in NO synthase containing neurons, in neurons of the GABAergic, glutamatergic and cholinergic system, and in astroglia and oligodendroglia. Activation of particulate guanylate cyclase by atrial natriuretic peptide also triggered an increase in cGMP production. Particulate guanylate cyclase was found in astroglia and in microglia as well as in glutamic acid decarboxylase and calbindin containing structures and neuronal NO synthase containing neurons. Chronic inhibition of NO synthase during culture development had no effect on soluble or particulate guanylate cyclase functioning. Similarly, inhibition of soluble guanylate cyclase during culture development did not have any effect on NO synthase and particulate guanylate cyclase functioning. It is concluded that NO synthase and both soluble and particulate guanylate cyclase are present in whole brain spheroid cultures and that their activity can be influenced by several stimuli. The spheroid culture system constitutes a suitable model to study the NO-cGMP pathway during brain development in mammals.
We have previously shown that males have more neurons than females in the primary visual cortex, and neonatal androgens play an important role in this difference. Also, we have found that females experience more cell death during development in this region than in males. Therefore, we hypothesized that the neonatal hormone environment directly influences the amount of cell death. In the present experiment, female rats were implanted with dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or estradiol at postnatal day 1. These animals, along with control males and females, were sacrificed on postnatal days 6, 11 and 25. Using unbiased stereology to quantify neuronal and pyknotic cell density, we observed that females implanted with DHT had a similar pattern and proportion of cells dying as control males. Additionally, developmental cell death in females implanted with estradiol was not significantly different than control females. Thus, neonatal androgens have an inhibitory effect on developmental cell death in the rat primary visual cortex.
Maintenance of immunopanned cells in culture medium in the absence of serum or pre-conditioning by other neural cell types such as astrocytes can be problematic. Here we report the novel use of a chemically defined medium, which we refer to as NBN since it contains N-2 supplement, B-27 supplement, and N-acetyl-L-cysteine, for maintaining O4+/O1- immunopanned pro-oligodendroglia. Since we had previously characterized O4+/O1- immunopanned pro-oligodendroglia in astrocyte-conditioned basal defined medium (BDM; [24]), we compared their proliferation and differentiation in NBN medium or in NBN medium containing 40% NBN medium pre-conditioned by astrocytes. At 4 DIC in NBN, 23% of O4+ cells were BrdU+ while in conditioned NBN medium, 91% of O4+ cells were BrdU+. At 7 DIC in either medium, less than 25% of O4+ cells were BrdU+. O4+/O1- immunopanned pro-oligodendroglia cultured in NBN medium developed extensive processes and membranous expansions characteristic of mature oligodendroglia. At 4 DIC in NBN medium, approximately 100% of cells were O4+, 80% were O1+, and 54% were MBP+. By contrast, at 4 DIC in conditioned NBN, 87% of cells were O4+, 12% were O1+, and 2% were MBP+. At 7 DIC, there were no differences in the percentages of cells that expressed O4, O1, or MBP in either NBN or conditioned NBN. These results indicate that NBN defined medium supports the development of O4+/O1- immunopanned pro-oligodendroglia, and promotes more rapid maturation than conditioned NBN. The ability to maintain cells of the oligodendroglial lineage immunopanned at specific developmental stages in NBN defined medium should facilitate studies designed to identify effects of growth factors or toxins on oligodendroglia.
Nitric oxide (NO) may participate in cell-cell communication in the brain by generating intercellular Ca(2+) waves. In hippocampal organotypic and dissociated glial-neuron (&gt;80% glia) cultures local applications of aqueous NO induced slowly propagating intercellular Ca(2+) waves. In glial cultures, Ca(2+) waves and Mn(2+) quench of cytosolic fura-2 fluorescence mediated by NO were inhibited by nicardipine, indicating that NO induces Ca(2+) influx in glia which is dihydropyridine-sensitive. As NO treatments also depolarised the plasma membrane potential of glia, the nicardipine-sensitive Ca(2+) influx might be due to the activation of dihydropyridine-sensitive L-type Ca(2+) channels. Both nicardipine-sensitive intercellular Ca(2+) waves and propagating cell depolarisation induced by mechanical stress of individual glia were inhibited by pretreating cultures with either an NO scavenger or N(G)-methyl-L-arginine. Results demonstrate that NO can induce Ca(2+) waves in hippocampal slice cultures, and that Ca(2+) influx coupled to NO-mediated membrane depolarisation might assist in fashioning their spatio-temporal dynamics.
The modulation of N-type calcium current by protein kinases and G-proteins is a factor in the fine tuning of neurotransmitter release. We have previously shown that phosphorylation of threonine 422 in the alpha(1B) calcium channel domain I-II linker region resulted in a dramatic reduction in somatostatin receptor-mediated G-protein inhibition of the channels and that the I-II linker consequently serves as an integration center for cross-talk between protein kinase C (PKC) and G-proteins (Hamid, J., Nelson, D., Spaetgens, R., Dubel, S. J., Snutch, T. P., and Zamponi, G. W. (1999) J. Biol. Chem. 274, 6195-6202). Here we show that opioid receptor-mediated inhibition of N-type channels is affected to a lesser extent compared with that seen with somatostatin receptors, hinting at the possibility that PKC/G-protein cross-talk might be dependent on the G-protein subtype. To address this issue, we have examined the effects of four different types of G-protein beta subunits on both wild type and mutant alpha(1B) calcium channels in which residue 422 has been replaced by glutamate to mimic PKC-dependent phosphorylation and on channels that have been directly phosphorylated by protein kinase C. Our data show that phosphorylation or mutation of residue 422 antagonizes the effect of Gbeta(1) on channel activity, whereas Gbeta(2), Gbeta(3), and Gbeta(4) are not affected. Our data therefore suggest that the observed cross-talk between G-proteins and protein kinase C modulation of N-type channels is a selective feature of the Gbeta(1) subunit.
The Munc-18 protein (mammalian homologue of the unc-18 gene; also called nSec1 or rbSec1) has been identified as an essential component of the synaptic vesicle fusion protein complex. The cellular and subcellular localization and functional role of Munc-18 protein in pancreatic beta-cells was investigated. Subcellular fractionation of insulin-secreting HIT-T15 cells revealed a 67-kDa protein in both cytosol and membrane fractions. Immunohistochemistry showed punctate Munc-18 immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm of rat pancreatic islet cells. Direct double-labeling immunofluorescence histochemistry combined with confocal laser microscopy revealed the presence of Munc-18 immunoreactivity in insulin-, glucagon-, pancreatic polypeptide-, and somatostatin-containing cells. Syntaxin 1 immunoreactivity was detected in extracts of HIT-T15 cells, which were immunoprecipitated using Munc-18 antiserum, suggesting an intimate association of Munc-18 with syntaxin 1. Administration of Munc-18 peptide or Munc-18 antiserum to streptolysin O-permeabilized HIT-T15 cells resulted in significantly increased insulin release, but did not have any significant effect on voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel activity. The findings taken together show that the Munc-18 protein is present in insulin-secreting beta-cells and implicate Munc-18 as a negative regulator of the insulin secretory machinery via a mechanism that does not involve syntaxin-associated Ca(2+) channels.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), a 32-kDa microsomal enzyme, is induced as a beneficial and adaptive response in cells/tissues exposed to oxidative stress. Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is a regulatory cytokine that has been implicated in a variety of renal diseases where it promotes extracellular matrix deposition and proinflammatory events. We hypothesize that the release of TGF-beta1 via autocrine and/or paracrine pathways may induce HO-1 and serve as a protective response in renal injury. To understand the molecular mechanism of HO-1 induction by TGF-beta1, we exposed confluent human renal proximal tubule cells to TGF-beta1 and observed a significant induction of HO-1 mRNA at 4 h with a maximal induction at 8 h. This induction was accompanied by increased expression of HO-1 protein. TGF-beta1 treatment in conjunction with actinomycin D or cycloheximide demonstrated that induction of HO-1 mRNA requires de novo transcription and, in part, protein synthesis. Exposure to TGF-beta1 resulted in marked induction of Smad7 mRNA with no effect on Smad6 expression. Overexpression of Smad7, but not Smad6, inhibited TGF-beta1-mediated induction of endogenous HO-1 gene expression. We speculate that the induction of HO-1 in the kidney is an adaptive response to the inflammatory effects of TGF-beta1 and manipulations of the Smad pathway to alter HO-1 expression may serve as a potential therapeutic target.
Several of the genes in the serotonergic and the dopaminergic systems have consensus binding sites for the AP-2 transcription factor family in their regulatory regions. Imbalances in these systems have been implicated in many psychiatric disorders, including depression and bipolar affective disorder. We have made an effort to further elucidate the molecular mechanisms of drugs used for affective disorders. Recently, we analyzed the effects of chronic treatment with certain antidepressants on AP-2 in rat brain. The present study demonstrates that chronic administration of three different classes of antidepressants modulates the DNA-binding activity of AP-2 in the rat brain. Chronic administration of citalopram (10 mg/kg), imipramin (10 mg/kg) and lithium-chloride (40 mg/kg) significantly decreased DNA-binding activity of AP-2. Furthermore, citalopram (10 mg/kg) and imipramin (10 mg/kg) significantly decreased the amount of AP-2alpha protein as determined by ELISA. In addition, citalopram (10 mg/kg) significantly decreased the amount of AP-2beta protein. In contrast, chronic administration of lithium-chloride (40 mg/kg) did not affect the amount of the two AP-2 isoforms. An increased understanding of the function of transcription factors and their involvement in human disease, such as depression, could make it possible in the future to selectively modulate relevant target genes directly.
This article sets out to present a fairly comprehensive review of our knowledge about the functions of the receptors that have been found in the extraocular muscles--the six muscles that move each eye of vertebrates in its orbit--of all the animals in which they have been sought, including Man. Since their discovery at the beginning of the 20th century these receptors have, at various times, been credited with important roles in the control of eye movement and the construction of extrapersonal space and have also been denied any function whatsoever. Experiments intended to study the actions of eye muscle receptors and, even more so, opinions (and indeed polemic) derived from these observations have been influenced by the changing fashions and beliefs about the more general question of how limb position and movement is detected by the brain and which signals contribute to those aspects of this that are perceived (kinaesthesis). But the conclusions drawn from studies on the eye have also influenced beliefs about the mechanisms of kinaesthesis and, arguably, this influence has been even larger than that in the converse direction. Experimental evidence accumulated over rather more than a century is set out and discussed. It supports the view that, at the beginning of the 21st century, there are excellent grounds for believing that the receptors in the extraocular muscles are indeed proprioceptors, that is to say that the signals that they send into the brain are used to provide information about the position and movement of the eye in the orbit. It seems that this information is important in the control of eye movements of at least some types, and in the determination by the brain of the direction of gaze and the relationship of the organism to its environment. In addition, signals from these receptors in the eye muscles are seen to be necessary for the development of normal mechanisms of visual analysis in the mammalian visual cortex and for both the development and maintenance of normal visuomotor behaviour. Man is among those vertebrates to whose brains eye muscle proprioceptive signals provide information apparently used in normal sensorimotor functions; these include various aspects of perception, and of the control of eye movement. It is possible that abnormalities of the eye muscle proprioceptors and their signals may play a part in the genesis of some types of human squint (strabismus); conversely studies of patients with squint in the course of their surgical or pharmacological treatment have yielded much interesting evidence about the central actions of the proprioceptive signals from the extraocular muscles. The results of experiments on the eye have played a large part in the historical controversy, now in at least its third century, about the origin of signals that inform the brain about movement of parts of the body. Some of these results, and more of the interpretations of them, now need to be critically re-examined. The re-examination in the light of recent experiments that is presented here does not support many of the conclusions confidently drawn in the past and leads to both new insights and fresh questions about the roles of information from motor signals flowing out of the brain and that from signals from the peripheral receptors flowing into it. There remain many lacunae in our knowledge and filling some of these will, it is contended, be essential to advance our understanding further. It is argued that such understanding of eye muscle proprioception is a necessary part of the understanding of the physiology and pathophysiology of eye movement control and that it is also essential to an account of how organisms, including Man, build and maintain knowledge of their relationship to the external visual world. The eye would seem to provide a uniquely favourable system in which to study the way in which information derived within the brain about motor actions may interact with signals flowing in from peripheral receptors. The review is constructed in relatively independent sections that deal with particular topics. It ends with a fairly brief piece in which the author sets out some personal views about what has been achieved recently and what most immediately needs to be done. It also suggests some lines of study that appear to the author to be important for the future.
Acute nicotine administration (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) significantly decreased BDNF mRNA levels in dentate gyrus, CA3 and CA1 subfields of the rat hippocampus 2 h and 24 h after administration. However, with 7 days nicotine treatment, tolerance developed to the inhibitory effect of nicotine on BDNF mRNA expression and there was a significant increase in BDNF expression 2 h after the final injection in the CA1 region. These data suggests that changes in expression of hippocampal BDNF may be involved in the behavioural effects of nicotine observed after acute and chronic treatment.
Increasing nerve growth factor (NGF) in the PNS is a rational strategy for treating certain neurodegenerative disorders. The present studies were undertaken to compare two compounds, a vitamin D(3) analogue (CB1093) with minimal calcaemic effects, and clenbuterol, a long-acting beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist, both of which induce NGF synthesis in vivo. Clenbuterol caused significant increases in both NGF mRNA and protein in 3T3 cells; with maxima at 10 nM and at 8-12 h exposure. Effects of clenbuterol on NGF mRNA were antagonized by propranolol. Mobility shift assays on whole cell extracts showed that clenbuterol increased AP1 binding in 3T3 cells prior to increasing NGF synthesis. Clenbuterol was without effect on NGF mRNA levels in L929 cells, whereas CB1093 caused significant increases in both NGF mRNA and protein levels in both 3T3 and L929 cells. Stimulation was almost maximal at 24 h exposure and was sustained for at least 72 h. The magnitude of the increase was much greater in L929 (700% increase) than in 3T3 cells (80%). Binding to the vitamin D nuclear receptor (VDR), which acts as a transcription factor itself, was increased as early as 30 min after exposure to of CB1093 and maintained up to 24 h. Increased VDR binding preceded increased NGF mRNA. A 150% increase in AP-1 binding was also evident. This study demonstrates that CB1093 and clenbuterol stimulate NGF levels in vitro and that AP-1 binding could be a commonality between the mechanism of NGF induction of these two compounds.
Thioltransferase (glutaredoxin) is a member of the family of thiol-disulfide oxido-reductases that maintain the sulfhydryl homeostasis in cells by catalyzing thiol-disulfide interchange reactions. One of the major consequences of oxidative stress in brain is formation of protein-glutathione mixed disulfide (through oxidation of protein thiols) which can be reversed by thioltransferase during recovery of brain from oxidative stress. Here we have visualized the location of thioltransferase in brain regions from seven human tissues obtained at autopsy. Constitutively expressed thioltransferase activity was detectable in all human brains examined although inter-individual variations were seen. The enzyme activity was significantly higher in hippocampus and cerebellum as compared to other regions. Constitutive expression of thioltransferase mRNA was detectable by Northern blot analysis. Localization of thioltransferase mRNA by fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed its presence predominantly in neurons in the cerebral cortex, Purkinje and granule cell layers of the cerebellum, granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus and in the pyramidal neurons of CA1, CA2 and CA3 subfields of hippocampus. These discrete neuronal concentrations of thioltransferase would be consistent with an essential role in modulating recovery of protein thiols from mixed disulfides formed during oxidative stress.
It is well known that presenilin-1 (PS1) is involved in cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) at the gamma-secretase site, and that the amino acids residues of D257 and D385 in PS1 are critical for this cleavage of APP and the endoproteolysis of itself. An alternatively spliced form of PS1 skipping exon 8 (PS1d8), which has D257A at the splice junction of exon 7/9, is expressed in human brain and in some cell lines. In this study, we examined production of Amyloid beta (A beta) and the endoproteolysis of the holoproteins in PS1d8-expressing neuroblastoma cells. Western blotting showed an absence of endoproteolysis in PS1d8. However, PS1d8 did not affect the production of A beta, which is different from the artificial point mutant PS1D257A. These results suggest that endoproteolysis of PS1 and gamma-secretase activity could be independent.
In yeast, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated protein, Ire1p, is believed to initiate the unfolded protein response (UPR), that is responsible for protein folding in the ER under stressed conditions. Two mammalian homologs of Ire1p have been identified, Ire1 alpha and Ire1 beta. We have previously reported that familial Alzheimer's disease linked presenilin-1 variants downregulate the signaling pathway of the UPR by affecting the phosphorylation of Ire1 alpha. In the present study, we cloned the mouse homolog of Ire1 alpha for generating genetically modified mice. Ire1 alpha was ubiquitously expressed in all mouse tissues examined, and was expressed preferentially in neuronal cells in mouse brain. This led us to investigate the effects of the downregulation of the UPR on the survival of neuronal cells under conditions of ER stress. Morphological and biochemical studies using a dominant-negative form of mouse Ire1 alpha have revealed that cell death caused by ER stress can be attributed to apoptosis, and that the downregulation of the UPR enhances the apoptotic process in the mouse neuroblastoma cell line, Neuro2a. Our results indicate that genetically modified mice such as transgenic mice with a dominant-negative form of Ire1 alpha might provide further understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders.
Peroxidation of membrane lipids occurs in many different neurodegenerative conditions including stroke, and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Recent findings suggest that lipid peroxidation can promote neuronal death by a mechanism involving production of the toxic aldehyde 4-hydroxy-2,3-nonenal (HNE), which may act by covalently modifying proteins and impairing their function. The transcription factor NF-kappa B can prevent neuronal death in experimental models of neurodegenerative disorders by inducing the expression of anti-apoptotic proteins including Bcl-2 and manganese superoxide dismutase. We now report that HNE selectively suppresses basal and inducible NF-kappa B DNA binding activity in cultured rat cortical neurons. Immunoprecipitation-immunoblot analyses using antibodies against HNE-conjugated proteins and p50 and p65 NF-kappa B subunits indicate that HNE does not directly modify NF-kappa B proteins. Moreover, HNE did not affect NF-kappa B DNA-binding activity when added directly to cytosolic extracts, suggesting that HNE inhibits an upstream component of the NF-kappa B signaling pathway. Inhibition of the survival-promoting NF-kappa B signaling pathway by HNE may contribute to neuronal death under conditions in which membrane lipid peroxidation occurs.
Colour constancy assessed by asymmetric simultaneous colour matching usually reveals limited levels of performance in the unadapted eye. Yet observers can readily discriminate illuminant changes on a scene from changes in the spectral reflectances of the surfaces making up the scene. This ability is probably based on judgements of relational colour constancy, in turn based on the physical stability of spatial ratios of cone excitations under illuminant changes. Evidence is presented suggesting that the ability to detect violations in relational colour constancy depends on temporal transient cues. Because colour constancy and relational colour constancy are closely connected, it should be possible to improve estimates of colour constancy by introducing similar transient cues into the matching task. To test this hypothesis, an experiment was performed in which observers made surface-colour matches between patterns presented in the same position in an alternating sequence with period 2 s or, as a control, presented simultaneously, side-by-side. The degree of constancy was significantly higher for sequential presentation, reaching 87% for matches averaged over 20 observers. Temporal cues may offer a useful source of information for making colour-constancy judgements.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) appears to play a role in the pathophysiology of a range of neuropsychiatric disorders, and serotonergic agents are of central importance in neuropharmacology. Genes encoding various components of the 5-HT system are being studied as risk factors in depression, schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, aggression, alcoholism, and autism. Recently, pharmacogenetic research has begun to examine possible genetic influences on therapeutic response to drugs affecting the serotonin system. Genes regulating the synthesis (TPH), storage (VMAT2), membrane uptake (HTT), and metabolism (MAOA) of 5-HT, as well as a number of 5-HT receptors (HTR1A, HTR1B, HTR2A, HTR2C, and HTR5A), have been studied and this initial research is reviewed here. After a brief introduction to serotonin neurobiology and a general discussion of appropriate genetic methodology, each of the major 5-HT-related genes and their encoded proteins are reviewed in turn. For each gene, relevant polymorphisms and research on functional variants are discussed; following brief reviews of the disorder or trait association and linkage studies, pharmacogenetic studies performed to date are covered. The critical and manifold roles of the serotonin system, the great abundance of targets within the system, the wide range of serotonergic agents-available and in development-and the promising preliminary results suggest that the serotonin system offers a particularly rich area for pharmacogenetic research.
Several lines of evidence suggest that a genetic component underlies Tourette's syndrome (TS). We investigated both the role of the insertion/deletion polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) and that of the Val-158-Met substitution in the catechol-O-methyl-transferase (COMT) gene in conferring susceptibility to TS. Fifty-two TS patients were recruited and compared with a control group of 63 healthy subjects. Neither a genotypic nor an allelic association was found; subdividing TS patients according to clinical variables, such as a co-diagnosis of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and a positive family history for obsessive compulsive disorder or tics, also failed to reveal a significant association. The lack of significance for 5-HTTLPR and COMT polymorphisms in conferring liability to TS does not exclude a role of different functional polymorphisms in genes coding for serotonergic or dopaminergic structures in the etiology of TS. In fact, TS is a complex disorder and these genes most likely have only a minor genetic effect in its etiology.

Article abstract-The authors studied the effect of bilateral subthalamic nucleus stimulation on levodopa-induced dyskinesias in 24 consecutive parkinsonian patients with disabling dyskinesias. The improvement in the three subtypes of levodopa-induced dyskinesias was significant from the third postoperative month and was mainly due to the decrease in the daily dose of levodopa allowed by the stimulation-induced improvement in the motor score.

Mislocalization of the photopigment rhodopsin may be involved in the pathology of certain inherited retinal degenerative diseases. Here, we have elucidated rhodopsin's targeting signal which is responsible for its polarized distribution to the rod outer segment (ROS). Various green fluorescent protein (GFP)/rhodopsin COOH-terminal fusion proteins were expressed specifically in the major red rod photoreceptors of transgenic Xenopus laevis under the control of the Xenopus opsin promoter. The fusion proteins were targeted to membranes via lipid modifications (palmitoylation and myristoylation) as opposed to membrane spanning domains. Membrane association was found to be necessary but not sufficient for efficient ROS localization. A GFP fusion protein containing only the cytoplasmic COOH-terminal 44 amino acids of Xenopus rhodopsin localized exclusively to ROS membranes. Chimeras between rhodopsin and alpha adrenergic receptor COOH-terminal sequences further refined rhodopsin's ROS localization signal to its distal eight amino acids. Mutations/deletions of this region resulted in partial delocalization of the fusion proteins to rod inner segment (RIS) membranes. The targeting and transport of endogenous wild-type rhodopsin was unaffected by the presence of mislocalized GFP fusion proteins.
To determine whether the neostriatum receives overlapping projections from two somatosensory cortical areas, the anterograde tracers biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) and fluoro-ruby (FR) were injected into the whisker representations of primary (SI) and secondary (SII) somatosensory cortex. Reconstructions of labeled terminals and their beaded varicosities in the neostriatum and thalamus were analyzed quantitatively to compare the extent of overlapping projections to both subcortical structures. Corticostriatal projections from focal sites in both somatosensory areas exhibited substantial amounts of divergence within the dorsolateral neostriatum. Most of the labeled terminals were concentrated in densely packed arborizations that occupied lamellar-shaped regions along the dorsolateral edge of the neostriatum. Tracer injections in both cortical areas also produced dense anterograde and retrograde labeling in the thalamus, especially in the ventrobasal complex (VB) and in the medial part of the posterior (POm) nucleus. Because these thalamic regions are topographically organized and have reciprocal connections with corresponding representations in both SI and SII, the amount of labeled overlap in the thalamus was used to indicate the degree of somatotopic correspondence at the SI and SII injection sites. We found that the proportion of overlapping projections to the neostriatum was moderately correlated with the amount of overlap observed in the thalamus. This result strongly indicates that specific sites in the dorsolateral neostriatum receive convergent projections from corresponding somatotopic representations in SI and SII, but also suggests that some of the corticostriatal divergence may reflect neostriatal integration of somatosensory information from noncorresponding representations in SI and SII.

We have examined the effects of prolonged periods of darkness on the responses of luminosity-type horizontal cells (L-HCs) in the freshwater cyprinid, Rutilus rutilus. Two groups of retinae were compared, those recorded after 10 min dark adaptation (SA) and those recorded after 3 h dark adaptation (LA). The results suggest that long-term light history does not modify the general responsiveness of the L-HCs in this species. However, there are apparent changes in the receptive field of the cells and modifications to the kinetics of the light-evoked response. The kinetics changes involve both a delay in the onset of light response and a selective effect on the hyperpolarizing light-ON response. Thus the mean time constant (tau) for the SA cells was 32.4+/-2.39 ms (n=62), whilst that for the LA cells was 53.4+/-3.03 ms (n=61). These effects occur in the absence of changes in the relative spectral sensitivity or threshold sensitivity of the HCs. The results suggest that in some vertebrate retinae, prolonged darkness (light-history) may regulate long-term plasticity in the kinetics of the cone-HC pathway.
Astrocytes exhibit three transmembrane Ca(2+) influx pathways: voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCCs), the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) class of glutamate receptors, and Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers. Each of these pathways is thought to be capable of mediating a significant increase in Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)); however, the relative importance of each and their interdependence in the regulation astrocyte [Ca(2+)](i) is not known. We demonstrate here that 100 microM AMPA in the presence of 100 microM cyclothiazide (CTZ) causes an increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in cultured cerebral astrocytes that requires transmembrane Ca(2+) influx. This increase of [Ca(2+)](i) is blocked by 100 microM benzamil or 0.5 microM U-73122, which inhibit reverse-mode operation of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger by independent mechanisms. This response does not require Ca(2+) influx through VGCCs, nor does it depend upon a significant Ca(2+) influx through AMPA receptors (AMPARs). Additionally, AMPA in the presence of CTZ causes a depletion of thapsigargin-sensitive intracellular Ca(2+) stores, although depletion of these Ca(2+) stores does not decrease the peak [Ca(2+)](i) response to AMPA. We propose that activation of AMPARs in astrocytes can cause [Ca(2+)](i) to increase through the reverse mode operation of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger with an associated release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores. This proposed mechanism requires neither Ca(2+)-permeant AMPARs nor the activation of VGCCs to be effective.
The olfactory neuroepithelium of the mammalian nervous system manifests continuous neurogenesis throughout life. Recent studies suggest that neurotrophic factors and their receptors may play a role in the regulation of development and regeneration in the olfactory system. However, there have been very few in vivo studies investigating the effect of exogenous neurotrophic factors in the olfactory system. In the present study, nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were administered into the rat olfactory mucosa for 5 days just after the transection of the olfactory nerve. We then examined the effect of exogenous neurotrophic factors on the degenerative changes in axotomized olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs). Further, we examined the location of their receptors, Trk A and Trk B. We found that both mature and immature ORNs expressed more intense signals for olfactory marker protein and beta-tubulin mRNAs, respectively, when NGF was applied to the axotomized olfactory neuroepithelium for 5 days, compared to the ORNs of saline-treated controls. BDNF at a 10 microg total dose did not show this effect. The effect of NGF applied onto the olfactory epithelium is consistent with the immunohistochemical finding that Trk A was present in the dendrites and axon bundles in normal and axotomized ORNs. These results suggest that NGF may protect the degenerative changes in mature and immature ORNs following axotomy through the binding to the Trk A receptor located on the surface of the olfactory epithelium.
Mint1 (X11/human Lin-10) and Mint2 are neuronal adaptor proteins that bind to Munc18-1 (n/rb-sec1), a protein essential for synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Mint1 has previously been characterized in a complex with CASK, another adaptor protein that in turn interacts with neurexins. Neurexins are neuron-specific cell surface proteins that act as receptors for the excitatory neurotoxin alpha-latrotoxin. Hence, one possible function for Mint1 is to mediate the recruitment of Munc18 to neurexins. In agreement with this hypothesis, we now show that the cytoplasmic tail of neurexins captures Munc18 via a multiprotein complex that involves Mint1. Furthermore, we demonstrate that both Mint1 and Mint2 can directly bind to neurexins in a PDZ domain-mediated interaction. Various Mint and/or CASK-containing complexes can be assembled on neurexins, and we demonstrate that Mint1 can bind to Munc18 and CASK simultaneously. Our data support a model whereby one of the functions of Mints is to localize the vesicle fusion protein Munc18 to those sites at the plasma membrane that are defined by neurexins, presumably in the vicinity of points of exocytosis.
Treatment with agmatine, decarboxylated arginine, proved to be non-toxic and to exert neuroprotective effects in several models of neurotoxic and ischemic brain and spinal cord injuries. Here we sought to find out whether agmatine treatment would also prove beneficial in a rat spinal cord ischemia model (balloon occlusion of the abdominal aorta bellow the branching point of the left subclavian artery for 5 min). Agmatine was injected (100 mg/kg, i.p. ) 5 min after beginning of re-perfusion and again once daily for the next 3 post-operative days. Motor performance ('combined motor score') was recorded for up to 17 days post-operative and motoneuron cell counts (in representative spinal cord sections) performed on the 17th post-operative day. Agmatine treatment was found to accelerate recovery of motor deficits and to prevent the loss of motoneurons in the spinal cord after transient ischemia. Together, the present and previous findings demonstrate that agmatine is an efficacious neuroprotective agent and that this naturally occurring non-toxic compound should be tried for therapeutic use after neurotrauma and in neurodegenerative diseases.
The aim of this study was to develop protocols for computer imaging of the thoraco-abdominal ganglion of Drosophila from serial semi-thin sections, in which specific neurons were stained and related to neuropilar structures. The central projections of a subset of transgenically labelled sensory neurons were revealed by immunohistochemistry, while Nomarski optics were used to show motor neuron targets in the neuropil. Digital photomicrographs of each section were aligned and the resultant image stacks rendered into three-dimensional (3D) images that can be rotated in real time. The result is a detailed, in-depth visualization of labelled neurons at a resolution comparable with that in confocal reconstructions, which also allows investigation of their relationships with other components of the neuropil.
When two computational neuroscientists announced an online contest last September to reverse-engineer a simulated set of neurons, neither thought the event would attract much attention beyond a small group of their colleagues. But The New York Times ran an article on the competition, and 25,000 people visited the site. Now, the researchers think they may have found a new method for stimulating scientific communication.
Working out which areas of the brain become activated during the formation of working (short-term) memory has been greatly helped by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In a Perspective, Robbins et al. discuss new findings (Furey et al.) with fMRI that reveal how working memory is enhanced by the drug physostigmine, which increases cholinergic function in the brain.



Many areas of science depend on exploratory data analysis and visualization. The need to analyze large amounts of multivariate data raises the fundamental problem of dimensionality reduction: how to discover compact representations of high-dimensional data. Here, we introduce locally linear embedding (LLE), an unsupervised learning algorithm that computes low-dimensional, neighborhood-preserving embeddings of high-dimensional inputs. Unlike clustering methods for local dimensionality reduction, LLE maps its inputs into a single global coordinate system of lower dimensionality, and its optimizations do not involve local minima. By exploiting the local symmetries of linear reconstructions, LLE is able to learn the global structure of nonlinear manifolds, such as those generated by images of faces or documents of text.
Mice that overexpress the human mutant amyloid precursor protein (hAPP) show learning deficits, but the apparent lack of a relationship between these deficits and the progressive beta-amyloid plaque formation that the hAPP mice display is puzzling. In the water maze, hAPP mice are impaired before and after amyloid plaque deposition. Here we show, using a new water-maze training protocol, that PDAPP mice also exhibit a separate age-related deficit in learning a series of spatial locations. This impairment correlates with beta-amyloid plaque burden and is shown in both cross-sectional and longitudinal experimental designs. Cued navigation and object-recognition memory are normal. These findings indicate that A beta overexpression and/or A beta plaques are associated with disturbed cognitive function and, importantly, suggest that some but not all forms of learning and memory are suitable behavioural assays of the progressive cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimer's-disease-type pathologies.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS; a model of systemic bacterial infection) causes fever and activates glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) neurons in the caudal brainstem. The present study examined whether central GLP-1 receptor signaling plays a functional role in LPS-induced fever. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected i.p. with LPS (0 or 100 microg/kg), then were infused intracerebroventricularly with GLP-1 receptor antagonist (0 or 10 microg) delivered 2.5 h after injection of LPS or vehicle. Core body temperature was measured at 30-min intervals for 6.5 h after LPS treatment. Consistent with previous reports, body temperature was significantly elevated within 90 min and remained elevated for the remainder of the monitoring period. The pyrogenic effect of LPS was amplified in rats that received central infusion of GLP-1 receptor antagonist, although the antagonist by itself did not alter body temperature. These findings suggest that endogenous GLP-1 acts at central receptors to limit the fever response in rats after i.p. administration of LPS.
The leukotriene B(4) receptor (BLTR) is a seven-transmembrane chemoattractant receptor that is important in pro-inflammatory responses. We have produced the first widely applicable monoclonal antibodies against the human BLTR and confirmed the antibody specificity using flow cytometric analysis of three different cell lines stably expressing the recombinant receptor. The antibodies did not cross-react with the recently cloned second LTB(4) receptor, BLTR2, or the Cys LT1 and Cys LT2 receptors. Functional analysis in combination with two-color flow cytometry showed that the BLTR antibodies bind to cells that are activated by LTB(4). The antibodies were shown to recognize BLTR in cell ELISA and immunocytochemistry. Endogenous expression of BLTR in CD15-positive blood leukocytes and in differentiated HL-60 cells was also demonstrated with the antibodies.
The RING finger domain occurs in a wide variety of proteins involved in cellular regulation. The polymerase chain reaction was used to search for novel RING finger proteins, using primers derived from expressed sequence tags (ests). A cDNA encoding a novel RING finger protein expressed in brain, lung, breast, placenta, kidney, muscle, and germinal center B cells is described. The human gene is expressed in a variety of tumors, including anaplastic oligodendroglioma and maps to chromosome 10q24.3, a region showing frequent deletion or loss of heterozygosity in glioblastomas. It was therefore designated glioblastoma expressed RING finger protein (GERP). GERP contains an N-terminal RING finger, followed by two B-boxes and a coiled-coil, and thus belongs to the RBCC subfamily of RING finger proteins. The structure of this protein and its mapping to a locus thought to harbor tumor suppressor genes indicates that it may be a new tumor suppressor gene important in gliomas and other malignancies.
Immediately after inoculation to induce experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, 64 female Lewis rats were exposed to either a reference condition (&lt;10 nT) or to one of two frequencies (7 Hz, 40 Hz) of magnetic fields whose two intensities (either 50 nT or 500 nT) were amplitude-modulated for 6 min once per hour between midnight and 8 h for 15 nights. Rats that had been exposed to the 7 Hz, low intensity fields displayed fewer numbers of foci of infiltrations of mononuclear cells compared to all other groups that did not differ significantly from each other. Rats exposed to the 5 mG (500 nT), 40 Hz magnetic fields displayed more foci in the right thalamus while those exposed to the 5 mG, 7 Hz fields displayed more foci in the left thalamus. Numbers of mast cells within the thalamus were also affected by the treatments. These results suggest that weak magnetic fields can affect the infiltration of immunologically responsive cells and the presence of mast cells in brain parenchyma. Implications for the potential etiology of 'electromagnetic sensitivity' symptoms are discussed.
A series of 3-(4-piperidinyl)- and 3-(8-aza-bicyclo[3.2.1]oct-3-yl)-2-phenyl-1H-indoles have been prepared and evaluated as ligands for the h5-HT2A receptor. 3-(8-Phenethyl-8-aza-bicyclo[3.2.1]oct-3-yl)-2-phenyl-1H-indole is a high-affinity (1.2nM), selective (&gt;800 fold over h5-HT2C and hD2 receptors) antagonist at the h5-HT2A receptor with oral bioavailability in rats.
A series of 2-aryl tryptamines have been identified as high-affinity h5-HT2A antagonists. Structure-activity relationship studies have shown that h5-HT2A affinity can be attained via modifications to the tryptamine side chain and that selectivity over h5-HT2C and hD2 receptors can be controlled by suitable C-2 aryl groups.
The application of a novel solid-phase synthesis of 2,3-disubstituted indoles utilizing a carbamate indole linker is described resulting in the identification of the novel, high-affinity, selective h5-HT2A antagonist 19.
Glutamate (Glu), a major excitatory neurotransmitter within the hypothalamus and thalamus, acts upon many receptors, including the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype. Abundant evidence suggests that variations in the subunit composition of NMDA receptors (NMDA-Rs) contribute to differences in Glu's immediate electrophysiological effects as well as to the patterns of signal transduction cascades it triggers to mediate long-term changes in neuronal function. We have previously shown that hypothalamic NMDA-Rs containing the NR2B subunit may be involved in the control of eating as well as in the mediation of physiological responses to osmotic stimuli. To broaden our understanding of diencephalic NMDA-R participation in other functions, we localized the NR2B subunit in the diencephalon of the adult male rat using immunoperoxidase, immunogold, and immunofluorescence techniques and an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody specific for the NR2B subunit of the NMDA-R. In addition, we used a monoclonal NR2B antibody with immunoperoxidase detection to confirm the NR2B distribution seen with the polyclonal antibody. In the hypothalamus, the highest levels of NR2B immunoreactivity (-ir) were found in the magnocellular neurosecretory system, including the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. A new finding was that intense NR2B-ir was present within perivascular &quot;accessory&quot; magnocellular groups of this system, including the nucleus circularis, anterior fornical nucleus, and scattered clusters of lateral hypothalamic cells apposed to blood vessels. Robust NR2B-ir was also present within the arcuate nucleus, the median eminence, and the tuberal nucleus, and light immunostaining was found in all other hypothalamic nuclei examined. In the thalamus, the highest NR2B-ir was observed in the medial habenula and the anterodorsal, paraventricular, rhomboid, reticular, and dorsal lateral geniculate nuclei. As in the hypothalamus, all thalamic nuclei examined displayed at least light immunostaining for this subunit. Control sections, including those incubated with the polyclonal NR2B antibody preadsorbed with its fusion protein, were virtually devoid of immunostaining. This demonstration that the NR2B subunit of the NMDA-R is widely distributed in the diencephalon, implicates it in a wide variety of functions, and provides a useful anatomical framework for establishing a comprehensive map of Glu receptor populations within this major subdivision of the brain.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether sensory information about limb kinematics relayed to the cerebellum over spinocerebellar pathways may be modified at the cerebellar level. We tested this by recording from dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) and Purkinje cells under the same experimental conditions in which the hindlimbs of anesthetized cats were passively moved through a series of step-like movement cycles. A population analysis of the response behavior showed that DSCT neurons encode a combination of limb axis position and movement velocity, whereas the Purkinje cells located in the DSCT cerebellar target areas encode limb axis velocity and position independently. We conclude from this that the cerebellum may somehow extract a velocity component from the afferent input signal.
The bradykinin B1 receptor is thought to be induced by tissue injury and inflammation. In the present study, we have investigated whether there is a basal expression of B1 receptor in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and trigeminal ganglion neurons in rats. A substantial number of neurons in both DRGs and trigeminal ganglia were found to be B1-immunoreactive in rats. Both small and medium-sized DRG neurons were B1-immunoreactive, suggesting that they are likely to be Adelta- or C-fibre neurons which are involved in nociceptive transmission. These results support a possible role for B1 receptors in the modulation of nociceptive sensory transmission.
A major obstacle in ex vivo gene transfer has been the loss of transgene expression soon after implantation of the grafted transduced cells. Recently, a lentiviral vector system has been developed which has proven to express high levels of transgenes in vivo after direct injection into the tissue. In this study, we have investigated the use of such a vector for ex vivo gene transfer to the brain. A number of neural cell types were found to be permissive to transduction by the lentiviral vector in vitro and a majority of them expressed the transgene after transplantation to the rat brain. Transgene expression was detected up to 8 weeks post-grafting. These findings suggest that recombinant lentiviral vectors may be used for further development of ex vivo gene therapy protocols to the CNS.
One of the major controversies in cognitive neuroscience is whether the primary visual cortex and nearby areas are involved in visual mental imagery. In an fMRI study we examined the brain activity of 10 healthy subjects under different task conditions: in the perception condition subjects saw complex geometrical shapes and had to decide whether other highlighted stimuli fell inside or outside the figure. In the imagery condition subjects saw only the highlighted stimuli and were instructed to imagine the previously studied geometrical shapes to solve the same task. Although the behavioral data show a distance effect that would be expected based on topographically organized mental images, the functional imaging data do not show increased activity in the primary visual cortex in the imagery condition. In the occipital cortex a slightly increased activity was found only in the visual association cortex (BA 19), whereas the highest activation was observed in the parietal cortex (BA 7 and 40). The results of the study do not support the assumption that the primary visual cortex is involved in visual mental imagery, but rather that a network of spatial subsystems and higher visual areas appears to be involved.
Galanin given i.c.v. increased the K(D) values of 5-HT1A receptors in the DR by 100% 10 min after administration. This effect had disappeared 2 h and 5 h after galanin administration. In contrast, i.c.v. galanin caused a 40% increase in the Bmax values at 2 h without affecting the Bmax values 10 min and 5 h after i.c.v. galanin. The mRNA levels of 5-HT1A receptors and of galanin in the DR were significantly decreased by 33% and 56% respectively 2h but not 5h after i.c.v. galanin. These results suggest that in vivo galanin can modulate somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptors in the DR in a time-dependent manner via galanin-5-HT1A receptor interactions. The findings implicate a potential role of galanin in affective disorders.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY) are two related 36-amino-acid peptides found in all vertebrates and are involved in many physiological processes. Five receptor subtypes have been cloned in mammals (Y1, Y2, Y4, Y5, and y6). We have recently cloned three NPY/PYY receptor subtypes in zebrafish, called Ya, Yb, and Yc. Here we report on a direct comparison of the pharmacological properties of these three receptors in vitro using porcine NPY with alanine substitutions in positions 33-36 as ligands and three analogues with internal deletions: [Ahx(8-20)]NPY, [Ahx(8-20), Pro(34)]NPY, and [Ahx(5-24)]NPY. In all cases, the zYc receptor was the most sensitive to the modifications of the NPY molecule and zYa was the least sensitive (except for the Arg --&gt; Ala replacement at position 33). Our data identified zYa as a receptor that can bind ligands specific for Y1, Y2, and Y4 receptors, while zYb and zYc were more Y1-like. All peptides with internal deletions bound to the zYa receptor with affinities similar to that of intact pNPY. Neither the Y1-selective antagonists BIBP3226 and SR120819A nor the Y2-selective BIIE0246 bound to any of the zebrafish receptors, although the amino acids identified as important for BIBP3226 binding were almost completely conserved. These results may prove helpful in molecular modeling of the three-dimensional receptor structure.
In the present study, the effects of the combination of tamoxifen ((Z)-2[p-(1,2-diphenyl-1-butenyl)phenoxy]-N,N-dimethylamine citrate) and three cannabinoids (Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol [Delta(9)-THC], cannabidiol, and anandamide [AEA]) upon the viability of C6 rat glioma cells was assessed at different incubation times and using different culturing concentrations of foetal bovine serum (FBS). Consistent with previous data for human glioblastoma cells, the tamoxifen sensitivity of the cells was increased as the FBS content of the culture medium was reduced from 10 to 0.4 and 0%. The cells expressed protein kinase C alpha and calmodulin (the concentration of which did not change significantly as the FBS concentration was reduced), but did not express estrogen receptors. Delta(9)-THC and cannabidiol, but not AEA, produced a modest reduction in cell viability after 6 days of incubation in serum-free medium, whereas no effects were seen in 10% FBS-containing medium. There was no observed synergy between the effects of tamoxifen and the cannabinoids upon cell viability.
In recent years, advances in brain research have resulted in a striking strategic shift in studies designed to develop new, effective treatments for neuropsychiatric disorders. This involves a multidisciplinary approach with recursive interactions among respective disciplines with the ultimate goal of contributing to treatment development. In this review we focus on treatment implications of brain imaging and molecular and pharmacogenetic studies in obsessive-compulsive disorder. Translational components of this research are addressed, including the potential for integrating advances in brain imaging and molecular and pharmacogenetic assessments as they may potentially relate to neurodiagnostic assessment and treatment development. Studies of putative susceptibility alleles in obsessive-compulsive disorder involving the serotonergic, glutamatergic, and dopaminergic systems may provide a focus for these divergent approaches. Taken together, neuroimaging and genetic methods may ultimately lead to a mechanistic understanding of the pathogenesis and maintenance of neuropsychiatric disorders such as obsessive-compulsive disorder that may, in turn, result in the development of new neurodiagnostic and treatment approaches.

The forebrain, brainstem and spinal cord contribution to the control of locomotion is reviewed in this article. The lamprey is used as an experimental model since it allows a detailed cellular analysis of the neuronal network underlying locomotion. The focus is on cellular mechanisms that are important for the pattern generation, as well as different types of pre- and postsynaptic modulation. This experimental model is bridging the gap between the molecular and cellular level to the network and behavioral level.
Abnormal influx of Ca(2+) through AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) is thought to contribute to the neuronal death associated with a number of brain disorders. AMPARs exist as both Ca(2+)-impermeable and Ca(2+)-permeable channels. AMPARs are encoded by four genes designated GluR1 (GluR-A) through GluR4 (GluR-D). The presence of the GluR2 subunit renders heteromeric AMPA receptor assemblies Ca(2+)-impermeable. Molecular diversity of AMPARs under physiological and pathological conditions is generated by differential spatio-temporal patterns of GluR expression, by alternative RNA splicing and editing and by targeting and trafficking of receptor subunits at dendritic spines. The GluR2 gene is under transcriptional control by the RE1 element specific transcription factor, a gene silencing factor which renders it neuron-specific. GluR2 transcripts are edited by ADAR2 (double-stranded RNA-specific editase 1). AMPAR targeting and trafficking to spines are regulated by synaptic activity and are critical to synaptic plasticity. Recent studies involving animal models of transient forebrain ischemia and epilepsy show that GluR2 mRNA and GluR2 subunit expression are downregulated in vulnerable neurons prior to cell death. Ca(2+) imaging and electrical recording from individual pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices reveal changes in AMPAR functional properties after ischemia. In slices from post-ischemia animals, CA1 neurons with robust action potentials exhibit greatly enhanced AMPA-elicited rises in intracellular Ca(2+). Excitatory postsynaptic currents in post-ischemic CA1 exhibit an enhanced Ca(2+)-dependent component that appears to be mediated by Ca(2+)-permeable AMPARs. These studies provide evidence for Ca(2+) influx through AMPARs in neurons destined to die. To examine whether acute GluR2 downregulation, even in the absence of a neurological insult, can induce neuronal death, we performed knockdown experiments in rats and gerbils with antisense oligonucleotides targeted to GluR2 mRNA. GluR2 antisense oligonucleotide induced neuronal cell death of pyramidal neurons and enhanced pathogenicity of brief ischemic episodes. These observations provide evidence for Ca(2+) influx through AMPARs in neurons destined to die and implicate Ca(2+)-permeable AMPARs in the pathogenesis of ischemia-induced neuronal death.
The goals of this article are to suggest a basic wiring diagram for the motor neural network that controls motivated behavior, and to provide a model for the organization of cerebral hemisphere inputs to this network. Cerebral projections mediate voluntary regulation of a behavior control column in the ventromedial upper brainstem that includes (from rostral to caudal) the medial preoptic, anterior hypothalamic, descending paraventricular, ventromedial, and premammillary nuclei, the mammillary body, and finally the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. The rostral segment of this column is involved in controlling ingestive (eating and drinking) and social (defensive and reproductive) behaviors, whereas the caudal segment is involved in controlling general exploratory or foraging behaviors (with locomotor and orienting components) that are required for obtaining any particular goal object. Virtually all parts of the cerebral hemispheres contribute to a triple descending projection - with cortical excitatory, striatal inhibitory, and pallidal disinhibitory components - to specific parts of the behavior control column. The functional dynamics of this circuitry remain to be established.
During the last few years, recombinant viral vectors derived from adenovirus (Ad), adeno-associated virus (AAV) or lentivirus (LV) have been developed into highly effective vehicles for gene transfer to the adult central nervous system. In recent experiments, in the rat model of Parkinson's disease, all three vector systems have been shown to be effective for long-term delivery of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) at biologically relevant levels in the nigrostriatal system. Injection of the GDNF encoding vectors into either striatum or substantia nigra thus makes it possible to obtain a regionally restricted over-expression of GDNF within the nigrostriatal system that is sufficient to block the toxin-induced degeneration of the nigral dopamine neurons. Injection of GDNF vectors in the striatum, in particular, is effective not only in rescuing the cell bodies in the substantia nigra, but also in preserving the nigrostriatal projection and a functional striatal dopamine innervation in the rat Parkinson model. Long-term experiments using AAV-GDNF and LV-GDNF vectors show, moreover, that sustained GDNF delivery over 3-6 months can promote regeneration and significant functional recovery in both 6-OHDA-lesioned rats and MPTP-lesioned monkeys. The impressive efficacy of the novel AAV and LV vectors in rodent and primate Parkinson models suggests that the time may now be ripe to explore these vector systems as tools for neuroprotective treatments in patients with Parkinson's disease.
There is currently some debate over a possible role of galanin in pain processing. It was recently reported that the levels of galanin in dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) seem related to development of allodynia after unilateral sciatic nerve constriction injury. In our present study, we aimed at characterizing the effect of exogenous and endogenous galanin on pain behavior in allodynic and non-allodynic rats in which the levels of galanin in DRG neurons are low and high, respectively [28]. The results show that in allodynic rats, the mechanical threshold increases dose-dependently after intrathecal (i.t.) injection of galanin, while no significant changes were observed in groups treated with the putative galanin antagonist M35 or saline. In non-allodynic rats i.t. injection of M35 induced a significant mechanical allodynic state, which did not occur after injection of galanin, bradykinin, the bradykinin fragment(2-9) or saline. The results suggest that in the present experimental paradigm exogenous galanin has an anti-allodynic effect in the allodynic rats, and that endogenous galanin has a tonic inhibitory effect in the non-allodynic group.
It is remarkable that neurons are able to survive and function for a century or more in many persons that age successfully. A better understanding of the molecular signaling mechanisms that permit such cell survival and synaptic plasticity may therefore lead to the development of new preventative and therapeutic strategies for age-related neurodegenerative disorders. We all know that overeating and lack of exercise are risk factors for many different age-related diseases including cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancers. Our recent studies have shown that dietary restriction (reduced calorie intake) can increase the resistance of neurons in the brain to dysfunction and death in experimental models of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and stroke. The mechanism underlying the beneficial effects of dietary restriction involves stimulation of the expression of 'stress proteins' and neurotrophic factors. The neurotrophic factors induced by dietary restriction may protect neurons by inducing the production of proteins that suppress oxyradical production, stabilize cellular calcium homeostasis and inhibit apoptotic biochemical cascades. Interestingly, dietary restriction also increases numbers of newly-generated neural cells in the adult brain suggesting that this dietary manipulation can increase the brain's capacity for plasticity and self-repair. Work in other laboratories suggests that physical and intellectual activity can similarly increase neurotrophic factor production and neurogenesis. Collectively, the available data suggest the that dietary restriction, and physical and mental activity, may reduce both the incidence and severity of neurodegenerative disorders in humans. A better understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying these effects of diet and behavior on the brain is also leading to novel therapeutic agents that mimick the beneficial effects of dietary restriction and exercise.
Information theory provides a theoretical framework for addressing fundamental questions concerning the nature of neural codes. Harnessing its power is not straightforward, because of the differences between mathematical abstractions and laboratory reality. We describe an approach to the analysis of neural codes that seeks to identify the informative features of neural responses, rather than to estimate the information content of neural responses per se. Our analysis, applied to neurons in primary visual cortex (V1), demonstrates that the informative precision of spike times varies with the stimulus modality being represented. Contrast is represented by spike times on the shortest time scale, and different kinds of pattern information are represented on longer time scales. The interspike interval distribution has a structure that is unanticipated from the firing rate. The significance of this structure is not that it contains additional information, but rather, that it may provide a means for simple synaptic mechanisms to decode the information that is multiplexed within a spike train. Extensions of this analysis to the simultaneous responses of pairs of neurons indicate that neighboring neurons convey largely independent information, if the decoding process is sensitive to the neuron of origin and not just the average firing rate. In summary, stimulus-related information is encoded into the precise times of spikes fired by V1 neurons. Much of this information would be obscured if individual spikes were merely taken to be estimators of the firing rate. Additional information would be lost by averaging across the responses of neurons in a local population. We propose that synaptic mechanisms sensitive to interspike intervals and dendritic processing beyond simple summation exist at least in part to enable the brain to take advantage of this extra information.
Topographic refinement of synaptic connections within the developing visual system involves a variety of molecules which interact with impulse activity in order to produce the precise retinotopic maps found in the adult brain. Nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated in this process, as have various growth factors. Within the subcortical visual system, we have recently shown that nitric oxide contributes to pathway refinement in the superior colliculus (SC). Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) are also expressed in SC during the time that this pathway undergoes refinement. The role of NO has been demonstrated by showing that refinement of ipsilateral fibers in the retinocollicular pathway is significantly delayed in gene knockout mice in which both the endothelial and neuronal isoforms of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) have been disrupted. The effect also depends upon Ca(2+) channels because refinement of both the ipsilateral retinocollicular and retinogeniculate pathways is disrupted in genetic mutants in which the beta3 subunit of the Ca(2+) channel has been deleted. LTD may also be involved in this process, because the time course of its expression correlates with that of pathway refinement and LTD magnitude is depressed by nitrendipine, an L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker. LTP is also expressed during early postnatal development in the LGN and SC and may contribute to synaptic stabilization. The role of neurotrophins in pathway refinement in the visual system is also reviewed.
Although classical neurophysiological doctrine rested on the concept of the sodium channel, it is now clear that there are nearly a dozen sodium channel genes, each encoding a molecularly distinct channel. Different repertoires of channels endow different types of neurons with distinct transduction and encoding properties. Sodium channel expression is highly dynamic, exhibiting plasticity at both the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. In some types of neurons within the normal nervous system, e.g. hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory neurons, changes in sodium channel gene expression occur in association with the transition from a quiescent to a bursting state; these changes are accompanied by the insertion of a different set of sodium channel subtypes in the cell membrane, a form of molecular plasticity which results in altered electrogenic properties. Dysregulation of sodium channel genes has been observed in a number of disease states. For example, transection of the peripheral axons of spinal sensory neurons triggers down-regulation of some sodium channel genes, and up-regulation of other sodium channel genes; the resultant changes in sodium channel expression contribute to hyperexcitability that can lead to chronic pain. There is also evidence, in experimental models of demyelination and in post-mortem tissue from patients with multiple sclerosis, for dysregulation of sodium channel gene expression in the cell bodies of some neurons whose axons have been demyelinated, suggesting that an acquired channelopathy may contribute to the pathophysiology of demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis. The dynamic nature of sodium channel gene expression makes it a complex topic for investigation, but it also introduces therapeutic opportunities, since subtype-specific sodium channel modulating drugs may soon be available.
The World Wide Web and other forms of digital communication have led some to predict the demise of printed journals. In my experience, it is clearly demonstrable that scientific articles can be more efficiently reviewed and edited by digital document sharing. Nevertheless, high quality print journals will remain the preferred scholarly venue for authors's best works for some time to come. However, while innovative means to share raw data, validate observations, and disseminate scientific information are emerging, no system of 'publishing' will serve the community optimally unless the ethical behavior of human scientists can be maintained and appropriately rewarded.
Bombesin and its receptors have been shown to have a role regulating circadian rhythms in the hamster suprachiasmatic and dorsal raphe nuclei and have been implicated in the regulation of sleep. We have identified and characterised a bombesin receptor endogenously expressed in a Chinese hamster ovary cell line (CHO/DG44). Using a range of bombesin-like peptides, we demonstrate that this receptor displays bombesin BB2 receptor-like pharmacology. We also show that this receptor signals through inositol-[1,4,5]-trisphosphate and protein kinase C and thus provides a useful model system to aid in the interpretation of hamster suprachiasmatic nucleus studies of mammalian circadian rhythm.
Modulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) metabolism plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. The phosphotyrosine-binding/protein interaction (PTB/PI) domain of X11alpha, a neuronal cytosolic adaptor protein, binds to the YENPTY sequence in the cytoplasmic carboxyl terminus of APP. This interaction prolongs the half-life of APP and inhibits Abeta40 and Abeta42 secretion. X11alpha/Mint-1 has multiple protein-protein interaction domains, a Munc-18 interaction domain (MID), a Cask/Lin-2 interaction domain (CID), a PTB/PI domain, and two PDZ domains. These X11alpha protein interaction domains may modulate its effect on APP processing. To test this hypothesis, we performed a deletion analysis of X11alpha effects on metabolism of APP(695) Swedish (K595N/M596L) (APP(sw)) by transient cotransfection of HEK 293 cells with: 1) X11alpha (X11alpha-wt, N-MID-CID-PTB-PDZ-PDZ-C), 2) amino-terminal deletion (X11alpha-DeltaN, PTB-PDZ-PDZ), 3) carboxyl-terminal deletion (X11alpha-DeltaPDZ, MID-CID-PTB), or 4) deletion of both termini (PTB domain only, PTB). The carboxyl terminus of X11alpha was required for stabilization of APP(sw) in cells. In contrast, the amino terminus of X11alpha was required to stimulate APPs secretion. X11alpha, X11alpha-DeltaN, and X11alpha-PTB, but not X11alpha-DeltaPDZ, were effective inhibitors of Abeta40 and Abeta42 secretion. These results suggest that additional protein interaction domains of X11alpha modulate various aspects of APP metabolism.
Proximal signaling events and protein-protein interactions initiated after activation of the c-Ret receptor tyrosine kinase by its ligand, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), were investigated in cells carrying native and mutated forms of this receptor. Mutation of Tyr-1062 (Y1062F) in the cytoplasmic tail of c-Ret abolished receptor binding and phosphorylation of the adaptor Shc and eliminated activation of Ras by GDNF. Phosphorylation of Erk kinases was also greatly attenuated but not eliminated by this mutation. This residual wave of Erk phosphorylation was independent of the kinase activity of c-Ret. Mutation of Tyr-1096 (Y1096F), a binding site for the adaptor Grb2, had no effect on Erk activation by GDNF. Activation of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) and its downstream effector Akt was also reduced in the Y1062F mutant but not completely abolished unless Tyr-1096 was also mutated. Ligand stimulation of neuronal cells induced the assembly of a large protein complex containing c-Ret, Grb2, and tyrosine-phosphorylated forms of Shc, p85(PI3K), the adaptor Gab2, and the protein-tyrosine phosphatase SHP-2. In agreement with Ras-independent activation of PI3K by GDNF in neuronal cells, survival of sympathetic neurons induced by GDNF was dependent on PI3K but was not affected by microinjection of blocking anti-Ras antibodies, which did compromise neuronal survival by nerve growth factor, suggesting that Ras is not required for GDNF-induced survival of sympathetic neurons. These results indicate that upon ligand stimulation, at least two distinct protein complexes assemble on phosphorylated Tyr-1062 of c-Ret via Shc, one leading to activation of the Ras/Erk pathway through recruitment of Grb2/Sos and another to the PI3K/Akt pathway through recruitment of Grb2/Gab2 followed by p85(PI3K) and SHP-2. This latter complex can also assemble directly onto phosphorylated Tyr-1096, offering an alternative route to PI3K activation by GDNF.
A number of recent studies have indicated that T cells can be stimulated to attack transplanted brain tumors in rodent models. As IL-12 has been shown to activate cytotoxic T cell responses, we tested the idea that it might stimulate a T cell response against endogenous brain tumors that arise in SV40 large T Ag transgenic mice (SV11). SV11 mice develop tumors of the choroid plexus, a specialization of the ependymal lining of the brain ventricles. They are a particularly relevant model of human disease, because they are immunocompetent but immunologically tolerant of the tumors. SV11 mice were treated with recombinant murine IL-12 for 10 days. Tumors grew more slowly than in control treated mice, and in some cases were reduced in size, as assessed by magnetic resonance imaging before and after treatment. At the end of treatment, tumors, but not brain parenchyma, exhibited extensive infiltration of activated CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cells. Tumors also showed a reduction in vascular density. Mice treated with IL-12 lived significantly longer than control mice. Tumors that progressed were nearly devoid of T cells, indicating that the T cell response was not sustained. In addition, some mice that had a substantial tumor burden at the beginning of treatment displayed evidence of immunosuppression, which might be related to TGF-ss2 detected in tumors. We conclude that IL-12 treatment can initiate an anti-tumor response even against endogenously arising brain tumors, but factors that will allow a sustained and more effective anti-tumor response need to be determined.
Coadministration of kappa-opioid receptor agonists (kappa-agonists) with cocaine prevents alterations in dialysate dopamine (DA) concentration in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) that occur during abstinence from repeated cocaine treatment. Quantitative microdialysis was used to determine the mechanism producing these effects. Rats were injected with cocaine (20 mg/kg, i.p.), or saline, and the selective kappa-agonist U-69593 (0.32 mg/kg, s.c.), or vehicle, once daily for 5 d. Extracellular DA concentration (DA(ext)) and extraction fraction (E(d)), an indirect measure of DA uptake, were determined 3 d later. Repeated cocaine treatment increased E(d), whereas repeated U-69593 treatment decreased E(d), relative to controls. Coadministration of both drugs yielded intermediate E(d) values not different from controls. In vitro DA uptake assays confirmed that repeated U-69593 treatment produces a dose-related, region-specific decrease in DA uptake and showed that acute U-69593 administration increases DA uptake in a nor-binaltorphimine reversible manner. Repeated U-69593 also led to a decrease in [(125)I]RTI-55 binding to the DA transporter (DAT), but did not decrease total DAT protein. These results demonstrate that kappa-opioid receptor activation modulates DA uptake in the Acb in a manner opposite to that of cocaine: repeated U-69593 administration decreases the basal rate of DA uptake, and acute U-69593 administration transiently increases DA uptake. kappa-agonist treatment also alters DAT function. The action of kappa-agonists on DA uptake or DAT binding, or both, may be the mechanism(s) mediating the previously reported &quot;cocaine-antagonist&quot; effect of kappa-opioid receptor agonists.
Voltage-gated K(+) channels of the Kv3 subfamily have unusual electrophysiological properties, including activation at very depolarized voltages (positive to -10 mV) and very fast deactivation rates, suggesting special roles in neuronal excitability. In the brain, Kv3 channels are prominently expressed in select neuronal populations, which include fast-spiking (FS) GABAergic interneurons of the neocortex, hippocampus, and caudate, as well as other high-frequency firing neurons. Although evidence points to a key role in high-frequency firing, a definitive understanding of the function of these channels has been hampered by a lack of selective pharmacological tools. We therefore generated mouse lines in which one of the Kv3 genes, Kv3.2, was disrupted by gene-targeting methods. Whole-cell electrophysiological recording showed that the ability to fire spikes at high frequencies was impaired in immunocytochemically identified FS interneurons of deep cortical layers (5-6) in which Kv3.2 proteins are normally prominent. No such impairment was found for FS neurons of superficial layers (2-4) in which Kv3.2 proteins are normally only weakly expressed. These data directly support the hypothesis that Kv3 channels are necessary for high-frequency firing. Moreover, we found that Kv3.2 -/- mice showed specific alterations in their cortical EEG patterns and an increased susceptibility to epileptic seizures consistent with an impairment of cortical inhibitory mechanisms. This implies that, rather than producing hyperexcitability of the inhibitory interneurons, Kv3.2 channel elimination suppresses their activity. These data suggest that normal cortical operations depend on the ability of inhibitory interneurons to generate high-frequency firing.
ON bipolar neurons in retina detect the glutamate released by rods and cones via metabotropic glutamate receptor 6 (mGluR6), whose cascade is unknown. The trimeric G-protein G(o) might mediate this cascade because it colocalizes with mGluR6. To test this, we studied the retina in mice negative for the alpha subunit of G(o) (Galpha(o)-/-). Retinal layering, key cell types, synaptic structure, and mGluR6 expression were all normal, as was the a-wave of the electroretinogram, which represents the rod and cone photocurrents. However, the b-wave of the electroretinogram, both rod- and cone-driven components, was entirely missing. Because the b-wave represents the massed response of ON bipolar cells, its loss in the Galpha(o) null mouse establishes that the light response of the ON bipolar cell requires G(o). This represents the first function to be defined in vivo for the alpha subunit of the most abundant G-protein of the brain.
This experiment explores the role of two forms of long-term potentiation (LTP) in behavioral memory. NMDA and/or voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) were antagonized pharmacologically at levels that block nmdaLTP and vdccLTP, respectively, in rats learning an eight-arm radial maze task. Animals were trained twice a day for 11 d under the systemic influence of MK-801, verapamil, both drugs, or saline. During acquisition, the mixed drug group displayed significantly more working memory errors and reference memory errors than all other groups. The mixed drug group was markedly impaired on the first daily trial but improved dramatically on their second daily trial. After a 7 d delay, saline and MK-801 animals maintained their predelay level of performance. The performance of the verapamil groups declined significantly over the delay. These results demonstrate that: (1) vdccLTP is necessary for the retention of information over a 7 d period, (2) the blockade of both forms of LTP prevents the retention of information over a 21 hr period, and (3) blockade of both forms of LTP does not prevent the storing of information over a short period of time (3 hr).
The excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate is released from axons and glia under hypoxic/ischemic conditions. In vitro, oligodendrocytes (OLs) express non-NMDA glutamate receptors (GluRs) and are susceptible to GluR-mediated excitotoxicity. We evaluated the role of GluR-mediated OL excitotoxicity in hypoxic/ischemic white matter injury in the developing brain. Hypoxic/ischemic white matter injury is thought to mediate periventricular leukomalacia, an age-dependent white matter lesion seen in preterm infants and a common antecedent to cerebral palsy. Hypoxia/ischemia in rat pups at postnatal day 7 (P7) produced selective white matter lesions and OL death. Furthermore, OLs in pericallosal white matter express non-NMDA GluRs at P7. Unilateral carotid ligation in combination with hypoxia (6% O(2) for 1 hr) resulted in selective, subcortical white matter injury with a marked ipsilateral decrease in immature and myelin basic protein-expressing OLs that was also significantly attenuated by 6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline-2,3-dione (NBQX). Intracerebral AMPA demonstrated greater susceptibility to OL injury at P7 than in younger or older pups, and this was attenuated by systemic pretreatment with the AMPA antagonist NBQX. These results indicate a parallel, maturation-dependent susceptibility of immature OLs to AMPA and hypoxia/ischemia. The protective efficacy of NBQX suggests a role for glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxic OL injury in immature white matter in vivo.
Experimental evidence supporting 1,1'-dimethyl-4,4'-bipyridinium [paraquat (PQ)] as a risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD) is equivocal. Other agricultural chemicals, including dithiocarbamate fungicides such as manganese ethylenebisdithiocarbamate [maneb (MB)], are widely used in the same geographical regions as paraquat and also impact dopamine systems, suggesting that mixtures may be more relevant etiological models. This study therefore proposed that combined PQ and MB exposures would produce greater effects on dopamine (DA) systems than would either compound administered alone. Male C57BL/6 mice were treated twice a week for 6 weeks with intraperitoneal saline, 10 mg/kg paraquat, 30 mg/kg maneb, or their combination (PQ + MB). MB, but not PQ, reduced motor activity immediately after treatment, and this effect was potentiated by combined PQ + MB treatment. As treatments progressed, only the combined PQ + MB group evidenced a failure of motor activity levels to recover within 24 hr. Striatal DA and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid increased 1-3 d and decreased 7 d after injections. Only PQ + MB reduced tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and DA transporter immunoreactivity and did so in dorsal striatum but not nucleus accumbens. Correspondingly, striatal TH protein levels were decreased only by combined PQ + MB 5 d after injection. Reactive gliosis occurred only in response to combined PQ + MB in dorsal-medial but not ventral striatum. TH immunoreactivity and cell counts were reduced only by PQ + MB and in the substantia nigra but not ventral tegmental area. These synergistic effects of combined PQ + MB, preferentially expressed in the nigrostriatal DA system, suggest that such mixtures could play a role in the etiology of PD.
Behavioral studies indicate that the ability to acquire long-term memories is severely impaired during sleep. It is unclear, however, why the highly synchronous discharge of neurons during sleep should not be followed by the induction of enduring plastic changes. Here we show that the expression of phosphorylated CRE-binding protein, Arc, and BDNF, three genes whose induction is often associated with synaptic plasticity, is high during waking and low during sleep. We also show that the induction of these genes during waking depends on the activity of the noradrenergic system, which is high in waking and low in sleep. These molecular results complement behavioral evidence and provide a mechanism for the impairment of long-term memory acquisition during sleep.
The mechanisms underlying changes in neural responses and connections in the visual cortex may be studied by occluding one eye during a critical period in early postnatal life. Under these conditions, neurons in the visual cortex rapidly lose their responses to the deprived eye and ultimately lose many of their inputs from that eye. Cats at the peak of the critical period received infusions of exogenous neurotrophin NT-4/5 into primary visual cortex beginning before a short period of monocular deprivation. Within areas affected by NT-4/5, cortical cells remained responsive to the deprived eye, and maps of ocular dominance were no longer evident using intrinsic-signal optical imaging. Cortical cells also became broadly tuned for stimulus orientation and less responsive to visual stimulation through either eye. These effects required at least 48 hr exposure to the neurotrophin and were specific for trkB, because they were not seen with the trkA or trkC ligands NGF or NT-3. Even after neurons had already lost their responses to the deprived eye, subsequent NT-4/5 infusion could restore them. The NT-4/5 effects were not seen after the critical period. Together, these results suggest that trkB activation during the critical period may promote promiscuous connections independent of correlated activity.
The calyx of Held exhibits fast glutamatergic neurotransmission at high rates with low temporal jitter and has adapted specialized synaptic mechanisms to support its functional demands. We report the presence in calyces of an atypical arrangement of subcellular organelles, called the mitochondria-associated adherens complex (MAC). We demonstrate that MACs are located adjacent to synapses and contain membranous elements linked with coated and uncoated vesicles. Mitochondria that form MACs have more complex geometries than other mitochondria within the calyx and can extend between clusters of synapses. We estimate that the calyx contains 1600 MACs, 2400 synapses, and 6200 readily releasable vesicles. We also identify synaptic vesicle endocytotic regions close to MACs and synapses and hypothesize that calyces are composed of multiple activity modules, each containing machinery for vesicle release and recycling.
Agrin controls the formation of the neuromuscular junction. Whether it regulates the differentiation of other types of synapses remains unclear. Therefore, we have studied the role of agrin in cultured hippocampal neurons. Synaptogenesis was severely compromised when agrin expression or function was suppressed by antisense oligonucleotides and specific antibodies. The effects of antisense oligonucleotides were found to be highly specific because they were reversed by adding recombinant agrin and could not be detected in cultures from agrin-deficient animals. Interestingly, the few synapses formed in reduced agrin conditions displayed diminished vesicular turnover, despite a normal appearance at the EM level. Thus, our results demonstrate the necessity of agrin for synaptogenesis in hippocampal neurons.
In spite of the recognition that striatal D(2) receptors are critical determinants in a variety of psychomotor disorders, the cellular mechanisms by which these receptors shape neuronal activity have remained a mystery. The studies presented here reveal that D(2) receptor stimulation in enkephalin-expressing medium spiny neurons suppresses transmembrane Ca(2+) currents through L-type Ca(2+) channels, resulting in diminished excitability. This modulation is mediated by G(beta)(gamma) activation of phospholipase C, mobilization of intracellular Ca(2+) stores, and activation of the calcium-dependent phosphatase calcineurin. In addition to providing a unifying mechanism to explain the apparently divergent effects of D(2) receptors in striatal medium spiny neurons, this novel signaling linkage provides a foundation for understanding how this pivotal receptor shapes striatal excitability and gene expression.
The assessment of neurite-promoting activity of growth factors and neurotrophins in vitro is usually done by the laborious process of counting neuronal processes manually under a standard microscope. This often requires fixation of the cells so that samples can be counted over a period of days when large numbers of cells or samples are assessed. This, therefore, limits the investigator to a single time point for that plate of cells. In an effort to provide an assay that could be used to screen samples quickly to grade overall neurotrophic activity, and to study time-dependent responses easily, an assay is described that quantitates neurite formation based on automated fluorescence detection. Dissociated embryonic mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons were placed in the upper chamber of 1 microm pore size Fluoroblok (Falcon) transwell chambers. The porous membrane of these transwells is optically opaque. NGF placed in the lower chamber of the transwell induced the production of neurites that preferentially passed from the neuronal cell body in the upper chamber through the pores into the lower NGF-containing chamber. The degree of neurite production was assessed both in live cells and in fixed cells by fluorescent labeling of the neurons and neuronal processes. Quantitation of neurite formation was done with a multiwell fluorescence plate reader and verified by confocal microscopy. This method allows the screening and quantitation of neurotrophic activity in both primary neurons and neuronal cell lines. In addition, this also provides experimental access to neuronal processes that are optically separated from the cell body. The latter aspect may also be of great use where fluorescence measurements within neurites and growth cones, such as for Ca2+ release studies, need to be isolated from contaminating fluorescence or synaptic influences of cell bodies.
In the adult cerebellum, corticotropin releasing factor (CRF), that is localized in climbing fibers, mossy fibers, and a fine varicose plexus along the Purkinje cell layer, modulates the responsiveness of Purkinje cells to excitatory amino acids. During development, CRF has been detected in the primitive cerebellar anlage as early as embryonic day (E)10, and is continuously expressed throughout embryonic and postnatal cerebellar ontogeny. To investigate a possible trophic role for CRF during cerebellar development, cerebellar culture studies using E18 mouse embryos were carried out. In our culture paradigm, that used serum-free defined medium to suppress cell proliferation, CRF induced proliferation of cells in a dose-dependent manner in a range of concentrations between 0.1-10 microM. The proliferating cells were identified as astrocytes based on their expression of vimentin and GFAP. BrdU incorporation studies supported the proposed mitogenic effect of CRF on developing astrocytes. The mitogenic effects of CRF seemed to be primarily on immature astrocytes determined by their differential expression of vimentin and GFAP. Astrocytes at more advanced stages of development, as determined by the extent of process outgrowth and GFAP expression, incorporated less BrdU compared to immature astrocytes. CRF receptors were localized in astrocytes, and the proliferation of astrocytes induced by CRF was inhibited by astressin, a competitive CRF receptor antagonist. In conclusion, CRF induces proliferation of astrocytes derived from the developing cerebellum, that suggests a gliotrophic role for CRF during cerebellar development.
Simultaneous recordings were made from gamma (gamma) motor axons and from muscle spindle afferents of the medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle during locomotion in decerebrate cats. The gamma-neurons were identified as static or dynamic (gammas or gammad) by correlating their behaviour during midbrain stimulation with changes in muscle spindle afferent responses to muscle stretch. On the basis of their behaviour during locomotion, gammas neurons could be divided into two groups. One group (type-1) showed strongly and smoothly modulated discharge increasing in parallel with the active muscle shortening in ankle extension, but with phase advance. The other group (type-2) also showed a modulated pattern, but with increased firing centred on the flexion phase. The proportions of the two were 13 type-1 and 7 type-2. The type-1 firing pattern accurately predicted the difference in firing frequency for secondary afferents obtained by subtracting from the recordings made during active movements the response of the same units to the movements repeated passively in the absence of fusimotor activity. The type-2 pattern also became consistent with the difference signal, when operated on by a phase lag appropriate to the effects of bag2 intrafusal fibres. These results suggest that there may be some degree of separate control of chain and bag2 intrafusal fibres. The discharge of gammad axons was also found to fluctuate with the locomotor cycle, with a pattern very distinct from that of the gammas records. The gammad firing frequency rose very suddenly from zero to a maximum at the onset of muscle shortening and continued into the beginning of lengthening. The term 'interrupted' discharge is suggested as a useful description. The timing of this discharge was shown to be appropriate for sensitising the primary afferents to detect the onset of stretch.
Expiratory only resistive loaded breathing (RL) reduces high energy electromyogram (EMG) power (EH) during an isometric contraction of a leg extensor muscle, but not an arm flexor. An interaction between afferent activity during expiratory RL and inspiratory non-loaded phases of breathing, which the contraction spanned, could have accounted for the reduced EH in these long contractions. Therefore this study tested the hypothesis that brief arm extensor muscle contractions (70% of maximal force), performed during a single phase of expiratory RL, would also exhibit reduced EH. Surprisingly, EH in triceps, but not biceps brachii was reduced significantly when the contraction was performed during inspiratory RL rather than expiratory RL. The results suggest that either (a) short and prolonged contractions or (b) motor drive to arm and leg extensors are affected differently by RL.
Velocity is an important determinant of the simple spike discharge of cerebellar Purkinje cells. In a previous study, Purkinje cells in the intermediate and lateral cerebellum recorded during manual tracking were found to be tuned to a combination of direction and speed, (i.e. preferred velocity). In this study a population analysis of this simple spike discharge was used to determine whether the velocity of tracking could be predicted. For the majority (30/32) of direction-speed combinations, the population response accurately specified the target velocity. A temporal analysis showed how the population response gradually converged to the required velocity 200 ms prior to the onset of tracking. Therefore, the simple spike discharge of a Purkinje cell ensemble contains sufficient information to reconstruct target velocity, providing support for the hypothesis that the cerebellum controls or signals movement velocity.

A number of studies have shown that patients with schizophrenia smoke more than other psychiatric patients and more than the general population. Also, medicated schizophrenics who smoke present more positive symptoms of schizophrenia than non-smokers. The objective of the present study was to assess the effect of smoking on ratings of psychopathology for 30 days following discontinuation of antipsychotic medication. The subjects were 101 treatment-resistant patients with schizophrenia who had been admitted to the inpatient service of Neuroscience Research Hospital (NRH), National Institute of Mental Health, between 1982 and 1994 to undergo studies involving discontinuation of antipsychotic medication. Patients were rated independently on a daily basis on the 22-item Psychiatric Symptom Assessment Scale (PSAS), an extended version of the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS). At baseline, ratings for Verbal Positive, Paranoia and Loss of Function were higher in smokers (n=65) than non-smokers (n=36), but a statistically significant difference was observed only for the Verbal Positive cluster. Analysis by gender revealed that male non-smokers had the lowest psychopathology ratings at baseline. There were no differences in Anxiety/depression, Behavior Positive, Deficit Symptoms or Mannerisms (a measure for abnormal involuntary movements). Following medication discontinuation, repeated-measure analysis demonstrated a 'time' effect for all the variables studied and a 'group' (smokers vs. non-smokers) effect for Verbal Positive, Paranoia, and Loss of Function. Post-hoc comparisons at individual time points showed significantly higher ratings for smokers at week 1 for Paranoia. No differences were observed at later time points. In conclusion, at baseline, smokers had more positive symptoms and were apparently more functionally impaired than non-smokers. This difference was no longer evident after a 30 day medication discontinuation period.

The unipolar brush cell (UBC), a small interneuron occurring at high density in the granular layer of the mammalian vestibulocerebellum, receives a giant glutamatergic synapse from a single mossy fiber (MF) rosette, usually on a brush of dendritic branchlets. MF stimulation produces a current in the UBC several orders of magnitude greater in duration than at other glutamatergic synapses. We assumed that the cytoskeleton would have a special role in plasticity of the MF-UBC synapse. Neurofilaments and microtubules are enriched in the UBC somatodendritic compartment but are conspicuously absent in close proximity to the giant synapse, where standard electron microscopy reveals a granulo-flocculent material. Because osmium tetroxide fixation during sample preparation for standard electron microscopy destabilizes actin filaments, we hypothesized that this subsynaptic granulo-flocculent material is actin-based. After actin stabilization, we observed prominent, but loosely organized, bundles of microfilaments at the subsynaptic region of the MF-UBC synapse that linked the postsynaptic density with the cytoskeletal core of the dendritic branchlets. Confocal fluorescence microscopy and pre- and postembedding immunogold labeling with phalloidin and actin antibodies showed that these microfilaments consist of f-actin and contain little beta-actin. This extraordinary postsynaptic actin apparatus is ideally situated to form a dynamic framework for glutamate receptors and other postsynaptic molecules, and to mediate activity-dependent plastic rearrangements of the giant synapse.
We have previously shown kindling-induced downregulation of the AMPA receptor GluR2 subunit in piriform cortex, as measured by Western blotting. In the present studies, we performed whole-cell patch clamp analysis of AMPA receptor-mediated currents from kindled and control animals to determine if the downregulation observed previously had any functional significance. These experiments were done in the absence and presence of N-hydroxyphenylpropanoyl spermine (HPPS), a polyamine that blocks currents through AMPA receptors lacking GluR2. We report that AMPA receptor-mediated currents recorded from piriform cortex layer II pyramidal cells in slices from animals kindled to 10 fully generalized seizures were blocked by HPPS. In contrast, application of HPPS had no effect on current amplitude in control animals, or in animals that had not been fully kindled. Western blotting revealed that decreases in GluR2 were seen in animals that had experienced at least one fully generalized seizure, but were not observed at earlier stages of kindling development. The increased polyamine sensitivity of AMPA receptor-mediated currents in kindled animals is consistent with the hypothesis that kindling induces formation of AMPA receptors that lack GluR2 in piriform cortex pyramidal cells. It has been demonstrated that polyamine sensitivity is directly correlated with the calcium permeability of the AMPA receptor, suggesting that kindling results in the formation of AMPA receptors that are calcium-permeable. Increases in intracellular calcium through these receptors could act as a second messenger and play a role in the initiation of long-term changes that contribute to the pathogenesis of kindling-induced epilepsy.
M100907 (MDL 100907, R-(+)-alpha-(2, 3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenyl)ethyl]-4-piperidinemethanol++ +) is a new selective antagonist of 5-HT(2A) receptors. The compound has been labeled with (11)C and proved useful for in vivo studies of 5-HT(2A) receptors using positron emission tomography (PET). In the present study the distribution of 5-HT(2A) receptors was examined in the postmortem human brain using whole hemisphere autoradiography and [(3)H]M100907 and [(11)C]M100907. The autoradiograms showed very dense binding to all neocortical regions, whereas the hippocampus was only weakly labeled with [(3)H]M100907. Other central brain regions, such as the basal ganglia and thalamus, showed low [(3)H]M100907 binding, reflecting low densities of 5-HT(2A) receptors. The cerebellum or structures of the brain stem were virtually devoid of 5-HT(2A) receptors. [(11)C]M100907 gave images qualitatively similar to those of [(3)H]M100907, although with lower spatial resolution. The labeling of human 5-HT(2A) receptors with [(3)H]M100907 was inhibited by the addition of the 5-HT(2A) receptor blockers ketanserin or SCH 23390 (10 microM), leaving a very low background of nonspecific binding. The 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY-100635 and the D(2)-dopamine receptor antagonist raclopride had no effect on the binding of [(3)H]M100907. The selective labeling of 5-HT(2A) receptors with [(3)H]M100907 clearly shows that this compound is suitable for further studies of the human 5-HT(2A) receptor subtype in vitro. The in vitro autoradiography of the distribution of 5-HT(2A) receptors obtained with radiolabeled M100907 provides detailed qualitative and quantitative information on the distribution of 5-HT(2A)-receptors in the human brain as well as reference information for the interpretation of previous initial results at much lower resolution in humans in vivo with PET and [(11)C]M100907.
The dystrophin-associated membrane-integrated protein complex anchors dystrophin in the sarcolemma of striated muscles and is composed of two glycoprotein subcomplexes, the dystroglycan and the sarcoglycan (SG) complexes, and a small membrane protein termed sarcospan (SPN). The SG complex consists of four transmembrane glycoproteins, alpha-SG, beta-SG, gamma-SG and delta-SG. We found that beta-SG and delta-SG were co-expressed with epsilon-SG, a alpha-SG homolog, in the peripheral nerve, but not with alpha-SG or gamma-SG. SPN, which tightly links to the SG complex in the muscle cell membrane, was absent in the peripheral nerve. These peripheral nerve SGs were colocalized at the outermost layer of the myelin sheath of nerve fibers together with the dystroglycan complex, utrophin, and a short dystrophin isoform (Dp116). Immunocytochemical analysis using SG-deficient animals showed that a defect in beta- or delta-SG led to a great reduction of all residual SGs, but not of the other proteins, i.e., dystroglycans, Dp116 and utrophin, in the peripheral nerve. This observation suggests that the epsilon-, beta- and delta-SG molecules form a complex behaving as a single unit similar to the SG complex in muscle cells. An immunoprecipitation study indicated that the SG complex is associated with the dystroglycan complex and Dp116 or utrophin. These results demonstrated that Dp116 and utrophin are anchored to a novel membrane protein architecture, which consists of the SG and dystroglycan complexes, but not SPN, in the Schwann cell membrane.
Caveolin-3 is a muscle-specific protein integrated in the caveolae, which are small invaginations of the plasma membrane. Mutations of the caveolin-3 gene, localized at 3p25, have been reported to be involved in the pathogenesis of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD1C or caveolinopathy) with mild clinical symptoms, inherited through an autosomal dominant form of genetic transmission. To elucidate the pathogenetic mechanism, we developed caveolin-3-deficient mice for use as animal models of caveolinopathy. Caveolin-3 mRNA and its protein were absent in homozygous mutant mice. In heterozygous mutant mice, both the mRNA and its protein were normal in size, but their amounts were reduced by about half. The density of caveolae in skeletal muscle plasma membrane was roughly proportional to the amount of caveolin-3. In homozygous mutant mice, muscle degeneration was recognized in soleus muscle at 8 weeks of age and in the diaphragm from 8 to 30 weeks, although there was no difference in growth and movement between wild-type and mutant mice. No apparent muscle degeneration was observed in heterozygous mutant mice, indicating that pathological changes caused by caveolin-3 gene disruption were inherited through the recessive form of genetic transmission.

We examined the internal organization and connections of the primary visual area, V1, in the South American marsupial Monodelphis domestica. Multiunit electrophysiological recording techniques were used to record from neurons at multiple sites. Receptive field location, size, progressions, and reversals were systematically examined to determine the visuotopic organization of V1 and its boundaries with adjacent visual areas. As in other mammals, a virtually complete representation of the visual hemifield was observed in V1, which was coextensive with a region of dense myelination. The vertical meridian was represented at the rostrolateral boundary of the field, the upper visual quadrant was represented caudolaterally, whereas the lower visual quadrant was represented rostromedially. Injections of fluorescent tracers into V1 revealed dense connections with cortex immediately adjacent to the rostrolateral boundary, in peristriate cortex (PS or V2). Connections were also consistently observed with a caudotemporal area (CT), entorhinal cortex (EC), and multimodal cortex (auditory/visual, A/V). These results demonstrate that M. domestica possess a highly differentiated neocortex with clear functional and architectonic cortical field boundaries, as well as discrete patterns of cortical connections. Some connections of V1 are similar to those observed in eutherian mammals, such as connections with V2 and extrastriate areas (e.g., CT), which suggests that there are general features of visual system organization that all mammals possess due to retention from a common ancestor. On the other hand, connections of V1 with EC and multimodal cortex may be a primitive feature of visual cortex that was lost in some lineages, may be a derived feature of marsupial neocortex, or may be a feature particular to mammals with small brains.
Two important prerequisites for successful axon regeneration are that appropriate extracellular molecules are available for outgrowing axons and that receptors for such molecules are found in the regenerating neuron. Laminins and their receptors in the integrin family are examples of such molecules, and laminin-associated integrin subunits alpha 3, alpha 6, alpha 7, and beta 1 mRNAs have all been detected in adult rat motoneurons. We have here, by use of in situ hybridization histochemistry, examined the normal postnatal development of the expression in motoneurons of these mRNAs and integrin beta 4 mRNA, all of which have been associated with laminin-2. We studied the regulation of these mRNAs, 1-42 days after two types of axotomy in the adult rat (sciatic nerve transection, SNT; ventral root avulsion, VRA) and 1-10 days after SNT in the neonatal animal. During postnatal development, there was a distinct shift in the integrin composition from a stronger expression of the alpha 6 subunit to a very clear dominance of alpha 7 in the adult. All types of axotomy in the adult rat induced initial (1-7 days) large up-regulations of alpha 6, alpha 7 and beta1 subunit mRNAs (250-500%). Only minor changes for alpha 3 mRNA were seen, and beta 4 mRNA could not be detected at all in motoneurons. After adult SNT, the alpha 7 and beta 1 subunits were up-regulated throughout the studied period, and the alpha 6 subunit mRNA was eventually normalized. After VRA, however, the alpha 7 and beta1 levels peaked earlier than after SNT and were normalized at 42 days, whereas alpha 6 mRNA was up-regulated longer than after SNT. Neonatal SNT had much smaller effects on the expression of the studied subunits. The results suggest that an important part of the response to axotomy of motoneurons is to up-regulate receptors for laminin. The developmental shift in integrin subunit composition and the various responses seen in the lesion models indicate that different isoforms of laminin play a role in the regenerative response.
We examined the expression of CD81 (also known as TAPA, or target of the antiproliferative antibody) after traumatic spinal cord injury in the rat. CD81, a member of the tetraspanin family of proteins, is thought to be involved in reactive gliosis. This is based on the antiproliferative and antiadhesive effects of antibodies against CD81 on cultured astrocytes, as well as its up-regulation after penetrating brain injury. CD81 expression following dorsal hemisection of the spinal cord was determined immunohistochemically at time points ranging from 1 day to 2 months postlesion (p.l.). In the unlesioned cord a low background level of CD81 was observed, with the exception of the ependyma of the central canal and the pia mater, which were strongly CD81-positive. One day p.l., CD81 was diffusely up-regulated in the spinal cord parenchyma surrounding the lesion site. From 3 days onward, intensely CD81-positive round cells entered the lesion site, completely filling it by 7 days p.l. Staining with the microglial markers OX-42 and Iba1 revealed that these cells were reactive microglia/macrophages. At this time, no significant CD81 expression by GFAP-positive reactive astrocytes was noted. From the second week onward, CD81 was gradually down-regulated; i.e., its spatial distribution became more restricted. The CD81-positive microglia/macrophages disappeared from the lesion site, leaving behind large cavities. After 2 months, astrocytes that formed the wall of these cavities were strongly CD81-positive. In addition, CD81 was present on reactive astrocytes in the dorsal funiculus distal from the lesion in degenerated white matter tracts. In conclusion, the spatiotemporal expression pattern of CD81 by reactive microglia and astrocytes indicates that CD81 is involved in the glial response to spinal cord injury.

Although the gamma subunit of the Na,K-ATPase has only 66 or 68 amino acids, its human gene (FXYD2) was found to span 9.2 kb and have seven exons, including two alternatively spliced exons encoding different N-termini. Two candidate promoters with consensus sites for transcription factors Sp1, AP-1, and AP-2 are present, consistent with independent transcription of the splice variants. Multiple ESTs support the transcriptional competence of the identified gene elements. In the FXYD2 gene, there are two closely spaced polyadenylation signals, and both are used. A proposed third splice variant encoding a 31-residue N-terminal extension was not found in the gene, nor was the predicted larger protein found in human kidney Na,K-ATPase. Instead, evidence was found for the origin of the larger cDNA clone in homologous recombination with unrelated DNA from chromosome 2. FXYD2 is on chromosome 11q23 close to a site of tumorigenic chromosomal translocations, and has a number of repeat elements.

Sleep and waking differ significantly in terms of behavior, metabolism, and neuronal activity. Recent evidence indicates that sleep and waking also differ with respect to the expression of certain genes. To systematically investigate such changes, we used mRNA differential display and cDNA microarrays to screen approximately 10000 transcripts expressed in the cerebral cortex of rats after 8 h of sleep, spontaneous waking, or sleep deprivation. We found that 44 genes had higher mRNA levels after waking and/or sleep deprivation relative to sleep, while 10 were upregulated after sleep. Known genes that were upregulated in waking and sleep deprivation can be grouped into the following categories: immediate early genes/transcription factors (Arc, CHOP, IER5, NGFI-A, NGFI-B, N-Ras, Stat3), genes related to energy metabolism (glucose type I transporter Glut1, Vgf), growth factors/adhesion molecules (BDNF, TrkB, F3 adhesion molecule), chaperones/heat shock proteins (BiP, ERP72, GRP75, HSP60, HSP70), vesicle- and synapse-related genes (chromogranin C, synaptotagmin IV), neurotransmitter/hormone receptors (adrenergic receptor alpha(1A) and beta(2), GABA(A) receptor beta(3), glutamate NMDA receptor 2A, glutamate AMPA receptor GluR2 and GluR3, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor beta(2), thyroid hormone receptor TRbeta), neurotransmitter transporters (glutamate/aspartate transporter GLAST, Na(+)/Cl(-) transporter NTT4/Rxt1), enzymes (aryl sulfotransferase, c-jun N-terminal kinase 1, serum/glucocorticoid-induced serine/threonine kinase), and a miscellaneous group (calmodulin, cyclin D2, LMO-4, metallothionein 3). Several other genes that were upregulated in waking and all the genes upregulated in sleep, with the exception of the one coding for membrane protein E25, did not match any known sequence. Thus, significant changes in gene expression occur across behavioral states, which are likely to affect basic cellular functions such as RNA and protein synthesis, neural plasticity, neurotransmission, and metabolism.
Blood flow and glucose utilization were measured in rat brain after chronic L-NAME treatment followed by acute 7-nitroindazole. Following chronic L-NAME, blood flow was not significantly different from control. Treatment with acute 7-nitroindazole reduced blood flow to the same extent in both chronic saline and L-NAME groups. Glucose utilization was unaffected. These results suggest that residual NOS activity in brain is sufficient to provide tonic, NO-dependent cerebrovascular dilator tone.
During reproductive maturation, characteristic changes occur in the morphology of the gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) cell population within the hypothalamus. In the early stages of development, GnRH neurons are bipolar cells; however, just before pubertal onset, the majority of these neurons transform into unipolar cells. Our laboratory has reported that valproic acid (VPA), an antiepileptic medication that has previously been shown to slow the velocity of pubertal development in both humans and seizure-prone mice, is capable of delaying the normal process of GnRH morphological differentiation. As VPA is primarily believed to act via a GABAergic mechanism, the present study investigated potential influences of VPA on GnRH-GABA interactions within the medial preoptic area (mPOA) across pubertal development (experiment 1), as well as in adult animals (experiment 2). The results from experiment 1 revealed the expected drug effects on GnRH cell morphology. For VPA animals, there was a greater percentage of bipolar neurons at every time period except for the 24-day sample. Additionally, VPA animals had greater numbers of bipolar and unipolar GnRH neurons with GABA associations across all ages. However, experiment 2 showed a lack of drug effects on GnRH-GABA interactions in adulthood. These results suggest that VPA may delay GnRH cell morphological maturation by altering the density of GABAergic inputs to GnRH neurons. These inputs may normally play a role in timing the activation of the GnRH pulse generator. However, any neuroendocrine effects of VPA in adulthood are most likely due to the actions of VPA at another level of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis.
The native opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met(5)]-enkephalin, is a tonic inhibitory peptide that modulates cell proliferation and tissue organization during development, cancer, cellular renewal, wound healing, and angiogenesis. OGF action is mediated by a receptor mechanism. The receptor for OGF, OGFr, has been cloned and sequenced in humans and rats. Using primers based on the rat OGFr cDNA, and a mouse embryo expressed sequence tag, the full-length 2.1 kb mouse OGFr cDNA was sequenced. The open reading frame was found to encode a protein of 634 amino acids, and 14 imperfect repeats of 9 amino acids each were a prominent feature. The molecular weight of OGFr was calculated as 70679, and the isoelectric point was 4.5. Northern blot analysis revealed a 2.1 kb OGFr mRNA transcript in adult mouse brain, heart, lung, liver, kidney, and triceps surae muscle. The amino acids for mouse and rat OGFr were 93% similar and 91% identical, but the mouse and human shared only a 70% similarity and a 58% identity. These results emphasize the molecular validity of OGFr, and explain the interaction of OGF with respect to normal and abnormal growth in mouse cells and tissues.
An immunosuppressant tacrolimus (FK506) protects against neuronal damage following cerebral ischemia. On the other hand, the major physiological role of the immunophilin FK506-binding protein-12 (FKBP12) is a modulation of intracellular calcium flux. Since an increase in intracellular calcium concentration is a major mediator of ischemic neuronal death, we investigated the changes in FKBP12 following cerebral ischemia in the rat. We induced focal cerebral ischemia by intraluminal occlusion of the middle cerebral artery for 1 h, and global cerebral ischemia for 10 min by bilateral carotid artery occlusion combined with hypotension. The animals were killed at 4 h to 7 days after reperfusion. Immunohistochemistry was performed on paraffin sections using a monoclonal antibody raised against recombinant FKBP12. Immunoreactivity to FKBP12 in control brains was most pronounced in the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus and the striatum, the localization being primarily neuronal. Following focal ischemia, FKBP12 immunoreactivity decreased rapidly in the ischemic core by 4 h, but increased in surviving neurons in penumbra areas (4 h-7 days). Within an area of infarction, invading leukocytes and macrophages exhibited immunoreactivity to FKBP12 (3-7 days). Following global ischemia, FKBP12 immunoreactivity in CA1 neurons decreased after 1 day, and then it was lost between 2 and 7 days, although many CA1 neurons showed a transient increase in FKBP12 at 2 days. No FKBP12 immunoreactivity was observed in reactive glial cells. Thus, FKBP12 declined in dying neurons, whereas FKBP12 was upregulated in less severely injured neurons. The findings suggest that (1) FKBP12 plays an important role in the process of neuronal survival and death following cerebral ischemia, and (2) FKBP12 is involved in inflammatory reactions that occur within an area of infarction.
EphB receptor tyrosine kinases are enriched at synapses, suggesting that these receptors play a role in synapse formation or function. We find that EphrinB binding to EphB induces a direct interaction of EphB with NMDA-type glutamate receptors. This interaction occurs at the cell surface and is mediated by the extracellular regions of the two receptors, but does not require the kinase activity of EphB. The kinase activity of EphB may be important for subsequent steps in synapse formation, as perturbation of EphB tyrosine kinase activity affects the number of synaptic specializations that form in cultured neurons. These findings indicate that EphrinB activation of EphB promotes an association of EphB with NMDA receptors that may be critical for synapse development or function.
While cytoplasmic PI3Kinase (PI3K) is well characterized, regulation of nuclear PI3K has been obscure. A novel protein, PIKE (PI3Kinase Enhancer), interacts with nuclear PI3K to stimulate its lipid kinase activity. PIKE encodes a 753 amino acid nuclear GTPase. Dominant-negative PIKE prevents the NGF enhancement of PI3K and upregulation of cyclin D1. NGF treatment also leads to PIKE interactions with 4.1N, which has translocated to the nucleus, fitting with the initial identification of PIKE based on its binding 4.1N in a yeast two-hybrid screen. Overexpression of 4.1N abolishes PIKE effects on PI3K. Activation of nuclear PI3K by PIKE is inhibited by the NGF-stimulated 4.1N translocation to the nucleus. Thus, PIKE physiologically modulates the activation by NGF of nuclear PI3K.

Dopamine D(1) receptors play an essential role in the induction of expression of the immediate-early gene c-fos in response to pharmacological stimuli. In the forebrain of wild-type mice, administration of a D(1) receptor agonist leads to c-fos mRNA expression levels that are substantially higher than corresponding levels expressed after indirect stimulation of dopamine receptors with methamphetamine. In mice deficient for D(2) and D(3) receptors, c-fos mRNA levels expressed in response to D(1) agonist administration are significantly blunted. However, a single dose of methamphetamine (5 mg/kg) leads to a long lasting reversal of the blunted c-fos responses in these mutants. In the forebrain, this reversal is restricted to the neocortex. Moreover, methamphetamine also enhances c-fos expression levels in preadolescent wild-type mice that normally express low c-fos mRNA in response to D(1) agonist stimulation. Thus, a single dose of methamphetamine leads to a long term increase in D(1) receptor-dependent c-fos responses in brains with either low (preadolescent mice) or blunted (adult D(2) and D(3) mutant mice) c-fos expression levels. A similar long term reversal of the blunted c-fos responses is achieved with a single dose of a full D(1) agonist. These results indicate that the constitutive inactivation of D(2) and D(3) receptors leads to a decrease in agonist-promoted D(1) receptor activity that can be reversed by intermittent agonist stimulation.
The actions of ethanol on brain ligand-gated ion channels have important roles in the pathophysiology of alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorders and fetal alcohol syndrome. Studies have shown that N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are among the ligand-gated ion channels affected by prenatal ethanol exposure. We exposed pregnant dams to an ethanol-containing liquid diet that results in blood ethanol levels near the legal intoxication limit in most states (0.08%). Primary cultures of hippocampal neurons were prepared from the neonatal offspring of these dams, and NMDA receptor function was assessed by patch clamp electrophysiological techniques after 6-7 days in culture in ethanol-free media. Unexpectedly, we did not detect any changes in hippocampal NMDA receptor function at either the whole-cell or single-channel levels. However, we determined that fetal alcohol exposure alters the actions of the neurosteroids pregnenolone sulfate and pregnenolone hemisuccinate, which potentiate NMDA receptor function. Western immunoblot analyses demonstrated that this alteration is not due to a change in the expression levels of NMDA receptor subunits. Importantly, in utero ethanol exposure did not affect the actions of neurosteroids that inhibit NMDA receptor function. Moreover, the actions of pregnenolone sulfate on type A gamma-aminobutyric acid and non-NMDA receptor function were unaltered by ethanol exposure in utero, which suggests that the alteration is specific to NMDA receptors. These findings are significant because they provide, at least in part, a plausible mechanistic explanation for the alterations in the behavioral responses to neurosteroids found in neonatal rats prenatally exposed to ethanol and to other forms of maternal stress (Zimmerberg, B., and McDonald, B. C. (1996) Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav. 55, 541-547).
Tau, MAP2, and MAP4 are members of a microtubule-associated protein (MAP) family that are each expressed as &quot;3-repeat&quot; and &quot;4-repeat&quot; isoforms. These isoforms arise from tightly controlled tissue-specific and/or developmentally regulated alternative splicing of a 31-amino acid long &quot;inter-repeat:repeat module,&quot; raising the possibility that different MAP isoforms may possess some distinct functional capabilities. Consistent with this hypothesis, regulatory mutations in the human tau gene that disrupt the normal balance between 3-repeat and 4-repeat tau isoform expression lead to a collection of neurodegenerative diseases known as FTDP-17 (fronto-temporal dementias and Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17), which are characterized by the formation of pathological tau filaments and neuronal cell death. Unfortunately, very little is known regarding structural and functional differences between the isoforms. In our previous analyses, we focused on 4-repeat tau structure and function. Here, we investigate 3-repeat tau, generating a series of truncations, amino acid substitutions, and internal deletions and examining the functional consequences. 3-Repeat tau possesses a &quot;core microtubule binding domain&quot; composed of its first two repeats and the intervening inter-repeat. This observation is in marked contrast to the widely held notion that tau possesses multiple independent tubulin-binding sites aligned in sequence along the length of the protein. In addition, we observed that the carboxyl-terminal sequences downstream of the repeat region make a strong but indirect contribution to microtubule binding activity in 3-repeat tau, which is in contrast to the negligible effect of these same sequences in 4-repeat tau. Taken together with previous work, these data suggest that 3-repeat and 4-repeat tau assume complex and distinct structures that are regulated differentially, which in turn suggests that they may possess isoform-specific functional capabilities. The relevance of isoform-specific structure and function to normal tau action and the onset of neurodegenerative disease are discussed.
The united efforts of assemblies of neurons in the brain's primary visual cortex translate incoming visual signals into action potentials. These action potentials encode, for example, the contrast and orientation of different parts of the image. Some neurons are sensitive to one particular orientation, other are sensitive to other orientations, but all neurons respond equally well to the image contrast. In a Perspective, Volgushev and Eysel explain the finding (Anderson et al.) that neurons are able to maintain this sensitivity to the orientation of a stimulus regardless of the contrast by adding noise to the membrane potential, such that action potentials can also be generated in response to weak signals at low contrast.
Potentiation of mesolimbic dopamine levels is generally hypothesized to be reinforcing and contribute to the self-administration of addictive drugs such as cocaine. In the present study, the in vivo microdialysis technique was used to directly manipulate extracellular dopamine concentrations in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) shell and the amygdala (AMY) in rats maintaining stable patterns of cocaine (1.5 mg/kg/infusion) intake under a fixed ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement. In the NAC, a perfusate dopamine concentration of 90 nM was found to reduce cocaine self-administration, whereas a perfusate concentration of 450 nM increased the intake of cocaine. In the AMY, 45 nM perfusate dopamine inhibited cocaine self-administration, whereas 90 nM perfusate dopamine enhanced cocaine intake. The attenuation or potentiation of cocaine intake behavior was maintained throughout the time period (30 or 60 min) of the manipulation of the perfusate dopamine (DA) concentrations in the NAC and AMY. Other perfusate concentrations tested, 180 and 360 nM, in both the nucleus accumbens and amygdala, were without effect on altering the stable pattern of cocaine self-administration behavior. Overall, these experiments show that elevated mesolimbic dopamine concentrations can differentially modulate cocaine self-administration behavior.
The Morris water task is a standard method for testing spatial learning in rodents. In a place version of the task, animals utilize multiple visual cues to learn the location of a hidden platform. The ability of animals to locate a cued platform is often used to qualitatively test for possible non-cognitive contributions to deficient place learning, including reduced visual function. We investigated the role of visual acuity in water maze performance quantitatively by depriving rats of pattern vision during a critical period for visual plasticity, which reduced their acuity by approximately 27% and then tested them in typical place and cued platform configurations of the Morris water task. Animals with reduced visual acuity had a significant deficit in place learning, but eventually reached the same escape latency as non-deprived animals. Deprived and non-deprived animals, however, did not differ in their ability to locate a cued platform following place learning. These data indicate that reduced visual acuity in rats can influence measurement of their place learning and that a typical cued platform version of the task cannot detect a modest, but significant, visual deficit.
Attentional abilities, as reflected by performance in sustained, selective, or divided attention tasks, have been extensively demonstrated to depend on the integrity of cortical cholinergic inputs and their basal forebrain afferent circuits. As nucleus accumbens (NAC) efferent projections have been hypothesized to modulate the excitability of basal forebrain corticopetal projections, the effects of drug-induced modulation of NAC dopaminergic transmission on sustained attention performance in rats were assessed. Unexpectedly, bilateral infusions of amphetamine (AMPH; 0, 3.0, 10.0, 30.0 microg/microl/hemisphere) into the shell region of the NAC did not affect sustained attention performance. In contrast, microinjections of the non-selective dopamine (DA) receptor antagonist cis-flupenthixol (FLU; 0, 3.0, 10.0, 25.0 microg/microl/hemisphere) into the NAC of a separate group of animals impaired the detection of both signals and non-signals, as reflected by decreases in the relative numbers of hits and correct rejections. As the effects of neither AMPH nor FLU followed the predictions made on the basis of current hypotheses about the modulation of basal forebrain neuronal activity by NAC DA, the present results challenge such hypotheses and indicate that the conditions which implicate NAC DA in attentional performance remain unsettled.
Many animals in different mammalian orders display skilled forelimb use for prehension, but there has been little study of the rules underlying skilled forelimb use that may provide insight into its neural organization. Inflexibility of movement would imply an underlying fixed neural control characteristic of innate action pattern, whereas flexibility of movement would imply more plastic neural control. In the present study, rat reaching was examined by analyzing movements used to obtain nine different sized food pellets, weighing between 20 and 1000 mg. The prediction was that if the rats' reaching movements were flexible, then systematic modifications in reaching would occur as food pellet size changed; whereas if reaching was inflexible, disruptions should occur for extreme food pellet sizes. Reaching was filmed using normal (30 frames/s) and high-speed (60 frames/s) video-recording procedures. Behavior was scored in terms of successful reaches and, in addition, a new rating scale, derived from Eshkol-Wachman Movement Notation, was used to evaluate the qualitative aspects of movement. Reaching success was stable across smaller food pellet sizes but dropped sharply for larger food pellets sizes. Qualitative analysis of limb movements revealed that animals were unable to change their typical movement sequence to obtain the larger pellets. This result indicates that rat skilled reaching is relatively inflexible, supporting the position that it is produced by a complex, relatively fixed neural circuitry. This finding is discussed in relation to the evolution of skilled reaching, the modifications of skilled reaching that are observed after motor cortex and other nervous system injuries, and comparative differences in reaching in rats and primates.
Neural and stem cell transplantation is emerging as a potential treatment for neurodegenerative diseases. Transplantation of specific committed neuroblasts (fetal neurons) to the adult brain provides such scientific exploration of these new potential therapies. Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal, incurable autosomal dominant (CAG repeat expansion of huntingtin protein) neurodegenerative disorder with primary neuronal pathology within the caudate-putamen (striatum). In a clinical trial of human fetal striatal tissue transplantation, one patient died 18 months after transplantation from cardiovascular disease, and postmortem histological analysis demonstrated surviving transplanted cells with typical morphology of the developing striatum. Selective markers of both striatal projection and interneurons such as dopamine and c-AMP-related phosphoprotein, calretinin, acetylcholinesterase, choline acetyltransferase, tyrosine hydroxylase, calbindin, enkephalin, and substance P showed positive transplant regions clearly innervated by host tyrosine hydroxylase fibers. There was no histological evidence of immune rejection including microglia and macrophages. Notably, neuronal protein aggregates of mutated huntingtin, which is typical HD neuropathology, were not found within the transplanted fetal tissue. Thus, although there is a genetically predetermined process causing neuronal death within the HD striatum, implanted fetal neural cells lacking the mutant HD gene may be able to replace damaged host neurons and reconstitute damaged neuronal connections. This study demonstrates that grafts derived from human fetal striatal tissue can survive, develop, and are unaffected by the disease process, at least for 18 months, after transplantation into a patient with HD.
The biological basis for developmental dyslexia remains unknown. Research has suggested that a fundamental deficit in dyslexia is the inability to process sensory input that enters the nervous system rapidly and that deficits in processing rapid acoustic information are associated with impaired reading. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to identify the brain basis of rapid acoustic processing in normal readers and to discover the status of that response in dyslexic readers. Normal readers showed left prefrontal activity in response to rapidly changing, relative to slowly changing, nonlinguistic acoustic stimuli. Dyslexic readers showed no differential left frontal response. Two dyslexic readers participated in a remediation program and showed increased activity in left prefrontal cortex after training. These fMRI results identify left prefrontal regions as normally being sensitive to rapid relative to slow acoustic stimulation, insensitive to the difference between such stimuli in dyslexic readers, and plastic enough in adulthood to develop such differential sensitivity after intensive training.
A number of lines of evidence point to the possible involvement of estrogen pathways in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder in general and puerperal psychosis in particular. There is strong evidence from clinical, follow-up, and genetic studies to support the hypothesis that most cases of puerperal psychosis are manifestations of an affective disorder diathesis with a puerperal trigger and that genes influence susceptibility to both diathesis and trigger. The nature of the trigger is unknown but in view of the abrupt onset at a time of major physiological change it is widely believed that biological, probably hormonal, mechanisms are of paramount importance, with estrogen receiving the most attention to date. We have undertaken a case control association study of bipolar disorder and puerperal psychosis at two known polymorphisms within the estrogen receptor alpha gene (ESR 1) in a sample of 219 unrelated bipolar probands and 219 controls. We could exclude these polymorphisms from an important contribution to susceptibility to bipolar disorder with a high level of confidence. We found no support for the hypothesis that they contribute specific susceptibility to the puerperal trigger, but due to the small numbers of puerperal probands (n = 26) no firm conclusions can be drawn regarding their involvement in puerperal psychosis. Am. J. Med. Genet. (Neuropsychiatr. Genet.) 96:850-853, 2000.
Transgenic mice lacking the nuclear orphan transcription factor Nur-related receptor 1 (Nurr1) fail to develop mesencephalic dopamine neurons. There is a highly homologous NURR1 gene in humans (formerly known as NOT) which therefore constitutes a good candidate gene for neurologic and psychiatric disorders with an involvement of the dopamine neuron system, such as Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, and manic-depression. By direct sequencing of genomic DNA, we found two different missense mutations in the third exon of NURR1 in two schizophrenic patients and another missense mutation in the same exon in an individual with manic-depressive disorder. All three mutations caused a similar reduction of in vitro transcriptional activity of NURR1 dimers of about 30-40%. Neither of these amino acid changes, nor any sequence changes whatsoever, were found in patients with Parkinson's disease or control DNA material of normal populations. Am. J. Med. Genet. (Neuropsychiatr. Genet.) 96:808-813, 2000.
Adenosine deaminase (ADA) plays a relevant role in purine metabolism, immune responses, and peptidase activity, which may be altered in some autistic patients. Codominant ADA1 and ADA2 alleles code for ADA1 and ADA2 allozymes, the most frequent protein isoforms in the general population. Individuals carrying one copy of the ADA2 allele display 15 to 20% lower catalytic activity compared to ADA1 homozygotes. Recent preliminary data suggest that ADA2 alleles may be more frequent among autistic patients than healthy controls. The present study was undertaken to replicate these findings in a new case-control study, to test for linkage/association using a family-based design, and to characterize ADA2-carrying patients by serotonin blood levels, peptiduria, and head circumference. ADA2 alleles were significantly more frequent in 91 Caucasian autistic patients of Italian descent than in 152 unaffected controls (17.6% vs. 7.9%, P = 0.018), as well as among their fathers. Family-based tests involving these 91 singleton families, as well as 44 additional Caucasian-American trios, did not support significant linkage/association. However, the observed preferential maternal transmission of ADA2 alleles, if replicated, may point toward linkage disequilibrium between the ADA2 polymorphism and an imprinted gene variant located in its vicinity. Racial and ethnic differences in ADA allelic distributions, together with the low frequency of the ADA2 allele, may pose methodological problems to future linkage/association studies. Direct assessments of ADA catalytic activity in autistic individuals and unaffected siblings carrying ADA1/ADA1 vs ADA1/ADA2 genotypes may provide stronger evidence of ADA2 contributions to autistic disorder. Am. J. Med. Genet. (Neuropsychiatr. Genet.) 96:784-790, 2000.
The action of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) in the preoptic area is thought to play an important role in producing fever. Pharmacologic evidence suggests that, among the four subtypes of E-series prostaglandin (EP) receptors, i.e., EP(1), EP(2), EP(3), and EP(4), the EP(1) receptor mediates fever responses. In contrast, evidence from mice with EP receptor gene deletions indicates that the EP(3) receptor is required for the initial (&lt;1 hour) fever after intravenous (i.v.) lipopolysaccharide (LPS). To investigate which subtypes of EP receptors mediate systemic infection-induced fever, we assessed the coexpression of Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) and EP(1-4) receptor mRNA in nuclei in the rat hypothalamus that have been shown to be involved in fever responses. Two hours after the administration of i.v. LPS (5 microg/kg), Fos-IR was observed in the ventromedial preoptic nucleus, the median preoptic nucleus, and the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. In these nuclei, EP(4) receptor mRNA was strongly expressed and the Fos-IR intensely colocalized with EP(4) receptor mRNA. Strong EP(3) receptor mRNA expression was only seen within the median preoptic nucleus but Fos-IR showed little coexpression with EP(3) receptor mRNA. EP(2) receptor mRNA was not seen in the PGE(2) sensitive parts of the preoptic area. Although approximately half of the Fos-immunoreactive neurons also expressed EP(1) receptor mRNA, EP(1) mRNA expression was weak and its distribution was so diffuse in the preoptic area that it did not represent a specific relationship. In the paraventricular nucleus, EP(4) mRNA was found in most Fos-immunoreactive neurons and levels of EP(4) receptor expression increased after i.v. LPS. Our findings indicate that neurons expressing EP(4) receptor are activated during LPS-induced fever and suggest the involvement of EP(4) receptors in the production of fever.
We examined the effects of FK506 and its non-immunosuppressive derivative, GPI1046, on H2O2-induced reduction of cell viability and apoptotic cell death in Neuro 2A cells. Our results suggest that the protective properties of GPI1046 against H2O2-induced reduction of cell viability are equipotent with those of FK506 and may be mediated by increased intracellular concentrations of glutathione (GSH). In addition, both FK506 and GPI1046 prevented apoptotic cell death in Neuro 2A cells, although the antiapoptotic effect of FK506 was somewhat stronger than that of GPI1046. These findings suggest that non-immunosuppressive immunophilin ligands such as GPI1046 might be potentially useful in treatment of neurodegenerative diseases without serious side effects such as immune deficiency.
The extent of DNA fragmentation analysed using the TUNEL technique was evaluated in post-mortem human brain tissue. Twenty-four patients with clinical and histopathological diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and a short post-mortem delay were analysed. We report an increase in the count of TUNEL-labelled cells as the pathology of AD intensifies. Our results point out a significant correlation between neurofibrillary tangle and senile/neuritic plaque score and TUNEL-labelled cells. Patients with two copies of apolipoprotein (Apo) Eepsilon4 allele had highest number of histopathological hallmarks lesions of AD, whereas the ApoE genotype did not significantly influence the density of TUNEL-positive cells. No significant correlation was found between beta-amyloid protein load and TUNEL-labelled cells. There was no relationship between the age at death, age at onset, extent of astrogliosis or microgliosis and TUNEL-labelled cells in our material.


The present article is an assessment of the current state of knowledge in the field of cognitive neuroscience of signed language. Reviewed lesion data show that the left hemisphere is dominant for perception and production of signed language in aphasics, in a fashion similar to spoken language aphasia. Several neuropsychological dissociations support this claim: Non-linguistic visuospatial functions can be dissociated from spatial functions and general motor deficits can be dissociated from execution of signs. Reviewed imaging data corroborate the lesion data in that the importance of the left hemisphere is re-confirmed. The data also establish the role of the right hemisphere in signed language processing. Alternative hypotheses regarding what aspects of signed language processing are handled by the right hemisphere are currently tested. The second section of the paper starts by addressing the role that early acquisition of signed and spoken language play for the neurofunctional activation patterns in the brain. Compensatory cognitive and communicative enhancements have also been documented as a function of early sign language use, suggesting an interesting interaction between language and cognition. Recent behavioural data on sign processing in working memory--a cognitive system important for language perception and production suggest e.g. phonological loop effects analogous to those obtained for speech processing. Neuroimaging studies will have to address this potential communality.
This paper presents a cognitive neuroscientific perspective on how human episodic memories are formed. Convergent evidence from multiple brain imaging studies using positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) suggests a role for frontal cortex in episodic memory encoding. Activity levels within frontal cortex can predict episodic memory encoding across a wide range of behavioral manipulations known to influence memory performance, such as those present during levels of processing and divided attention manipulations. Activity levels within specific frontal and medial temporal regions can even predict, on an item by item basis, whether an episodic memory is likely to form. Furthermore, separate frontal regions appear to participate in supplying code-specific information, including distinct regions which process semantic attributes of verbal information as well as right-lateralized regions which process nonverbal information. We hypothesize that activity within these multiple frontal regions provides a functional influence (input) to medical temporal regions that bind the information together into a lasting episodic memory trace.
Neurophysiology/pathophysiology content is a frequent source of anxiety for undergraduate students and their instructors. This learning module supplements traditional lecture and overhead presentations to offer a novel, nonthreatening, and entertaining introduction to neuropathology. The module is based on a ridiculous analogy between the human brain and the cauliflower. This module has been used with both underclassmen and more advanced health science undergraduate students and has produced enthusiastic student responses while deescalating both student and instructor anxiety.


Proteases and their inhibitors play key roles in physiological and pathological processes. Cerebral amyloid plaques are a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). They contain amyloid-ss (Ass) peptides in tight association with the serine protease inhibitor alpha(1)-antichymotrypsin.(1,2) However, it is unknown whether the increased expression of alpha(1)-antichymotrypsin found in AD brains counteracts or contributes to the disease. We used regulatory sequences of the glial fibrillary acidic protein gene(3) to express human alpha(1)-antichymotrypsin (hACT) in astrocytes of transgenic mice. These mice were crossed with transgenic mice that produce human amyloid protein precursors (hAPP) and Ass in neurons.(4,5) No amyloid plaques were found in transgenic mice expressing hACT alone, whereas hAPP transgenic mice and hAPP/hACT doubly transgenic mice developed typical AD-like amyloid plaques in the hippocampus and neocortex around 6 to 8 months of age. Co-expression of hAPP and hACT significantly increased the plaque burden at 7 to 8, 14, and 20 months. Both hAPP and hAPP/hACT mice showed significant decreases in synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals in the dentate gyrus, compared with nontransgenic littermates. Our results demonstrate that hACT acts as an amyloidogenic co-factor in vivo and suggest that the role of hACT in AD is pathogenic.
Secretion of cerebrospinal fluid by the choroid plexus can be inhibited by its cholinergic innervation. We demonstrated that carbachol inhibits the Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase in bovine choroid tissue slices and investigated the mechanism. Many of the actions of cholinergic agents are mediated by nitric oxide (NO), which plays important roles in fluid homeostasis. The inhibition of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase was blocked by the NO synthase inhibitor [N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester] and was quantitatively mimicked by the NO agonists sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and diethylenetriamine NO. Inhibition by SNP correlated with an increase in tissue cGMP and was abolished by 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4, 3-a]quinoxalin-1-one, an inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase. Inhibition was mimicked by the protein kinase G activator 8-bromo-cGMP and by okadaic acid, an inhibitor of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A. cGMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitors Rp-8-pCPT-cGMP (0.5-5 microM) and KT-5823 (2.0 microM) did not block the effects of SNP, but higher concentrations of the more selective inhibitor (Rp-8-pCPT-cGMP) had a pharmacological inhibitory effect on Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase. The data suggest that cholinergic regulation of the Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase is mediated by NO and involves activation of guanylate cyclase and elevation of cGMP.
Focal mechanical stimulation of single neonatal mouse cardiac myocytes in culture induced intercellular Ca(2+) waves that propagated with mean velocities of approximately 14 micrometer/s, reaching approximately 80% of the cells in the field. Deletion of connexin43 (Cx43), the main cardiac gap junction channel protein, did not prevent communication of mechanically induced Ca(2+) waves, although the velocity and number of cells communicated by the Ca(2+) signal were significantly reduced. Similar effects were observed in wild-type cardiac myocytes treated with heptanol, a gap junction channel blocker. Fewer cells were involved in intercellular Ca(2+) signaling in both wild-type and Cx43-null cultures in the presence of suramin, a P(2)-receptor blocker; blockage was more effective in Cx43-null than in wild-type cells. Thus gap junction channels provide the main pathway for communication of slow intercellular Ca(2+) signals in wild-type neonatal mouse cardiac myocytes. Activation of P(2)-receptors induced by ATP release contributes a secondary, extracellular pathway for transmission of Ca(2+) signals. The importance of such ATP-mediated Ca(2+) signaling would be expected to be enhanced under ischemic conditions, when release of ATP is increased and gap junction channels conductance is significantly reduced.
Injection of sarthran, an angiotensin receptor antagonist, bilaterally into the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) of alpha-chloralose-anesthetized rats decreases arterial pressure (AP) to the same extent as total autonomic blockade. This response is not reproduced by selective AT(1) antagonists. To examine the pharmacological profile of the response elicited by [Sar(1), Thr(8)]ANG II (sarthran), the ability of angiotensin analogs to inhibit the effect of sarthran injected into the RVLM was tested. Coinjection of angiotensin II (ANG II) prevented the sarthran-evoked decrease in AP, but this action of ANG II was markedly attenuated by pretreatment of the RVLM with the aminopeptidase inhibitor amastatin. Coinjection of ANG(3-8) or a selective agonist of AT(4) receptors prevented the effect of sarthran injected into the RVLM. ANG(1-7) was also able to prevent the effect of sarthran. None of the angiotensin fragments tested substantially altered blood pressure when injected alone into the RVLM. These results suggest that the depressor action of sarthran injected into the RVLM is not dependent on ANG II receptors, though the nature of the site or sites of action of sarthran within the RVLM remains uncertain.

Cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (CDK5) is a serine-threonine protein kinase that has been implicated in a number of physiological processes in nerve and muscle cells, including neurogenesis, neuritic outgrowth, axonal transport of membrane-bound organelles and myogenesis. CDK5 has also been shown to phosphorylate the important cytoskeletal proteins, neurofilament and tau, both in vitro and in cells. The latter has prompted study into the potential role of CDK5 in the hyperphosphorylation of these proteins as part of the neuropathology seen in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and other neurodegenerative diseases. More recently, increasing evidence has suggested a role for CDK5 in cellular apoptosis. Apoptosis has been implicated as the final common pathway of cell death in a number of neurodegenerative diseases including ALS. This article sets out to review the physiological and pathological roles ascribed to CDK5 and the possible relevance thereof to the pathogenesis of ALS.
The concept of the primate motor cortex based on the cytoarchitectonic subdivision into areas 4 and 6 according to Brodmann or the functional subdivision into primary motor, supplementary motor, and lateral premotor cortex has changed in recent years. Instead, this cortical region is now regarded as a complex mosaic of different areas. This review article gives an overview of the structure and function of the isocortical part of the motor cortex in the macaque and human brain. In the macaque monkey, the primary motor cortex (Brodmann's area 4 or area F1) with its giant pyramidal or Betz cells lies immediately anterior to the central sulcus. The non-primary motor cortex (Brodmann's area 6) lies further rostrally and can be subdivided into three groups of areas: the supplementary motor areas &quot;SMA proper&quot; (area F3) and &quot;pre-SMA&quot; (area F6) on the mesial cortical surface, the dorsolateral premotor cortex (areas F2 and F7) on the dorsolateral convexity, and the ventrolateral premotor cortex (areas F4 and F5) on the ventrolateral convexity. The primary motor cortex is mainly involved in controlling kinematic and dynamic parameters of voluntary movements, whereas non-primary motor areas are more related to preparing voluntary movements in response to a variety of internal or external cues. Since a structural map of the human isocortical motor system as detailed as in the macaque is not yet available, homologies between the two species have not been firmly established. There is increasing evidence, however, that a similar organizational principle (i.e., primary motor cortex, supplementary motor areas, dorso- and ventrolateral premotor cortex) also exists in humans. Imaging studies have revealed that functional gradients can be discerned within the human non-primary motor cortex. More rostral cortical regions are active when a motor task is nonroutine, whereas more routine motor actions engage more caudal areas.

As multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is a potentially treatable disorder, its differentiation from lower motor neuron disease is important. Evidence of conduction block (CB) is considered one of the relevant criteria for the diagnosis of MMN. Strict criteria for CB may lead to underdiagnosis of MMN, however. Using a standardized examination, we studied the clinical, laboratory, and electrophysiological characteristics of 37 patients presenting with a lower motor neuron disorder and electrophysiological features compatible with segmental demyelination. We propose a set of clinical, laboratory, and electrophysiological criteria for the diagnosis of MMN, which has been verified by follow-up and response to treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins. Based on the clinical, laboratory, and electrodiagnostic features, 21 patients were diagnosed with definite MMN (17 responders), 7 were diagnosed with probable MMN (5 responders), and 9 were diagnosed with possible MMN (1 responder). Age at onset, the number of affected limb regions, and the number of patients with a creatine kinase level greater than 180 U/L were significantly lower in responders than in nonresponders. Elevated anti-GM1 antibodies and definite CB were found significantly more often in responders. The proposed diagnostic criteria may be useful in clinical practice and therapeutic trials.
Axonal degeneration has been proposed as a cause of irreversible neurological disability in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. The purpose of this study was to quantify axonal loss in spinal cord lesions from 5 paralyzed (Expanded Disability Status Scale score &gt; or =7.5) MS patients and to determine if axonal number or volume correlated with levels of the neuronal marker N-acetyl aspartate (NAA). Axonal loss in MS lesions ranged from 45 to 84% and averaged 68%. NAA levels were significantly reduced (&gt;50%) in cross sections of spinal cords containing MS lesions. Reduced NAA correlated with reduced axonal numbers within lesion areas. In addition, NAA levels per axonal volume were significantly reduced in demyelinated axons (42%) and in myelinated axons in normal-appearing white matter (30%). The data support axonal loss as a major cause of irreversible neurological disability in paralyzed MS patients and indicate that reduced NAA as measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy can reflect axonal loss and reduced NAA levels in demyelinated and myelinated axons.
Recently, mutations within the tau gene have been associated with some familial forms of frontotemporal dementia. To investigate whether tau gene mutations are also associated with Pick's disease, we analyzed the tau gene in 30 cases of pathologically confirmed Pick's disease. Two coding mutations were identified in separate cases of Pick's disease. A glycine-to-arginine mutation at codon 389 was detected in 1 case and a lysine-to-threonine mutation at codon 257 was identified in another. Analysis of dephosphorylated tau from the brain of the patient with the codon 389 mutation revealed a prominent band representing tau, with four microtubule-binding domains and no amino terminal inserts. This is in contrast to Pick's disease without any tau gene mutations, which consist of tau with mainly three microtubule-binding domains and only a trace of tau, with four microtubule-binding domains. Functional analysis of tau with these two mutations demonstrated a reduced ability of tau to promote microtubule assembly. Surprisingly, these mutations increased tau's susceptibility to calpain I digestion, suggesting that this feature may be related to the formation of a Pick type of histology. Moreover, these data suggest that Pick's disease is not a separate entity but part of the frontotemporal dementia disease spectrum.
Seventeen otherwise healthy, non-smoking patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 11 healthy, non-smoking, age-matched controls participated in a study of vascular reactivity. Three substances were iontophoresed into the skin: sodium nitroprusside (SNP) delivered at the cathode, and acetylcholine chloride and isoprenaline sulphate delivered at the anode. The resultant vasodilation was mapped through a laser Doppler perfusion imager. The patients harbouring the Apolipoprotein E varepsilon4 allele (ApoE4) (n=9) showed significantly greater vasodilation compared both with patients without the ApoE4 and with controls (one control possessed the ApoE4) when SNP was delivered at the cathode. An additional study of ten of the AD patients and ten controls suggested that the enhanced reactivity in the patients with the ApoE4 depended on a greater sensitivity to the iontophoretic current itself at the cathode rather than to SNP. The quotient between total cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol was higher in the patients with the ApoE4 compared both with patients without the ApoE4 and with controls. A dysfunction of voltage-dependent ion channels and/or other membrane abnormalities in AD patients possessing the ApoE4 is suggested.

Across Canada there has been an increasing incidence of positional occipital flattening. This increase appears to be related to the recent change in infant sleep position to supine. In this paper, two patterns of positional occipital flattening, positional plagiocephaly and positional brachycephaly, are outlined. While there is no evidence of long-term developmental or neurological problems that result from positional occipital flattening, the infant's appearance can be distressing to parents who will then seek treatment. Prevention of positional occipital flattening requires a community approach with timely screening and early intervention should the infant's skull appear flat. Treatment involves repositioning the infant coupled with physiotherapy if there is neck muscle involvement. Should repositioning alone be ineffective, a helmet or headband program may be implemented. Neuroscience nurses can work in partnership with the community to ensure prevention strategies are implemented and timely interventions initiated.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is rare in childhood but may occur more frequently than originally believed. In light of the complex nature of MS, the expanding availability of new MS treatments, and the developmental needs of pediatric patients, multidisciplinary care of pediatric patients with MS is a necessity. Our review of MS in childhood aims to increase the awareness of neuroscience nurses about MS in children and adolescents, and to expand the knowledge of pediatric nurses concerning this &quot;adult&quot; disease. Our experience in developing a multidisciplinary pediatric MS clinic that addresses both health and developmental needs of children with MS is presented and discussed. The nurse's role in the care of these children and their families through assessment, support, education, advocacy, referral and coordination of care is emphasized.
The mission of the Brain Tumor Foundation of Canada is to fund brain tumor research, to provide patient and family support services, and to educate the public. The focus of this paper is on the role of support groups. Support groups are an important resource to support individuals with brain tumors and their families. There is an ongoing need for qualified professionals to act as facilitators for these groups. Neuroscience nurses are uniquely qualified for this role.
Several theories claim that dreaming is a random by-product of REM sleep physiology and that it does not serve any natural function. Phenomenal dream content, however, is not as disorganized as such views imply. The form and content of dreams is not random but organized and selective: during dreaming, the brain constructs a complex model of the world in which certain types of elements, when compared to waking life, are underrepresented whereas others are over represented. Furthermore, dream content is consistently and powerfully modulated by certain types of waking experiences. On the basis of this evidence, I put forward the hypothesis that the biological function of dreaming is to simulate threatening events, and to rehearse threat perception and threat avoidance. To evaluate this hypothesis, we need to consider the original evolutionary context of dreaming and the possible traces it has left in the dream content of the present human population. In the ancestral environment human life was short and full of threats. Any behavioral advantage in dealing with highly dangerous events would have increased the probability of reproductive success. A dream-production mechanism that tends to select threatening waking events and simulate them over and over again in various combinations would have been valuable for the development and maintenance of threat-avoidance skills. Empirical evidence from normative dream content, children's dreams, recurrent dreams, nightmares, post traumatic dreams, and the dreams of hunter-gatherers indicates that our dream-production mechanisms are in fact specialized in the simulation of threatening events, and thus provides support to the threat simulation hypothesis of the function of dreaming.
Sleep researchers in different disciplines disagree about how fully dreaming can be explained in terms of brain physiology. Debate has focused on whether REM sleep dreaming is qualitatively different from nonREM (NREM) sleep and waking. A review of psychophysiological studies shows clear quantitative differences between REM and NREM mentation and between REM and waking mentation. Recent neuroimaging and neurophysiological studies also differentiate REM, NREM, and waking in features with phenomenological implications. Both evidence and theory suggest that there are isomorphisms between the phenomenology and the physiology of dreams. We present a three-dimensional model with specific examples from normally and abnormally changing conscious states.
Rats selected on the basis of their apomorphine susceptibility or on the basis of their response to novelty were used to investigate the role of mesolimbic adrenoceptors in the retrieval of spatial information in the water maze task. Apomorphine-susceptible rats and high responders to novelty (HR) showed a relatively bad retrieval during the 1st trial of the 2nd day compared with apomorphine-unsusceptible rats and low responders to novelty (LR). Intra-accumbens injections of different doses of the beta-agonist isoproterenol, given just before that trial, disrupted the retrieval in LR rats but not in HR rats. The beta-antagonist propranolol, which itself did not have any direct effect, inhibited the effect of isoproterenol in LR rats. The effect of isoproterenol in LR rats was not modified by alpha-agents. It is concluded that the beta-adrenergic, but not alpha-adrenergic, activity in the nucleus accumbens directs the individual-specific ability to retrieve spatial information under stressful conditions.
Previous studies have implicated 2 cortical regions interconnected with the hippocampal formation, the retrosplenial cortex (RSC) and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), as loci important for the acquisition of hippocampally dependent trace eyeblink conditioning. These loci have also been proposed to serve as long-term storage sites of task critical information. This study used lesions made prior to training to investigate the roles of the RSC, as well as the caudal and rostral subdivisions of the mPFC, in the acquisition and subsequent extinction of trace eyeblink conditioning in the rabbit. The caudal mPFC and rostral mPFC were shown to be critical for acquisition and extinction of the conditioned reflex, respectively. The data indicate that the RSC is not critical for acquisition or extinction of the trace conditioned reflex.
The electrical and pharmacological properties of protein kinase C (PKC) and its effect on the single Ca2+-activated K+ channel (Kca-channel) in the cultured smooth muscle cells of rat mesenteric artery were studied using a patch-clamp technique. The Kca-channel had a slope conductance of 151+/-7 pS (mean+/-S.E.) in symmetrical 142 mm K solutions. The high conductance K+ channel, applied to the outer side of membrane patches, was potently inhibited by charybdotoxin (0.1 microM) and tetraethylammonium (0.5 microM), but not by apamin (0.4 microM). In cell-attached patches, bath application of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA, 2 microM), a PKC activator, inhibited the activity of the Kca-channel in the presence of the Ca2+ ionophore, A 23187 (10 microM). This inhibition was reversed by subsequent application of staurosporine (1 nM), a PKC inhibitor. Application of 1-oleoyl-2-acetylglycerol (OAG, 30 microM), another PKC activator, also inhibited the A 23187-induced activation of the K+ channel, and this inhibition was reversed by staurosporine. In inside-out patches, bath application of PKC (0.2 munits), in the presence of ATP (1 mM) and PMA (1 microM), inhibited the K+ channel. These results indicate that protein kinase C inhibits the Ca2+-activated K+ channel of mesenteric artery smooth muscle cells in the rat.
Undernutrition has well-established effects on female reproduction. Here we describe the effects of food restriction on aspects of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis in the female musk shrew. We determined that acute re-feeding reverses deficits brought on by food restriction. Two days of food restriction led to an increase in proGnRH immunoreactive cells in the preoptic area relative to ad libitum-fed controls (AL). This increase was reversed by 90 min of ad libitum feeding in the re-fed females (RF). In addition, food-restricted (FR) females had significantly greater GnRH content in the median eminence than either the AL or RF females. After GnRH was administered, the majority of females in all food conditions ovulated, yet the FR females had significantly fewer corpora lutea than either the AL or RF animals. These data show that food restriction impairs HPG axis function in female musk shrews, and that some of these impairments can be rapidly reversed by acute re-feeding.
Mutations in the human TPM3 gene encoding gamma-tropomyosin (alpha-tropomyosin-slow) expressed in slow skeletal muscle fibers cause nemaline myopathy. Nemaline myopathy is a rare, clinically heterogeneous congenital skeletal muscle disease with associated muscle weakness, characterized by the presence of nemaline rods in muscle fibers. In one missense mutation the codon corresponding to Met-8, a highly conserved residue, is changed to Arg. Here, a rat fast alpha-tropomyosin cDNA with the Met8Arg mutation was expressed in Escherichia coli to investigate the effect of the mutation on in vitro function. The Met8Arg mutation reduces tropomyosin affinity for regulated actin 30- to 100-fold. Ca(2+)-sensitive regulatory function is retained, although activation of the actomyosin S1 ATPase in the presence of Ca(2+) is reduced. The poor activation may reflect weakened actin affinity or reduced effectiveness in switching the thin filament to the open, force-producing state. The presence of the Met8Arg mutation severely, but locally, destabilizes the tropomyosin coiled coil in a model peptide, and would be expected to impair end-to-end association between TMs on the thin filament. In muscle, the mutation may alter thin filament assembly consequent to lower actin affinity and altered binding of the N-terminus to tropomodulin at the pointed end of the filament. The mutation may also reduce force generation during activation.
Intercellular channels formed of members of the gene family of connexins (Cxs) vary from being substantially cation selective to being anion selective. We took advantage of the ability of Cx46 to function as an unopposed hemichannel to examine the basis of Cx charge selectivity. Previously we showed Cx46 hemichannels to be large pores that predominantly conduct cations and inwardly rectify in symmetric salts, properties suggesting selectivity is influenced by fixed negative charges located toward the extracellular end of the pore. Here we demonstrate that high ionic strength solutions applied to the extracellular, but not the intracellular, side of Cx46 hemichannels substantially reduce the ratio of cation to anion permeability. Substitution of the first extracellular loop (E1) domain of Cx32, an anion-preferring Cx, reduces conductance, converts Cx46 from cation to anion preferring, and changes the I-V relation form inwardly to outwardly rectifying. These data suggest that fixed negative charges influencing selectivity in Cx46 are located in E1 and are substantially reduced and/or are replaced with positive charges from the Cx32 E1 sequence. Extending studies to Cx46 cell-cell channels, we show that they maintain a strong preference for cations, have a conductance nearly that expected by the series addition of hemichannels, but lack rectification in symmetric salts. These properties are consistent with preservation of the fixed charge region in E1 of hemichannels, which upon docking, become symmetrically placed near the center of the cell-cell channel pore. Furthermore, heterotypic cell-cell channels formed by pairing Cx46 with Cx32 or Cx43 rectify in symmetric salts in accordance with the differences in the charges we ascribed to E1. These data are consistent with charged residues in E1 facing the channel lumen and playing an important role in determining Cx channel conductance and selectivity.
We have used UV flash photolysis of DM-nitrophen in combination with model-based analysis of Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-5N fluorescence transients to study the kinetics of Ca(2+) binding to calbindin-D(28K). The experiments used saturated DM-nitrophen at a [Ca(2+)] of 1.5 microM. Under these conditions, UV laser flashes produced rapid steplike increases in [Ca(2+)] in the absence of calbindin-D(28K), and in its presence the decay of the flash-induced fluorescence was due solely to the Ca(2+) buffering by the protein. We developed a novel method for kinetic parameter derivation and used the synthetic Ca(2+) buffer EGTA to confirm its validity. We provide evidence that calbindin-D(28K) binds Ca(2+) in at least two distinct kinetic patterns, one arising from high-affinity sites that bind Ca(2+) with a k(on) comparable to that of EGTA (i.e., approximately 1 x 10(7) M(-1) s(-1)) and another with lower affinity and an approximately eightfold faster k(on). In view of the inability of conventional approaches to adequately resolve rapid Ca(2+) binding kinetics of Ca(2+) buffers, this method promises to be highly valuable for studying the Ca(2+) binding properties of other biologically important Ca(2+) binding proteins.
Thrombin is primarily known for its role in homeostasis and thrombosis. However, this enzyme also plays important roles in wound healing and pathologic situations such as inflammation and tumorigenesis. Among the molecules stimulated by thrombin in these latter processes are the stress response proteins, chemokines. Chemokines are also known for their roles in inflammatory responses and tumor development. These correlative observations strongly suggest that chemokines may be mediators of some of thrombin's functions in these processes. Elucidation of the molecular mechanisms of stimulation of chemokines by thrombin may help to unravel the ways in which their expression can be modulated. Up-regulation of the chemokine 9E3/cCAF by thrombin occurs via its proteolytically activated receptor with subsequent transactivation of the epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase. This study shows that stimulation by thrombin very rapidly activates this chemokine at the transcriptional level, that 2 Elk1 binding elements located between -534 and -483 bp of the promoter are major thrombin response elements, that activation occurs via the Elk1 transcription factor, and that the latter is directly activated by MEK1/ERK2. The common occurrence of Elk1 binding domains in the promoters of immediate early response genes suggests that it may be characteristically involved in gene activation by stress-inducing agents. (Blood. 2000;96:3696-3706)
The availability of magnetic resonance imaging has greatly increased the detection of cavernous malformations of the central nervous system in both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. These lesions may be responsible for previously unexplained neurological events or may even have been incorrectly diagnosed. We describe a patient presenting with focal neurological signs in whom an initial diagnosis of malignant glioma had been made. Following excision, the pathological diagnosis was cavernoma. This vascular lesion has continued to show rapid growth and aggressive behaviour despite multiple surgical resections. The indications for operative and non-operative intervention will be discussed.
Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) is strongly expressed in glioma and has an important role in tumour blood flow (TBF) regulation. Whether manipulation of NOS function within a tumour can have any therapeutic effect is unknown. This study therefore evaluated the pathophysiological effects of chronic systemic NOS inhibition on experimental rodent glioma blood flow, growth and necrosis. To determine the duration and pathophysiological effects of systemic NOS inhibition, Ng-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) was given to rats bearing C6 glioma acutely (single dose i.v., 30 mg kg) or for either 4 or 7 days (i.p. 75 mg kg day) prior to study. TBF and local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) were measured using C14-iodoantipyrine quantitative autoradiography. Tumour volume, tumoural necrosis and tumoural NOS were measured using conventional neuropathology and immunocytochemistry. Acute and 4-day L-NAME administration produced significant TBF reductions (-48 and -39%, respectively) with less marked changes in LCBF (-35 and -15%, respectively). Seven-day L-NAME administration reduced tumour volume (p = 0.12), increased tumoural necrosis (p &lt; 0.05), but immunohistochemistry showed no difference in tumoural NOS expression. These results confirm that NOS has a significant role in the pathophysiology of experimental glioma, and that in this glioma model the effects of chronic systemic NOS inhibition are, for the period under study, predominately anti-tumoural. Whether chronic NOS inhibition is useful as an adjunct in glioma therapy or provides the opportunity for novel therapeutic approaches requires further study.
We compared the modulation of synaptic transmission by adenosine A(1) receptors in the hippocampus of aged (24 months) and young adult rats (6 weeks). The adenosine A(1) receptor agonist, N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine, was less potent (P:&lt;0.05) to inhibit synaptic transmission in aged (EC(50)=53 nM) than young adult (EC(50)=14 nM) hippocampal slices, these effects being prevented by the A(1) receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX). In contrast with the lower effect of the A(1) receptor agonist, it was observed that blockade of A(1) receptors with DPCPX (50 nM), or removal of endogenous extracellular adenosine with adenosine deaminase (2 u ml(-1)), caused a more pronounced disinhibition of synaptic transmission in aged rats. Also consistent with a more intense A(1) receptor-mediated inhibitory tonus by endogenous adenosine in aged rats was the finding that to fully prevent the depression of synaptic transmission induced by 3 min hypoxia, a higher concentration of DPCPX was required in slices from aged (100 nM) than from young (50 nM) rats. It is concluded that in hippocampal slices of aged rats the efficiency of A(1) receptors to modulate synaptic transmission is reduced, but this may be compensated by an enhanced inhibitory tonus by endogenous adenosine.
1. The cardiovascular effects by gamma(2)-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (gamma(2)-MSH) are probably not due to any of the well-known melanocortin subtype receptors. We hypothesize that the receptor for Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-amide (FMRFa) or Phe-Leu-Phe-Gln-Pro-Gln-Arg-Phe-amide (neuropeptide FF; NPFFa), other Arg-Phe containing peptides, is the candidate receptor. Therefore, we studied various Arg-Phe containing peptides to compare their haemodynamic profile with that of gamma(2)-MSH(6 - 12), the most potent fragment of gamma(2)-MSH. 2. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) changes were measured in conscious rats after intravenous administration of gamma(2)-MSH related peptides. 3. Phe-Arg-Trp-Asp-Arg-Phe-Gly (gamma(2)-MSH(6 - 12)), FMRFa, NPFFa, Met-enkephalin-Arg-Phe-amide (MERFa), Arg-Phe-amide (RFa), acetyl-Phe-norLeu-Arg-Phe-amide (acFnLRFa) and desamino-Tyr-Phe-norLeu-Arg-Phe-amide (daYFnLRFa) caused a dose-dependent increase in MAP and HR. gamma(2)-MSH(6 - 12) showed the most potent cardiovascular effects (ED(50)=12 nmol kg(-1) for delta MAP; 7 nmol kg(-1) for delta HR), as compared to the other Arg-Phe containing peptides (ED(50)=177 - 292 nmol kg(-1) for delta MAP; 130 - 260 nmol kg(-1) for delta HR). 4. Peptides, which lack the C-terminal Arg-Phe sequence (Lys-Tyr-Val-Met-Gly-His-Phe-Arg-Trp-Asp-Arg-Pro-Gly (gamma(2)-pro(11)-MSH), desamino-Tyr-Phe-norLeu-Arg-[L-1,2,3,4 tetrahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid]-amide (daYFnLR[TIC]a) and Met-enkephalin (ME)), were devoid of cardiovascular actions. 5. The results indicate that the baroreceptor reflex-mediated reduction of tonic sympathetic activity due to pressor effects is inhibited by gamma(2)-MSH(6 - 12) and that its cardiovascular effects are dependent on the presence of a C-terminal Arg-Phe sequence. 6. It is suggested that the FMRFa/NPFFa receptor is the likely candidate receptor, involved in these cardiovascular effects.
1. The metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are a family of G-protein linked receptors that can be divided into three groups (group I, II and III). A number of studies have implicated group I mGluR activation in acute neuronal injury, but until recently it was not possible to pharmacologically differentiate the roles of the two individual subunits (mGluR1 and mGluR5) in this group. 2. We investigated the role of mGluR5 in acute NMDA and glutamate mediated neurodegeneration in cultured rat cortical cells using the mGluR5 antagonists MPEP and SIB-1893, and found that they provide significant protection at concentrations of 20 or 200 microM. 3. These compounds act as effective mGluR5 antagonists in our cell culture system, as indicated by the ability of SIB-1893 to prevent phosphoinositol hydrolysis induced by the specific mGluR5 agonist, (RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG). 4. However, they also significantly reduce NMDA evoked current recorded from whole cells voltage clamped at -60 mV, and significantly decrease the duration of opening of NMDA channels recorded in the outside out patch configuration. 5. This suggests that although MPEP and SIB-1893 are effective mGluR5 antagonists, they also act as noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists. Therefore, the neuroprotective effects of these compounds are most likely mediated through their NMDA receptor antagonist action, and caution should be exercised when drawing conclusions about the roles of mGluR5 based on their use.
1. Our previous studies have identified a role for annexin 1 as a mediator of glucocorticoid action in the neuroendocrine system. The present study centred on growth hormone (GH) and exploited antisense and immunoneutralization strategies to examine in vitro the potential role of annexin 1 in effecting the regulatory actions of glucocorticoids on the secretion of this pituitary hormone. 2. Rat anterior pituitary tissue responded in vitro to growth hormone releasing hormone, forskolin, 8-Bromo-cyclic adenosine 3'5'-monophosphate (8-Br-cyclic AMP) and an L-Ca(2+) channel opener (BAY K8644) with concentration-dependent increases GH release which were readily inhibited by corticosterone and dexamethasone. 3. The inhibitory actions of the steroids on GH release elicited by the above secretagogues were effectively reversed by an annexin 1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN), but not by control (sense or scrambled) ODNs, as also were the glucocorticoid-induced increases in annexin 1. Similarly, a specific anti-annexin 1 monoclonal antibody quenched the corticosterone-induced suppression of secretagogue-evoked GH release while an isotype matched control antibody was without effect. 4. Transmission electron micrographs showed that the integrity and ultrastructural morphology of the pituitary cells were well preserved at the end of the incubation and unaffected by exposure to the ODNs, antibodies, steroids or secretagogues. 5. The results provide novel evidence for a role for annexin 1 as a mediator of the inhibitory actions of glucocorticoids on the secretion of GH by the anterior pituitary gland and suggest that its actions are effected at a point distal to the formation of cyclic AMP and Ca(2+) entry.
Recent neuropsychological and imaging data have implicated different brain networks in the processing of different word classes, nouns being linked primarily to posterior, visual object-processing regions and verbs to frontal, motor-processing areas. However, as most of these studies have examined words in isolation, the consequences of such anatomically based representational differences, if any, for the processing of these items in sentences remains unclear. Additionally, in some languages many words (e.g. 'drink') are class-ambiguous, i.e. they can play either role depending on context, and it is not yet known how the brain stores and uses information associated with such lexical items in context. We examined these issues by recording event-related potentials (ERPs) in response to unambiguous nouns (e.g. 'beer'), unambiguous verbs (e. g. 'eat'), class-ambiguous words and pseudowords used as nouns or verbs within two types of minimally contrastive sentence contexts: noun-predicting (e.g. 'John wanted THE [target] but.') and verb-predicting ('John wanted TO [target] but.'). Our results indicate that the nature of neural processing for nouns and verbs is a function of both the type of stimulus and the role it is playing. Even when the context completely specifies their role, word class-ambiguous items differ from unambiguous ones over frontal regions by approximately 150 ms. Moreover, whereas pseudowords elicit larger N400s when used as verbs than when used as nouns, unambiguous nouns and ambiguous words used as nouns elicit more frontocentral negativity than unambiguous verbs and ambiguous words used as verbs, respectively. Additionally, unambiguous verbs elicit a left-lateralized, anterior positivity (approximately 200 ms) not observed for any other stimulus type, though only when these items are used appropriately as verbs (i.e. in verb-predicting contexts). In summary, the pattern of neural activity observed in response to lexical items depends on their general probability of being a verb or a noun and on the particular role they are playing in any given sentence. This implicates more than a simple two-way distinction of the brain networks involved in their storage and processing. Experience, as well as context during on-line language processing, clearly shapes the neural representations of nouns and verbs, such that there is no single neural marker of word class. Our results further suggest that the presence and nature of the word class-based dissociations observed after brain damage are similarly likely to be a function of both the type of stimulus and the context in which it occurs, and thus must be assessed accordingly.
In order to study the role of the corpus callosum in two-handed coordination we tested callosotomy subjects while they attempted to initiate simultaneous discrete movements with both hands. We observed four split-brain patients, including one pre- and post-operatively, as well as normal and epileptic control subjects. Split-brain patients made button presses that were less synchronous than either normal or epileptic controls. Although split-brain patients' average performance did not always differ from control subjects, callosotomy resulted in a 3-fold increase in the variability with which 'simultaneous' movements were initiated. The one subject tested pre- and post-callosotomy showed distinct changes in movement initiation synchrony after both the anterior and the posterior stages of the surgery. These changes suggest that anterior and posterior callosal fibres may make unique contributions to bimanual synchronization, depending on whether responses are self-initiated or in reaction to a visual stimulus. This study demonstrates that neural communication across anterior and posterior fibres of the corpus callosum strongly influences the temporal precision of bimanual coordination. Specifically, callosal transmission affects the degree of bilateral synchrony with which simple simultaneous hand and finger movements are initiated.
Children who have suffered extensive unilateral brain injury early in life may show a remarkable degree of residual sensorimotor function. It is generally believed that this reflects the high capacity of the immature brain for cerebral reorganization. In this study, we investigated 17 patients who had undergone hemispherectomy for relief from seizures; eight of the patients had congenital brain damage and nine had sustained their initial insult at the age of 1 year or older. Sensorimotor functions of the hand were investigated using functional MRI (fMRI) during a passive movement task, somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) arising from electrical and vibration stimulation, and behavioural tests including grip strength, double simultaneous stimulation and joint position sense. On fMRI, two of the eight patients studied with this technique (one with congenital damage and one with damage acquired at the age of 3 years) showed activation in the sensorimotor cortex of the remaining hemisphere with passive movement of the hemiplegic hand. The location of the ipsilateral brain activation was similar to that found on movement of the normal contralateral hand, although the latter was greater in spatial extent. In one of these patients, a greater role was demonstrated for the ipsilateral secondary sensorimotor area (compared with the ipsilateral primary sensorimotor area) for movement of the hemiplegic hand than for movement of the normal hand. Median nerve stimulation of the hemiplegic hand showed reproducible early-latency ipsilateral SEP components in the remaining sensorimotor cortex in 10 of the 17 patients (five with congenital and five with acquired disease). Five of the patients who demonstrated ipsilateral electrical SEPs also showed ipsilateral vibration SEPs (two with congenital and three with acquired disease). The behavioural tests revealed residual sensorimotor function in 14 of the patients; however, not all of the patients who exhibited ipsilateral SEP or fMRI responses had residual sensorimotor function in the hemiplegic hand. Ipsilateral sensorimotor responses were demonstrated both in patients with congenital disease and those with acquired disease, suggesting that factors additional to aetiology and age at injury may influence the degree of residual sensorimotor function and cerebral reorganization.
It has been proposed that the identification of sounds, including species-specific vocalizations, by primates depends on anterior projections from the primary auditory cortex, an auditory pathway analogous to the ventral route proposed for the visual identification of objects. We have identified a similar route in the human for understanding intelligible speech. Using PET imaging to identify separable neural subsystems within the human auditory cortex, we used a variety of speech and speech-like stimuli with equivalent acoustic complexity but varying intelligibility. We have demonstrated that the left superior temporal sulcus responds to the presence of phonetic information, but its anterior part only responds if the stimulus is also intelligible. This novel observation demonstrates a left anterior temporal pathway for speech comprehension.
The interfering effect of an unattended stimulus on processing of an attended item was studied in a single split-brain participant (LB) and in normal controls. Pairs of letters were presented to the left visual field (LVF), right visual field (RVF), or bilaterally. Participants attended to the rightmost letter while attempting to ignore the leftmost letter. Responses associated with the attended and to-be-ignored letters could be compatible or incompatible. Manual response latencies were generally slower on Response Incompatible compared to Response Compatible trials. Notably, LB displayed this effect on Bilateral trials, where target and distractor were presented to opposite visual fields. LB was unable to perform a same-different matching task with bilateral letter stimuli, but was able to name bilateral letters accurately. Hence, in the bilateral condition, the ability to cross-compare letters was dissociated from attentional interference and from letter naming. Implications of these findings are discussed.
Free-viewing chimeric stimuli tasks have been used in a number of studies to assess perceptual asymmetries and draw inferences about hemispheric lateralization in children and adults. In order to determine whether perceptual asymmetries for nonverbal information are present in children, a free-viewing chimeric stimuli task was used in 63 normally developing 6- through 16-year-old children. Stimuli included affect (happy faces), gender, quantity, and shape. An overall left hemispace (LHS) advantage was present by 6 years of age. This LHS preference was more prominent by age 10 and then plateaued. No preference for shape was detected at any of the age ranges studied. These results suggest that perceptual asymmetries for visual stimuli develop during childhood and appear to reach a plateau by age 10. The observed specificity for certain types of nonverbal stimuli should be taken into account in future studies of perceptual asymmetry in both normal and neurologically impaired children.
An extinction-like effect in normal subjects was previously elicited when a low-salience target in the left was simultaneously presented with a highly salient distractor in the right visual hemifield, but not vice versa (Pollmann, 1996). We investigated in four experiments whether this extinction-like effect depends on (a) explicit localization and (b) response competition. It was found that the extinction-like effect could be replicated in the absence of both. In contradistinction to our previous results, low-salience distractors had no effect on pop-out target search. This showed that explicit spatial localization demands lead to low-salience distractor interference on pop-out search.
Tuberculous meningitis (TBM) remains the most common form of neurotuberculosis in children. Four hundred and five cases of tuberculous meningitis (ages 3-156 months) seen at the Philippine Children's Medical Center (PCMC) from 1987 to 1998 were reviewed. Inclusion criteria include clinical and laboratory profile of TBM with pertinent evidence on imaging such as computed tomography and/or cranial sonography or histologic evidence of TBM. Nearly half of the cases were below age 2. The most common neurologic findings were altered sensorium, neck rigidity, motor and cranial deficits. The mortality rate was 16%. The neuropathologic findings in 31 autopsied cases were basal exudates in 100%, hydrocephalus in 71%, caseation necrosis in 68%, and 35% with infarcts. The most important determinant of outcome is the stage of illness at which the diagnosis is made and appropriate treatment is given. Although computed tomography was more definitive, cranial sonography was a very useful diagnostic tool considering the frequent occurrence below age 2. A short course (6 months) anti-tuberculous therapy for neurotuberculosis was shown to be adequate; shunting of cases with hydrocephalus did not show definite benefit.
The functional specificity of different brain regions recruited in auditory language processing was investigated by means of event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while subjects listened to speech input varying in the presence or absence of semantic and syntactic information. There were two sentence conditions containing syntactic structure, i.e., normal speech (consisting of function and content words), syntactic speech (consisting of function words and pseudowords), and two word-list conditions, i.e., real words and pseudowords. The processing of auditory language, in general, correlates with significant activation in the primary auditory cortices and in adjacent compartments of the superior temporal gyrus bilaterally. Processing of normal speech appeared to have a special status, as no frontal activation was observed in this case but was seen in the other three conditions. This difference may point toward a certain automaticity of the linguistic processes used during normal speech comprehension. When considering the three other conditions, we found that these were correlated with activation in both left and right frontal cortices. An increase of activation in the planum polare bilaterally and in the deep portion of the left frontal operculum was found exclusively when syntactic processes were in focus. Thus, the present data may be taken to suggest an involvement of the left frontal and bilateral temporal cortex when processing syntactic information during comprehension.
By using a double immunofluorescence method we examined the distribution of dopaminergic neurons (A17) expressing neuromedin K receptor (NKR, NK(3)) in the rat retina. The distribution of NKR-like immunoreactive (-LI) neurons partially overlapped that of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-LI neurons in the inner retina of section and flat-mount preparation. Neurons showing both TH- and NKR-like immunoreactivities were found in the retina (A17): 100% of these TH-LI neurons displayed NKR-like immunoreactivity, and they constituted about 3.5% of total NKR-LI neurons. The majority of double-labeled neurons with TH- and NKR-like immunoreactivities were distributed in the proximal inner nuclear layer and the upper part of inner plexiform layer of the retina, and characterized with appearance of amacrine cells. The present study has provided morphological evidence for direct physiological modulation of dopaminergic neurons by tachykinins through NKR in the rat retina (A17).
It has been recently reported that the female steroid hormone 17beta-estradiol enhances synaptic transmission and the magnitude of long-term potentiation (LTP) in adult rodent hippocampus. Moreover, 17beta-estradiol ameliorates cognitive and memory function in postmenopausal women. Since aging is associated with an alteration of synaptic plasticity (e.g., higher susceptibility to long-term depression [LTD]), we examined whether 17beta-estradiol alters the expression of LTD in aged rats. We now report that the induction of LTD recorded from CA1 hippocampal neurons of aged rats is suppressed by 17beta-estradiol treatment, which produced only a minimal effect in suppressing LTD in adult rats. These results suggest that estrogen may act to improve memory by suppressing forgetfulness via a synaptic mechanism, such as LTD.
Using middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and in vivo microdialysis, we have evaluated the changes in extracellular concentrations of the excitatory amino acids (EAA) glutamate and aspartate during varying periods of MCAO (0, 30, 60 min) in the striatum of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). A positive correlation between occlusion time-dependent elevations in EAAs and the resulting ischemic injury was observed. This is the first demonstration of the temporal profile of EAA efflux during transient focal ischemia in SHRs. Possible sources and mechanisms of ischemia-induced EAA efflux were examined during 60 min of MCAO. Removal of Ca(2+) from the microdialysis infusion media significantly attenuated ischemia-induced increases in both glutamate (from ischemic peak of 4892 +/- 1298 to 1144 +/- 666% of preischemic values) and aspartate (from 2703 +/- 682 to 2090 +/- 599% of preischemic values). Similarly, infusion of the voltage dependent Na(+) channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX; 10 microM) significantly attenuated MCAO-induced increases in glutamate (to 1313 +/- 648%) and aspartate (to 359 +/- 114%). Infusion of the GLT-1 selective nontransportable inhibitor, dihydrokainate (DHK; 1 mM) also significantly attenuated the ischemia-induced increases in both EAAs (1285 +/- 508 and 1366 +/- 741% of the preischemic levels, respectively). These results indicate that during transient focal ischemia the increase in extracellular EAAs originates from both the neuronal pool, via conventional exocytotic release, and glial sources via the reversal of the GLT-1 transporter.

1. The rapid cell death of cortical neurons in serum-free culture was rescued by the condition medium from the high-density culture, but not by brain-derived neurotrophic factor or basic fibroblast growth factor. 2. Similar rescue was observed by the addition of (-)BPAP, an impulse enhancer, and (+)-pentazocine, a sigma receptor agonist. These actions were blocked by BD1063, a sigma receptor antagonist. 3. (-)BPAP showed a weak displacement activity in the [3H]pentazocine binding to synaptic membranes from rat cerebral cortex. 4. These findings suggest that (-)BPAP and (+)-pentazocine have unique survival activity on cortical neurons through sigma receptors.
The objective of this study was to estimate the 1-year prevalence of the following categories of headache; migraine, non-migrainous headache, frequent headache (&gt;6 days/month), and chronic headache (&gt;14 days/month). Between 1995 and 1997, all 92,566 inhabitants 20 years and older in Nord-Trndelag county in Norway were invited to a comprehensive health study. Out of 64,560 participants, a total of 51,383 subjects (80%) completed a headache questionnaire. The overall age-adjusted 1-year prevalence of headache was 38% (46% in women and 30% in men). The prevalence of migraine was 12% (16% in women and 8% in men), and for non-migrainous headache 26% (30% in women and 22% in men). For frequent headache (&gt; 6 days per month) and for chronic headache (&gt;14 days per month), the prevalence was 8% and 2%, respectively. Women had a higher prevalence than men in all age groups and for all headache categories. Prevalence peaked in the fourth decade of life for both men and women, except for 'frequent non-migrainous headache', which was nearly constant across all age groups in both genders. In accordance with findings in other western countries, we found that headache suffering, including migraine, was highly prevalent, especially in younger women.
The objective of this study was to investigate the age-dependence of the prevalence and characteristics of migraine headache and migraine visual aura. A neurologist interviewed 728 women attending a mammography screening programme. International Headache Society (IHS) criteria were used. The lifetime prevalence of migraine headache was 31.5% and the 1-year prevalence 18.0%. The magnitude of the decline of the prevalence of active (one or more attacks in the previous year) migraine headache was estimated to 50% per decade. The prevalence of active migraine visual aura was 3.8%. This did not vary by age. Except for the pain intensity and the presence of nausea, other characteristics and concomitant symptoms did not change with age. Active migraine headache and migraine visual aura in middle-aged and older women are common and modified differently by age. We suggest that the decline of prevalence of active migraine headache with age is caused by a decrease in pain intensity.
The electrophysiological nature of dopamine actions has been controversial for years, with data supporting both inhibitory and excitatory actions. In this study, we tested whether stimulation of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the source of the dopamine innervation of the prefrontal cortex, would exert different responses depending on the membrane potential states that pyramidal neurons exhibit when recorded in vivo, and whether VTA stimulation would have a role in controlling transitions between these states. Prefrontal cortical neurons have a very negative resting membrane potential (down state) interrupted by plateau depolarizations (up state). Although the up state had been shown to be dependent on hippocampal afferents in nucleus accumbens neurons, our results indicate that neither hippocampal nor thalamic inputs are sufficient to drive up events in prefrontal cortical neurons. Electrical VTA stimulation resulted in a variety of actions, in many cases depending on the neuron membrane potential state. Trains of stimuli resembling burst firing evoked a long-lasting transition to the up state, an effect blocked by a D(1) antagonist and mimicked by chemical VTA stimulation. These results indicate that projections from the VTA to the prefrontal cortex may be involved in controlling membrane potential states that define assemblies of activable pyramidal neurons in this region.
Properties of sequence-sensitive neurons in primary auditory cortex of cats were explored in detail. Stimuli were sequences of two tones, in which the frequency and intensity of the first tone and the temporal separation between the first and second, or probe, tone were parametrically varied. After presentation of the first tone, the responses of 32 single units and 48 multiunits to the probe tone were found to be enhanced up to 140-5270% (median 340%) above the response obtained in the single-tone condition. Probe tone enhancement was induced from a considerable number of sequence conditions and depended on the frequency and intensity of the first tone and on the temporal separation between the onsets of the first and the probe tone. On average, the maximally enhanced response occurred when the first tone was 1 octave below or above the probe tone and its intensity was 14 dB louder than the probe tone. The most effective temporal separation of the tones for an enhancement effect was approximately 100 ms. The range of enhancing tones was largely outside the excitatory tuning curve of a neuron. Results extend previous findings of properties of sequence-sensitive neurons in the auditory cortex of echolocating bats and non-echolocating mammals, and suggest that sequence-sensitive neurons are quite common and involved in the cortical representation of spectrotemporal patterns of acoustic signals.
In mammals, access of odor molecules to the olfactory receptor neurons is controlled by respiratory activity. Thus, anesthetized, freely breathing rats were used to record from the olfactory mucosa in the intact nasal cavity (electroolfactogram or EOG) so as to study global response characteristics to odor stimuli. During alternation of the inspiratory phases of odor sampling and expiratory phases, the response was a succession of individual EOG events synchronized with respiration. These were characterized by a steep decrease that started approximately 100-150 ms after the beginning of inhalation, reached its maximum at the transition between inspiration and expiration and was followed by a slower rise until the next inhalation. They were greater during the first respiratory cycles following odor stimulation onset. Thereafter their amplitudes decreased throughout odor delivery, but a significant EOG signal was still present at the end of short (10 s) and long (60 s) odor presentations. Amplitude increased with odor concentration, but much less than expected from concentration changes. Lastly, for some odors EOG responses persisted well beyond the end of stimulation. These results are in agreement with the respiratory synchronization of mitral cell activities observed during short odor presentations and long duration odor exposures. They underline again the importance of taking into account the respiratory activity in studies on the functioning of the olfactory system.
1. A postulated role for the bronchial circulation in the development of pulmonary congestion may be based on recent studies of bronchovascular control. 2. The bronchial circulation is the nutrient blood supply of the conducting airways and, therefore, plays an important role in the function of the bronchial mucosa. Mucosal swelling secondary to elevation of mucosal capillary hydrostatic pressure may decrease airway calibre, increase resistance to airflow and precipitate symptoms of pulmonary congestion. 3. Resting mucosal capillary hydrostatic pressure is relatively constant due to autoregulation of bronchial blood flow and is maintained low by nett bronchovascular constriction due to the dominance of autonomic vasoconstriction over nitric oxidedependent vasodilatation. 4. Bronchial blood flow is also regulated by cardiac afferent reflexes. Stimulation of cardiac vagal and spinal afferents produces vasodilatation and vasoconstriction, respectively. Tonic activity of cardiac spinal afferents probably contributes to the resting autonomic vasoconstriction. 5. Therefore, mild heart failure, which is associated with abnormal cardiovascular reflex function, may decrease cardiac spinal afferent-mediated bronchial vasoconstriction and produce active dilatation due to stimulation of cardiac vagal afferents by excessive myocardial stretch, leading to bronchial mucosal swelling and pulmonary congestion.
1. Previous work from this laboratory and others has shown that powerful autonomic influences modulate coronary flow. In particular, the parasympathetic nervous system produces vasodilatation when activated by baroreceptors via the vagus nerve. 2. Differences exist in baroreflex coronary vasodilator mechanisms among the right, circumflex and anterior descending coronary vascular beds in the awake chronically instrumented dog. 3. Our hypothesis is that neurogenic acetylcholine acting from the adventitial side and endothelial nitric oxide from the luminal aspect of coronary smooth muscle compete with powerful intrinsic myogenic constrictor mechanisms to regulate regional flow conductance. 4. There is also increasing evidence that heterogeneity of control systems exists in different-sized coronary vessels within an individual coronary vascular bed. 5. It is concluded that coronary vessels in vascular beds can no longer be assumed to respond in a uniform manner to neural, myogenic, metabolic or humoral factors. 6. These new perspectives of regional control mechanisms have important implications for understanding pathophysiological mechanisms inducing and sustaining tachyarrhythmias involved in ischaemic heart disease.
1. Fentanyl, a synthetic mciro-opioid receptor agonist, is the preferred induction and maintenance anaesthetic agent in cardiac surgery. 2. Its actions on myocardial blood flow are poorly understood. There are reports of intra-operative myocardial ischaemia. Its reported actions on cardiorespiratory control vary widely, but do involve hypertension, bradycardia and peripheral vasoconstriction. 3. Accordingly, the postulate that fentanyl would cause coronary vasoconstriction and myocardial disadvantage was examined in awake dogs with a continuous wave Doppler flow probe mounted on the circumflex coronary artery. 4. Continuous intravenous infusion of fentanyl citrate (550 ng/kg per min) raised plasma concentrations of fentanyl to 3.37 ng/mL in a linear fashion at 20 min. There was a fall in core temperature of 0.7 degrees C and, although no apparent depression of ventilation or fall in arterial or coronary sinus PO2, there was a rise in PCO2 and H+ concentration. Some dogs salivated and panted transiently. Thus, fentanyl may reset temperature regulation in low doses but, at higher doses, is associated with metabolic acidosis. 5. In sinus rhythm, the arterial pressure of the dogs fell slightly, then rose to 115% of resting control. Circumflex flow and conductance rose early, then conductance steadily declined to 83%. Heart rate fell, then rose before returning to pre-infusion levels. The early circumflex coronary vasodilator effects, but not the later vasoconstrictor effects, were reduced in dogs with paced hearts. 6. In dogs with paced hearts, a dose-effect study using 138, 275, 550 and 1100 ng/kg per min fentanyl suggested that, at low plasma concentrations of 1-2 ng/mL, vasodilatation does occur in both coronary and systemic circulations; however, at higher doses, intense coronary and systemic vasoconstriction supervenes. 7. The dose-response effect of fentanyl on arterial baroreflex control of circumflex conductance was examined during the immediate 8 s circumflex vasodilator response to a step rise in aortic pressure caused by inflation of an intra-aortic balloon. At low plasma concentrations of fentanyl, baroreflex control of circumflex conductance appears to be enhanced but, with increasing plasma concentrations of fentanyl, appears to be depressed. 8. Therefore, the effects of fentanyl are dose dependent. At low plasma concentrations, left ventricular blood flow and its baroreflex control is enhanced but, at higher concentrations, it is depressed.
We report a favorable outcome following a staged radical excision of an intramedullary low-grade astrocytoma involving the entire spinal cord in a pediatric patient. Although the preoperative neurological status was poor, the eventual outcome was good. This highlights the importance of a good tumor-cord interface that permitted a radical excision of an extensive tumor. Since partial excision followed by radiotherapy usually results in disease progression in patients with low-grade astrocytomas, radical excision and follow-up is probably the treatment of choice.
The clinical findings in 31 patients with chronic subdural haematoma (CSH), aged between 20 and 50, are described. Aetiopathogenetic factors responsible for the formation of CSH match those of patients aged over 50 with CSH. A history of cranial trauma was present in 77% of the cases. In the remaining patients, a defect of haemostatic mechanisms was responsible for the subdural blood collection. On the computed tomography (CT) the haematoma generally appears as a thin subdural layer. The reliability of magnetic resonance imaging for detection of CSH makes it the most desirable investigation in such patients. Prognosis is influenced by preoperative clinical status and by the disease responsible for the formation of CSH.


INTRODUCTION: Ca2+ is involved in many important functions in the inner ear and its intracellular levels are controlled by extrusion mechanisms and stores, and also by buffers such as calbindin. The latter has been demonstrated previously in hair cells of the organ of Corti using immunofluorescence at the light microscopic level, although its precise intracellular distribution has yet to be determined. One postulated role for calbindin in the brain is protection against hypoxic cell injury and degeneration, in which Ca2+ overload has been implicated. METHODS: We have therefore performed postembedding immunogold labelling for electron microscopy on ultrathin sections of apical and basal turns of the guinea-pig cochlea with anticalbindin (Swant), followed by appropriated gold conjugated secondary antibodies. This technique allows quantitative analysis of the distribution of labelling by counting gold particle densities. RESULTS: Outer hair cells in the apical turn were significantly more heavily labelled than those in the base (P &lt; 0. 001). In addition, at the apex there was a progressive reduction across the three rows of outer hair cells towards the modiolus (P &lt; 0.005) although at the base no radial gradient was detected. CONCLUSIONS: These results confirm previous reports of gradients of calbindin distribution in the organ of Corti. This distribution corresponds with the pattern of hair cell loss that occurs, e.g. after some forms of ototoxicity and it may therefore contribute to the diffential susceptibility of hair cells to damage. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: This work was supported by the Wellcome Trust.

Cerebral blood flow is maintained constant over a range of cerebral perfusion pressures by cerebral autoregulation. Impaired cerebral autoregulation may be important in the pathogenesis of cerebral ischaemia. The mechanisms mediating normal cerebral autoregulation in humans are poorly understood. We used a recently described transcranial Doppler technique, which allows non-invasive measurement of dynamic cerebral autoregulation, to test the hypothesis that nitric oxide mediates cerebral autoregulation. The rate of rise of middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity, compared with that of arterial blood pressure, was determined following a stepwise fall in arterial blood pressure, in order to calculate an autoregulatory index. The effect of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) on dynamic autoregulation was compared with that of noradrenaline titrated to result in a similar rise in blood pressure. Six healthy subjects were studied in each group. The mean (S.D.) change in autoregulatory index following noradrenaline at a similar pressor dose was significantly greater than the change following the L-NMMA bolus: 1. 1 (1.2) compared with -0.8 (0.8) for the left middle cerebral artery (P=0.002), and 1.1 (0.8) compared with -0.8 (0.8) for the right middle cerebral artery (P=0.002). There was no difference in the mean (S.D.) blood pressure increase resulting from the two agents: L-NMMA, 19.7 (7.4) mmHg; noradrenaline, 15.5 (4.8) mmHg (P=0.281). These results suggest that nitric oxide mediates at least part of the dynamic phase of cerebral autoregulation in humans. Reduced nitric oxide release may play a role in the impaired cerebral autoregulation seen in patients with, or at risk of, cerebral ischaemia.
Although many investigations into the onset of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) suggest the occurrence of potential life events as triggering factors, such an association has not been well studied to date. The purpose of the present paper is to review the literature on OCD onset in order to determine whether OCD is triggered by recent life events, what specific events may serve as triggers, and the clinical and research implications of these factors. Overall, the available studies do not consistently support the theory that OCD is triggered by specific antecedent life events. However, there is a body of evidence to support the theory that the specific life events of pregnancy and birth of a child can trigger OCD. This apparent association has led to the investigation of certain neurohormonal factors, including changes in estrogen or oxytocin levels, that may be of etiopathogenetic significance in OCD. Confirming such associations may allow clinicians to provide more targeted preventive and therapeutic interventions.
This article focuses on the clinical onset of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), specifically addressing the age of onset, gradual and acute onset, and whether there are some types of premorbid conditions or a prodromal phase that predispose individuals to the onset of OCD. Clinical and epidemiological studies have come to different conclusions regarding age at onset as well as regarding differences between the sexes. Data gleaned from research to date have demonstrated a relationship between OCD and obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD), although OCPD does not appear to be the more prevalent personality disorder among patients with OCD. Preliminary research has suggested that Axis I disorders may predispose individuals to OCD onset; however, the significance of this relationship remains to be clarified. Evidence of the association between OCD and subthreshold obsessive-compulsive syndrome suggests that these disorders lie on a continuum of severity, with some cases developing OCD while others do not.
William James described the stream of thought as having two components: (1) a nucleus of highly conscious, often perceptual material; and (2) a fringe of dimly felt contextual information that controls the entry of information into the nucleus and guides the progression of internally directed thought. Here I examine the neural and cognitive correlates of this phenomenology. A survey of the cognitive neuroscience literature suggests that the nucleus corresponds to a dynamic global buffer formed by interactions between different regions of the brain, while the fringe corresponds to a set of mechanisms in the frontal and medial temporal lobes that control the contents of this global buffer. A consequence of this account is that there might be conscious imagistic representations that are not part of the nucleus. I argue that phenomenology can be linked to psychology and neuroscience and a meaningful way that illuminates both.
Left-neglect patients bisect horizontal lines to the right of true center. Longer lines are bisected further to the right than shorter lines. This line-length effect might be explained by an increase in the rightward bias of attention because longer lines extend further ipsilesionally. Alternatively, neglect patients might be limited in their abilities to internally represent horizontal magnitudes. Patients might orient further rightward with longer lines because these lines have longer representations. If the line-length effect occurs on lines of identical objective length but they are represented differently, then central mechanisms must contribute to the orientation bias. We constructed two types of lines that were perceived by normal subjects as having different lengths, but were of identical extents. Three neglect patients bisected lines perceived as longer, further to the right than lines perceived as shorter. These results demonstrate that relative magnitudes of internal representations contribute to the degree of bias in neglect patients.
Neuroscientists continue the search for the &quot;magic bullet&quot; that will prevent the deleterious effects of primary and secondary brain injury. Indirect measurement of the effects of primary and secondary brain injury through the study of ICP- or CPP-directed management, CBF monitoring, Sjo2 monitoring, and TCD monitoring has led to improved care of persons with brain injury. Although the findings from brain injury research using microsensor and microdialysis technology are only preliminary and extensive research is still needed, these technologies have dramatically expanded knowledge about brain injury at the cellular level. Extended neuromonitoring is poised to enter a new and exciting phase because of the growth in knowledge regarding the cellular events associated with brain injury. The recent approval of NeuroTrend by the FDA will further promote this growth. Applications of the technology have already expanded to include uses beyond the management of traumatic brain injury. Microsensor and microdialysis technology is being used intraoperatively to determine &quot;safe&quot; temporary clipping times for aneurysm surgery and is also being used within the critical care setting to improve the monitoring and management of subarachnoid hemorrhage patients who are experiencing vasospasm. The ultimate application of this new technology is to improve long-term outcomes for patients with brain injury through the reduction of secondary brain injury. If that goal is to be accomplished, then it will be important for nurses caring for patients with brain injury to become immersed in this exciting new phase in brain injury monitoring. Nurses must obtain a comprehensive knowledge base of brain injury pathophysiology and how extended neuromonitoring can lead to improved outcomes. Technical proficiency will also be important to ensure that treatment and research conclusions are based on accurate data. Finally and perhaps most importantly, it will be critical for nurses to participate in and develop research studies that explore the impact of interventions, especially nursing care activities, on the injured brain if these exciting new advances are to be translated into tangible benefits for brain-injured patients.


Comparative studies over the past year have revealed two new insights into the role of neuropeptides in the evolution of social behaviors. First, across vertebrate taxa, certain neuropeptide effects appear to be gender-specific. Second, species variations in receptor gene structure can alter neuropeptide receptor distribution and thereby contribute to species differences in social behavior.
The most notable advance in our knowledge of path integration in insects is a new understanding of how the honeybee measures the distance that it travels during its foraging trips. Data from two groups show that the bee's odometer records distance in terms of the net amount of image motion over the retina that is accumulated during a flight. Progress has also been made in clarifying the relation between path integration and other navigational strategies. On unfamiliar ground, path integration is the only available means of navigation. In familiar surroundings, however, guidance by landmarks may override guidance by path integration. Path integration then becomes a back-up strategy that is used primarily when landmarks fail.
The notion of internal models has become central to the study of visually guided reaching. Armed with this theoretical framework, researchers are gleaning insights into long-standing problems in the field, such as the ability to respond rapidly to changes in the location of a reach target and the fine control of the multi-joint dynamics of the arm. A key factor in these advances is our increased understanding of how the brain integrates feedforward control signals, sensory feedback, and predictions based on internal models of the arm.
Recently, two quite different approaches exemplifying 'bottom-up' and 'top-down' philosophies have shed new light on basal ganglia function. In vitro work using organotypic co-cultures has implicated the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the external segment of the globus pallidus (GP(e)) as pacemakers for low-frequency bursting that is reminiscent of the activity produced in Parkinsonian tremor. A circuit essential for avian song learning has been identified as part of the basal ganglia with surprisingly well conserved cellular details; investigation of this system may help to address general issues of basal ganglia function.
Evidence from both biochemical measurements and from noninvasive techniques continues to suggest that neurotransmission failure rather than primary energy failure is the major cause of hepatic encephalopathy. Major neurotransmitter systems in which abnormalities have been identified include the glutamatergic, monoaminergic and opioid systems. Further elucidation of these neurotransmitter changes could provide novel pharmacological approaches in the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy.
Movement disorders are a diverse group of neurologic disorders that share in common the frequent development of clinical abnormalities in ocular motility or visual perception. This article reviews the recent literature pertaining to the neuro-ophthalmologic advances in the basal ganglia disorders (Parkinson disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, multiple system atrophy, and Huntington disease), the spinocerebellar ataxias and episodic ataxias, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, benign essential blepharospasm, hemifacial spasm, and Tourette syndrome.
The identification of the specific genes responsible for several childhood neurologic disorders has provided a framework with which to understand key development stages in human brain development. Common genetic disorders of brain development include septo-optic dysplasia, schizencephaly, holoprosencephaly, periventricular heterotopia, lissencephaly, and Joubert syndrome. For each of these disorders, a critical step in brain development is interrupted. The identification of the responsible genes is providing scientists a window into the key modulators of brain development, and providing clinicians the opportunity to offer genetic testing to individual patients and their families.
The RC2 antibody is frequently used to label mouse radial glial cells in all parts of the nervous system where neuronal migration occurs during embryonic and early postnatal life. The antigen recognized by this antibody still needs to be identified. We have characterized further its localization in vivo, its expression and subcellular localization in vitro, as well as its molecular nature. Histologic investigations of whole mouse embryos reveal an equally intense expression of RC2 immunostaining in radial glial cells in brain and spinal cord and in skeletal muscle. In glial cells cultures, the RC2 antibody recognizes an epitope located on the glial cytoskeleton and identified as an intermediate filament associated protein (IFAP) at the ultrastructural level. RC2 immunostaining in those cells is strongly dependent on the presence of a serum-derived activity. Serum-removal causes a decrease of the staining while adding serum back to the cells induces reexpression of RC2 immunoreactivity. By Western blotting, we find that in intermediate filament (IF) preparations obtained from cultured cerebellar glia, the RC2 antibody recognizes a 295-kDa protein whose expression is also dependent on the presence of serum in culture medium. In developing muscle cells, RC2 immunostaining is observed from the myoblast stage and disappears after complete myotube fusion. Both in vivo and in vitro, staining is first seen as a loose capping around myoblasts nuclei and progressively concentrates into Z-disks in association with the muscle IF protein desmin. The RC2 antibody also recognizes a 295-kDa protein band in muscle tissue protein extracts. Thus, the RC2 antibody recognizes a developmentally regulated cytoskeletal protein that is expressed, like other previously identified IFAPs, by cells of the glial and myogenic lineages and whose expression in vitro seems to be controlled by a signaling mechanism known to modulate astroglial morphology.
The development of place and cue spatial navigation was evaluated in 18-, 19-, and 20-day-old males in the Morris water task (MWT). Past work has suggested that place and cue learning develop at different rates, suggesting that the two aspects of spatial navigation have different neural substrates. In the present study, a new training methodology was used in which animals received spaced training trials, drying and warming in between trials to maintain body temperature, and two probe trial-dependent measures to evaluate spatial memory performance. All ages of rats had lower latencies on the cue task than on the place task. Nevertheless, 18-day-old rats did not learn either task as measured by acquisition latencies and probe trial-dependent measures. The 19- and 20-day-old rats learned both the place and cue tasks as measured by acquisition latency and direct swims to the correct platform location on the probe trial, and both 19- and 20-day-old rats demonstrated a strong spatial bias to the former platform location on the place probe trial but not on the cue probe trial. The finding that developmental onset of place and cue spatial navigation is rapid and complete by day 19 is discussed in relation to contemporary theories of spatial navigation.
The tergotrochanteral (jump) motorneuron is a major synaptic target of the Giant Fibre in Drosophila. These two neurons are major components of the fly's Giant-Fibre escape system. Our previous work has described the development of the Giant Fibre in early metamorphosis and the involvement of the shaking-B locus in the formation of its electrical synapses. In the present study, we have investigated the development of the tergotrochanteral motorneuron and its electrical synapses by transforming Drosophila with a Gal4 fusion construct containing sequences largely upstream of, but including, the shaking-B(lethal) promoter. This construct drives reporter gene expression in the tergotrochanteral motorneuron and some other neurons. Expression of green fluorescent protein in the motorneuron allows visualization of its cell body and its subsequent intracellular staining with Lucifer Yellow. These preparations provide high-resolution data on motorneuron morphogenesis during the first half of pupal development. Dye-coupling reveals onset of gap-junction formation between the tergotrochanteral motorneuron and other neurons of the Giant-Fibre System. The medial dendrite of the tergotrochanteral motorneuron becomes dye-coupled to the peripheral synapsing interneurons between 28 and 32 hours after puparium formation. Dye-coupling between tergotrochanteral motorneuron and Giant Fibre is first seen at 42 hours after puparium formation. All dye coupling is abolished in a shaking-B(neural) mutant. To investigate any interactions between the Giant Fibre and the tergotroachanteral motorneuron, we arrested the growth of the motorneuron's medial neurite by targeted expression of a constitutively active form of Dcdc42. This results in the Giant Fibre remaining stranded at the midline, unable to make its characteristic bend. We conclude that Giant Fibre morphogenesis normally relies on fasciculation with its major motorneuronal target.
Although isolated rat islets are widely used to study in vitro insulin secretion and the underlying metabolic and ionic processes, knowledge on the properties of glucose-induced electrical activity (GIEA), a key step in glucose-response coupling, has been gathered almost exclusively from microdissected mouse islets. Using a modified intracellular recording technique, we have now compared the patterns of GIEA in collagenase-isolated rat and mouse islets. Resting membrane potentials of rat and mouse beta-cells were approximately -50 and -60 mV, respectively. Both rat and mouse beta-cells displayed prompt membrane depolarizations in response to glucose. However, whereas the latter exhibited a bursting pattern consisting of alternating hyperpolarized and depolarized active phases, rat beta-cells fired action potentials from a nonoscillating membrane potential at all glucose concentrations (8.4-22.0 mmol/l). This was mirrored by changes in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), which was oscillatory in mouse and nonoscillatory in rat islets. Stimulated rat beta-cells were strongly hyperpolarized by diazoxide, an activator of ATP-dependent K+ channels. Glucose evoked dose-dependent depolarizations and [Ca2+]i increases in both rat (EC50 5.9-6.9 mmol/l) and mouse islets (EC50 8.3-9.5 mmol/l), although it did not affect the burst plateau potential in the latter case. We conclude that there are important differences between beta-cells from both species with respect to early steps in the stimulus-secretion coupling cascade based on the following findings: 1) mouse beta-cells have a larger resting K+ conductance in 2 mmol/l glucose, 2) rat beta-cells lack the compensatory mechanism responsible for generating membrane potential oscillations and holding the depolarized plateau potential in mouse beta-cells, and 3) the electrical and [Ca2+]i dose-response curves in rat beta-cells are shifted toward lower glucose concentrations. Exploring the molecular basis of these differences may clarify several a priori assumptions on the electrophysiological properties of rat beta-cells, which could foster the development of new working models of pancreatic beta-cell function.

The present study evaluated impaired eating behaviour in women seeking participation in a diet-based programme of weight reduction or achievement of ideal body weight. Forty-seven obese, 42 overweight and 14 normal-weight subjects, attending an Italian university outpatient clinic completed the Eating Disorder Inventory (EDI). Forty-eight mothers of primary school children (25 normal-weight and 23 overweight) were used as controls. The EDI consists of 8 subscales, 3 evaluating psychopathology related to eating disorders (drive for thinness, bulimia, body dissatisfaction) and 5 evaluating general psychopathology (intereoceptive awareness, ineffectiveness, maturity fears, perfectionism, interpersonal distrust). Significantly altered scores in the first three subscales were observed both in normal-weight and overweight outpatients compared to the controls. The overweight outpatients scored higher than the obese patients in terms of drive for thinness and bulimia and higher than the normal-weight women for terms of bulimia, body dissatisfaction and drive for thinness. The overweight controls scored significantly higher than the normal-weight controls in the first three subscales in the remaining subscales, mean values were also higher in the overweight group, though significance was only reached in the interpersonal distrust and interoceptive awareness subscales. Impaired eating behaviour is frequent in subjects seeking participation in weight reduction or ideal body weight achievement programmes.
TrkA, the nerve growth factor (NGF) tyrosine kinase receptor, is expressed not only in the nervous system, but also in nonneural cells, including discrete cellular subsets of the endocrine and immune system. In the rat ovary, trkA receptor abundance increases strikingly in thecal-interstitial cells during the hours preceding the first ovulation. Blockade of either trkA transducing capacity or NGF biological activity inhibited ovulation, suggesting a role for NGF in the ovulatory process of this species. To identify some of the processes that may be affected by trkA activation in the thecal compartment, we used purified thecal cells/thecal fibroblasts from bovine ovaries (heretofore referred to as thecal cells). Ribonuclease protection assays employing bovine-specific cRNA probes demonstrated the presence of the messenger RNAs (mRNAs) encoding NGF and its receptors, p75 NTR and trkA, in the thecal compartment of small, medium, and large antral follicles and showed that trkA mRNA is also expressed in granulosa cells. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical examination of intact ovaries confirmed these cellular sites of NGF and trkA synthesis. TrkA mRNA, but not NGF mRNA, was lost within 48 h of placing thecal cells in culture. Thus, to study trkA-mediated actions of NGF on these cells we transiently expressed the receptor by transfection with a vector containing a full-length rat trkA complementary DNA under transcriptional control of the cytomegalovirus promoter. Because ovulation is preceded by an LH-dependent increase in androgen and progesterone production, the ability of NGF to modify the release of these steroids was determined in freshly plated cells still containing endogenous trkA receptors and in cells undergoing luteinization in culture that were transiently transfected with the trkA-encoding plasmid. NGF stimulated both androgen and progesterone release in freshly plated thecal cells, but not in luteinizing cells provided with trkA receptors. As ovulation in rodents requires an increased formation of PGE2 and has been shown to be antedated by proliferation of thecal fibroblasts, we determined the ability of NGF to affect these parameters in trkA-transfected thecal cells. The neurotrophin rapidly stimulated PGE2 release and amplified the early steroidal response to hCG in trkA-expressing cells, but not in cells lacking the receptor. Likewise, NGF stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation into trkA-containing cells, but not into cells that had lost the receptor in culture. Induction of ovulation in immature rats by gonadotropin treatment verified that an increased cell proliferation in the thecal compartment, determined by the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine into cell nuclei, occurs 4-5 h before ovulation in this species. These results suggest that the contribution of NGF to the ovulatory process includes a stimulatory effect of the neurotrophin on steroidogenesis, PGE2 formation, and proliferative activity of thecal compartment cells.
To elucidate the effect of aging on blood pressure regulation, especially cardiopulmonary baroreflex in humans, we measured the resting value of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), peripheral venous pressure (PVP), and calf blood flow (CBF) in eight healthy young male subjects and eight healthy aged subjects, and compared the responses to the low level of lower body negative pressure (LBNP) between the two groups. The resting MSNA was higher, and the response of MSNA to LBNP was lower in the aged group than in the young group; the response of PVP to LBNP was also lower in the aged than in the young group. Delta MSNA/delta PVP showed no significant differences between the two groups. The present findings indicate that the effect of LBNP on cardiopulmonary baroreflex is greater in young people than in aged people, but that cardiopulmonary baroreflex may be preserved with advancing age.
Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) is activated during mild-intensity isometric handgrip exercise, but not during isometric leg exercise at a similarly relative intensity. It is unclear whether MSNA is increased by leg exercise at heavy intensity in humans. We aimed to examine how MSNA responds to high-intensity, isometric leg exercise in humans. Eight young healthy male volunteers performed isometric plantar flexions of high intensity (70% of MVC) for 2 min, followed by 2 min of post-exercise muscle ischemia (PEMI; isolated muscle metaboreflex stimulation), with monitoring of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), heart rate and arterial blood pressure. MSNA was increased at the onset of exercise (p&lt;0.05), and further increased to 512 +/- 111% of baseline at the second min of exercise (p&lt;0.05). Furthermore, MSNA remained elevated above baseline during PEMI (259 +/- 41 % of baseline, p&lt;0.05). Heart rate also rose at the onset of the test (P&lt;0.05) and gradually increased all through the test (p&lt;0.05), but decreased to baseline level during PEMI. Mean blood pressure was progressively increased from the onset to the end of test (p&lt;0.05), and remained elevated above baseline during PEMI (p&lt;0.05). In summary, MSNA was increased progressively throughout high-intensity, isometric plantar flexion in humans, primarily due to muscle metaboreflex.
The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effect of hypoperfusion to the static-exercised-muscle induced by arm elevation on muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) recorded from the right tibial nerve (n= 10) by microneurography. Subjects performed static handgrip exercises (SHG) at 30% of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) for 2 min, followed by 2 min of posthandgrip muscle ischemia (PHGMI) at the heart level (control) and with the arm elevated (50 cm above heart level). Basal heart rate, mean blood pressure and MSNA responses expressed as burst rate (bursts/min) and total MSNA (%) were unaffected by the arm-position. Heart rate response during SHG was not influenced by the arm elevation, while mean blood pressure and MSNA responses were increased by it (P&lt;0.05). MSNA responses were increased during the second minute of the SHG period (P&lt;0.05) and the PHGMI period (P&lt;0.05) in the elevated arm position. In conclusion, arm elevation increased MSNA responses to SHG and PHGMI, suggesting an increased magnitude of muscle metaboreflex.
To test the hypothesis that increased leg venous compliance (LVC) is one of the contributory factors to orthostatic intolerance (OI) after simulated microgravity, 28 healthy young males were exposed to a 14-day head-down bed rest, and LVC was measured by venous occlusion plethysmography. Orthostatic tolerance was evaluated by a 60 degree head-up tilt (HUT) for 15 min. Sixteen subjects suffered from OI after the bed rest. They were then divided into orthostatic tolerance (non-fainters, n=12) and intolerance (fainters, n=16) groups. We found that fainters had significantly larger LVC before bed rest (0.055 +/- 0.003 vs. 0.065 +/- 0.002 ml 100 ml-1 mm Hg-1, non-fainter vs. fainter; P &lt; 0.05). After bed rest, LVC markedly increased in both groups. In all the subjects calf circumference was reduced on average by 4.7% and the percent change in LVC was negatively correlated with the percent change in calf circumference when all subjects' data were combined after bed rest (r = -0.42, P &lt; 0.05). Our results did not support the hypothesis that increased LVC is the contributory factor to OI after a 14-day bed rest; however, the mechanisms behind the large LVC in the fainters before bed rest are unclear, and the initial LVC might be a predictive indicator for OI after microgravity exposure.
The aim of this study was to determine the efficacy and tolerability of 1000-4000 mg/day of levetiracetam (LEV, Keppra) as add-on treatment for refractory epilepsy. This was a dose-escalation study of 29 patients with refractory epilepsy. Patients received placebo for 4 weeks (baseline) followed by levetiracetam 1000 and 2000 mg per day each for 2 weeks, and then 3000 and 4000 mg per day each for 4 weeks. Primary efficacy was assessed by seizure frequency (number/week). Tolerability was assessed by adverse events, laboratory parameters, clinical evaluations, and electrocardiogram. All the study periods were completed by 27 of the 29 patients. A substantially lower median seizure frequency was observed at all levetiracetam dosing periods (1000 mg per day, 1.0 seizures per week; 2000 mg per day, 1.5 seizures per week; 3000 mg per day, 1.0 seizures per week; 4000 mg per day, 0.75 seizures per week) compared with the placebo treatment (2.06 seizures per week). In addition, 22-33% of these patients were seizure free during treatment with levetiracetam compared with only 14% with placebo. Levetiracetam was well tolerated. The most common adverse events were somnolence and asthenia; frequency and severity increased with increasing doses of levetiracetam. Levetiracetam in doses from 1000 to 4000 mg per day is effective. Somnolence and asthenia were more frequent with the highest dose, suggesting that 4000 mg per day may be the upper limit in some patients, although individual susceptibility to somnolence was variable.
The Posttraumatic Stress Symptoms in Children (PTSS-C) was developed as a cross-cultural semi-structured interview to diagnose posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and to identify PTSD-non-related posttraumatic stress symptoms in children after various traumatic experiences. The psychometric properties were studied in two different child populations in Iraqi Kurdistan (the survivors of the military operation &quot;Anfal&quot;, and the orphans), in a sample of Kurdistanian refugee children in Sweden, and in a comparison sample of Swedish children. The instrument yielded satisfactory internal consistency, high interrater agreement, and excellent validity on cross-validation with the Child Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Reaction Index (CPTSD-RI) and the Diagnostic Interview for Children and Adolescents (DICA) according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV).
Five years after the military operation &quot;Anfal&quot; in Iraqi Kurdistan, 45 families were randomly selected among the survivors in two displacement camps. The Posttraumatic Stress Symptoms for Children (PTSS-C) and the Harvard Trauma Questionnaire (HTQ) were administered to the oldest child and the caregiver in each family, respectively. Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) was reported in 87% of children and 60% of their caregivers. While childhood PTSD was only significantly predicted by child trauma score and the duration of captivity, it was neither predicted by maternal PTSD nor did it disappear after the reunion with the PTSD-free father. However, the small sample size makes the results hypotheses rather than conclusive.
The aim of this study was to investigate the position and velocity dependency of the strength (torque) output of lateral flexor muscles of the trunk. Twelve male volunteers with no history of back pain participated. Movement was constrained to the frontal plane and the velocity was controlled by an isokinetic dynamometer. The eccentric and concentric strength of lateral flexor muscles on the left side was measured in a supine position at velocities of 15, 30, 45 and 60 degrees x s(-1) and static strength at 20, 10, 0, -10 and -20 degrees of lateral trunk flexion. Average peak torque values ranged between 211 and 218 Nm (eccentric) and between 66 and 140 Nm (concentric) over all tested velocities, and the average static torque ranged between 80 and 172 Nm over all tested positions. The shape of the torque position curves was unaffected by speed and peak torque occurred at an average position of 11-15 degrees to the contralateral (right) side in both eccentric and concentric actions. In eccentric actions, torque output was significantly higher than that during concentric and static actions. Increasing the speed of contraction did not affect eccentric torque values, whereas both peak and angle-specific concentric torque decreased with increasing speed. These results are in general accordance with earlier findings from other muscle groups, such as the knee extensors. However, they are partially at variance with results obtained in studies of lateral lifting and lowering, indicating that there are other limiting factors in complex tasks that do not just involve the trunk muscles.
This review briefly describes the cellular distribution and documented roles of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta isoforms TGF-beta2 and -beta3 in the central and peripheral nervous system. TGF-beta2 and -beta3 are coexpressed in developing radial glial and mature astroglial and Schwann cells, as well as in subpopulations of differentiated neurons, most prominently in cortical, hippocampal, and brainstem/spinal cord motor neurons. In vitro studies have suggested a number of potential, physiologically relevant functions for TGF-betas including regulation of astroglial cell proliferation, expression of adhesion molecules, survival promoting roles for neurons in combination with established neurotrophic factors, and differentiative actions on neurons.

The primary structure of the Streptococcus mutans lantibiotic mutacin 1140 was elucidated by NMR spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, and chemical sequencing. The structure is in agreement with other closely related lantibiotics, such as epidermin. A novel method was developed in which mutacin 1140 was chemically modified with sodium borohydride followed by ethanethiol, allowing the differentiation of the thioether-containing residues from the dehydrated residues. This double-labeling strategy provides a simple method to reliably identify all modified lantibiotic residues with a minimal amount of material. While NMR spectroscopy is still required to obtain thioether bridging patterns and thus the complete covalent structure, the double-labeling technique, along with mass spectrometry, provides most of the information in a fraction of the time required for a complete NMR analysis. Thus, with these new techniques lantibiotics can be rapidly characterized.
We used botulinum neurotoxins (BoNT) to examine whether differences in the secretory activity of noradrenergic and adrenergic chromaffin cells are related to differences in the exocytotic machinery of these two types of bovine adrenal medulla cells. Cleavage of syntaxin and SNAP-25 by BoNT/C1 decreased in a dose-dependent way the release of both noradrenaline and adrenaline, but noradrenaline release was more sensitive to BoNT/C1. Cleavage of SNAP-25 by BoNT/A also had a larger inhibitory effect on noradrenaline release than on adrenaline release. Neither BoNT/C1 nor BoNT/A affected the intracellular Ca2+ responses induced by K+-depolarisation, and the extent of the inhibition of K+-evoked catecholamine release by selective blockers of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels was not affected by BoNT/C1. Therefore, our data do not support the hypothesis of a regulatory effect of syntaxin or SNAP-25 on the activity of Ca2+ channels. The lower sensitivity of adrenaline release to BoNT was not due to a reduced ability of the toxins to enter or to cleave their protein targets in adrenergic cells, since immunoblot analysis showed the cleavage of a larger fraction of syntaxin 1A in adrenergic cells, as compared to the cleavage in noradrenergic cells. The immunoblot analysis also showed larger amounts of syntaxin 1A in noradrenergic chromaffin cells than in adrenergic cells. Thus, in spite of a greater cleavage of syntaxin 1A in adrenergic cells by BoNT/C1, adrenaline release was less sensitive to BoNT/C1, suggesting that the release process in noradrenergic cells might be more dependent on syntaxin 1A and SNAP-25, as compared to adrenergic cells.

Recent studies have suggested that altered function of apolipoprotein E might lead to Alzheimer's disease via oxidative stress. In this context, the objective of this study was to determine if antioxidative treatment with vitamin E was neuroprotective in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. For this purpose, 1-month-old control and apolipoprotein E-deficient mice received dietary vitamin E for 12 months. We showed that, compared to apolipoprotein E-deficient mice who received a regular diet, mice treated with vitamin E displayed a significantly improved behavioural performance in the Morris water maze. This improved performance was associated with preservation of the dendritic structure in vitamin E-treated apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. In addition, whilst untreated apolipoprotein E-deficient mice displayed increased levels of lipid peroxidation and glutathione, vitamin E-treated mice showed near normal levels of both lipid peroxidation and glutathione. These results support the contention that vitamin E prevents the age-related neurodegenerative alterations in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice.
An olfactory span task that required rats to discriminate an olfactory stimulus added to an increasing list of such stimuli (nonmatching-to-sample; NMTS) was employed to assess the role of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in the animals' olfactory working memory capacity. A separate group of animals was trained in a matching-to-sample (MTS) version of this task that did not tax span performance. NMTS animals required significantly more sessions to reach an olfactory span of 18 stimuli than MTS rats. Infusions of the cholino-immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin into the basal forebrain resulted in decreases of cortical acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-positive fibre density ranging from 80% in frontodorsal and frontoparietal regions to 35% in the pyriform cortex and 24% in the olfactory bulb. Postsurgery span performance was significantly reduced in lesioned NMTS but not MTS animals. Span performance in lesioned NMTS animals recovered following 4 weeks of postoperative training; however, these animals' span remained vulnerable to the effects of increased intertrial intervals. The distribution of errors in lesioned animals indicated a recency effect. In NMTS animals, olfactory span performance during the initial two postoperative weeks correlated significantly with AChE-positive fibre density in neocortical but not olfactory areas. The privileged, automatic processing of olfactory stimuli in rats may have contributed to the transience of the lesion effect. The results support the crucial role of cortical cholinergic input in the mediation of aspects of processing capacity.
Reversible manipulation of local neurotransmission in brain areas, using controlled spatial and temporal resolution, is one of the powerful techniques used to investigate integrative aspects of brain function. We have developed a novel technique for rapidly inactivating local synaptic transmission, from outside the brain, within seconds or minutes via oxidation of target tissue using a photosensitive dye followed by photoirradiation (photo-dynamic tissue oxidation; PDTO). PDTO applied through a defined slit, sharply suppressed excitatory synaptic transmission in rat hippocampal slices and also suppressed in vivo hippocampal neurotransmission reversibly. Furthermore, we manipulated the voluntary movement of gerbils in free-field activity by application of PDTO to the striatum. Also, in freely moving kittens, the development of the visual cortex was manipulated by long-lasting application of PDTO to the eye. Thus, PDTO enables external manipulation of in vivo or in vitro neurotransmission in various clearly defined regions on the submillimeter scale. Suppression of neurotransmission occurred only within the photo-oxidized area which can be histochemically visualized.
The acoustic startle response, prepulse inhibition, fear-potentiated startle and monoamine activity induced by either, a novel stimulus or a cue previously paired with foot-shock (fear-conditioning), were assessed in rats selectively bred for differences in amygdala excitability (Fast vs. Slow kindling epileptogenesis). Comorbid differences of anxiety, which were dependent both on the rats' behavioural style and the kind of stressor, also characterized these strains. In the present investigation, Slow rats exhibited a greater startle reflex to noise relative to Fast rats, suggesting differences in generalized anxiety, but similar rates of startle habituation and prepulse inhibition. The fear-potentiated startle, however, was greater in Fast rats. When movement of the rat was restricted in a new environment, presentation of a novel stimulus (light) increased norepinephrine, dopamine and/or serotonin activity in brain regions typically associated with stressors (e.g. locus coeruleus, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus). Generally, these effects were more pronounced in Fast rats, and norepinephrine utilization in the central amygdala was particularly highlighted in response to a conditioned fear stimulus. Thus, while generalized anxiety appeared greater in Slow rats, behavioural and central neurochemical reactivity in response to novel stimuli and to fear-eliciting stimuli, was greater in Fast rats. Similarly, basal dopamine activity in the prefrontal cortex was greater in Fast rats, but dopamine utilization elicited by a novel stimulus was more pronounced in Slow rats. This suggested that relative to Slow rats, dopamine neurons in prefrontal cortex of Fast rats do not react normally to environmental stimuli, and this phenomenon could lead to disturbances of attention or impulsivity.
Electrical stimulation promotes the speed and accuracy of motor axonal regeneration. The positive effects of stimulation are mediated at the cell body. Here we characterize the effect of electrical stimulation on motoneuronal expression of BDNF and its receptor, trkB, two genes whose expression levels in motoneurons correlate with regeneration and are regulated by electrical activity in a variety of neurons. We used semiquantitative in situ hybridization to measure expression of mRNA encoding BDNF and the full-length trkB receptor at intervals of 8 h, 2 days and 7 days after unilateral femoral nerve cut, suture, and stimulation. Expression in regenerating motoneurons was compared to that of contralateral intact motoneurons. BDNF and trkB signals were not significantly upregulated 8 h and 2 days after femoral nerve suture and sham stimulation. By 7 days, there was a 2-fold increase in both BDNF and trkB mRNA expression. In contrast, stimulation of cut and repaired nerves for only 1 h led to rapid upregulation of BDNF and trkB mRNA by 3-fold and 2-fold, respectively, within the first 8 h. The stimulation effect peaked at 2 days with 6-fold and 4-fold increases in the signals, respectively. Thereafter, the levels of BDNF and trkB mRNA expression declined to equal the 2-fold increase seen at 7 days after nerve repair and sham-stimulation. We conclude that brief electrical stimulation stimulates BDNF and trkB expression in regenerating motoneurons. Because electrical stimulation is known to accelerate axonal regeneration, we suggest that changes in the expression of BDNF and trkB correlate with acceleration of axonal regeneration.
Changes in the neuronal activity of globus pallidus (GP) have been shown in animal models of parkinsonism. In order to study the implication of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in these changes, the effects of STN lesions alone or in combination with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) -induced damage to the substantia nigra compacta (SNc) were examined in rats using electrophysiological recordings of GP cells. In normal rats, the firing rate was 22.1+/-1.4 spikes/s. The pattern was regular in 45%, irregular in 49% and bursty in 6% of the cases. In rats with STN lesions, the firing rate of GP units (20.15+/-1.25 spikes/s) did not differ from that of normal rats and only regular (46%) and irregular (54%) cells were found; a bursty pattern was not observed. 6-OHDA lesions of the SNc induced no change in the firing rate of GP neurons (21.5+/-1.4 spikes/s, P&gt;0.05) but a significant decrease in the percentage of regular cells (27%, P&lt;0.001), a significant increase in burst cells (21%, P&lt;0.001) with no change in the percentage of irregular units (52%) were observed. In rats with combined SNc and STN lesions, the firing pattern did not change from that of normal rats. The present results show that STN lesions induced the disappearance of bursts in normal rats and normalization of firing pattern in the GP units of rats with 6-OHDA lesions suggesting that the STN plays an important role in the modulation of the pattern of activity of GP neurons which may account for the therapeutic effect of STN lesions in Parkinson's disease.

In the present study, we investigated whether and how chronic morphine administration changes seizure susceptibility in rats. The role of morphine-dependence on the seizure susceptibility has been evaluated with models of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-kindling and acute convulsions induced by PTZ, N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA), picrotoxin and caffeine in adult male rats. The results showed that morphine-dependence increased seizure severity only at 1-4th PTZ injections in the kindling model. In acute convulsion tests, dependent rats demonstrated a significantly lower seizure threshold only for PTZ, while they demonstrated a significantly lower tendency to show tonic-clonic convulsions only for NMDA. It is concluded that morphine-dependence may modulate PTZ-kindling and seizure susceptibility in rats with emphasis on the role of GABA and NMDA neurotransmitter systems.
Nicotine exerts its central actions by regulating cationic fluxes through nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). By this effect, the drug likely also modifies events occurring beyond the nAChR, including the regulation of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis. The present study was undertaken to assess the effects of acute and chronic nicotine administration (0.4 mg/kg, s.c.) on levels of NO(-)(2)+NO(-)(3), stable metabolites of NO, in brain regions of male and female rats. Nicotine increased levels of the metabolites, and therefore presumably of NO, with sex differences in the degree of stimulation, the brain regions affected, and the variance between the effects of acute and chronic administration. Prior inhibition of NO synthase eliminated the effect of nicotine in all regions studied. While nicotine appeared to increase NO indirectly via glutamate receptors in the cortex and hippocampus, this was not true of the corpus striatum, where blocking NMDA-type glutamate receptors with MK-801 had no effect. The findings support the view that NO is likely involved in some of the central effects of nicotine.
Previous studies investigated adaptive properties of a podokinetic (PK) system that senses and controls angular movement of the trunk relative to the stance foot when walking around a curved trajectory or during rotational stepping on the spot. In particular, after adaptively modifying the PK system by prolonged stepping-in-place over the axis of a horizontally rotating platform, blind-folded subjects could no longer step in place on firm ground. When trying to do so they invariably rotated themselves relative to space without perceiving their rotation, a phenomenon termed podokinetic after-rotation (PKAR). It is well known that normal rotational stepping generates a specifically podokinetic component of compensatory nystagmus which is independent of the VOR. The present study investigated whether during PKAR this podokinetic component of oculomotor activity follows the somatosensory correlate of actually stepping around, or the cognitive intent or percept of 'no rotation'. Experiments were conducted in two phases on five normal human subjects. In the first phase, the normal passively induced VOR was compared with the combined VOR and PK oculomotor response induced by intentional rotational stepping on the spot. In both cases the angular stimulus was a 2-min rotation at 15 degrees/s. Subtraction of the decaying VOR from the actively induced combined response revealed a constant podokinetic nystagmus with slow-phase velocity gain of about 0.4 maintained throughout this period. The PK and VOR response components appeared to sum linearly. In the second phase, we measured oculomotor activity during PKAR, when the blindfolded subjects involuntarily rotated themselves at around 15 degrees/s while attempting to step-in-place after the podokinetic adaptation procedure noted above. The striking result of the second phase of experiments was that, although an apparently normal decaying VOR was present, the maintained PK component of response was consistently absent, despite an essentially normal physical pattern of rotational stepping. Thus, in the adapted state, non-vestibular oculomotor activity followed the cognitive intent or percept of 'no rotation', rather than the prevailing somatosensory-motor activity of the lower limbs. The finding points to an important cognitive element in this form of oculomotor control.
The question of degrees of freedom in the control of multijoint movement is posed as the problem of discovering how the motor control system constrains the many possible combinations of joint postures to stabilize task-dependent essential variables. Success at a task can be achieved, in principle, by always adopting a particular joint combination. In contrast, we propose a more selective control strategy: variations of the joint configuration that leave the values of essential task variables unchanged are predicted to be less controlled (i.e., stabilized to a lesser degree) than joint configuration changes that shift the values of the task variables. Our experimental task involved shooting with a laser pistol at a target under four conditions. The seven joint angles of the arm were obtained from the recorded positions of markers on the limb segments. The joint configurations observed at each point in normalized time were analyzed with respect to trial-to-trial variability. Different hypotheses about relevant task variables were used to define sets of joint configurations (&quot;uncontrolled manifolds&quot; or UCMs) that, if realized, would leave essential task variables unchanged. The variability of joint configurations was decomposed into components lying parallel to those sets and components lying in their complement. The orientation of the gun's barrel relative to a vector pointing from the gun to the target was the task variable most successful at showing a difference between the two components of joint variability. This variable determines success at the task. Throughout the movement, not only while the gun was pointing at the target, fluctuations of joint configuration that affected this variable were much reduced compared with fluctuations that did not affect this variable. The UCM principle applied to relative gun orientation thus captures the structure of the motor control system across different parts of joint configuration space as the movement evolves in time. This suggests a specific control strategy in which changes of joint configuration that are irrelevant to success at the task are selectively released from control. By contrast, constraints representing an invariant spatial position of the gun or of the arm's center of mass structured joint configuration variability in the early and mid-portion of the movement trajectory, but not at the time of shooting. This specific control strategy is not trivial, because a target can be hit successfully also by controlling irrelevant directions in joint space equally to relevant ones. The results indicate that the method can be successfully used to determine the structure of coordination in joint space that underlies the control of the essential variables for a given task.

Dietary restriction (DR) can extend life span and reduce the incidence of age-related disease in rodents and primates. DR can be considered as a metabolic stress and might therefore be expected to modify neuroendocrine systems that regulate stress responses. We now report that maintenance of adult rats on a DR regimen results in a significant decrease in the levels of glucocorticoid receptor mRNA and protein in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex, without a change in levels of mineralocorticoid receptors. These findings suggest that DR can alter the responsiveness of brain cells to glucocorticoids, an adaptation that may contribute to beneficial effects of DR on neuronal plasticity and survival demonstrated in recent studies.
Motor cortical inputs and proprioreceptive muscle afferents largely target the same spinal cord region. This study explored the idea that during development the two inputs interact via an activity-dependent mechanism to produce mature patterns of innervation. In rats, the forelimb motor cortex was ablated unilaterally at either postnatal day 7 (P7), the beginning of corticospinal synaptogenesis in the cervical cord, or at P50. Comparisons were made with sham-operated animals. At P70, muscle afferents from the extensor digitorum communis muscle, contralateral to the lesion, were transganglionically labeled with cholera toxin B-subunit. Lower cervical spinal cord sections were immunostained for cholera toxin B, parvalbumin, and cJun. Our small lesions had no obvious effects upon forelimb function. However, developmental lesions, but not adult lesions, were shown to significantly increase the number of muscle afferent boutons present in the contralateral ventral horn, compared with sham-operated controls. Also, the ratio of parvalbumin-positive neurons contralateral/ipsilateral to the developmental lesion (but not adult lesions) was decreased and the ratio of cJun-positive motoneurons increased. Thus, an early motor cortex lesion resulted in retention of a proportion of muscle afferent synapses to the ventral horn that are known to be lost during normal development. Parvalbumin and cJun are markers of neuronal activity suggesting that spinal circuitry develops permanently altered activity patterns in response to an early cortical lesion, although this plasticity is lost in the mature animal.
The members of the tenascin family are involved in a number of developmental processes, mainly by their ability to regulate cell adhesion. We have here studied the distribution of mRNAs for tenascin-X, -C, and -R and the closely related molecule tenascin/J1 in the olfactory system and spinal cord. The olfactory bulb and nasal mucosa were studied during late embryonic and early postnatal development as well as in the adult. The spinal cord was studied during late embryonic development and after mechanical lesions. In the normal rat, the spinal cord and olfactory bulb displayed similar patterns of tenascin expression. Tenascin-C, tenascin-R, and tenascin/J1 were all expressed in the olfactory bulb and spinal cord during development, while tenascin/J1 was the only extensively expressed tenascin molecule in the adult. In both regions tenascin/J1 was expressed in both nonneuronal and neuronal cells. After a spinal cord lesion, mRNAs for tenascin-C, -X, -R, and/J1 were all upregulated and had their own specific spatial and temporal expression patterns. Thus, even if axonal outgrowth occurs to some extent both in the adult rat primary olfactory system and in spinal cord scar tissue after lesion, the tenascin expression patterns in these two situations are totally different.
alpha-Synuclein and ubiquitin are two Lewy body protein components that may play antagonistic roles in the pathogenesis of Lewy bodies. We examined the relationship between alpha-synuclein, ubiquitin, and lipids in Lewy bodies of fixed brain sections or isolated from cortical tissues of dementia with Lewy bodies. Lewy bodies exhibited a range of labeling patterns for alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin, from a homogeneous pattern in which alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin were evenly distributed and overlapped across the inclusion body to a concentric pattern in which alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin were partially segregated, with alpha-synuclein labeling concentrated in the peripheral domain and ubiquitin in the central domain of the Lewy body. Lipids represented a significant component in both homogeneous and concentric Lewy bodies. These results suggest that Lewy bodies are heterogeneous in their subregional composition. The segregation of alpha-synuclein to Lewy body peripheral domain is consistent with the hypothesis that alpha-synuclein is continually deposited onto Lewy bodies.
Stimulation of peripheral nerves activates corresponding regions in sensorimotor cortex. We have applied functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) techniques to monitor activated brain regions by means of measuring changes of blood oxygenation level-dependent contrast during electric stimulation of the forepaw, hindpaw, or tail in rats. During alpha-chloralose anesthesia, artificial respiration, and complete muscle relaxation, stimulations were delivered at 3 Hz via subcutaneous bipolar electrodes with 500-microseconds-current pulses of 0.2-2.0 mA. Single- or multislice gradient echo images were collected during recording sessions consisting of five alternating rest and stimulation periods. Stimulation of the right and left forepaws and hindpaws repeatedly led to robust activation of the contralateral sensorimotor cortex. There was a significant correlation (P &lt; 0.05) between current pulse strength and amount of activation of the sensory cortex during forepaw stimulation. The center of the main cortical representation of the forepaw was situated 3.4 mm lateral to the midline and 5 mm posterior to the rhinal fissure. The main representation of the hindpaw was 2.0 mm lateral to the midline and 6 mm posterior to the rhinal fissure. Tail stimulation gave rise to a strikingly extended bilateral cortical activation, localized along the midline in medial parietal and frontal cortex 4 and 5 mm posterior to the rhinal fissure. In conclusion, the experiments provide evidence that peripheral nerve stimulation induces a fMRI signal in the respective division of the somatosensory cortex in a stimulus-related manner. The marked cortical activation elicited by tail stimulation underlines the key importance of the tail.
We used mutant mice that lack the gene for ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) to test the hypothesis that it is an endogenous sprouting factor. Fibers in the lateral gastrocnemius muscle were either partially denervated by transection of one of the branches of its nerve or paralyzed by intramuscular injection of botulinum toxin. This results in a significant sprouting response at the terminals of intact motoneurons in normal animals. We did not detect sprouting produced by either stimulus in mice lacking CNTF. When exogenous CNTF was administered to CNTF knockout mice following partial muscle denervation, they mounted a typical sprouting response. Thus CNTF is a critical factor in the process of sprout formation after both partial denervation injury and neuromuscular paralysis. It may function as part of a cellular compensatory mechanism after neuronal injury.
Vesicular transporters are responsible for the loading of neurotransmitters into specialized secretory organelles in neurons and neuroendocrine cells to make them available for regulated neurosecretion. The exocytotic release of neurotransmitter therefore depends on the functional activity of the vesicular transporters and their efficient sorting to these secretory organelles. Molecular analysis of vesicular transport proteins has revealed important information regarding structural domains responsible for their functional properties, including substrate specificity and trafficking to various classes of secretory vesicles. These studies have established the existence of an important functional relationship between transporter activity and presynaptic quantal neurosecretion.

3-Nitrotyrosine (3NT) is used as a biomarker of nitrative pathology caused by peroxynitrite (PN), myeloperoxidase (MPO)-, and/or eosinophil peroxidase (EPO)-dependent nitrite oxidation. 3NT measurements in biological materials are usually based on either antibody staining, HPLC detection, or GC detection methodologies. In this report, a procedure is described for the measurement of 3NT and tyrosine (TYR) by LC-MS/MS that is simple, direct, and sensitive. Though highly specialized in its use as an assay, LC-MS/MS technology is available in many research centers in academia and industry. The critical assay for 3NT was linear below 100 ng/ml and the limit of detection was below 100 pg/ml. Regarding protein digested samples, we found that MRM was most selective with 133.1 m/z as the daughter ion. In comparison, LC-ECD was 100 times less sensitive. Basal levels of 3NT in extracted digests of rat brain homogenate were easily detected by LC-MS/MS, but were below detection by LC-ECD. The LC-MS/MS assay was used to detect 3NT in rat brain homogenate that was filtered through a 180 micron nylon mesh. Three fractions were collected and examined by phase contrast microscopy. The mass ratio (3NT/TYR) of 3NT in fractions of large vessel enrichment, microvessel enrichment, and vessel depletion was 0.6 ng/mg, 1.2 ng/mg, and 0.2 ng/mg, respectively. Ultimately, we found that the basal 3NT/TYR mass ratio as determined by LC-MS/MS was six times greater in microvessel-enriched brain tissue vs. tissue devoid of microvessels.
Adenoviral vector-mediated transient gene expression can provide new possibilities for ex vivo manipulation of quiescent hematopoietic stem cells (HSC). In order to define a suitable expression cassette for high levels of transgene expression in HSCs, we have studied the level of transgene expression in human CD34+CD38- cells using adenoviral vectors with various gene expression cassettes encoding the enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) gene. CD34+ hematopoietic cells were cultured in serum-free medium with megakaryocyte growth and development factor (MGDF) alone for supporting the survival of primitive progenitors or with MGDF, c-kit ligand (KL) and flt3 ligand (FL) for inducing proliferation of primitive progenitors. With all the vectors tested, higher percentages of EGFP expressing cells were found in CD34+CD38- cells than those in CD34+CD38high cells from all donors tested. The phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK)-1 promoter was found to allow higher levels of EGFP expression than the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) promoter in CD34+CD38- cells. Replacing the SV40 polyadenylation signal with the human beta-globin gene IVS2 and polyadenylation signal in the expression cassette (Ad5xPGK-EGFP-beta-globin) enhanced the level of EGFP expression markedly further. These results provide a guideline for the development of adenoviral vectors for gene expression in human primitive hematopoietic progenitor cells. Gene Therapy (2000) 7, 2132-2138.
To help understand mechanisms of vertebrate genome evolution, we have compared zebrafish and tetrapod gene maps. It has been suggested that translocations are fixed more frequently than inversions in mammals. Gene maps showed that blocks of conserved syntenies between zebrafish and humans were large, but gene orders were frequently inverted and transposed. This shows that intrachromosomal rearrangements have been fixed more frequently than translocations. Duplicated chromosome segments suggest that a genome duplication occurred in ray-fin phylogeny, and comparative studies suggest that this event happened deep in the ancestry of teleost fish. Consideration of duplicate chromosome segments shows that at least 20% of duplicated gene pairs may be retained from this event. Despite genome duplication, zebrafish and humans have about the same number of chromosomes, and zebrafish chromosomes are mosaically orthologous to several human chromosomes. Is this because of an excess of chromosome fissions in the human lineage or an excess of chromosome fusions in the zebrafish lineage? Comparative analysis suggests that an excess of chromosome fissions in the tetrapod lineage may account for chromosome numbers and provides histories for several human chromosomes.
Orphan transporters form a growing subfamily of genes related by sequence similarity to the Na+/Cl- -dependent neurotransmitter superfamily. Using a combination of database similarity searching and cloning methods, we have identified and characterized two novel human orphan transporter genes, v7-3 and NTT5. Similar to other known orphan transporters, v7-3 and NTT5 contain 12 predicted transmembrane domains, intracellular N- and C-terminal domains, and large extracellular loops between transmembrane (TM) domains 3 and 4 and between TM domains 7 and 8. Residues within the extracellular loops are also predicted to contain sites for N-linked glycosylation. Human v7-3, the species orthologue of rat v7-3, contains an open reading frame (ORF) of 730 amino acids. Human NTT5 is a new member of the orphan transporter family and has an ORF of 736 amino acids. The amino acid sequences of human v7-3 and NTT5 are greater than 50% similar to other known orphan neurotransmitter transporters and also show sequence similarity to the human serotonin and dopamine transporters. Radiation hybrid mapping located the human v7-3 and NTT5 genes on chromosomes 12q21.3-q21.4 and 19q13.1-q13.4, respectively. Human mRNA distribution analysis by TaqMan reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction showed that v7-3 mRNA is predominantly expressed in neuronal tissues, particularly amygdala, putamen, and corpus callosum, with low-level expression in peripheral tissues. In contrast, NTT5 mRNA was highly expressed in peripheral tissues, particularly in testis, pancreas, and prostate. Transient transfection with epitope-tagged transporter constructs demonstrated v7-3 to be expressed at the cell surface, whereas NTT5 was predominantly intracellular, suggestive of a vesicular location. Although the substrates transported by these transporters remain unknown, their specific but widespread distribution suggests that they may mediate distinct and important functions within the brain and the periphery.
Proliferating astrocytes are frequently observed in diseased and injured brains. These newly generated astrocytes are necessary to reestablish the barriers that isolate the CNS from the rest of the body; however, they also create a matrix that inhibits regeneration and remyelination. Therefore, it is important to understand the mechanisms that enable a terminally differentiated astrocyte to reenter the cell cycle. Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), interleukin-6 (IL-6), transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), and fibroblastic growth factor-2 (FGF-2) are four cytokines that are rapidly elevated in damaged neural tissue. These cytokines also have been implicated in glial scar formation. We sought to determine whether IL-6 and CNTF stimulate astroglial proliferation alone or in combination with other mitogens. Intraparenchymal CNTF modestly increased the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) double positive astrocytes when introduced by stereotactic injection into the adult rat brain. When applied directly to highly enriched rat forebrain astrocyte cultures, neither CNTF nor IL-6-stimulated DNA synthesis. Therefore, they are not astroglial mitogens. However, both cytokines synergized with epidermal growth factor (EGF), increasing its mitogenicity by approximately twofold. Astrocytes that had been &quot;aged&quot; for at least 3 weeks in vitro became refractory to EGF; however, when these &quot;aged&quot; astrocytes were pretreated with either IL-6 or CNTF for as little as 2 h, they became competent to reenter the cell cycle upon exposure to EGF. These data suggest that IL-6 type cytokines, likely by activating STAT family transcription factors, induce the expression of signaling molecules that endow resting astrocytes with the competence to respond to mitogens and to reenter the cell cycle.
Poor functional recovery after peripheral nerve injury has been generally attributed to inability of denervated muscles to accept reinnervation and recover from denervation atrophy. However, deterioration of the Schwann cell environment may play a more vital role. This study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of chronic denervation on the capacity of Schwann cells in the distal nerve stump to support axonal regeneration and to remyelinate regenerated axons. We used a delayed cross-suture anastomosis technique in which the common peroneal (CP) nerve in the rat was denervated for 0-24 weeks before cross-suture of the freshly axotomized tibial (TIB) and chronically denervated CP nerve stumps. Motor neurons were backlabeled with either fluoro-ruby or fluorogold 12 months later, to identify and count TIB motor neurons that regenerated axons into chronically denervated CP nerve stumps. Number, size, and myelination of regenerated sensory and motor axons were determined using light and electron microscopy. We found that short-term denervation of &lt; or =4 weeks did not affect axonal regeneration but more prolonged denervation profoundly reduced the numbers of backlabeled motor neurons and axons in the distal nerve stump. Yet, atrophic Schwann cells retained their capacity to remyelinate regenerated axons. In fact, the axons were larger and well myelinated by long-term chronically denervated Schwann cells. These findings demonstrate a progressive inability of chronically denervated Schwann cells to support axonal regeneration and yet a sustained capacity to remyelinate the axons which do regenerate. Thus, axonal interaction can effectively switch the nonmyelinating phenotype of atrophic Schwann cells back into the myelinating phenotype.


The primate auditory cortex is anatomically divided into several areas, but little is known about the functional differences between these areas. Similarly, although neurons in sub-cortical auditory areas of other species have been classified into distinct categories, these criteria have not been applied in primates. This study measured the responses of single neurons in the primary auditory cortex (AI) and the caudomedial field (CM) to tones and noise. Most neurons could be qualitatively classified as onset, sustained, or sustained-onset, but never as primary (VIII nerve)-like or chopper. Quantitative analysis showed a continuum of response types, from having only onset responses to responding throughout the stimulus period. AI neurons had higher firing rates that CM neurons, but CM neurons had higher firing rates to noise stimuli compared to tone stimuli, and a greater percentage of CM neurons had excitatory responses after stimulus offset. There were no differences in the percentage of neurons that had tonic or inhibitory responses. These results indicate that the responses of neurons in the primate auditory cortex are better described as a continuum rather than as discrete classes, and provide further evidence that auditory information is processed in series between AI and CM in the primate.
We investigated how natural and morphed cat vocalizations are represented in primary auditory cortex (AI). About 40% of the neurons showed time-locked responses to major peaks in the vocalization envelope, 60% only responded at the onset. Simultaneously recorded multi-unit (MU) activity of these peak-tracking neurons on separate electrodes was significantly more synchronous during stimulation than under silence. Thus, the representation of the vocalizations is likely synchronously distributed across the cortex. The sum of the responses to the low and high frequency part of the meow, with the boundary at 2.5 kHz, was larger than the neuronal response to the natural meow itself, suggesting that strong lateral inhibition is shaping the response to the natural meow. In this sense, the neurons are combination-sensitive. The frequency-tuning properties and the response to amplitude-modulated tones of the MU recordings can explain the responses to natural, and temporally and spectrally altered vocalizations. Analysis of the mutual information in the firing rate suggests that the activity of at least 95 recording sites in AI would be needed to reliably distinguish between the nine different vocalizations. This suggests that a distributed representation based on temporal stimulus aspects may be more efficient than one based on firing rate.
Amplification with catalyzed reporter deposition (CARD) greatly enhances peroxidase signals, which has been utilized to amplify immunohistochemical labelings including fluorochromes. Here we describe a strategy to amplify each of two immunofluorescent signals without crosstalk on double-stained histological sections from human autopsied brains with Alzheimer's disease (AD). One of the two primary antibodies (anti-Abeta or anti-PHF-tau) was probed by a species-specific secondary antibody conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (HRP), which was visualized by FITC-labeled tyramide. After inactivation of HRP, the other primary antibody was probed by another species-specific secondary antibody conjugated with HRP. Amplification with biotinylated tyramide was followed by streptavidin-conjugated Cy-5, which specifically labeled the latter epitope. It was found that Abeta and PHF-tau were localized to senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), respectively, which verified lack of crosstalk on the double-stained section. Localization of ubiquitin and PHF-tau was looked for at higher magnification in NFT-bearing neurons. Although these two epitopes were colocalized in some neurons, ubiquitin was not always present in PHF-tau positive NFTs. Discrepancy between PFH-tau and ubiquitin, verified inter- and intracellularly, may represent different stages of NFT formation. This is the first report of successful CARD amplification of two different fluorescent signals on double-labeling immunohistochemistry, which is now proved to be powerful in detecting epitopes in relation to AD-related lesions. Improved intensity over tenfold of the two fluorescent signals without crosstalk will expand the application of the multilabeling method with fluorochromes.
Social signals play an important role in regulating hormone-behavior relationships. In anurans (frogs and toads), acoustic signals are an essential aspect of reproductive behavior; however, the physiological consequences of receiving social signals has remained largely undescribed. Each night for 5, 10, or 20 days, we presented acoustically isolated male treefrogs with a conspecific mating chorus, an array of tones, or no sound. We recorded calling rate of individuals throughout the experiment and collected blood before and after treatment. Days of stimulus exposure had no effect on any dependent measure. Acoustic treatment influenced steroid levels; testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and corticosterone increased only in the group exposed to the chorus. Chorus-exposed males also showed an increase in stimulus-evoked calling. We found no correlation between androgens and calling within each treatment group. In addition, noncallers in the chorus group had higher levels of androgens than males in the tone or no sound groups. Further, chorus-exposed males with zero, low, or high rate of calling had similar levels of androgens. These data indicate that social signals increase circulating androgens independently of calling behavior. Elevated corticosterone associated with chorus reception did not inhibit calling behavior, and corticosterone showed no correlation with androgen levels.
N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor stimulation is known to activate nitric oxide (NO) synthase, an enzyme present in a high proportion of sympathetic preganglionic neurons. In this study, we have examined the possibility that NO modulates the pressor responses elicited by NMDA receptor stimulation in the spinal cord. In experiments on anesthetized rats, we determined whether intrathecal administration of either 3-morpholinylsydnoneimine chloride (SIN-1), an NO donor, or N:(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), an NO synthase inhibitor, affected the response to stimulation of spinal NMDA receptors by NMDA (1 pmol to 1 micromol in 10-microL intrathecal administration). Intrathecal NMDA resulted in dose-dependent increases in blood pressure. SIN-1 (100 nmol) attenuated the pressor responses to NMDA (F(1,70)=12, P=0.001). Conversely, L-NAME (1 nmol to 1 micromol) augmented the pressor response to NMDA in a dose-dependent manner (F(3,161)=28.3, P&lt;0.001). The effect of L-NAME to amplify the pressor response to NMDA was reversed by L-arginine but not by D-arginine. These results indicate that endogenous synthesis of NO in the spinal cord limits the pressor response to stimulation of spinal NMDA receptors.
Azimilide is a class III anti-arrhythmic agent under development by Procter &amp; Gamble. In December 1998, the company submitted an NDA with the FDA seeking an indication for the maintenance of sinus heart rhythm in patients with various forms of supraventricular arrhythmia. By November 1997, the drug was being evaluated in clinical trials for its use in patients with implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs). The study was to examine its ability to reduce the frequency and severity of ICD electrical discharges. As of August 1999, azimilide was in phase I development by Tanabe Seiyaku in Japan, for the potential treatment of arrhythmia. Results of a pivotal clinical trial, presented at the annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience in November 1998, demonstrated azimilide to prolong the arrythmia-free period in patients suffering from atrial fibrillation. Phase III clinical trials so far have involved patients with supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias. Trial results from the ASAP (Azimilide Supraventricular Arrhythmia Program Trial), showed that azimilide significantly prolonged the arrythmia-free period in patients suffering from atrial fibrillation. There were three deaths in the azimilide group compared to one in the placebo group. The safety and efficacy of azimilide in 6000 patients who have suffered a heart attack is currently under study in the phase III ALIVE (azimilide post-infarct survival evaluation) multicenter trial, which commenced in centers in the US and Europe in October 1997.
The localization of endothelin (ET) in perivascular nerve varicosities supports pharmacological evidence that ET is a neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system. To examine the potential source of ET previously localized in cerebrovascular nerves, ganglia which send projections to these vessels were immunolabelled for ET and examined at the ultrastructural level. The trigeminal (TG) and superior cervical ganglia (SCG) were examined in control rats and following either sensory denervation or sympathectomy. In control TG, ET immunolabelling was detected throughout the cytoplasm of a subpopulation of neurones whereas in the SCG only the occasional ET-positive neurone was seen. Following sensory denervation with capsaicin, very few ET-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies or nerve fibres were detected in the TG compared with control ganglia, suggesting that ET is predominantly localized in primary afferent neurones, although some remaining myelinated nerve fibres stained positively. ET labelling of neurones in the SCG was unaffected by sensory denervation. Following selective damage to sympathetic nerves with 6-hydroxydopamine, there was a marked increase in intensity of ET-labelling of nerve fibres in the TG, probably due to increased availability of nerve growth factor for sensory nerves. There was no effect on ET immunoreactivity in the nerve cell bodies and nerve fibres within the SCG. However, in situ hybridization techniques demonstrated that 6-hydroxydopamine sympathectomy resulted in a marked increase in ET-1 mRNA expression in the SCG neurones. In conclusion, sensory nerves projecting from the TG are a more likely source of ET-positive perivascular nerves in cerebral arteries than sympathetic nerves from the SCG. Damaged sympathetic neurones markedly increase ET mRNA expression. In view of the neuroprotective properties of ET, this may represent a compensatory mechanism to promote repair.
The authors assess the significance of the rediscovery of Kant's philosophy of mind, which in their view offers valuable insights into the basis of conscious and unconscious mental life, protomental structures and the organisation of the internal world. They draw attention to the importance of distinguishing between brain culture, as represented by the neurosciences in particular, and mind culture. The process of internalisation begun by Kant is stated to have been continued by present-day psychoanalysis, whose theories furnish some additional categories of the intellect. The ideas of Bion and Money-Kyrle are considered in the light of Kantian philosophy. The authors show how Kant's revolutionary shift from enquiring into things to enquiring into our mode of knowing them implied that the objects of experience were determined by the transcendental functions of the mind, seen as a priori elements. Space and time as pure intuitions, together with the categories of the intellect organised by the 'I think', were held by Kant to make knowledge possible. Noting that the unconscious is not to be equated with the Kantian noumenon, the authors contend that Kant's epistemology can help psychoanalysis today to reflect on the epistemic status of its own referent, the conscious and unconscious mind, as well as of its procedures and predicates.
Here we present a series of four studies aimed to investigate the link between induced gamma band activity in the human EEG and visual information processing. We demonstrated and validated the modulation of spectral gamma band power by spatial selective visual attention. When subjects attended to a certain stimulus, spectral power was increased as compared to when the same stimulus was ignored. In addition, we showed a shift in spectral gamma band power increase to the contralateral hemisphere when subjects shifted their attention to one visual hemifield. The following study investigated induced gamma band activity and the perception of a Gestalt. Ambiguous rotating figures were used to operationalize the law of good figure (gute Gestalt). We found increased gamma band power at posterior electrode sites when subjects perceived an object. In the last experiment we demonstrated a differential hemispheric gamma band activation when subjects were confronted with emotional pictures. Results of the present experiments in combination with other studies presented in this volume are supportive for the notion that induced gamma band activity in the human EEG is closely related to visual information processing and attentional perceptual mechanisms.
We examined evoked and induced responses in event-related fields and gamma activity in the magnetoencephalogram (MEG) during a visual classification task. The objective was to investigate the effects of target classification and the different levels of discrimination between certain stimulus features. We performed two experiments, which differed only in the subjects' task while the stimuli were identical. In Experiment 1, subjects responded by a button-press to rare Kanizsa squares (targets) among Kanizsa triangles and non-Kanizsa figures (standards). This task requires the processing of both stimulus features (colinearity and number of inducer disks). In Experiment 2, the four stimuli of Experiment 1 were used as standards and the occurrence of an additional stimulus without any feature overlap with the Kanizsa stimuli (a rare and highly salient red fixation cross) had to be detected. Discrimination of colinearity and number of inducer disks was not necessarily required for task performance. We applied a wavelet-based time-frequency analysis to the data and calculated topographical maps of the 40 Hz activity. The early evoked gamma activity (100-200 ms) in Experiment 1 was higher for targets as compared to standards. In Experiment 2, no significant differences were found in the gamma responses to the Kanizsa figures and non-Kanizsa figures. This pattern of results suggests that early evoked gamma activity in response to visual stimuli is affected by the targetness of a stimulus and the need to discriminate between the features of a stimulus.

According to &quot;The Neuropsychology of Anxiety&quot; [Gray, J.A., 1982, The Neuropsychology of Anxiety: An Enquiry into the Functions of the Septo-hippocampal System, Oxford University Press, Oxford; Gray, J.A., McNaughton, N., 2000, The Neuropsychology of Anxiety: An Enquiry into the Functions of the Septo-hippocampal System, 2nd ed., Oxford University Press, Oxford], anxiolytic drugs of all types act on a behavioural inhibition system, the most important neural component of which is the septo-hippocampal system. Anxiolytics affect septo-hippocampal function by impairing the subcortical control of hippocampal &quot;theta&quot; activity - the principle response of the septo-hippocampal system to arousal. Our recent experiments show that there are multiple systems controlling theta activity and that anxiolytics act on several, but not all, of these systems. This pattern of results implies that there are many different types of arousal, only some of which appear to contribute to the generation of anxiety in normal subjects and to the etiology of pathological anxiety.
The neuroscience of depression in children and adolescents has only recently become a focus of research. Initially, techniques previously used for adult investigations were employed, such as endocrine studies and sleep studies. Endocrine studies have indicated that, as in adult depression, a dysregulation of the serotonin (5-HT) axis is involved in childhood depression. However, both of these techniques are difficult to perform in children and have yielded some inconsistent results. The more recently developed neuroimaging techniques should enable the greatest advances in our understanding of the pathophysiology of depression. These techniques have already implicated the frontal lobes in the pathogenesis of depression in children and adolescents, and further research is ongoing.
The presence of the inhibitory neurotransmitters glycine and GABA (gamma-amino butyric acid) and GAD (glutamic acid decarboxylase), the synthesizing enzyme for GABA, was examined by immunocytochemistry in the superior paraolivary nucleus (SPON) of the rat. Only rarely were SPON neurons observed to be glycine-immunoreactive, but the majority were GABA-immunoreactive. Using unbiased stereological counting methods, we estimated that this nucleus contains approximately 2500 neurons. Moreover, 90% of SPON neurons were immunolabeled by antisera directed against either the 65- or 67-kD isoform of GAD, or a third antiserum that recognizes both GAD isoforms. Morphometric analysis of GAD-immunolabeled neurons indicated that SPON neurons possess cell bodies and dendritic arbors that are elongated rostrocaudally and relatively flattened parasagittally. Abundant glycine-, GABA-, and GAD-immunoreactive punctate profiles-presumed to represent, for the most part, presynaptic axon terminals-were observed in apposition to SPON neurons. We conclude that the rat SPON contains a homogeneous population of multipolar GABAergic neurons that receive abundant GABAergic and glycinergic innervation. The vast majority of glycinergic inputs to SPON are presumed to originate in the ipsilateral medial nucleus of the trapezoid body, but the source(s) of its GABAergic innervation remains to be determined.
Amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) is a physiological peptide that is constantly catabolized in the brain. We previously demonstrated that an endopeptidase sensitive to phosphoramidon and thiorphan conducts the initial rate-limiting proteolysis of Abeta in vivo, but the exact molecular identity of the peptidase(s) has remained unknown because of the molecular redundancy of such activity. We analyzed the brain-derived enzyme by means of immuno-depletion and gene disruption, and demonstrate here that neprilysin accounts for the majority of the Abeta-degrading activity. Furthermore, kinetic analysis, giving a K(m) value of 2.8 +/- 0.76 microM, indicated that Abeta(1-42) is a relevant substrate for neprilysin.
The voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), also known as mitochondrial porin, is a large channel permeable to anions, cations, ATP, and other metabolites. VDAC was purified from sheep brain synaptosomes or rat liver mitochondria using a reactive red-agarose column, in addition to the hydroxyapatitate column. The red-agarose column allowed further purification (over 98%), concentration of the protein over ten-fold, decreasing Triton X-100 concentration, and/or replacing Triton X-100 with other detergents, such as Nonidet P-40 or octylglucoside. This purified VDAC reconstituted into planar-lipid bilayer, had a unitary maximal conductance of 3.7 +/- 0.1 nS in 1 M NaCl, at 10 mV and was permeable to both large cations and anions. In the maximal conducting state, the permeability ratios for Na(+), acetylcholine(+), dopamine,(+) and glutamate(-), relative to Cl(-), were estimated to be 0.73, 0.6, 0.44, and 0.4, respectively. In contrast, in the subconducting state, glutamate(-) was impermeable, while the relative permeability to acetylcholine(+) increased and to dopamine(+) remained unchanged. At the high concentrations (0.1-0.5 M) used in the permeability experiments, glutamate eliminated the bell shape of the voltage dependence of VDAC channel conductance. Glutamate at concentrations of 1 to 20 mM, in the presence of 1 M NaCl, was found to modulate the VDAC channel activity. In single-channel experiments, at low voltages (+/-10 mV), glutamate induced rapid fluctuations of the channel between the fully open state and long-lived low-conducting states or short-lived closed state. Glutamate modification of the channel activity, at low voltages, is dependent on voltage, requiring short-time (20-60 sec) exposure of the channel to high membrane potentials. The effect of glutamate is specific, since it was observed in the presence of 1 M NaCl and it was not obtained with aspartate or GABA. These results suggest that VDAC possesses a specific glutamate-binding site that modulates its activity.
Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS proteins) constitute a large family of G protein-binding proteins. All RGS proteins contain a conserved core domain that can accelerate G protein GTPase activity. In addition, many family members contain a unique N-terminal domain of unknown function. Here, we demonstrate that the RGS protein in yeast, Sst2, is proteolytically processed in vivo to yield separate but functional N-terminal and RGS core domain fragments. In whole cell lysates, the full-length SST2 product (82 kDa) as well as a prominent 36-kDa species are specifically recognized by antibodies against the C terminus of the Sst2 protein. Purification and chemical sequencing of the 36-kDa species revealed cleavage sites after Ser-414 and Ser-416, just preceding the region of RGS homology. Expression of a mutationally truncated form of the protein (C-Sst2) could not restore function to an sst2Delta mutant strain. In contrast, co-expression of C-Sst2 with the N-terminal domain (N-Sst2) partially restored the ability to regulate the growth arrest response but not the transcription induction response. Whereas the full-length protein was localized to the microsomal and plasma membrane fractions, the N-Sst2 species was predominantly in the microsomal fraction, and C-Sst2 was in the soluble fraction. Mutations that block proteasome or vacuolar protease function, or mutations in the cleavage site Ser residues of Sst2, did not alter processing. However, Sst2 processing did require expression of other components of the pheromone response pathway, including the receptor and the G protein. These results indicate that Sst2 is proteolytically processed, that this event is regulated by the signaling pathway, and that processing can profoundly alter the function and subcellular localization of the protein.
Oxidative damage to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) has been implicated as a causative factor in many disease processes and in aging. We have recently discovered that different cell types vary in their capacity to repair this damage, and this variability correlates with their ability to withstand oxidative stress. To explore strategies to enhance repair of oxidative lesions in mtDNA, we have constructed a vector containing a mitochondrial transport sequence upstream of the sequence for human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase. This enzyme is the glycosylase/AP lyase that participates in repair of purine lesions, such as 8-oxoguanine. Western blot analysis confirmed that this recombinant protein was targeted to mitochondria. Enzyme activity assays showed that mitochondrial extracts from cells transfected with the construct had increased enzyme activity compared with cells transfected with vector only, whereas nuclear enzyme activity was not changed. Repair assays showed that there was enhanced repair of oxidative lesions in mtDNA. Additional studies revealed that this augmented repair led to enhanced cellular viability as determined by reduction of the tetrazolium compound to formazan, trypan blue dye exclusion, and clonogenic assays. Therefore, targeting of DNA repair enzymes to mitochondria may be a viable approach for the protection of cells against some of the deleterious effects of oxidative stress.
Mammalian homologues of Drosophila Trp have been implicated to form channels that are activated following the depletion of Ca(2+) from internal stores. Recent studies indicate that actin redistribution is required for the activation of these channels. Here we show that murine Trp4 and Trp5, as well as phospholipase C beta1 and beta2 interact with the first PDZ domain of NHERF, regulatory factor of the Na(+)/H(+) exchanger. We demonstrated the association of Trp4 and phospholipase C-beta1 with NHERF in vivo in an HEK293 cell line expressing Trp4 and in adult mouse brain by immuno-coprecipitation. NHERF is a two PDZ domain-containing protein that associates with the actin cytoskeleton via interactions with members of ezrin/radixin/moesin family. Thus, store-operated channels involving Trp4 and Trp5 can form signaling complexes with phospholipase C isozymes via interactions with NHERF and thereby linking the lipase and the channels to the actin cytoskeleton. The interaction with the PDZ protein may constitute an important mechanism for distribution and regulation of store-operated channels.
Adenosine and arachidonate (AA) fulfil opposite modulatory roles, arachidonate facilitating and adenosine inhibiting cellular responses. To understand if there is an inter-play between these two neuromodulatory systems, we investigated the effect of AA on extracellular adenosine metabolism in hippocampal nerve terminals. AA (30 microm) facilitated by 67% adenosine evoked release and by 45% ATP evoked release. These effects were not significantly modified upon blockade of lipooxygenase or cyclooxygenase and were attenuated (52-61%) by the protein kinase C inhibitor, chelerythrine (6 microm). The ecto-5'-nucleotidase inhibitor, alpha,beta-methylene ADP (100 microm), caused a larger inhibition (54%) of adenosine release in the presence of AA (30 microm) compared with control (37% inhibition) indicating that the AA-induced extracellular adenosine accumulation is mostly originated from an increased release and extracellular catabolism of ATP. This AA-induced extracellular adenosine accumulation is further potentiated by an AA-induced decrease (48%) of adenosine transporters capacity. AA (30 microm) increased by 36-42% the tonic inhibition by endogenous extracellular adenosine of adenosine A(1) receptors in the modulation of acetylcholine release and of CA1 hippocampal synaptic transmission in hippocampal slices. These results indicate that AA increases tonic adenosine modulation as a possible feedback loop to limit AA facilitation of neuronal excitability.
Transneuronal tracing of neuronal circuitry with neurotropic viruses has provided valuable insights in the way in which the nervous system imposes temporal organization on physiological processes and behavior. The swine alpha herpes virus known as pseudorabies virus, or PRV, has been particularly useful in this regard. Early studies identified attenuated mutants with selective tropism for visual circuitry involved in circadian regulation, and subsequent experiments employing this virus have provided considerable insight into the polysynaptic organization of the suprachiasmatic nuclei and associated circuitry. This literature, which has emerged during the past decade, is the subject of this mini review.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is one of the most abundant peptides in the central nervous system. Its effects on, for example, cognition, memory and motor functions are thought to be mediated mainly via its interactions with the NPY Y1 and Y2 receptor subtypes. We had previously described the neuroanatomical organization of the Y1 and Y2 mRNA expression in humans. However, in view of the lack of information regarding the overall detailed distribution of NPY mRNA expression in the human brain, a complete picture of the anatomical organization of the NPY-related genes was still missing. Thus, in the present study, the regional distribution of NPY mRNA-expressing cells was analyzed in the post-mortem human brain. In addition, double labeling in situ hybridization was performed to characterize the NPY neuronal populations in relation to the Y1 and/or Y2 receptor mRNA localization in the human cerebral cortex, striatum, and amygdala. NPY mRNA was found to be abundant in layers II and VI of the neocortex, polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus, basal ganglia, and amygdala. Double labeling in situ hybridization showed the co-expression of NPY mRNA with the Y2, but not with the Y1, mRNA in the human cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, striatum, and nucleus accumbens, and the existence of co-expression of the Y1 and Y2 mRNAs in the cerebral cortex and amygdala. Overall, these results suggest a role for the Y2, but not Y1, as an autoreceptor in the NPY neuronal populations of the human brain.
Recent postmortem studies have been suggesting that a defect of GABAergic neurotransmission might occur in the corticolimbic system of subjects with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. To explore this possibility, a method for immunolocalizing the 65 kdalton isoform of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD(65)) has been developed and applied to the anterior cingulate (ACCx) and prefrontal (PFCx) cortices of 12 normal controls (CONs), 12 schizophrenics (SZs) and 5 manic depressive (MDs) subjects. A computer-assisted technique was employed under strictly blind conditions to determine the density of GAD(65)-IR terminals in apposition with pyramidal (PNs) and nonpyramidal (NPs) neurons and in neuropil (NPL) of layers II, III, V and VI of each cortical region. For SZs, no difference in the numerical density of GAD(65)-IR terminals in contact with either PNs or NPs or in NPL of layers II-VI in ACCx or PFCx was detected. There were also no differences in the size of either PNs and NPs that could have influenced the nature of these findings. Using a pixel count analysis, the size of IR terminals was, however, found to be increased in layers II (10.3%) and III (15.8%) of SZs, but only in subjects treated with neuroleptic drugs. For MDs, the density of GAD(65)-IR terminals was significantly reduced in all four layers of ACCx, but these differences were most significant in layers II (27.8%) and III (37.2%), whether or not the subjected were treated with neuroleptics. In PFCx, the MDs showed similar differences in terminal density for PNs and NPs but not neuropil in the four laminae examined. The MD group showed no differences in either the size of cell bodies or IR terminals. Age and PMI did not account for any of the differences between the CONs vs SZs and MDs. Overall, the results of this study, though preliminary, suggest that there may be complex changes in GABAergic terminals in SZ and MD, ones that may vary with respect to primary diagnosis and neuroleptic exposure.
Recent evidence suggests that persons with multiple sclerosis may experience deficits in verbal and visuospatial acquisition rather than recall. The present study was designed to determine whether this finding generalized to a broader range of neuropsychological tests of learning and memory. To control for group differences in information acquisition, healthy controls (HCs) and persons with multiple sclerosis (MS) were trained to specific learning criteria on both verbal (i.e., paragraph learning and paired associates) and visuospatial (i.e., facial recognition) memory tasks. Persons with MS required significantly more learning trials to meet criteria on the paragraph learning and facial recognition tasks, but not the paired associates test. However, after learning comparable amounts of information, the MS and HC groups recalled statistically similar amounts of information at 30-minutes, 90-minutes, and up to 1-week on the paragraph learning and paired associate tests. This suggests that persons with MS may have deficits in acquisition rather than recall per se. Results are discussed in terms of possible rehabilitation strategies to improve memory functioning in persons with MS.
We have entered an exciting new era in which the nearly completed mapping of the human genome is now leading to the ability to characterize the human proteome, thereby expanding the horizon for new drug development by 3 orders of magnitude. Figuring out which proteins are involved in which disorders and in which individuals with any given disorder holds the promise of highly individualized therapeutics in the not so distant future.
The purpose of this study was twofold: (a) To test Widiger, Trull, Clarkin, Sanderson, and Costa's (1994) description of depressive personalities' profile scores on the NEO-Personality Inventory-Revised (NEO-PI-R; Costa &amp; McCrae, 1992); and (b) to determine the degree of empirical overlap between depressive personality analogues and dysthymics on the NEO-PI-R. As predicted, depressive personality analogues (DPAs) had significantly higher mean scores on the Anxiety, Depression, and Self-Consciousness NEO-PI-R facets of Neuroticism than did controls, but not on the Tendermindedness facet. On the second question of interest, DPAs and dysthymics significantly differed on the Self-Consciousness and Gregariousness facets and clinically differed on the Neuroticism, Openness, and Agreeableness factors, and on the Angry Hostility, Depression, and Positive Emotions facets. Despite overlap on other factors and facets, it is concluded that DPAs can be meaningfully differentiated from dysthymia on the NEO-PI-R.
reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) during continuation therapy. This investigation reports the differential effect of 6 months of treatment with sertraline versus paroxetine for symptoms of depression, quality of life, and personality outcomes. Outpatients with unipolar major depression (DSM-III-R) were randomly assigned to receive 24 weeks of double-blind treatment with flexible doses of paroxetine (20-40 mg) or sertraline (50-150 mg). Assessments included the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), the Clinical Global Impression Scale, the Battelle Quality of Life Questionnaire, and the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R Personality Disorders screen questionnaire. One hundred seventy-six patients (mean age, 43 years; 64% female; baseline MADRS, 30.3) were treated with sertraline and 177 patients (mean age, 42 years; 71% female; MADRS, 30.7) with paroxetine. Antidepressant efficacy during continuation therapy was sustained, with only 2% of patients receiving sertraline and 9% of patients receiving paroxetine suffering a relapse. Continuation therapy resulted in a substantial conversion of responders during short-term treatment to full remission: remitter rates increased from 52% to 80% for sertraline and from 57% to 74% for paroxetine. The improvements in quality of life were related to a reduced depression score. SSRI treatment had significant beneficial effects on both categorical and dimensional measures of personality. A logistic regression analysis identified early response (25% reduction in MADRS scores at week 2) as the most important predictor of treatment response, whereas high severity, chronicity, and poor baseline quality of life had no effect. Both treatments were well-tolerated, with sertraline having a somewhat lower side effect profile. Sertraline and paroxetine demonstrated comparable efficacy during short-term and continuation therapy. Treatment was associated with significant improvement in quality of life and with reductions in axis II personality psychopathology.
Treatment at last contact in 89 persons with severe depression who committed suicide was compared with treatment at a corresponding date in 89 matched persons who did not commit suicide. No difference in electroconvulsive therapy use or prescription of antidepressant medication could be shown between those who committed suicide and those who did not. Neither was there a difference in response to treatment as measured in rates of improvement with treatment. However, continued treatment with antidepressant medication after electroconvulsive therapy was more common in the persons who did not commit suicide than in those who did (46% versus 13%, p &lt; 0.025). None of the persons who committed suicide who were followed during the 6 months before death had received continued treatment after electroconvulsive therapy. This study lends statistical support to the importance of continuing treatment after electroconvulsive therapy to prevent suicide.
We cloned the inebriated homologue MasIne from Manduca sexta and expressed it in Xenopus laevis oocytes. MasIne is homologous to neurotransmitter transporters but no transport was observed with a number of putative substrates. Oocytes expressing MasIne respond to hyperosmotic stimulation by releasing intracellular Ca(2+), as revealed by activation of the endogenous Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) current. This Ca(2+) release requires the N-terminal 108 amino acid residues of MasIne and occurs via the inositol trisphosphate pathway. Fusion of the N terminus to the rat gamma-aminobutyric acid transporter (rGAT1) also renders rGAT1 responsive to hyperosmotic stimulation. Immunohistochemical analyses show that MasIne and Drosophila Ine have similar tissue distribution patterns, suggesting functional identity. Inebriated is expressed in tissues and cells actively involved in K(+) transport, which suggests that it may have a role in ion transport, particularly of K(+). We propose that stimulation of MasIne releases intracellular Ca(2+) in native tissues, activating Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels, and leading to K(+) transport.
Treatment with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or recombinant interferon-gamma (IFN), alone or in combination, was found to increase carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) expression in several carcinoma cell lines. In this study we examined the in vitro effect of these agents on CEA expression of tumor cells, obtained from a patient operated for rectal cancer. The results showed that exposure of cancer cells to 5-FU or to IFN resulted in increased CEA levels in terms of percentage of CEA-positive cells and mean fluorescence values, as indicated by FACS analysis. However, drug combination did not induce CEA expression higher than that provided by single agents alone. Treatment with 5-FU or with IFN produced a reduction of the total number of viable cells. Moreover, Western blot analysis revealed that exposure of cancer cells to each drug was followed by a substantial increase of the total cellular CEA content. On the contrary, 5-FU in combination with IFN did not increase the expression of the antigen more than that obtained by single agents. Noteworthy, exposure of CEA-negative cells from adjacent normal rectal tissue to both agents alone or in combination, did not result in CEA induction. In conclusion, the present results suggest new approaches aimed at (a) increasing the sensitivity of diagnostic procedures based on detection of CEA-positive tumor cells; (b) facilitating the recognition of CEA-positive cancer cells by immune responses induced by anti-CEA peptide vaccines.
Advances in neuroscience implicate reentrant signaling as the predominant form of communication between brain areas. This principle was used in a series of masking experiments that defy explanation by feed-forward theories. The masking occurs when a brief display of target plus mask is continued with the mask alone. Two masking processes were found: an early process affected by physical factors such as adapting luminance and a later process affected by attentional factors such as set size. This later process is called masking by object substitution, because it occurs whenever there is a mismatch between the reentrant visual representation and the ongoing lower level activity. Iterative reentrant processing was formalized in a computational model that provides an excellent fit to the data. The model provides a more comprehensive account of all forms of visual masking than do the long-held feed-forward views based on inhibitory contour interactions.
The effects of signal modality on duration classification in college students were studied with the duration bisection task. When auditory and visual signals were presented in the same test session and shared common anchor durations, visual signals were classified as shorter than equivalent duration auditory signals. This occurred when auditory and visual signals were presented sequentially in the same test session and when presented simultaneously but asynchronously. Presentation of a single modality signal within a test session, or both modalities but with different anchor durations did not result in classification differences. The authors posit a model in which auditory and visual signals drive an internal clock at different rates. The clock rate difference is due to an attentional effect on the mode switch and is revealed only when the memories for the short and long anchor durations consist of a mix of contributions from accumulations generated by both the fast auditory and slower visual clock rates. When this occurs auditory signals seem longer than visual signals relative to the composite memory representation.
The monoclonal antibody (MAb) 5B19.2, which has virus-neutralizing and fusion inhibition activities, binds to an epitope (S2A) consisting of nine hydrophobic amino acids in the S2 subunit of the mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) spike (S) protein. This suggests that the S2A epitope may be involved in binding the virus to the MHV receptor and/or in virus-cell fusion. Co-immunoprecipitation analyses demonstrated that while the binding of virus to the receptor was blocked by anti-S1 MAbs, it was not blocked by the S2A antiserum, indicating that S2A was not involved in receptor-binding. The S proteins prepared in this study with mutations in the S2A epitope were either fusogenic or non-fusogenic and their fusogenicity did not correlate with the hydrophobic feature of the S2A epitope. All of these wt and mutated S proteins were similarly transported onto the cell membrane independent of their fusogenicity capability. These results suggest that S2A may mediate the fusion activity of the MHV S protein during virus entry into cells.
Responses of the neurons in medulla oblongata and C8-T1 spinal cord lateral horn of rats induced by simulated weightlessness were investigated using anti-Fos protein and anti-tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) double staining immunohistochemical methods, and Nissl-staining technique respectively. After four weeks of tail-suspension, many Fos-like positive neurons were localized in the medullary visceral zone (MVZ), predominantly in the nucleus of tractus solitarii and ventrolateral medulla, and some of them showed TH-like immunoreactivity. Sizes of the cell bodies of the lateral horn neurons in C8-T1 segment were significantly increased in 4-wk tail-suspended rats (P&lt;0.05) as compared with that in controls. The results suggest that the neurons in MVZ and the spinal lateral horn may be involved in the adaptation of central cardiovascular regulation during weightlessness.
We used linear vestibular evoked potentials (VsEPs) to characterize peripheral and central vestibular function in birds following embryogenesis at 2G centrifugation or at elevated levels of vibration (+20dB re: background levels). Additionally, we characterized peripheral and central vestibular adaptation to 2G centrifugation in early post-hatch birds. Linear VsEP response peak latencies, amplitudes, thresholds and input/output functions were quantified and compared between experimental and control animals. Birds vibrated throughout embryogenesis and up to one-week post-hatch revealed no changes in linear VsEP response components compared to control siblings. Birds centrifuged at 2G throughout embryogenesis also evidenced no changes in the linear VsEP measured at hatch (P0). Significant changes were seen, however, for linear VsEPs of post-hatch birds placed at 2G for 7 days beginning on post-hatch day 5. Linear VsEPs for these animals displayed significant reductions in response amplitudes associated with peaks P2, N2 and P3, response peaks generated by central neural relays of gravity receptors. The earliest response components, generated by the peripheral vestibular nerve (i.e., P1, N1), were not significantly altered with the 7-day exposure to 2G. Thus, there was no evidence of generalized changes in peripheral gravity receptor excitability or in the rate of maturation in developing animals under increased levels of gravity or vibration. If gravity level plays a critical role in shaping peripheral vestibular ontogeny at magnitudes between 1 and 2G, then it may serve to stabilize function under changing G-fields or it may operate on physiological features that can not be resolved by the VsEP. In contrast, exposure to elevated gravity during post-hatch periods does alter central vestibular function thus providing direct evidence for central vestibular adaptation to the gravitational environment. The fact that central functional change was observed in hatchlings and not embryos, raises the possibility that the first 2-weeks post-hatch may be a critical period of &quot;heightened developmental sensitivity&quot; to hypergravity.

Authors whose scholarship is in the golden realm of English literature have not hesitated to make pronouncements on James Joyce's health. A publication in this genre claims he had tabes dorsalis. One feels that an authoritative comment, accepting or rejecting a diagnosis of neurosyphilis, should be provided by the Journal of the History of the Neurosciences.
The Swedish-Finnish Nobel laureate Ragnar Granit, born 100 years ago, is commemorated in a brief article by one of his former PhD students and collaborators. After a short account of Granit's life and scientific career, special attention is given to Granit's role as a teacher in research training and his published thoughts on this matter, partly reflecting Granit's own experience as a &quot;postdoc&quot; in the laboratory of Sherrington (Oxford). The article includes personal recollections of how it was to work together with Granit in his laboratory.
This paper was written to honour the 150th anniversary of the birth of Magnus Gustaf Blix. Blix belongs to the small group of 19th century physiologic neuroscientists who still regularly are cited, on account of having presented fundamental results. He contributed to three fields: somatic sensation, and visual and muscular function. He was the first to publish evidence regarding modality specific receptors in the skin. He extended the work of Hermann von Helmholtz on the optical properties of the anterior ocular chamber of living humans, after having constructed the necessary apparatus. He also measured the heat production of contracting muscles. For this purpose he constructed the apparatus that provided a start for A. V. Hill's Nobel Prize-winning work in the field. He showed for the first time that the power of muscle contractions depended on the length/extension of the muscle fibres. He worked on the possibility of muscle powered human aviation. For this purpose he constructed a bicycle dynamometer for measuring the maximal human power output. He was the vice-chancellor of Lund university when he died from an acute disease in 1904 at the age of only 55 years.
Broca's first patient presented in support of a relationship between a lesion of the frontal lobe and aphasia was patient Tan. Although Pierre Marie refers to this case as &quot;indisputably aphasia of Broca,&quot; the clinical diagnosis of Tan's aphasia has not been re-examined in light of current clinical criteria. Superficially, the patient's extremely limited verbal output and intact comprehension appear to fit with the diagnosis of Broca's aphasia, but a more thorough examination of the onset, evolution and nature of the patient's speech symptoms suggests alternate interpretations. Contemporary evidence in support of a robust relationship between stereotypical utterances and Global aphasia suggests that patient Tan may have suffered from a Global rather than Broca's aphasia.
Protein phosphorylation is a major molecular mechanism by which cellular function is regulated. In order to accomplish rapid and specific biochemical changes via phosphorylation, the activity of a protein kinase must be dynamically regulated. Historically, the activity of each protein kinase has been analyzed using a unique in vitro biochemical assay with a specific substrate and detection procedure. These assays require the use of radioactivity and are often labor intensive. Upon activation, most protein kinases autophosphorylate. Thus, a technical approach to detect changes in kinase activity is to measure autophosphorylation. The purpose of this protocol is to provide a detailed stepwise procedure for measuring the regulation of Src-class kinase activity using phosphorylation state-specific antibodies. Antibodies to a phosphorylated peptide derived from the autophosphorylation site of Src-family kinases are developed and affinity purified. The purified antibodies are used to analyze the regulation of Src and Fyn activity in a mouse muscle cell line. It is anticipated that the utility of these phosphorylation state-specific antibodies will ultimately result in the development of similar antibodies useful for analyzing the activity of many different kinases.
Defects in mitochondrial energy metabolism have been implicated in several neurodegenerative disorders. Defective complex I (NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase) activity plays a key role in Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy and, possibly, Parkinson's disease, but there is no way to assess this enzyme in the living brain. We previously described an in vitro quantitative autoradiographic assay using [(3)H]dihydrorotenone ([(3)H]DHR) binding to complex I. We have now developed an in vivo autoradiographic assay for complex I using [(3)H]DHR binding after intravenous administration. In vivo [(3)H]DHR binding was regionally heterogeneous, and brain uptake was rapid. Binding was enriched in neurons compared with glia, and white matter had the lowest levels of binding. In vivo [(3)H]DHR binding was markedly reduced by local and systemic infusion of rotenone and was enhanced by local NADH administration. There was an excellent correlation between regional levels of in vivo [(3)H]DHR binding and the in vitro activities of complex II (succinate dehydrogenase) and complex IV (cytochrome oxidase), suggesting that the stoichiometry of these components of the electron transport chain is relatively constant across brain regions. The ability to assay complex I in vivo should provide a valuable tool to investigate the status of this mitochondrial enzyme in the living brain and suggests potential imaging techniques for complex I in humans.
We have recently isolated a 2.2-kb cDNA clone (1C5) from a human spinal cord cDNA library with partial identity to the 14-3-3 protein mRNA encoding the theta protein (YWHAQ). 14-3-3 protein transcripts are highly expressed in large projection neurones of the hippocampus, cerebellum, and spinal cord and have been found to be significantly up-regulated in rat motor neurones following hypoglossal nerve axotomy. In this study we investigated whether the 1C5 transcript (YWHAQ) isolated from spinal cord was involved in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We found a significant up-regulation of 1C5 (YWHAQ) in lumbar spinal cord from patients with sporadic ALS compared with controls, with the highest levels of expression being found in individuals with predominant lower motor neurone involvement. A 6-bp tandem repeat in the 5'-untranslated region of the gene was found to be polymorphic, but no significant association with disease was found following genomic analysis of this region. The localisation of 1C5 (YWHAQ) to chromosome 2 was determined and coincides with that reported for clone HS1 (EMBL accession no. X57347). These results show the marked up-regulation of the 14-3-3 isoform (YWHAQ) in ALS spinal cord and indicate the involvement of a potential 14-3-3-mediated survival pathway in the pathogenesis of ALS.
We have performed [(3)H]ifenprodil binding experiments under NMDA receptor-specific assay conditions to provide the first detailed characterisation of the pharmacology of the ifenprodil site on NMDA NR1/NR2B receptors, using recombinant human NR1a/NR2B receptors stably expressed in L(tk-) cells, in comparison with rat cortex/hippocampus membranes. [(3)H]Ifenprodil bound to a single, saturable site on both human recombinant NR1a/NR2B receptors and native rat receptors with B:(max) values of 1.83 and 2.45 pmol/mg of protein, respectively, and K:(D) values of 33.5 and 24.8 nM:, respectively. The affinity of various ifenprodil site ligands-eliprodil, (R:(*), R:(*))-4-hydroxy-alpha-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-beta-methyl-4-pehnyl-1-pi per idineethanol [(+/-)-CP-101,606], cis-3-[4-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-hydroxy-1-piperidinyl]-3, 4-dihydro-2H:-1-benzopyran-4,7-diol [(+/-)-CP-283,097], and (R:(*), S:(*))-alpha-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-beta-methyl-4-(phenylmethyl)-1-piperid inepropanol [(+/-)-Ro 25-6981] was very similar for inhibition of [(3)H]ifenprodil binding to recombinant human NR1a/NR2B and native rat receptors, whereas allosteric inhibition of [(3)H]ifenprodil binding by polyamine site ligands (spermine, spermidine, and arcaine) showed approximately twofold lower affinity for recombinant receptors compared with native receptors. Glutamate site ligands were less effective at modulating [(3)H]ifenprodil binding to recombinant NR1a/NR2B receptors compared with native rat receptors. The NMDA receptor-specific [(3)H]ifenprodil binding conditions described were also applied to ex vivo experiments to determine the receptor occupancy of ifenprodil site ligands [ifenprodil, (+/-)-CP-101,606, (+/-)-CP-283,097, and (+/-)-Ro 25-6981] given systemically.
The effects of nicotine on 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release from serotonergic nerve endings in rat dorsal hippocampal slices were studied. Nicotine (50-500 microM:) caused a concentration-dependent increase in 5-HT release. This effect was antagonised by mecamylamine (0.5 microM:), indicating an action at nicotinic receptors. Nicotine-evoked 5-HT release was not affected by tetrodotoxin (3 microM:), cadmium chloride (0.1 mM:), or the absence of Ca(2+) or Na(+) in the superfusion medium. Unexpectedly, higher concentrations of mecamylamine alone (1-50 microM:) increased 5-HT release. This suggested the presence of inhibitory input to 5-HT neurones and that these inhibitory neurones possess tonically active nicotinic receptors. The effect of mecamylamine (50 microM:) on 5-HT release was reduced by the muscarinic M(1) receptor agonist, McN-A-343 (100 microM:), but pirenzepine (0.005-1 microM:), which blocks M(1) receptors, alone increased 5-HT release. Hippocampal serotonergic neurones are known to possess both excitatory nicotinic receptors and inhibitory M(1) receptors. Although there may be several explanations for our results, one possible explanation is that nicotine stimulates 5-HT release by activating nicotinic heteroreceptors on 5-HT terminals. Mecamylamine (0.5 microM:) antagonises this effect, but higher concentrations increase 5-HT release indirectly by blocking the action of endogenous acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors situated on cholinergic neurones that provide muscarinic inhibitory input to 5-HT neurones.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK has recently become a focus of studies of synaptic plasticity and learning and memory. Due to the prominent role of potassium channels in regulating the electrical properties of membranes, modulation of these channels by ERK could play an important role in mediating learning-related synaptic plasticity in the CNS. Kv4.2 is a Shal-type potassium channel that passes an A-type current and is localized to dendrites and cell bodies in the hippocampus. The sequence of Kv4.2 contains several consensus sites for ERK phosphorylation. In the present studies, we tested the hypothesis that Kv4.2 is an ERK substrate. We determined that the Kv4.2 C-terminal cytoplasmic domain is an effective ERK2 substrate, and that it is phosphorylated at three sites: Thr(602), Thr(607), and Ser(616). We used this information to develop antibodies that recognize Kv4.2 phosphorylated by ERK2. One of our phospho-site-selective antibodies was generated using a triply phosphorylated peptide as the antigen. We determined that this antibody recognizes ERK-phosphorylated Kv4.2 in COS-7 cells transfected with Kv4.2 and native ERK-phosphorylated Kv4.2 in the rat hippocampus. These observations indicate that Kv4.2 is a substrate for ERK in vitro and in vivo, and suggest that ERK may regulate potassium-channel function by direct phosphorylation of the pore-forming alpha subunit.
Transforming growth factor-betas (TGF-betas) are among the most widespread and versatile cytokines. Here, we first provide a brief overview of their molecular biology, biochemistry, and signaling. We then review distribution and functions of the three mammalian TGF-beta isoforms, beta1, beta2, and beta3, and their receptors in the developing and adult nervous system. Roles of TGF-betas in the regulation of radial glia, astroglia, oligodendroglia, and microglia are addressed. Finally, we review the current state of knowledge concerning the roles of TGF-betas in controlling neuronal performances, including the regulation of proliferation of neuronal precursors, survival/death decisions, and neuronal differentiation.
Lewis rats exhibit multiple defects in their hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) system that are considered to play a causal role in the susceptibility of this strain to autoimmune diseases, i.e. experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). In the present study, we aimed to modulate the HPA response of the Lewis rat and establish its consequences for the susceptibility to EAE. Because in Wistar rats, single administration of interleukin (IL)-beta (priming) is known to induce long-lasting (weeks) sensitization of HPA responses to stressors and immune stimuli, Lewis rats were given a single dose of hIL-1beta or vehicle 1 week prior to induction of EAE by immunization with myelin basic protein (MBP). Subsequently, neurological deficits were monitored once daily. The results show that IL-1 priming markedly suppresses the neurological symptoms of EAE, without affecting the onset or duration of the disease. Measurement of vasopressin and corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) in the external zone of the median eminence revealed that, as compared to Wistar rats, Lewis rats exhibit low vasopressin but identical CRH, and that IL-1 priming increases (0.001) vasopressin without affecting CRH stores, which is consistent with a shift to vasopressin-dominated control of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion as described in Wistar rats under conditions of HPA hyper(re)activity. However, IL-1 priming did not affect a.m. corticosterone levels following immunization with MBP or during the clinical phase of EAE. IL-1 priming of Lewis rats attenuated the ACTH responses to an IL-1 challenge 11 days later, which may relate to an increase in resting corticosterone levels. Thus, the mechanisms underlying IL-1 induced suppression of EAE are not related to enhanced HPA responses. In addition, we did not find IL-1 priming-induced alterations in MBP-specific immunoglobulin (Ig)M, IgG1, IgGa and IgGb plasma titres, or gross alterations in T cell activation as reflected in spontaneous or concanavalin-induced T cell proliferation. We therefore speculate that IL-1-induced elevation of resting corticosterone levels may influence the development of EAE.
Arginine vasopressin plays an important role in the regulation of social behaviours in rodents. In the Syrian hamster, vasopressin injected directly into the brain stimulates scent marking and aggressive behaviour in a steroid dependent manner and is therefore a useful model for investigating steroid-peptide-behaviour interactions. In this study, we used in situ hybridization and radioligand binding assays on adjacent sections of hamster brains to compare the relative distribution of vasopressin (V1a) receptor mRNA and V1a receptor binding. V1a receptor mRNA and binding are abundant in the lateral septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial preoptic nucleus, anterodorsal thalamus and suprachiasmatic nucleus. Moderate receptor binding and low levels of receptor mRNA are present in the central nucleus of the amygdala and a lateral zone from the medial preoptic area through the anterior hypothalamus. V1a receptor mRNA is anatomically more restricted in several areas compared to the ligand binding pattern, which is consistent with significant spread of receptor protein along neuronal processes. Comparison of V1a receptor ligand binding and mRNA in intact, castrated, and castrated-testosterone treated animals reveals that V1a receptors in the medial preoptic nucleus are regulated by androgen, most likely by an upregulation of V1a receptor gene expression in a cluster of neurones concentrated in the ventromedial part of this nucleus. This study confirms the presence of the V1a subtype of vasopressin receptors in behaviourally important regions of the hamster brain and suggests that transcriptional regulation by gonadal steroids may play a role in modulating behavioural sensitivity to vasopressin.
The modulation of the central cardiovascular effects of alpha2-adrenoceptor activation by oxytocin in the nucleus tractus solitarii has been evaluated by cardiovascular analysis and by quantitative receptor autoradiography. Microinjections in the nucleus tractus solitarii of a threshold dose of oxytocin effectively and significantly counteracted the vasodepressor and bradycardic actions of an ED50 dose of the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine. The coinjection of a threshold dose of oxytocin with a threshold dose of clonidine did not produce any changes in the mean arterial pressure but a tachycardic response was observed. Receptor autoradiographical experiments showed that oxytocin (3 nM) significantly increased the Kd and Bmax values of [3H]p-aminoclonidine binding sites in the nucleus tractus solitarii compatible with a possible antagonistic interaction with the alpha2-adrenoceptors, and this effect was blocked by the presence of the specific oxytocin receptor antagonist 1-deamino-2-D-Tyr-(OEt)-4-Thr-8-Orn-oxytocin. These findings suggest the existence of an antagonistic oxytocin/alpha2-adrenoceptor interaction in nucleus tractus solitarii that may be of relevance for the demonstrated modulation of alpha2-adrenoceptor induced cardiovascular responses by oxytocin.
The course of multiple sclerosis (MS) can be monitored by measuring changes in brain volume, but consensus is still lacking on the best strategy to be adopted. We compared the reproducibility and sensitivity of volume measurements from different brain portions for detecting changes on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with MS. T1-weighted MRI of the brain was performed in 50 patients with relapsing-remitting MS at study entry and after an average follow-up of 18.4 months. Using a semiautomated technique for brain parenchyma segmentation, the volumes of the following brain portions were measured: (a) the whole brain (whole-brain volume, WBV), (b) the seven slices rostral to the velum interpositum (seven-slice volume, SSV), (c) the central slice of the image set (central-slice volume, CSV) and (d) the infratentorial regions (infratentorial-brain volume, IBV). All these measurements were carried out by a single observer and were repeated twice on ten randomly selected scans to test the intra-observer reproducibility using the four strategies. At follow-up there was a significant decrease in all the measures of brain volume (P ranged from 0.002 to &lt; 0.001). The univariate correlations between changes in WBV, SSV, CSV and IBV were all statistically significant, with the exception of that between changes in CSV and IBV; r values ranged from 0.34 (for the WBV/IBV correlation) to 0.80 (for the WBV/SSV correlation). The mean intra-observer coefficient of variations were 1.9% for WBV, 1.5% for SSV, 2.9% for CSV and 2.2% for IBV measurements. The measurement of volume on a portion of brain selectively including the regions in which MS pathology is more diffuse is as reliable and sensitive to disease-related changes as that on the whole brain, with significant time saving for processing.





Symptomatic brain metastases of carcinomas in patients without a previously diagnosed malignancy are frequent in neurosurgical series. Such tumors often lack distinctive morphological characteristics so that the routine histological examination can be unsuccessful in identifying the site of origin. Objectives of the present study were to evaluate the frequency of brain metastases as the only manifestation of an unknown primary cancer by the retrospective analysis of a series of consecutively operated single cerebral metastases; to verify the efficacy of clinical investigations in detecting the site of origin; to investigate whether the primary site can be identified by the immunohistochemical study of the neurosurgical specimens. Antibodies to the following antigens were used: carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19.9, CA 125, BCA-225, cytokeratin 20, PSA, HMB-45. Out of 181 patients operated for single cerebral metastasis of carcinoma, 99 (54.7%) were in patients without any previously diagnosed systemic neoplasm. In 26.7% the primary remained undiagnosed after clinical investigations, in 9 cases even at autopsy. PSA and HMB45 antibodies specifically identified metastases from prostate carcinomas and skin melanomas, respectively. No other specific immunophenotype was identified; the immunoreactivity of the single cases was more or less suggestive for a primary site. Precocious metastases of lung carcinomas expressed CEA more frequently than late metastases. It has been hypothesized that CEA plays some role as a contact mediating device. CEA expression can have some link with the tendency to metastasize precociously to the brain. No major difference of p53 and k-ras expression has been found in precocious versus late brain metastases.

It is an erroneous but common assumption that loss of neuronal perikarya causes the cognitive change in Alzheimer disease. Neither are senile plaques nor neurofibrillary tangles primarily to blame. In fact, it is the loss of synaptic contact that leads directly to the personal devastation. The death of neocortical synapses in the neuropil between plaques is probably the factor that activates the microglia.
Research suggests that the basal ganglia complex is a major component of the neural circuitry that mediates reward-related processing. However, human studies have not yet characterized the response of the basal ganglia to an isolated reward, as has been done in animals. We developed an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging paradigm to identify brain areas that are activated after presentation of a reward. Subjects guessed whether the value of a card was higher or lower than the number 5, with monetary rewards as an incentive for correct guesses. They received reward, punishment, or neutral feedback on different trials. Regions in the dorsal and ventral striatum were activated by the paradigm, showing differential responses to reward and punishment. Activation was sustained following a reward feedback, but decreased below baseline following a punishment feedback.
The heterogeneous family of G-protein-coupled metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) provides excitatory and inhibitory controls of synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability in the nervous system. Eight mGluR subtypes have been cloned and are classified in three subgroups. Group I mGluRs can stimulate phosphoinositide hydrolysis and activate protein kinase C whereas group II (mGluR2 and 3) and group III (mGluR4, 6, 7, and 8) mGluRs share the ability to inhibit cAMP formation. The present study examined the roles of groups II and III mGluRs in the processing of brief nociceptive information and capsaicin-induced central sensitization of primate spinothalamic tract (STT) cells in vivo. In 11 anesthetized male monkeys (Macaca fascicularis), extracellular recordings were made from 21 STT cells in the lumbar dorsal horn. Responses to brief (15 s) cutaneous stimuli of innocuous (brush), marginally and distinctly noxious (press and pinch, respectively) intensity were recorded before, during, and after the infusion of group II and group III mGluR agonists into the dorsal horn by microdialysis. Different concentrations were applied for at least 20 min each (at 5 microliter/min) to obtain cumulative concentration-response relationships. Values in this paper refer to the drug concentrations in the microdialysis fibers; actual concentrations in the tissue are about three orders of magnitude lower. The agonists were also applied at 10-25 min after intradermal capsaicin injection. The group II agonists (2S,1'S,2'S)-2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (LCCG1, 1 microM-10 mM, n = 6) and (-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4, 6-dicarboxylate (LY379268; 1 microM-10 mM, n = 6) had no significant effects on the responses to brief cutaneous mechanical stimuli (brush, press, pinch) or on ongoing background activity. In contrast, the group III agonist L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (LAP4, 0. 1 microM-10 mM, n = 6) inhibited the responses to cutaneous mechanical stimuli in a concentration-dependent manner, having a stronger effect on brush responses than on responses to press and pinch. LAP4 did not change background discharges significantly. Intradermal injections of capsaicin increased ongoing background activity and sensitized the STT cells to cutaneous mechanical stimuli (ongoing activity &gt; brush &gt; press &gt; pinch). When given as posttreatment, the group II agonists LCCG1 (100 microM, n = 5) and LY379268 (100 microM, n = 6) and the group III agonist LAP4 (100 microM, n = 6) reversed the capsaicin-induced sensitization. After washout of the agonists, the central sensitization resumed. Our data suggest that, while activation of both group II and group III mGluRs can reverse capsaicin-induced central sensitization, it is the actions of group II mGluRs in particular that undergo significant functional changes during central sensitization because they modulate responses of sensitized STT cells but have no effect under control conditions.
We followed simple- and complex-spike firing of Purkinje cells (PCs) in the floccular complex of the cerebellum through learned modifications of the pursuit eye movements of two monkeys. Learning was induced by double steps of target speed in which initially stationary targets move at a &quot;learning&quot; speed for 100 ms and then change to either a higher or lower speed in the same direction. In randomly interleaved control trials, targets moved at the learning speed in the opposite direction. When the learning direction was the ON direction for simple-spike responses, learning was associated with statistically significant changes in simple-spike firing for 10 of 32 PCs. Of the 10 PCs that showed significant expressions of learning, 8 showed changes in simple-spike output in the expected direction: increased or decreased firing when eye acceleration increased or decreased through learning. There were no statistically significant changes in simple-spike responses or eye acceleration during pursuit in the control direction. When the learning direction was in the OFF direction for simple-spike responses, none of 15 PCs showed significant correlates of learning. Although changes in simple-spike firing were recorded in only a subset of PCs, analysis of the population response showed that the same relationship between population firing and eye acceleration obtained before and after learning. Thus learning is associated with changes that render the modified population response appropriate to drive the changed behavior. To analyze complex-spike firing during learning we correlated complex-spike firing in the second, third, and fourth 100 ms after the onset of target motion with the retinal image motion in the previous 100 ms. Data were largely consistent with previous evidence that image motion drives complex spikes with a direction selectivity opposite that for simple spikes. Comparison of complex-spike responses at different times after the onset of control and learning target motions in the learning direction implied that complex spikes could guide learning during decreases but not increases in eye acceleration. Learning caused increases or decreases in the sensitivity of complex spikes to image motion in parallel with changes in eye acceleration. Complex-spike responses were similar in all PCs, including many in which learning did not modify simple-spike responses. Our data do not disprove current theories of cerebellar learning but suggest that these theories would have to be modified to account for simple- and complex-spike firing of floccular Purkinje cells reported here.
The biophysical and pharmacological properties of voltage-gated calcium channel currents in the human teratocarcinoma cell line NT2-N were studied using the whole cell patch-clamp technique. When held at -80 mV, barium currents (I(Ba)s) were evoked by voltage commands to above -35 mV that peaked at +5 mV. When holding potentials were reduced to -20 mV or 5 mM barium was substituted for 5 mM calcium, there was a reduction in peak currents and a right shift in the current-voltage curve. A steady-state inactivation curve for I(Ba) was fit with a Boltzmann curve (V(1/2) = -43.3 mV; slope = -17.7 mV). Maximal current amplitude increased from 1-wk (232 pA) to 9-wk (1025 pA) postdifferentiation. Whole cell I(Ba)s were partially blocked by specific channel blockers to a similar extent in 1- to 3-wk and 7- to 9-wk postdifferentiation NT2-N cells: 10 microM nifedipine (19 vs. 25%), 10 microM conotoxin GVIA (27 vs. 25%), 10 microM conotoxin MVIIC (15 vs. 16%), and 1.75 microM SNX-482 (31 vs. 33%). Currents were completely blocked by 300 microM cadmium. In the presence of nifedipine, GVIA, and MVIIC, approximately 35% of current remained, which was reduced further by SNX-482 (7-14% of current remained), consistent with functional expression of L-, N-, and P/Q-calcium channel types and one or more R-type channel. The presence of multiple calcium currents in this human neuronal-type cell line provides a potentially useful model for study of the regulation, expression and cellular function of human derived calcium channel currents; in particular the R-type current(s).
Neurons in the caudal hypothalamus (CH) are responsible for the modulation of various processes including respiratory and cardiovascular output. Previous results from this and other laboratories have demonstrated in vivo that these neurons have firing rhythms matched to the respiratory and cardiovascular cycles. The goal of the present study was to characterize the biophysical properties of neurons in the CH with particular emphasis in those properties responsible for rhythmic firing behavior. Whole cell, patch-clamped CH neurons displayed a resting membrane potential of -58.0 +/- 1.1 mV and an input resistance of 319.3 +/- 16.6 MOmega when recorded in current-clamp mode in an in vitro brain slice preparation. A large proportion of these neurons displayed postinhibitory rebound (PIR) that was dependent on the duration and magnitude of hyperpolarizing current as well as the resting membrane potential of the cell. Furthermore these neurons discharged tonically in response to a depolarizing current pulse at a depolarized resting membrane potential (more positive than -65 mV) but switched to a rapid burst of firing to the same stimulus when the resting membrane potential was lowered. The PIR observed in these neurons was calcium dependent as demonstrated by the ability to block its amplitude by perfusion of Ca(2+)-free bath solution or by application of Ni(2+) (0.3-0.5 mM) or nifedipine (10 microM). These properties suggest that low-voltage-activated (LVA) calcium current is involved in the PIR and bursting firing of these CH neurons. In addition, high-voltage-activated calcium responses were detected after blockade of outward potassium current or in Ba(2+)-replacement solution. In addition, almost all of the CH neurons studied showed spike frequency adaptation that was decreased following Ca(2+) removal, indicating the involvement of Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) current (I(K,Ca)) in these cells. In conclusion, CH neurons have at least two different types of calcium currents that contribute to their excitability; the dominant current is the LVA or T-type. This LVA current appears to play a significant role in the bursting characteristics that may underlie the rhythmic firing of CH neurons.
The swimming lamprey normally maintains the dorsal-side-up orientation due to activity of the postural control system driven by vestibular organs. Commands for postural corrections are transmitted from the brain stem to the spinal cord mainly by the reticulospinal (RS) pathways. As shown in previous studies, RS neurons are activated by contralateral roll tilt, they exhibit a strong dynamic response, but much weaker static response. Here we test a hypothesis that decoding of these commands in the spinal cord is based on the subtraction of signals in the left and right RS pathways. In this study, we used a neuro-mechanical model. An intact lamprey was mounted on a platform that restrained its postural activity but allowed lateral locomotor undulations to occur. The activity in the left and right RS pathways was recorded by implanted electrodes. These natural biological signals were then used to control an electrical motor rotating the animal around its longitudinal axis toward the stronger signal. It was found that this &quot;hybrid&quot; system automatically stabilized a normal orientation of the lamprey in the gravitational field. The system compensated for large postural disturbances (lateral tilt up to +/-180 degrees ) due to wide angular zones of the gravitational sensitivity of RS neurons. In the nonswimming lamprey, activity of RS neurons and their vestibular responses were considerably reduced, and the system was not able to stabilize the normal orientation. However, the balance could be restored by imposing small oscillations on the lamprey, which elicited additional activation of the vestibular organs. This finding indicates that head oscillations caused by locomotor movements may contribute to postural stabilization. In addition to postural stabilization, the neuro-mechanical model reproduced a number of postural effects characteristic of the lamprey: 1) unilateral eye illumination elicited a lateral tilt (&quot;dorsal light response&quot;) due to a shift of the equilibrium point in the vestibular-driven postural network; 2) removal of one labyrinth resulted in a loss of postural control due to an induced left-right asymmetry in the vestibulo-reticulospinal reflexes, which 3) could be compensated for by asymmetrical visual input. The main conclusion of the present study is that natural supraspinal commands for postural corrections in the roll plane can be effectively decoded on the basis of subtraction of the effects of signals delivered by the left and right RS pathways. Possible mechanisms for this transformation are discussed.
Dopaminergic modulation of neuronal networks in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) is believed to play an important role in information processing during working memory tasks in both humans and nonhuman primates. To understand the basic cellular mechanisms that underlie these actions of dopamine (DA), we have investigated the influence of DA on the cellular properties of layer 3 pyramidal cells in area 46 of the macaque monkey PFC. Intracellular voltage recordings were obtained with sharp and whole cell patch-clamp electrodes in a PFC brain-slice preparation. All of the recorded neurons in layer 3 (n = 86) exhibited regular spiking firing properties consistent with those of pyramidal neurons. We found that DA had no significant effects on resting membrane potential or input resistance of these cells. However DA, at concentrations as low as 0.5 microM, increased the excitability of PFC cells in response to depolarizing current steps injected at the soma. Enhanced excitability was associated with a hyperpolarizing shift in action potential threshold and a decreased first interspike interval. These effects required activation of D1-like but not D2-like receptors since they were inhibited by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 (3 microM) but not significantly altered by the D2 antagonist sulpiride (2.5 microM). These results show, for the first time, that DA modulates the activity of layer 3 pyramidal neurons in area 46 of monkey dorsolateral PFC in vitro. Furthermore the results suggest that, by means of these effects alone, DA modulation would generally enhance the response of PFC pyramidal neurons to excitatory currents that reach the action potential initiation site.
Lamprey spinal cord neurons possess N-, L-, and P/Q-type high-voltage-activated (HVA) calcium channels. We have analyzed the role of the different HVA calcium channels subtypes in the overall functioning of the spinal locomotor network by monitoring the influence of their specific agonists and antagonists on synaptic transmission and on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-elicited fictive locomotion. The N-type calcium channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx) depressed synaptic transmission from excitatory and inhibitory interneurons. Blocking L-type and P/Q-type calcium channels with nimodipine and omega-agatoxin, respectively, did not affect synaptic transmission. Application of omega-CgTx initially decreased the frequency of the locomotor rhythm, increased the burst duration, and subsequently increased the coefficient of variation and disrupted the motor pattern. These effects were accompanied by a depression of the synaptic drive between neurons in the locomotor network. Blockade of L-type channels by nimodipine also decreased the frequency and increased the duration of the locomotor bursts. Conversely, potentiation of L-type channels increased the frequency of the locomotor activity and decreased the duration of the ventral root bursts. In contrast to blockade of N-type channels, blockade or potentiation of L-type calcium channels had no effect on the stability of the locomotor pattern. The P/Q-type calcium channel blocker omega-agatoxin IVA had little effect on the locomotor frequency or burst duration. The results indicate that rhythm generation in the spinal locomotor network of the lamprey relies on calcium influx through L-type and N-type calcium channels.
Whether astrocytes predominantly express ohmic K(+) channels in vivo, and how expression of different K(+) channels affects [K(+)](o) homeostasis in the CNS have been long-standing questions for how astrocytes function. In the present study, we have addressed some of these questions in glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP(+)], freshly isolated astrocytes (FIAs) from CA1 and CA3 regions of P7-15 rat hippocampus. As isolated, these astrocytes were uncoupled allowing a higher resolution of electrophysiological study. FIAs showed two distinct ion current profiles, with neither showing a purely linear I-V relationship. One population of astrocytes had a combined expression of outward potassium currents (I(Ka), I(Kd)) and inward sodium currents (I(Na)). We term these outwardly rectifying astrocytes (ORA). Another population of astrocytes is characterized by a relatively symmetric potassium current pattern, comprising outward I(Kdr), I(Ka), and abundant inward potassium currents (I(Kin)), and a larger membrane capacitance (C(m)) and more negative resting membrane potential (RMP) than ORAs. We term these variably rectifying astrocytes (VRA). The I(Kin) in 70% of the VRAs was essentially insensitive to Cs(+), while I(Kin) in the remaining 30% of VRAs was sensitive. The I(Ka) of VRAs was most sensitive to 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), while I(Kdr) of ORAs was more sensitive to tetraethylammonium (TEA). ORAs and VRAs occurred approximately equally in FIAs isolated from the CA1 region (52% ORAs versus 48% VRAs), but ORAs were enriched in FIAs isolated from the CA3 region (71% ORAs versus 29% VRAs), suggesting an anatomical segregation of these two types of astrocytes within the hippocampus. VRAs, but not ORAs, showed robust inward currents in response to an increase in extracellular K(+) from 5 to 10 mM. As VRAs showed a similar current pattern and other passive membrane properties (e.g., RMP, R(in)) to &quot;passive astrocytes&quot;in situ (i.e., these showing linear I-V curves), such passive astrocytes possibly represent VRAs influenced by extensive gap-junction coupling in situ. Thus, our data suggest that, at least in CA1 and CA3 regions from P7-15 rats, there are two classes of GFAP(+) astrocytes which possess different K(+) currents. Only VRAs seem suited to uptake of extracellular K(+) via I(Kin) channels at physiological membrane potentials and increases of [K(+)](o). ORAs show abundant outward potassium currents with more depolarized RMP. Thus VRAs and ORAs may cooperate in vivo for uptake and release of K(+), respectively.
Vertebrate tissues use multiple junctional types to establish and maintain tissue architecture, including gap junctions for cytoplasmic connectivity and tight junctions (TJs) for paracellular and/or cell polarity barriers. The integral membrane proteins of gap junctions are connexins, whereas TJs are a complex between occludin and members of a recently characterized multigene family, the claudins. In normal brain, astrocytes are coupled by gap junctions composed primarily of connexin43 (Cx43), whereas TJs have not been detected in these cells. We now show that treatment of primary human astrocytes with the cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) causes rapid induction of claudin-1, with an expression pattern reciprocal to loss of Cx43. Treatment also led to protracted downregulation of occludin but no change in expression of zonula occludens proteins ZO-1 and -2. Immunofluorescence staining localized claudin-1 to cell membranes in IL-1beta-treated astrocytes, whereas freeze-fracture replicas showed strand-like arrays of intramembranous particles in treated cells resembling rudimentary TJ assemblies. We conclude that in human astrocytes, IL-1beta regulates expression of the claudin multigene family and that gap and tight junction proteins are inversely regulated by this proinflammatory cytokine. We suggest that in pathological conditions of the human CNS, elevated IL-1beta expression fundamentally alters astrocyte-to-astrocyte connectivity.
Specificity in the actions of different modulatory neurons is often attributed to their having distinct cotransmitter complements. We are assessing the validity of this hypothesis with the stomatogastric nervous system of the crab Cancer borealis. In this nervous system, the stomatogastric ganglion (STG) contains a multifunctional network that generates the gastric mill and pyloric rhythms. Two identified projection neurons [modulatory proctolin neuron (MPN) and modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1)] that innervate the STG and modulate these rhythms contain GABA and the pentapeptide proctolin, but only MCN1 contains Cancer borealis tachykinin-related peptide (CabTRP Ia). Selective activation of each projection neuron elicits different rhythms from the STG. MPN elicits only a pyloric rhythm, whereas MCN1 elicits a distinct pyloric rhythm as well as a gastric mill rhythm. We tested the degree to which CabTRP Ia distinguishes the actions of MCN1 and MPN. To this end, we used the tachykinin receptor antagonist Spantide I to eliminate the actions of CabTRP Ia. With Spantide I present, MCN1 no longer elicited the gastric mill rhythm and the resulting pyloric rhythm was changed. Although this rhythm was more similar to the MPN-elicited pyloric rhythm, these rhythms remained different. Thus, CabTRP Ia partially confers the differences in rhythm generation resulting from MPN versus MCN1 activation. This result suggests that different projection neurons may use the same cotransmitters differently to elicit distinct pyloric rhythms. It also supports the hypothesis that different projection neurons use a combination of strategies, including using distinct cotransmitter complements, to elicit different outputs from the same neuronal network.
Administration of the hallucinogenic 5-HT(2A/2C) agonist 1-[2, 5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl]-2-aminopropane (DOI) induces expression of Fos protein in the cerebral cortex. To understand the mechanisms subserving this action of DOI, we examined the consequences of pharmacological and surgical manipulations on DOI-elicited Fos expression in the somatosensory cortex of the rat. DOI dose-dependently increased cortical Fos expression. Pretreatment with the selective 5-HT(2A) antagonist MDL 100,907 completely blocked DOI-elicited Fos expression, but pretreatment with the 5-HT(2C) antagonist SB 206,553 did not modify DOI-elicited Fos expression. These data suggest that DOI acts through 5-HT(2A) receptors to increase cortical Fos expression. However, we found that DOI did not induce Fos in cortical 5-HT(2A) immunoreactive neurons but did increase expression in a band of neurons spanning superficial layer V to deep III, within the apical dendritic fields of layer V 5-HT(2A)-immunoreactive cells. This band of Fos immunoreactive neurons was in register with anterogradely labeled axons from the ventrobasal thalamus, which have previously been shown to be glutamatergic and express the 5-HT(2A) transcript. The effects of DOI were markedly reduced in animals pretreated with the AMPA/KA antagonist GYKI 52466, and lesions of the ventrobasal thalamus attenuated DOI-elicited Fos expression in the cortex. These data suggest that DOI activates 5-HT(2A) receptors on thalamocortical neurons and thereby increases glutamate release, which in turn drives Fos expression in cortical neurons through an AMPA receptor-dependent mechanism. These data cast new light on the mechanisms of action of hallucinogens.
In the adult cerebral cortex, the neurotransmitter GABA is strongly inhibitory, as it profoundly decreases neuronal excitability and suppresses the network propensity for synchronous activity. When fast, GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R)-mediated neurotransmission is blocked in the mature cortex, neuronal firing is synchronized via recurrent excitatory (glutamatergic) synaptic connections, generating population discharges manifested extracellularly as spontaneous paroxysmal field potentials (sPFPs). This epileptogenic effect of GABA(A)R antagonists has rarely been observed in the neonatal cortex, and indeed, GABA in the neonate has been proposed to have an excitatory, rather than inhibitory, action. In contrast, we show here that when fast GABAergic neurotransmission was blocked in slices of neonatal mouse and rat hippocampus and neocortex, sPFPs occurred in nearly half the slices from postnatal day 4 (P4) to P7 neocortex and in most slices from P2 to P7 hippocampus. In Mg(2+)-free solution, GABA(A)R antagonists elicited sPFPs in nearly all slices of P2 and older neocortex and P0 and older hippocampus. Mg(2+)-free solution alone induced spontaneous events in the majority of P2 and older slices from both regions; addition of GABA(A)R antagonists caused a dramatic increase in the mean amplitude, but not frequency, of these events in the hippocampus and in their mean frequency, but not amplitude, in the neocortex. In the hippocampus, GABA(A)R agonists suppressed amplitudes, but not frequency, of sPFPs, whereas glutamate antagonists suppressed frequency but not amplitudes. We conclude that neonatal rodent cerebral cortex possesses glutamatergic circuits capable of generating synchronous network activity and that, as in the adult, tonic GABA(A)R-mediated inhibition prevents this activity from becoming paroxysmal.
Competition among the several motor axons transiently innervating neonatal muscle fibers results in an increasing disparity in the quantal content and synaptic territory of each competitor, culminating in the permanent loss of all but one axon from neuromuscular junctions. We asked whether differences in the probability of neurotransmitter release also contribute to the increasing disparity in quantal content among competing inputs, and when in the process of competition changes in release probability become apparent. To address these questions, intracellular recordings were made from dually innervated neonatal mouse soleus muscle fibers, and quantal content and paired-pulse facilitation were evaluated for each input. At short interpulse intervals, paired-pulse facilitation was significantly higher for the weaker input with the smaller quantal content than the stronger input with the larger quantal content. Because neurotransmitter release probability across all release sites is inversely related to the extent of facilitation observed after paired-pulse stimulation, this result suggests that release probability is lower for weak compared with strong inputs innervating the same junction. A disparity in the probability of neurotransmitter release thus contributes to the disparity in quantal content that occurs during synaptic competition. Together, this work suggests that an input incapable of sustaining a high release probability may be at a competitive disadvantage for synaptic maintenance.
Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons produce multiple sodium currents, including several different TTX-sensitive (TTX-S) currents and TTX-resistant (TTX-R) currents, which are produced by distinct sodium channels. We previously demonstrated that, after sciatic nerve transection, the levels of SNS and NaN sodium channel alpha-subunit transcripts and protein in small (18-30 micrometer diameter) DRG neurons are reduced, as are the amplitudes and densities of the slowly inactivating and persistent TTX-R currents produced by these two channels. In this study, we asked whether glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), which has been shown to prevent some axotomy-induced changes such as the loss of somatostatin expression in DRG neurons, can ameliorate the axotomy-induced downregulation of SNS and NaN TTX-R sodium channels. We show here that exposure to GDNF can significantly increase both slowly inactivating and persistent TTX-R sodium currents, which are paralleled by increases in SNS and NaN mRNA and protein levels, in axotomized DRG neurons in vitro. We also show that intrathecally administered GDNF increases the amplitudes of the slowly inactivating and persistent TTX-R currents, and SNS and NaN protein levels, in peripherally axotomized DRG neurons in vivo. Finally, we demonstrate that GDNF upregulates the persistent TTX-R current in SNS-null mice, thus demonstrating that the upregulated persistent sodium current is not produced by SNS. Because TTX-R sodium channels have been shown to be important in nociception, the effects of GDNF on axotomized DRG neurons may have important implications for the regulation of nociceptive signaling by these cells.
A central feature of drugs of abuse is to induce gene expression in discrete brain structures that are critically involved in behavioral responses related to addictive processes. Although extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) has been implicated in several neurobiological processes, including neuronal plasticity, its role in drug addiction remains poorly understood. This study was designed to analyze the activation of ERK by cocaine, its involvement in cocaine-induced early and long-term behavioral effects, as well as in gene expression. We show, by immunocytochemistry, that acute cocaine administration activates ERK throughout the striatum, rapidly but transiently. This activation was blocked when SCH 23390 [a specific dopamine (DA)-D1 antagonist] but not raclopride (a DA-D2 antagonist) was injected before cocaine. Glutamate receptors of NMDA subtypes also participated in ERK activation, as shown after injection of the NMDA receptor antagonist MK 801. The systemic injection of SL327, a selective inhibitor of the ERK kinase MEK, before cocaine, abolished the cocaine-induced ERK activation and decreased cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion, indicating a role of this pathway in events underlying early behavioral responses. Moreover, the rewarding effects of cocaine were abolished by SL327 in the place-conditioning paradigm. Because SL327 antagonized cocaine-induced c-fos expression and Elk-1 hyperphosphorylation, we suggest that the ERK intracellular signaling cascade is also involved in the prime burst of gene expression underlying long-term behavioral changes induced by cocaine. Altogether, these results reveal a new mechanism to explain behavioral responses of cocaine related to its addictive properties.
Zinc is abundantly present in the CNS, and after nerve stimulation is thought to be released in sufficient quantity to modulate the synaptic transmission. Although it is known that this divalent cation inhibits the GABAergic synaptic currents, the underlying mechanisms were not fully elucidated. Here we report that zinc reduced the amplitude, slowed the rise time, and accelerated the decay of mIPSCs in cultured hippocampal neurons. The analysis of current responses to rapid GABA applications and model simulations indicated that these effects on mIPSCs are caused by zinc modulation of GABA(A) receptor gating. In particular, zinc slowed the onset of GABA-evoked currents by decreasing both the binding (k(on)) and the transition rate from closed to open state (beta(2)). Moreover, slower onset and recovery from desensitization as well as an increased unbinding rate (k(off)) were shown to underlie the accelerated deactivation kinetics in the presence of zinc. The nonequilibrium conditions of GABA(A) receptor activation were found to strongly affect zinc modulation of this receptor. In particular, an extremely fast clearance of synaptic GABA is implicated to be responsible for a stronger zinc effect on mIPSCs than on current responses to exogenous GABA. Finally, the analysis of currents evoked by GABA coapplied with zinc indicated that the interaction between zinc and GABA(A) receptors was too slow to explain zinc effects in terms of competitive antagonism. In conclusion, our results provide evidence that inhibition of mIPSCs by zinc is attributable to the allosteric modulation of GABA(A) receptor gating.
Transforming growth factor-betas (TGF-betas) constitute an expanding family of multifunctional cytokines with prominent roles in development, cell proliferation, differentiation, and repair. We have cloned, expressed, and raised antibodies against a distant member of the TGF-betas, growth/differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15). GDF-15 is identical to macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1 (MIC-1). GDF-15/MIC-1 mRNA and protein are widely distributed in the developing and adult CNS and peripheral nervous systems, including choroid plexus and CSF. GDF-15/MIC-1 is a potent survival promoting and protective factor for cultured and iron-intoxicated dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons cultured from the embryonic rat midbrain floor. The trophic effect of GDF-15/MIC-1 was not accompanied by an increase in cell proliferation and astroglial maturation, suggesting that GDF-15/MIC-1 probably acts directly on neurons. GDF-15/MIC-1 also protects 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned nigrostriatal DAergic neurons in vivo. Unilateral injections of GDF-15/MIC-1 into the medial forebrain bundle just above the substantia nigra (SN) and into the left ventricle (20 microgram each) immediately before a 6-OHDA injection (8 microgram) prevented 6-OHDA-induced rotational behavior and significantly reduced losses of DAergic neurons in the SN. This protection was evident for at least 1 month. Administration of 5 microgram of GDF-15/MIC-1 in the same paradigm also provided significant neuroprotection. GDF-15/MIC-1 also promoted the serotonergic phenotype of cultured raphe neurons but did not support survival of rat motoneurons. Thus, GDF-15/MIC-1 is a novel neurotrophic factor with prominent effects on DAergic and serotonergic neurons. GDF-15/MIC-1 may therefore have a potential for the treatment of Parkinson's disease and disorders of the serotonergic system.
Although both pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms have been implicated in the analgesia produced by mu-opioids at the spinal cord, it is not known under what conditions these different controls come into play. Because the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) can be visualized in individual lamina II excitatory interneurons and internalizes into endosomes on ligand binding, we tested whether MOR internalization could be monitored and used to measure postsynaptic MOR signaling. To test whether endogenous opioids modulate these lamina II interneurons during noxious stimulation, we next assessed the magnitude of postsynaptic MOR internalization under a variety of nociceptive conditions. As observed in other systems, we show that MOR internalization in dorsal horn interneurons is demonstrated readily in response to opioid ligands. The MOR internalization is dose-dependent, with a similar dose-response to that observed for opioid-induced increases in potassium conductance. We demonstrate that MOR internalization in lamina II neurons correlates precisely with the extent of analgesia produced by intrathecal DAMGO. These results suggest that MOR internalization provides a good marker of MOR signaling in the spinal cord and that postsynaptic MORs on lamina II interneurons likely participate in the analgesia that is produced by exogenous opioids. We found, however, that noxious stimuli, under normal or inflammatory conditions, did not induce MOR internalization. Thus, endogenous enkephalins and endomorphins, thought to be released during noxious peripheral stimuli, do not modulate nociceptive messages via postsynaptic MORs on lamina II interneurons. We suggest that any endogenous opioids that are released by noxious stimuli target presynaptic MORs or delta-opioid receptors.
The clinical evaluation section of the Core Assessment Program for Intracerebral Transplantations (CAPIT) for Parkinson's disease (PD) was developed to standardize the clinical evaluation in cell transplantation trials, but also has been used in other therapeutic trials for PD. An important part of the CAPIT protocol is the standardized timed tests of motor function. In a recent revision of CAPIT, the Core Assessment Program for Surgical Interventional Therapies in Parkinson's Disease (CAPSIT-PD), the timed tests have been modified. There are some practical considerations that need attention when timed tests are used. They should be performed under the same circumstances with the patient in a defined condition and according to the same instructions from one time to another. Also, the examiner should not assist the patient, either directly or indirectly, by cueing. In addition to quantification of motor function as an outcome measure in therapeutic trials and other clinical research, timed tests also can be used for determining dopaminergic responsiveness in differential diagnosis of parkinsonism. Our experience is that timed tests are valuable quantitative and objective measures in scientific as well as clinical assessments of PD. Practical guidelines for and examples of these areas of use are provided.
This article describes the Neuroscience Nurse Internship Program (NNIP) and its implementation at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Clinical Center in Bethesda, MD. The program, developed in 1988, is designed to prepare nurses to deliver care to persons with nervous system disorders. The program comprises 6 months of lecture and clinical instruction in the country's most well-known biomedical research center. In order to complete the program, nurse-interns must receive a passing grade of 90% or higher on all written tests and achieve satisfactory completion of all clinical assignments. NNIP is cosponsored by the NIH Clinical Center Nursing Department and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS). Nurses interested in NNIP may apply by submitting an application and a letter of interest to the Clinical Center Human Resources Department. Evaluation of the program is conducted on a regular basis and consists of both process and outcome assessments.
The P2 protein of the peripheral nervous system myelin is a neuritogenic protein capable of inducing experimental allergic neuritis (EAN) in the Lewis rat. It has been suggested that the addition of some lipids to the protein isolated in the lipid-free form might enhance its immunogenicity. In this study, we compared lipid-free P2 (the EAN factor) and the corresponding lipid-bound form of the protein regarding their ability to induce EAN. Lipid-bound P2, copurified with all the myelin lipids, shows a conformation different from that of LF-P2. The timing of disease and the clinical scores of lipid-bound P2-induced EAN animals (n = 23) did not differ statistically from those injected with lipid-free P2 (n = 23), with only a tendency to higher clinical severity in the former group. Tail nerve conduction velocities did not differ in the two groups and in both were significantly lower in comparison to Freund adjuvant controls (n = 8). Inflammation and demyelination predominated in the spinal roots and were less evident in the sciatic nerve for both groups of animals. The ELISA determination of antibodies to lipid-free and lipid-bound P2 revealed the development of antibodies recognizing the lipid-free form of the protein in both groups of animals. Our results stand in contrast to results of previous studies performed after addition of exogenous lipids to the P2 purified in the lipid-free form and indicate that lipid-bound P2 is not significantly more immunogenic than lipid-depleted P2.
Scarring is suggested to impede axon regrowth across the lesion site in the injured adult mammalian central nervous system. Collagen Type IV, as a major component of the scar formed after injury, is an impediment for successful axonal regeneration and a decrease in its amount is a prerequisite for regrowing axons to cross the lesion in the postcommissural fornix in the injured adult rat (Stichel et al. [1999] Neurosci. 93:321-333). The aim of the present study was to analyze the relationship between collagen IV deposits and regrowing axons at various times after dorsal hemi-section of the adult rat spinal cord. Immunohistochemical double staining revealed that penetrating neurofilament-positive axons and collagen IV deposits were co-localized in the lesion site in the initial stages of axonal sprouting (between 7 and 14 days post-operatively) and were still present 1 and 2 months post-operatively. Interestingly, collagen IV-immunoreactive areas located around cystic cavities formed at the site of injury 1 month post-operatively, were devoid of axons. In conclusion, our observations indicate that collagen IV deposits after spinal cord injury do not prevent neurofilament-positive regrowing axons from penetrating the lesion site.
The cDNA library screening strategy was used to identify the genes encoding for GABA(A) receptor subunits in the rat hippocampus during development. With this technique, genes encoding eleven GABA(A) receptor subunits were identified. The alpha5 subunit was by far the most highly expressed, followed by the gamma2, alpha2 and alpha4 subunits respectively. The expression of the beta2, alpha1, gamma1, beta1 and beta3 subunits was moderate, although that of the alpha3 and delta subunits was weak. In situ hybridization experiments, using digoxigenin-labeled cRNA probes, confirmed that the delta subunit was expressed in the neonatal as well as in the adult hippocampus, and is likely to form functional receptors in association with other subunits of the GABA(A) receptor. When the more sensitive RT-PCR approach was used, the gamma3 subunit was also detected, suggesting that this subunit is present in the hippocampus during development but at low levels of expression. The insertion of the delta subunit into functional GABA(A) receptors may enhance the efficacy of GABA in the immediate postnatal period when this amino acid is still exerting a depolarizing and excitatory action.

The goal of this study was to compare the Spiegelberg intraventricular intracranial pressure (ICP)/intracranial compliance monitoring device, which features an air-pouch balloon catheter, with existing gold-standard methods of measuring ICP and intracranial compliance. A Spiegelberg intraventricular catheter, a standard intraventricular catheter, and a Codman intraparenchymal ICP microsensor were placed in five sheep, which previously had been given anesthetic and paralytic agents, to allow comparative measurement of ICP at incremental levels (range 5-50 mm Hg). Intracranial pressure measured using the Spiegelberg intraventricular air-pouch balloon catheter displayed a linear correlation with ICP measured using the standard intraventricular fluid-filled catheter (r2 = 0.9846, p &lt; 0.001; average bias -0.74 mm Hg), as well as with ICP measured using the Codman intraparenchymal strain-gauge sensor (r2 = 0.9778, p &lt; 0.001; average bias 0.01 mm Hg). Automated measurements of intraventricular compliance obtained using the Spiegelberg compliance device were compared with compliance measurements that were made using the gold-standard manual cerebrospinal fluid bolus injection technique at ICPs ranging from 5 to 50 mm Hg, and a linear correlation was demonstrated between the two methods (r2 = 0.7752, p &lt; 0.001; average bias -0.019 ml/mm Hg). The Spiegelberg air-pouch ICP/compliance monitor provides ICP and compliance data that are very similar to those obtained using both gold-standard methods and an intraparenchymal ICP monitor over a range of pathophysiological ICPs. The automated closed Spiegelberg system offers practical advantages for the measurement of intraventricular compliance. Assessment of the clinical utility and robustness of the Spiegelberg system, together with the development of an intraparenchymal device, would enhance the clinical utility of automated compliance measurement and expand the range of its applications.
While a number of laboratories have begun to examine gender differences in outcome following experimental stroke, little is known about the relative response of male and female brains to traumatic injury. In the following series of experiments, we used the Marmarou impact-acceleration head injury model (with a 500-g, 1.5-m weight drop) to compare the pathophysiological responses of male and female rats to closed-head injury. Cortical blood flow (CBF; laser-doppler flowmetry), mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), blood gas levels, blood pH, and body temperature were measured preinjury and at regular intervals postinjury. Acute survival was assessed 1 h after injury. The role of estrogen in the observed gender differences was assessed by examining these physiological measures after injury in ovariectomized females, with or without 17beta-estradiol replacement, and in intact males, with or without exogenous 17beta-estradiol administration. In the first experiment, significantly more females (100%) survived the acute injury period (60 min) after injury than did males (72%). Survival appeared related to the magnitude and persistence of the posttraumatic drop in MAP. In a second experiment, females showed a less dramatic reduction in and better recovery of CBF than males. The gender difference in CBF was paralleled to some degree by differences in the pattern of MAP changes after injury. Differences in body weight, blood gas levels, or blood pH did not account for the gender difference in CBF. Postinjury CBF was higher in female and male rats given 2 weeks of daily 17beta-estradiol injections prior to injury compared to those given the vehicle only. However, 17beta-estradiol administration did not alter MAP, suggesting that the gender difference in CBF was not strictly due to MAP changes. Our findings suggest that estrogen plays a role in maintaining adequate cerebral perfusion in the acute period following closed-head injury. This protective mechanism may underlie the gender difference in acute survival observed in this study, and may help explain observations of better outcome in females than in males after brain injury. We conclude that CBF preservation is one mechanism by which estrogen is neuroprotective following traumatic brain injury. We hypothesize, based upon known effects of estrogen, that the beneficial microvascular effects of estrogen most likely involve a combination of endothelial nitric oxide synthase induction and an antioxidant effect.
Recently, the Kent Waldrep National Paralysis Foundation initiated a think tank intended to bridge several gaps and achieve several goals in regard to spinal cord injury (SCI) research and funding. Affiliated with the need to bridge a pathophysiological gap in spinal parenchyma and/or reorganize remaining circuitry after injury is a need to bridge resource gaps for timely funding for translational research, gaps in knowledge between researchers, and between researchers/clinicians and SCI patients. The epistemology of cure was examined and redefined to include transitional recoveries and advances. Modes and mechanisms of funding have been evaluated and where deficits were perceived, suggestions have been made to expedite and increase the number and breadth of funding opportunities. Innovative infrastructure changes are submitted. We discuss the progression of clinical trials as well as offer suggestions to facilitate benchtop-to-bedsite translation of valuable research to the customer. Highlights of recently completed, in progress, and future trials are detailed. Finally, we submit five essential processes required to promote advances to the SCI patient population: discovery, development, clinical trials, evaluation, and rehabilitation. These ideas are intended to facilitate entry of serious dialogue and to ultimately improve the lives of patients living with SCI.


Gabapentin (GBP; Neurontin) has proven efficacy in several neurological and psychiatric disorders yet its mechanism of action remains elusive. This drug, and the related compounds pregabalin [PGB; CI-1008, S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba] and its enantiomer R-(-)-3-isobutylgaba, were tested in an in vitro superfusion model of stimulation-evoked neurotransmitter release using rat neocortical slices prelabeled with [(3)H]norepinephrine ([(3)H]NE). The variables addressed were stimulus type (i.e., electrical, K(+), veratridine) and intensity, concentration dependence, onset and reversibility of action, and commonality of mechanism. Both GBP and PGB inhibited electrically and K(+)-evoked [(3)H]NE release, but not that induced by veratridine. Inhibition by these drugs was most pronounced with the K(+) stimulus, allowing determination of concentration-effect relationships (viz., 25 mM K(+) stimulus: GBP IC(50) = 8.9 microM, PGB IC(50) = 11.8 microM). R-(-)-3-Isobutylgaba was less effective than PGB to decrease stimulation-evoked [(3)H]NE release. Other experiments with GBP demonstrated the dependence of [(3)H]NE release inhibition on optimal stimulus intensity. The inhibitory effect of GBP increased with longer slice exposure time before stimulation, and reversed upon washout. Combination experiments with GBP and PGB indicated a similar mechanism of action to inhibit K(+)-evoked [(3)H]NE release. GBP and PGB are concluded to act in a comparable, if not identical, manner to preferentially attenuate [(3)H]NE release evoked by stimuli effecting mild and prolonged depolarizations. This type of modulation of neurotransmitter release may be integral to the clinical pharmacology of these drugs.
Single and multiple high-dose administrations of methamphetamine (METH) differentially decrease dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) function, as assessed by measuring [(3)H]DA uptake into rat striatal synaptosomes prepared 1 h after treatment. Prevention of METH-induced hyperthermia attenuated the decrease in DAT activity induced by multiple injections of the stimulant. Likewise, this decrease was attenuated by previous depletion of striatal DA levels using alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (alphaMT) or pretreatment with the D1 and D2 antagonists SCH-23390 and eticlopride, respectively. However, METH-induced hyperthermia was also blocked by alphaMT and eticlopride. Reinstatement of hyperthermia to alphaMT- or eticlopride-pretreated rats partially restored the METH-induced decrease in DAT activity. In contrast, neither prevention of METH-induced hyperthermia depletion of DA, nor DA antagonists altered the decrease in DAT function induced by a single administration of METH. Pretreatment with the antioxidant N-t-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone prevented part of the decrease in DAT function associated with multiple, but not a single, METH injections. Although not tested directly, additional data presented here suggest that the reduction in DAT activity induced by a single METH administration constitutes a part of the total reduction observed immediately after multiple administrations. Taken together, the results indicate that DA, hyperthermia, and oxygen radicals contribute to a component of the rapid decrease in DAT function induced by multiple injections of METH but do not appear to be associated with the reduction induced by a single administration of the stimulant.
Twenty-five avermectin analogs were assessed in a mouse seizure model. The ED(50) against pentylenetetrazole-induced tonic seizures ranged from 0.48 mg/kg (L-676,893) to &gt;160 mg/kg (L-685,869) cf. 0. 26 mg/kg for diazepam. Although avermectins are without acute toxic effects, they have been historically shown to have relative low LD(50) values in mammals. The mechanisms involved in the anticonvulsant effect and the toxicity were investigated. A series of avermectin analogs displaced [(3)H]ivermectin binding to rat brain membranes and recombinant GABA(A) receptors (alpha1beta3gamma2-subtype) with the same affinities, strongly suggesting that [(3)H]ivermectin labels the GABA(A) receptor in rodent brain. Avermectins, which were anticonvulsant, were also potent inhibitors of [(3)H]ivermectin binding in rat brain. However, the rank order for anticonvulsant activity did not parallel the rank order for affinity at the [(3)H]ivermectin site and it was reasoned that avermectins may have differential affinity or efficacy at subtypes of the GABA(A) receptor. All the active compounds tested potentiated the effects of GABA at recombinant GABA(A) receptors in oocytes and at native cortical GABA(A) receptors and the efficacy of avermectins at the GABA(A) receptor correlated best with their anticonvulsant potency. Although avermectins weakly inhibited [(3)H]strychnine binding in rat spinal cord, and inhibited glycine responses on primary cultured cortical neurons, activity at glycine receptors did not correlate with either anticonvulsant activity or toxicity. Because both anticonvulsant activity and toxicity correlated best with activity at GABA(A) receptors, it is unlikely that these effects can be separated, which may contraindicate the potential use of avermectins as anticonvulsants.
The kappa-opioid agonists U50488H, bremazocine, and BRL52537, and the mu-opioid agonist morphine were compared in their ability to modify spontaneous motor activity in male NMRI mice. Higher, analgesic doses of the kappa-agonists reduced rearing, motility, and locomotion in nonhabituated mice. These effects, as well as the analgesic action of U50488H, were blocked by the selective kappa-opioid antagonists nor-binaltorphimine and DIPPA. In contrast, lower, subanalgesic doses (1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg for U50488H; 0.15 and 0.075 mg/kg for bremazocine, and 0.1 mg/kg for BRL52537) time dependently increased motor activity. The stimulatory effects of U50488H and bremazocine were not observed in habituated animals and were reduced by dopamine depletion. Surprisingly, the stimulatory effects of U50488H and bremazocine were not blocked by nor-binaltorphimine and DIPPA but they were completely eliminated by naloxone (0.1 mg/kg). The effects of morphine were dose-dependent; an initial limited suppression was followed by increased motility and locomotion (but not rearing) with a peak effect at 20 mg/kg both in habituated and nonhabituated mice. The selective mu-opioid antagonist beta-funaltrexamine blocked morphine-induced motor stimulation and analgesia but failed to affect the analgesic and motor stimulatory effects of U50488H. The results indicate that kappa-opioid agonists interact with different functional subtypes of opioid receptors. A stimulatory, naloxone-sensitive but nor-binaltorphimine- and DIPPA-insensitive subtype of opioid receptor appears to operate only when the dopamine system is tonically active in nonhabituated animals. At higher doses, kappa-agonists produce analgesia and motor suppression, effects mediated by a &quot;classic&quot; (inhibitory) kappa-opioid receptor.

We examined, in the anaesthetised cat, the influence of the neuronal ensembles producing spontaneous negative cord dorsum potentials (nCDPs) on segmental pathways mediating primary afferent depolarisation (PAD) of cutaneous and group I muscle afferents and on Ia monosynaptic activation of spinal motoneurones. The intraspinal distribution of the field potentials associated with the spontaneous nCDPs indicated that the neuronal ensembles involved in the generation of these potentials were located in the dorsal horn of lumbar segments, in the same region of termination of low-threshold cutaneous afferents. During the occurrence of spontaneous nCDPs, transmission from low-threshold cutaneous afferents to second order neurones in laminae III-VI, as well as transmission along pathways mediating PAD of cutaneous and Ib afferents, was facilitated. PAD of Ia afferents was instead inhibited. Monosynaptic reflexes of flexors and extensors were facilitated during the spontaneous nCDPs. The magnitude of the facilitation was proportional to the amplitude of the 'conditioning' spontaneous nCDPs. This led to a high positive correlation between amplitude fluctuations of spontaneous nCDPs and fluctuations of monosynaptic reflexes. Stimulation of low-threshold cutaneous afferents transiently reduced the probability of occurrence of spontaneous nCDPs as well as the fluctuations of monosynaptic reflexes. It is concluded that the spontaneous nCDPs were produced by the activation of a population of dorsal horn neurones that shared the same functional pathways and involved the same set of neurones as those responding monosynaptically to stimulation of large cutaneous afferents. The spontaneous activity of these neurones was probably the main cause of the fluctuations of the monosynaptic reflexes observed under anaesthesia and could provide a dynamic linkage between segmental sensory and motor pathways.
We sought to identify the medullary relay area mediating the elevations of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and synchronization of the electroencephalogram (EEG) in the rat cerebral cortex elicited by hypoxic excitation of reticulospinal sympathoexcitatory neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM ). In anaesthetized spinalized rats electrical stimulation of RVLM elevated rCBF (laser-Doppler flowmetry) by 31 +/- 6 %, reduced cerebrovascular resistance (CVR) by 26 +/- 8 %, and synchronized the EEG, increasing the power of the 5-6 Hz band by 98 +/- 25 %. Stimulation of a contiguous caudal region, the medullary cerebral vasodilator area (MCVA), had comparable effects which, like responses of RVLM, were replicated by microinjection of L-glutamate (5 nmol, 20 nl). Microinjection of NaCN (300 pmol in 20 nl) elevated rCBF (17 +/- 5 %) and synchronized the EEG from RVLM, but not MCVA, while nicotine (1.2 nmol in 40 nl) increased rCBF by 13 +/- 5 % and synchronized the EEG from MCVA. In intact rats nicotine lowered arterial pressure only from MCVA (101 +/- 3 to 52 +/- 9 mmHg). Bilateral electrolytic lesions of MCVA significantly reduced, by over 59 %, elevations in rCBF and, by 78 %, changes in EEG evoked from RVLM. Bilateral electrolytic lesions of RVLM did not affect responses from MCVA. Anterograde tracing with BDA demonstrated that RVLM and MCVA are interconnected. The MCVA is a nicotine-sensitive region of the medulla that relays signals elicited by excitation of oxygen-sensitive reticulospinal neurons in RVLM to reflexively elevate rCBF and slow the EEG as part of the oxygen-conserving (diving) reflex initiated in these neurons by hypoxia or ischaemia.


Receptor cell degeneration and regeneration within the vomeronasal organ (VNO) of the rat was studied using both electron microscopy and histochemical methods. Electron microscopy was employed to examine the morphological changes along the surface of the sensory epithelium, and histochemical markers were used to monitor the changes in the epithelial cell layers. Transection of the vomeronasal nerves induced selective degeneration of the receptor cells, and within six days, a significant decrease in the number of receptor cells was observed. During the subsequent stage of receptor cell regeneration, cilia and bud-like structures characteristic of a developing sensory epithelium were seen. By day 15, thin microvilli covering the surface of the receptor cells reappeared in the sensory epithelium. The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) and two vomeronasal system-specific lectins; 1) Bandeiraea simplicifolia lectin (BSL-I) and 2) Vicia villosa agglutinin (VVA) were used as the histochemical markers. NCAM immunoreactivity on the surface of the epithelium was observed to be decreased significantly six days after nerve transection, and was restored during receptor cell regeneration (day 15). The reactivity of the two lectins, BSL-I and VVA, was decreased slightly during degeneration, but was still detectable at the time of maximum receptor cell degeneration (day 6). Lectin reactivity was restored to control levels by day 15. These findings suggest that (1) NCAM is a useful marker for vomeronasal receptor cells and that the vomeronasal system-specific lectins may bind to both receptor and supporting cells and (2) degeneration of vomeronasal receptor cells occurs during the first week (day 6) following nerve transection and the receptor cell population begins to recover within 15 days. The morphological changes observed during receptor cell regeneration suggest that the stages of VNO receptor cell regeneration are similar to those observed during development.
A classic example of a complicated neurocomputation carried out by a relatively simple neuronal circuitry is that some mammalian retinal ganglion cells respond selectively to direction of motion. Search for the mechanisms of direction selectivity in the mammalian retina started some 35 years ago. It has been shown that direction selectivity is caused by an asymmetrical inhibition induced by GABA acting on GABAA receptors. However, the physical circuitry underlining this computation is still not clear. A few recent breakthroughs provide important evidence for the sites where the computation takes place.
Anchoring filaments are a characteristic feature of initial lymphatic vessels. They connect the abluminal membrane of endothelial cells to the surrounding elastic fibers. The main molecular component of anchoring filaments is fibrillin. Initial lymphatic vessels of human skin were stained with monoclonal antibodies to fibrillin, integrins alpha 2 beta 1, alpha 3 beta 1 and alpha v beta 3, vinculin, talin, beta-actin and focal adhesion kinase (FAK). A double-labeling immunofluorescence method was used to simultaneously stain fibrillin and alpha 3 beta 1 integrin or FAK. Close contiguities between integrins and anchoring filaments were observed. These results suggest that the anchoring filaments connect the extracellular matrix and the endothelial cell cytoskeleton through the transmembrane integrin and FAK molecule. The results also demonstrate the presence of focal adhesions in the wall of initial lymphatic vessels. These connections possibly enable transmission of chemical and/or mechanical stimuli from the extracellular matrix to the endothelial cells. Here, they are transformed in cytoskeleton rearrangements and intracellular signaling events, some of which may contribute to the initial formation of lymph.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has recently been adopted as an investigational tool in the field of neuroscience. The signal changes induced by brain activations are small ( approximately 1-2%) at 1.5T. Therefore, the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the time series used to calculate the functional maps is critical. In this study, the minimum SNR required to detect an expected MR signal change is determined using computer simulations for typical fMRI experimental designs. These SNR results are independent of manufacturer, site environment, field strength, coil type, or type of cognitive task used. Sensitivity maps depicting the minimum detectable signal change can be constructed. These sensitivity maps can be used as a mask of the activation map to help remove false positive activations as well as identify regions of the brain where it is not possible to confidently reject the null hypothesis due to a low SNR.
The widespread availability of methods for noninvasive assessment of brain structure has enabled researchers to investigate neuroimaging correlates of normal aging, cerebrovascular disease, and other processes; we designate such studies as image-based clinical trials (IBCTs). We propose an architecture for a brain-image database, which integrates image processing and statistical operators, and thus supports the implementation and analysis of IBCTs. The implementation of this architecture is described and results from the analysis of image and clinical data from two IBCTs are presented. We expect that systems such as this will play a central role in the management and analysis of complex research data sets.
Survival of dopaminergic (DAergic) midbrain neurons during development and after lesioning depends, in part, on the presence of astroglia-derived growth factors, as, e.g., fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-2. Astrocytes express DA receptors in a brain-region-specific manner. We show here that DA (10(-3) to 10(-6) mol/liter) applied continuously for 12 h or as a 10-min pulse significantly upregulates FGF-2 immunoreactivity quantified by Western blot and densitometry in astrocytes cultured from two target areas of DAergic neurons, striatum and cortex, but not in mesencephalic astroglia. Semiquantitative competitive RT-PCR confirmed the increase in FGF-2 on the mRNA level. The effects were specific in that glutamate, which can also activate receptors on astroglial cells, did not influence FGF-2 synthesis. In addition to the DA-mediated increase in FGF-2 synthesis the capability of conditioned medium (CM) from DA-stimulated striatal and cortical astrocytes to promote survival and process formation of cultured rat DAergic neurons was significantly enhanced. These effects could be fully blocked by preincubation of the CM with an FGF-2-specific polyclonal antiserum. Our results suggest that DA released from DAergic axon terminals in target regions of DAergic neurons and astroglial FGF-2 production are interdependent in that DA triggers synthesis of FGF-2, which, in turn enhances survival and differentiation of DAergic neurons.
APP is a transmembrane precursor of beta-amyloid, and its mutations cause early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease. We report a toxic function of normal wild-type APP (wtAPP). Treatment of neuronal F11 cells, immortalized embryonic day 13 neurons, overexpressing wtAPP with anti-APP antibodies caused death. Death was not induced by antibody in parental F11 cells. Death by antibody occurred through cell-surface APP, not through secreted APP, in a pertussis toxin-sensitive manner and was typical apoptosis, not observed in primary astrocytes or glioma cells overexpressing wtAPP, but observed in primary cortical neurons. Cell-surface APP thus performs a toxic function as an extracellularly controllable regulator of neuronal death. This study provides a novel insight into the normal and pathological functions of cell-surface wtAPP.
Imidazobenzodiazepines such as RY-80 have been reported to exhibit both high affinity and selectivity for GABA(A) receptors containing an alpha(5) subunit. A single amino acid residue (alpha(5)Ile215) has been identified that plays a critical role in the high-affinity, subtype-selective effects of RY-80 and structurally related ligands. Thus, substitution of alpha(5)Ile215 with the cognate amino acid contained in the alpha(1) subunit (Val211) reduced the selectivity of RY-80 for alpha(5)beta(3)gamma(2) receptors from approximately 135- to approximately 8-fold compared with alpha(1)beta(3)gamma(2) receptors. This mutation produced a comparable reduction in the selectivity of RY-24 (a structural analog of RY-80) for alpha(5)beta(3)gamma(2) receptors but did not markedly alter the affinities of ligands (e.g., flunitrazepam) that are not subtype-selective. Conversely, substitution of the alpha(1) subunit with the cognate amino acid contained in the alpha(5) subunit (i.e., alpha(1)V211I) increased the affinities of alpha(5)-selective ligands by a approximately 20-fold and reduced by 3-fold the affinity of an alpha(1)-selective agonist (zolpidem). Increasing the lipophilicity (e.g., by substitution of Phe) of alpha(5)215 did not significantly affect the affinities (and selectivities) of RY-80 and RY-24 for alpha(5)-containing GABA(A) receptors. However, the effect of introducing hydrophilic and or charged residues (e.g., Lys, Asp, Thr) at this position was no greater than that produced by the alpha(5)I215V mutation. These data indicate that residue alpha(5)215 may not participate in formation of the lipophilic L(2) pocket that has been proposed to contribute to the unique pharmacological properties of alpha(5)-containing GABA(A) receptors. RY-80 and RY-24 acted as inverse agonists in both wild-type alpha(5)beta(3)gamma(2) and mutant alpha(5)I215Kbeta(3)gamma(2) receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. However, both RY-24 and RY-80 acted as antagonists at mutant alpha(5)I215Vbeta(3)gamma(2) and alpha(5)I215Tbeta(3)gamma(2) receptors, whereas the efficacy of flunitrazepam was similar at all three receptor isoforms. The data demonstrate that amino acid residue alpha(5)215 is a determinant of both ligand affinity and efficacy at GABA(A) receptors containing an alpha(5) subunit.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a simple bioactive phospholipid with diverse physiological actions on many cell types. LPA induces proliferative and/or morphological effects and has been proposed to be involved in biologically important processes including neurogenesis, myelination, angiogenesis, wound healing, and cancer progression. LPA acts through specific G protein-coupled, seven-transmembrane domain receptors. To date, three mammalian cognate receptor genes, lp(A1)/vzg-1/Edg2, lp(A2)/Edg4, and lp(A3)/Edg7, have been identified that encode high-affinity LPA receptors. Here, we review current knowledge on these LPA receptors, including their isolation, function, expression pattern, gene structure, chromosomal location, and possible physiological or pathological roles.
Display technology refers to a collection of methods for creating libraries of modularly coded biomolecules that can be screened for desired properties. It has become a routine tool for enriching molecular diversity and producing novel types of proteins. The combination of an ever-increasing variety of libraries of modularly coded protein complexxes with the development of innovative approaches to select a wide array of desired properties has facilitated large-scale analyses of protein-protein/protein-substrate interactions, rapid isolation of antibodies (or antibody mimetics) without immunization, and function-based protein analysis. Several practical and theoretical challenges remain to be addressed before display technology can be readily applied to proteomic studies.



The fundamental biological importance of rewards has created an increasing interest in the neuronal processing of reward information. The suggestion that the mechanisms underlying drug addiction might involve natural reward systems has also stimulated interest. This article focuses on recent neurophysiological studies in primates that have revealed that neurons in a limited number of brain structures carry specific signals about past and future rewards. This research provides the first step towards an understanding of how rewards influence behaviour before they are received and how the brain might use reward information to control learning and goal-directed behaviour.
A fundamental function of nerve cells is the transformation of incoming synaptic information into specific patterns of action potential output. An important component of this transformation is synaptic integration--the combination of voltage deflections produced by a myriad of synaptic inputs into a singular change in membrane potential. There are three basic elements involved in integration: the amplitude of the unitary postsynaptic potential; the manner in which non-simultaneous unitary events add in time (temporal summation), and the addition of unitary events occurring simultaneously in separate regions of the dendritic arbor (spatial summation). This review discusses how passive and active dendritic properties, and the functional characteristics of the synapse, shape these three elements of synaptic integration.
The Rho family of small GTPases act as intracellular molecular switches that transduce signals from extracellular stimuli to the actin cytoskeleton and the nucleus. Recent evidence implicates Rho GTPases in the regulation of neuronal morphogenesis, including migration, polarity, axon growth and guidance, dendrite elaboration and plasticity, and synapse formation. Signalling pathways from membrane receptors to Rho GTPases and from Rho GTPases to the actin cytoskeleton are beginning to be discovered. Mutations in these signalling pathways have been reported in human neurological diseases, which underscores their importance in the development and function of the nervous system.
We report here that a monomeric de novo designed alpha-helix-turn-alpha-helix peptide, alpha t alpha, when incubated at 37 degrees C in an aqueous buffer at neutral pH, forms nonbranching, protease resistant fibrils that are 6-10 nm in diameter. These fibrils are rich in beta-sheet and bind the amyloidophilic dye Congo red. alpha t alpha fibrils thus display the morphologic, structural, and tinctorial properties of authentic amyloid fibrils. Surprisingly, unlike fibrils formed by peptides such as the amyloid beta-protein or the islet amyloid polypeptide, alpha t alpha fibrils were not toxic to cultured rat primary cortical neurons or PC12 cells. These results suggest that the potential to form fibrils under physiologic conditions is not limited to those proteins associated with amyloidoses and that fibril formation alone is not predictive of cytotoxic activity.
We present a new derivation of the asymptotic correction for bias in the estimate of information from a finite sample. The new derivation reveals a relationship between information estimates and a sequence of polynomials with combinatorial significance, the exponential (Bell) polynomials, and helps to provide an understanding of the form and behavior of the asymptotic correction for bias.
Independent component analysis (ICA) is a new, simple and powerful idea for analyzing multi-variant data. One of the successful applications is neurobiological data analysis such as electroencephalography (EEG), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and magnetoencephalography (MEG). However, many problems remain. In most cases, neurobiological data contain a lot of sensor noise, and the number of independent components is unknown. In this article, we discuss an approach to separate noise-contaminated data without knowing the number of independent components. A well-known two stage approach to ICA is to pre-process the data by principal component analysis (PCA), and then the necessary rotation matrix is estimated. Since PCA does not work well for noisy data, we implement a factor analysis model for pre-processing. In the new pre-processing, the number of sources and the amount of sensor noise are estimated. After the preprocessing, the rotation matrix is estimated using an ICA method. Through the experiments with MEG data, we show this approach is effective.
Recent studies suggest that the injured adult spinal cord responds to brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT3) with enhanced neuron survival and axon regeneration. Potential neurotrophin sources and cellular localization in spinal cord are largely undefined. We examined glial BDNF localization in normal cord and its temporospatial distribution after injury in vivo. We used dual immunolabeling for BDNF and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in astrocytes, adenomatous polyposis coli tumor suppressor protein (APC) for oligodendrocytes or type III CDH receptor (OX42) for microglia/macrophages. In normal cord, small subsets of astrocytes and microglia/macrophages and most oligodendrocytes exhibited BDNF-immunoreactivity. Following injury, the number of BDNF-immunopositive astrocytes and microglia/macrophages increased dramatically at the injury site over time. Most oligodendrocytes contained BDNF 1 day and 1 week following injury, but APC-positive cells were largely absent at the injury site 6 weeks postinjury. Glial BDNF-immunolabeling was also examined 10 and 20 mm from the wound. Ten millimeters from the lesion, astrocyte and microglia/macrophage BDNF-immunolabeling resembled that at the injury at all times examined. Twenty millimeters from injury, BDNF localization in all three glial subtypes resembled controls, regardless of time postlesion. Our findings suggest that in normal adult cord, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglia/macrophages play roles in local trophin availability and in trophin-mediated injury and healing responses directly within and surrounding the wound site.
The NMDA receptor has been implicated in opioid tolerance and withdrawal. The effects of continuous infusion of butorphanol on the modulation of NMDA receptor subunit NR1, NR2A, NR2B, and NR2C gene expression were investigated by using in situ hybridization technique. Continuous intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion with butorphanol (26 nmol/microl/h) resulted in significant modulations in the NRI, NR2A, and NR2B mRNA levels. The level of NR1 mRNA was significantly decreased in the cerebral cortex, thalamus, and CA1 area of hippocampus in butorphanol tolerant and withdrawal (7 h after stopping the infusion) rats. The NR2A mRNA was significantly decreased in the CA1 and CA3 of hippocampus in tolerant rats and increased in the cerebral cortex and dentate gyrus in butorphanol withdrawal rats. NR2B subunit mRNA was decreased in the cerebral cortex, caudate putamen, thalamus, CA3 of hippocampus in butorphanol withdrawal rats. No changes of NR1, NR2A, NR2C subunit mRNA in the cerebellar granule cell layer were observed in either butorphanol tolerant or withdrawal rats. Using quantitative ligand autoradiography, the binding of NMDA receptor ligand [3H]MK-801 was increased significantly in all brain regions except in the thalamus and hippocampus, at the 7 hr after stopping the butorphanol infusion. These results suggest that region-specific changes of NMDA receptor subunit mRNA (NR1 and NR2) as well as NMDA receptor binding ([3H]MK-801) are involved in the development of tolerance to and withdrawal from butorphanol.
Inspite of large number of studies on the neurochemical changes in the stress, an equivocal case is yet to be made for the role of a specific neurotransmitter in this important neurobiological disorder. The difficulty arises from the fact that there is no single neurotransmitter system appears to be responsible for the stress induced damage to the hippocampal neurons. The present study evaluates the effect of restraint stress on the alterations in the levels of biogenic amines, aminoacids and acetylcholinesterase activity in the hippocampus. Male Wistar rats of 45 days old were subjected to 6 hours of daily restraint stress over a period of 21 days. Immediately after the last session of stress, rats were sacrificed and neurotransmitter levels were estimated in the hippocampus. A significant (p &lt; 0.001) decrease in the levels of noradrenaline, dopamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and acetylcholinesterase activity in the stressed rats was observed compared to controls. However, levels of glutamate was significantly (p &lt; 0.001) increased in stressed rats. These results indicate that chronic restraint stress decreases aminergic and cholinergic neurotransmission, and increases the glutamatergic transmission in the hippocampus.
We describe and evaluate a practical, automated algorithm based on local statistical mixture modeling for segmenting single-channel, T1-weighted volumetric magnetic resonance images of the brain into gray matter, white matter, and cerebrospinal fluid. We employed a stereological sampling method to assess, prospectively, the performance of the method with respect to human experts on 10 normal T1-weighted brain scans acquired with a three-dimensional gradient echo pulse sequence. The overall kappa statistic for the concordance of the algorithm with the human experts was 0.806, while that among raters, excluding the algorithm, was 0.802. The algorithm had better agreement with the modal expert decision (kappa = 0.878). The algorithm could not be distinguished from the experts by this measure. We also validated the algorithm on a simulated MR scan of a digital brain phantom with known tissue composition. Global gray matter and white matter errors were 1% and &lt;1%, respectively, and correlation coefficients with the underlying tissue model were 0.95 for gray matter, 0.98 for white matter, and 0.95 for cerebrospinal fluid. In both approaches to validation, we evaluated both local and global performance of the algorithm. Human experts generated slightly higher global gray matter proportion estimates on the test brain scans relative to the algorithm (3.7%) and on the simulated MR scan relative to the true tissue model (4.4%). The algorithm underestimated gray in some subcortical nuclei which contain admixed gray and white matter. We demonstrate the reliability of the method on individual 1 NEX data sets of the test subjects, and its insensitivity to the precise values of initial model parameters. The output of this algorithm is suitable for quantifying cerebral cortical tissue, using a commonly performed commercial pulse sequence.
Facial nerve neurinomas are rare. The tumours arising from the geniculate ganglion may grow anteriorly and superiorly and present as a mass in the middle cranial fossa. Only a few cases of facial nerve neurinomas presenting as middle cranial fossa mass have so far been reported. These tumours present with either long standing or intermittent facial palsy along with cerebellopontine angle syndrome.
The clinicopathological findings reported by Binswanger are insufficient to qualify as distinct entity the condition named &quot;Binswanger's disease&quot;, and subsequently by Olszewski (1962) &quot;subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy (SAE) (Binswanger's type)&quot;. A short summary of the characteristic pathological, clinical and neuroimaging features of SAE is reported. The white matter changes detected by neuroimaging must be considered aspecific, since identical changes may be found in normal elderly as well as in patients with different diseases: different biochemical mechanisms can undoubtedly underlie identical neuroimaging patterns. Two other relevant points are noteworthy: the occurrence of pathological features of SAE in other diseases (CADASIL, pseudoxanthoma elasticum, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome) and the observation of some patients with pathological changes of SAE but an incomplete clinical picture. The clinicopathological features described as Binswanger's disease do not qualify as a separate entity since they are common to a variety of illnesses. The pathological picture identified by Olszewski can rightly be named, according to Caplan, &quot;chronic microvascular leukoencephalopathy&quot; (CML). The clinicopathological features of the so-called Binswanger's disease constitute a syndrome, the CML syndrome (CMLS), which can be found in some hereditary diseases and in acquired conditions. This syndrome shows peculiar cerebrovascular changes and, when clinically associated with dementia, identifies one of the subtypes of vascular dementia.
We screened 22 Japanese patients with acid maltase deficiency (seven with the infantile type, eight with the juvenile type and seven with the adult type) for three previously described mutations, D645E, S529V and R672Q, and a novel mutation, R600C. Although D645E has been reported to be common in Chinese patients with the infantile type, only three of 44 alleles (two of 14 infantile type alleles) from Japanese patients harbored the D645E mutation. The S529V mutation was identified in six of 14 alleles from adult-onset patients. None of the infantile or juvenile patients harbored the S529V mutation. Therefore, S529V apparently results in the adult type disease and is common in Japanese adult-onset patients. R672Q was identified in two pairs of siblings with the juvenile type. A novel mutation, R600C, was identified in eight of 22 patients (nine of 44 alleles). Therefore, R600C is another common Japanese mutation occurring at a CpG dinucleotide &quot;hot spot&quot;. Homozygosity for this mutation apparently results in the infantile phenotype. Genetic diagnosis by detecting these four mutations might be feasible for most Japanese patients with acid maltase deficiency.
Photoreceptor cells utilize ribbon synapses to transmit sensory signals at high resolution. Ribbon synapses release neurotransmitters tonically, with a high release rate made possible by continuous docking of synaptic vesicles on presynaptic ribbons. We have partially purified synaptic ribbons from retina and identified a major protein component called RIBEYE. RIBEYE is composed of a unique A domain specific for ribbons, and a B domain identical with CtBP2, a transcriptional repressor that in turn is related to 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases. The A domain mediates assembly of RIBEYE into large structures, whereas the B domain binds NAD(+) with high affinity, similar to 2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases. Our results define a unique component of synaptic ribbons and suggest that RIBEYE evolved in vertebrates under utilization of a preexisting protein to build a unique scaffold for a specialized synapse.
Fray is a serine/threonine kinase expressed by the peripheral glia of Drosophila, whose function is required for normal axonal ensheathment. Null fray mutants die early in larval development and have nerves with severe swelling and axonal defasciculation. The phenotype is associated with a failure of the ensheathing glia to correctly wrap peripheral axons. When the fray cDNA is expressed in the ensheathing glia of fray mutants, normal nerve morphology is restored. Fray belongs to a novel family of Ser/Thr kinases, the PF kinases, whose closest relatives are the PAK kinases. Rescue of the Drosophila mutant phenotype with PASK, the rat homolog of Fray, demonstrates a functional homology among these proteins and suggests that the Fray signaling pathway is widely conserved.

Development of necrosis is a characteristic feature of glioblastoma but its pathogenesis remains poorly understood. The process of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation in response to DNA damage is mediated by poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and results in NAD+ depletion. The consequent ATP and energy depletion may result in cell necrosis. Therefore PARP activation is a potential candidate for a regulatory role in the pathogenesis of necrosis in glioblastoma. This study investigated whether there might be a relationship between both PARP expression and poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation, and necrosis in glioblastoma. The pattern of expression of PARP and of poly(ADP-ribose) groups in an archival series of glioblastoma was examined using immunohistochemistry. These parameters were also studied in multicellular tumour spheroids, derived from human glioma cell lines in which central necrosis develops with increasing spheroid diameter. Poly(ADP-ribose) groups were expressed in peri-necrotic tumour cells in glioblastoma. In the spheroid model poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation was seen centrally in pre-necrotic and necrotic cells with increasing spheroid diameter. PARP was widely expressed in viable tumour cells in the glioblastoma sections. In the spheroids, PARP expression, which was initially diffuse, became confined to the outer proliferative zone with increasing diameter. The pattern of expression of poly(ADP-ribose) groups in the spheroids and in glioblastoma raises the possibility that poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation may play a role in the development of necrosis in glioma. The high basal PARP expression in both glioblastoma and the spheroids suggests that this enzyme may have additional roles in glioma cell biology.
Whether the cerebral or subcortical lesions are involved in the pathogenesis in infantile spasms (IS) remains to be determined. To investigate the functional lesions of the subcortical structures in IS, the brainstem expression of neurotransmitters, neuropeptides and calcium-binding proteins in IS autopsy cases of lissencephaly and of perinatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE/IS) was investigated. The IS patients consisted of four subjects each of lissencephaly and HIE. They suffered from both West and Lennox-Gastaut syndromes. The healthy and disease controls were composed of four subjects without neuromuscular disorders and six cases of HIE (HIE/C), neither of whom had the epileptic syndrome. In these subjects the expressions of tryptophan hydroxylase (TrH), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), parvalbumin (PV), methionine-enkephalin (ME) and substance P (SP) were immunohistochemically determined in serial sections of the midbrain, pons and medulla oblongata. The immunoreactivity of neurons and neuronal processes for TH was altered in the mesencephalic periaqueductal gray matter, locus ceruleus, and dorsal vagal nucleus in the patients. The HIE/IS cases showed reduced TrH-immunoreactivity in the medullary raphe nuclei. The brainstem auditory tract was poorly discernible on anti-PV immunostaining in the IS patients. The immunoreactivity for ME in the spinal trigeminal nucleus was severely affected in the IS patients, while that for SP was comparatively well preserved. It is suggested that the presence of common brainstem lesions in IS is irrespective of etiologies. It is intriguing that some of the changes seemed to be interrelated with the neurophysiological abnormalities being reported in IS patients.
Leukoencephalopathy with swelling and a discrepantly mild clinical course (&quot;van der Knaap disease&quot;) is a recently identified syndrome. It is characterised by macrocephaly occurring during the first year of life, initially normal or nearly normal development, and slowly progressive ataxia and spasticity with initial preservation of intellectual functions. MRI shows diffuse abnormality in signal intensity, as well as swelling of the hemispheral white matter with subcortical cyst-like spaces in the fronto-parietal and anterior temporal areas. It is thought to have an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance, since many patients have consanguineous parents and more than one affected patient is often present within the same family. We report on two sibs: a 5-year old boy affected with &quot;van der Knaap disease&quot; and his macrocephalic sister whose first MRI (2 years 6 months) showed delayed myelination, which led us to suspect the same disease as her brother, however with subsequent normalisation at the second MRI (3 years 6 months).
This study examined the roles of the nucleus accumbens (NAc), medial prefrontal cortex, basolateral amygdala, and ventral subiculum of the hippocampus in the expression of Pavlovian conditioned hyperactivity responses to cocaine-related stimuli. This was accomplished by pharmacologically inhibiting these regions prior to drug-free tests for conditioned hyperactivity in an environment previously associated with cocaine. The results indicate that conditioned hyperactivity could be disrupted by infusions of the GABA-B agonist, baclofen (0.2 nmol/0.5 microl/side) into the NAc, or completely blocked by infusions of the GABA-A agonist, muscimol (0.1 and 0.2 nmol/0.5 microl/side) into the medial prefrontal cortex. In contrast, conditioned hyperactivity was unaffected by pharmacological inhibition of the basolateral amygdala, the ventral subiculum, or sites dorsal to the NAc or prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that the NAc and the prefrontal cortex are crucial elements of the neural circuitry underlying the expression of Pavlovian conditioned responses to cocaine-related stimuli.
We review here the rapid tryptophan depletion (RTD) methodology and its controversial association with depressive relapse. RTD has been used over the past decade to deplete serotonin (5-hydroxy-tryptamine, or 5-HT) in humans and to probe the role of the central serotonin system in a variety of psychiatric conditions. Its current popularity was stimulated by reports that RTD reversed the antidepressant effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) in remitted patients with a history of depression but not in patients treated with antidepressants which promote catecholaminergic rather than serotonergic neurotransmission (such as tricyclic antidepressants or buproprion). However, RTD has inconsistent effects in terms of full clinical relapse in depressed patients. Pooling the data from all published reports, patients who are either unmedicated and/or fully remitted are much less likely to experience relapse (7 of 61, or approximately 9%) than patients who are recently medicated and partially remitted (63 of 133, or approximately 47%; although, the numbers here may reflect patient overlap between reports). Recently remitted patients who have been treated with non-pharmacological therapies such as total sleep deprivation, electroconvulsive therapy, or bright light therapy also do not commonly show full clinical relapse with RTD. We briefly review RTD effects in other psychiatric disorders, many of which are treated with SSRIs. There is accumulating evidence to suggest that RTD affects central serotonergic neurotransmission. Nevertheless, many questions remain about the ability of RTD to reverse the beneficial effects of SSRIs or MAOIs, or to induce symptoms in unmedicated symptomatic or asymptomatic patients.
Several animals mitigate the fundamental conflict between sleep and wakefulness by engaging in unihemispheric sleep, a unique state during which one cerebral hemisphere sleeps while the other remains awake. Among mammals, unihemispheric sleep is restricted to aquatic species (Cetaceans, eared seals and manatees). In contrast to mammals, unihemispheric sleep is widespread in birds, and may even occur in reptiles. Unihemispheric sleep allows surfacing to breathe in aquatic mammals and predator detection in birds. Despite the apparent utility in being able to sleep unihemispherically, very few mammals sleep in this manner. This is particularly interesting since the reptilian ancestors to mammals may have slept unihemispherically. The relative absence of unihemispheric sleep in mammals suggests that a trade off exists between unihemispheric sleep and other adaptive brain functions occurring during sleep or wakefulness. Presumably, the benefits of sleeping unihemispherically only outweigh the costs under extreme circumstances such as sleeping at sea. Ultimately, a greater understanding of the reasons for little unihemispheric sleep in mammals promises to provide insight into the functions of sleep, in general.
To explore the possible involvement of spinal kappa-opioid receptor in modulating morphine withdrawal syndrome, rats were made dependent on morphine by multiple injections of morphine HCl for 5 days. They were then given intrathecal administration (i.t.) of a kappa-opioid receptor agonist trans-3, 4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-cyclohexyl]-benzenacetamide hydrochloride (U-50,488H, 2.5-10 microg) or its antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI, 1.25-5 microg), followed by intraperitoneal administration (i.p.) of naloxone (0.5 mg/kg), and the withdrawal syndrome was scored for 60 min. U-50,488H produced a dose-dependent suppression, whereas nor-BNI a dose-dependent potentiation in withdrawal syndrome. The latter result implies that an endogenous kappa receptor agonist, most probably dynorphin, exerts a tonic suppressive effect on morphine syndrome at spinal level.
The late 19th century and early 20th century represent an era of significant progress and important discoveries. Explorers of unknown continents interacted with pioneers of neuroscience, including the founders of the neuron doctrine, which asserted that nerve tissue was composed of individual cells that were genetic, anatomic, functional, and trophic units. Fridtiof Nansen (1861-1930), an arctic explorer and a cofounder of the neuron doctrine, knew Sigmund Freud (1856-1939), a neuroscientist and the founder of psychoanalysis, as well as Harvey Cushing (1869-1939), the father of modern neurosurgery. This is an account of the evolution of the neuron doctrine at a time of great explorers and scientists, with insight into their common interests and interactions on scientific and social levels.
Man has sought to protect himself from physical injury resulting either from the vicissitudes of an arbitrary natural environment or from the calculated activity of his fellow creatures since at least the beginning of recorded time. The earliest substantial British evidence of this activity dates from shortly after the Roman invasion of 55 BC. The head has always been seen by both assailant and defender as a region of particular vulnerability, where an incapacitating blow might most effectively be landed. We present an overview of the evolution and development of English military head protection through the ages, with particular reference to the advances made in metallurgical technology at Greenwich through the course of the 16th century. Much of this represents original research by the authors (particularly ARW), published here for the first time. We include the first metallographic data on armor excavated from the Wisby grave-pits (1361), the first scientific analysis of the textile composition of medieval helmet linings from the Wallace Collection, and the first metallurgical study of the Windsor Castle suit, the personal armor of King Henry VIII, perhaps England's most famous monarch. We combine this with our own experimental data, also previously unpublished, relating to the attack energy available from ancient weaponry (whose technology determines the design of defenses, then as now) in an attempt to assess the effectiveness of helmets. Finally, we set this in the context of contemporary medical technology. The latter is found to be woefully inadequate when presented with serious head injuries. Nevertheless, mortality from battlefield injury has been reduced from ancient times to the present day, despite advances in weapons technology.

The interaction between astrocytes and neurons is examined from the standpoint of glutamate and glutathione (GSH) metabolism. These examples are outlined to provoke a reformulation of concepts of the inter-dependence between these 2 cell types, not only in terminating excitotoxicity, but also in assuring proper energetics and neuromodulation by astrocytic removal of glutamate via the astrocyte-specific glutamate transporters, GLT1 and GLAST. In addition, the role of astrocytes in the synthesis of neuronal GSH is detailed. The neuron-astrocyte interaction permits widely divergent aspects of brain energetics and modulation, and undoubtedly brain pathology where the functional unit is altered. Testing the developmental effects of compounds on this interaction is warranted and likely to establish the mechanisms by which it is compromised in a variety of disease states.

Two isoforms of the cation-Cl(-) cotransporter family are expressed in neurons and modulate neurotransmission. NKCC1, a Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter, by raising internal Cl(-), is responsible for excitatory GABAergic activity in immature brain and in adult sensory neurons. KCC2, a neuronal-specific isoform of the K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter, by lowering internal Cl(-), is critical for inhibitory GABA responses in mature central nervous system neurons.

Peripheral hypersensitivity (hyperalgesia and allodynia) are common phenomena both in inflammatory and in neuropathic pain conditions. Several rat models of mononeuropathy (Bennett, Seltzer and Gazelius models) display such symptoms following partial injury to the sciatic nerve. Using immunohistochemistry and behavioral tests, we investigated inflammatory cell and cytokine responses in the sciatic nerve 14 days after injury created in these different models as well as after axotomy. Tactile hypersensitivity ('allodynia') was present in all Gazelius model rats whereas only 38 and 29% of the Bennett and Seltzer models, respectively, displayed this sign of neuropathy. The inflammatory reactions in rats with and without tactile allodynia were compared. Monocytes/macrophages (ED-1), natural killer cells, T lymphocytes, and the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), were significantly upregulated in all nerve injured rats in comparison to sham-operated controls. Interestingly, ED-1-, TNF-alpha- and IL-6-positive cells increased more markedly in allodynic Bennett and Seltzer rats than in non-allodynic ones. The magnitude of the inflammatory response does not seem to relate to the extent of damage to the nerve fibers because axotomized rats displayed much lower upregulation. Our findings indicate that the considerable increase in monocytes/macrophages induced by a nerve injury results in a very high release of IL-6 and TNF-alpha. This may relate to the generation of tactile allodynia/hyperalgesia, since there was a clear correlation between the number of ED-1 and IL-6-positive cells and the degree of allodynia. It is possible that measures to reduce monocyte/macrophage recruitment and the release of pro-inflammatory interleukins after nerve damage could influence the development of neuropathic pain.
Zebra fish may be an ideal vertebrate model system for numerous human diseases with which the genetics and biological mechanisms of the disease may be studied. Zebra fish has been successfully used in developmental genetics, and recently, neurobiologists have also started to study this species. A potentially interesting target disease amenable for analysis with zebra fish is drug addiction, e.g. alcoholism. Although genetic tools to manipulate the genome of zebra fish are available, appropriate phenotypical testing methods are often lacking. In this paper, we describe basic behavioral tests to investigate the acute effects of alcohol on zebra fish. These behavioral paradigms will be useful for the genetic and biological analysis of acute and chronic drug effects as well as addiction. In addition to presenting findings for the acute effects of alcohol, we briefly describe our strategy for generating and screening mutants. We hope that our pilot work will facilitate the future development of behavioral tests and the use of zebra fish in the genetic analysis of the biological effects of drugs of abuse.
A genome-wide scan was conducted in two F(2) intercrosses, C57BL/6J (B6)xDBA/2J (D2) and BALB/cJ (C)xLP/J (LP), for three different phenotypes: basal locomotor activity, ethanol-induced locomotor activity, and haloperidol-induced catalepsy. For basal activity, significant quantitative trait loci (QTLs, LOD&gt; or =4.3) were detected on chromosomes 9 and 19 for the CxLP intercross and chromosome 1 for the B6xD2 intercross. Significant QTLs for ethanol-induced activation were detected on chromosome 6 for the CxLP intercross, and on chromosomes 1 and 2 for the B6xD2 intercross. For haloperidol-induced catalepsy, significant QTLs were detected on chromosome 14 (two different QTLs) in the CxLP intercross, and chromosomes 1 and 9 in the B6xD2 intercross. These data illustrate the importance of the genetic cross for QTL detection. Finally, the data reported here, and elsewhere, are also used to demonstrate a novel approach to QTL detection and localization.
Allopregnanolone (3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one) is an endogenously derived metabolite of progesterone, and a potent positive modulator of gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptors. A withdrawal syndrome, characterized by central nervous system (CNS) hyperexcitability, has been demonstrated following abrupt discontinuation of high progesterone levels in rats, which was due in part to altered levels of allopregnanolone. The purpose of the present study was to determine if a single administration of pregnanolone or allopregnanolone could produce an acute withdrawal response in mice selected for susceptibility (Withdrawal Seizure-Prone, WSP) or resistance (Withdrawal Seizure-Resistant, WSR) to ethanol withdrawal convulsions. WSP mice administered 75 mg/kg pregnanolone showed a significant increase in handling-induced convulsion (HIC) scores over a 25-h testing period. In contrast, HIC scores in WSR mice were negligible after acute administration of 25, 50, 75, or 100 mg/kg pregnanolone. WSP mice also showed a similar increase in HIC after withdrawal from 75 mg/kg allopregnanolone. This effect was evident at both the 10-h and 25-h overall withdrawal severity assessment. These results demonstrate that neuroactive steroids can elicit an acute withdrawal response similar to that of other positive modulators of GABA(A) receptors in WSP mice, supporting the notion that a common set of genes underlie acute and chronic withdrawal severity from multiple agents with depressant effects on the central nervous system.
Pharmacological blockade studies have supported a role of the dopamine system in ethanol reward for many years, but receptor subtype specificity has been difficult to establish. Recently, genetically engineered mice lacking functional dopamine D2 receptors have been shown to drink less ethanol in a two-bottle choice task. To determine whether reduced ethanol intake reflects a reduction in ethanol reward, D2 receptor-deficient [knockout (KO)] mice were compared to heterozygous (HET) and wild-type (WT; C57BL/6xDBA/2 F2 hybrid) mice in a place conditioning task. Under conditions that produced reliable place preference in both WT and HET mice, KO mice showed no evidence of place conditioning, suggesting that D2 receptor gene inactivation reduced ethanol reward or the ability to learn about ethanol reward. Consistent with previous findings, this mutation also produced a gene dose-related reduction in basal activity levels. Moreover, KO and HET mice showed enhancement of ethanol-stimulated activity relative to WT mice. However, differences in basal and ethanol-stimulated activity did not explain the differences in place conditioning. Overall, this study strongly supports the conclusion that dopamine D2 receptors normally influence ethanol reward in mice.
Artefacts caused by eddy currents are a major problem in diffusion weighted imaging. This is particularly acute in experiments in which a number of images with differing degrees of diffusion weighting and/or differently oriented diffusion-weighting gradients need to be combined. The echo-planar imaging sequence is particularly sensitive to the effects of residual eddy currents, especially due to the low bandwidth in the phase-encoding direction. Two published schemes are investigated regarding the effectiveness of eddy current correction. That of Jezzard et al (1998 Magn. Reson. Med. 39 801-12) requires the acquisition of additional experimental data in order to perform a post-acquisition correction, whereas that of Wider et al (1994 J. Magn. Reson. A 108 255-8) attempts to reduce the eddy currents directly. It is found that the latter experiment gives a somewhat superior performance and a combination of the two approaches results in an almost complete elimination of artefact. An alternative single-shot imaging experiment to echo-planar imaging is given by sequences based on fast spin-echo methods, which should be insensitive to the effects of constant eddy currents. It is shown that the intrinsic eddy-current-related artefact level in such experiments is indeed low, residual artefacts being attributed to eddy current decay during the echo train. In situations of poor main magnetic field homogeneity or large eddy currents such sequences may be gainfully used instead of echo-planar imaging.
A detailed analysis of homing in pigeons and small mammals has remained difficult because the paths of the animals could not be reconstructed precisely. Here, we describe a lightweight global position system (GPS) data logger (35 g including battery and casing; 40 x 68 x 18 mm) that records the flight of pigeons and the path of dogs with an accuracy of +/-12 m. With one battery, the logger runs in continuous mode (1 fix/s) for 3.5 h and in power-saving mode (1 fix/5 s) for about 16 h, and stores a maximum of 100,000 data points that are downloaded to a PC. A module of our public domain software WINTRACK permits a detailed numerical and graphical analysis of path geometry, phases of resting and moving, and path similarity. The device can be adapted to different species provided that satellite signals can be received reliably and that the loggers can be recovered. We expect it to be useful for testing hypotheses about pigeon homing, assessing natural spatial behavior and orientation of many species, and anticipate further miniaturization.
Recent dementia studies indicate that behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) are not merely an epiphenomenon of cognitive impairment, but could be attributed to specific biological brain dysfunction. We describe findings from different research modalities related with BPSD (psychopathological, neuropsychological, neurochemical, and psychophysiological strategies), and attempt to reconcile them into the more integrated form. Characteristics of delusions in dementia patients should be studied in more detail from a psychopathological aspect, aiming for the integration of psychopathology and neurobiology. Imperfect integration of memory function and cognitive function, assigned to the limbic systems and association areas, respectively, may result in BPSD. More intimate collaboration of psychopathological and neurobiological study would be fruitful to promote the research in psychological basis of BPSD. Neurochemical studies indicated that density of extracellular tangles and/or PHF-tau protein have relationships with delusion or misidentification. These changes in neurochemical parameters should be the key to understanding the pathogenesis of BPSD. More importantly, neurochemical and psychological study could be linked by the research in psychophysiology. Computer-assisted electroencephalogram analysis suggests that the right posterior hemisphere shows significant age-associated change earlier than the left in the elderly. Cerebral metabolic rate by positron emission tomography study indicates that paralimbic, left medial temporal, and left medial occipital area are involved in pathogenesis of BPSD in some dementia patients.

In this report, I have summarized the current situation surrounding diagnosis, treatment and related needs in the department of neurology in relation to postgraduate neurology training considered from the standpoint of a specialized department within a general hospital. This summary is based on the responses to a questionnaire that was sent to the persons in charge of education and training at 180 institutions affiliated with the Japanese Society of Neurology and 478 education and training institutions among Japanese city hospitals, excluding university hospitals and special research institutions. Replies were received from 305 hospitals, amounting to a response rate of 63.8%. The number of doctors working in the department of neurology was found to be low at 2 in 84 hospitals and 3 in 65 hospitals. The majority of neurologists at general hospitals are fully engaged in examining outpatients as well as inpatients, and they do not have adequate time for research, education and training and participation in the activities of academic associations. Of the 10 items cited in the questionnaire relating to the types of postgraduate neurology training desired by neurologists employed in general hospitals, the most common selections in order of decreasing frequency were improvement in the capacity to manage common disorders (such as headache, dizziness, numbness, etc.) diagnosed in the outpatient clinic, improvement in the capacity to diagnose the acute phase of cerebral apoplexy, further education about EEG (electroencephalogram) and EMG (electromyogram), and medical ethical issues such as informed consent. The views about postgraduate neurological education and training described in detail in writing by the respondents were as follows. 1) Neurologists required by a city general hospital Numerous respondents commented that the capacity to diagnose medical neurological diseases associated with internal (systemic) medical disorders is needed since there are remarkably few doctors in general hospitals whose interest is confined only to neurological diseases ranging from rare to common complaints. In contrast, neurologists whose knowledge and training derives from a wide clinical base of internal medicine are in great demand. 2) Points of disparity between postgraduate neurology training in a university hospital and neurologists required by a city general hospital In addition, many respondents expressed the view that under the medical school system, neuroscience and research are given a higher priority than the cultivation of clinical medical skills and although there may be keen academic interest in the clinical diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases, there is not necessarily the same level of keen interest in common diseases, hence the universities may be educating researchers effectively, but are not necessarily producing capable clinicians. 3) Measures that should be taken to address this difference in postgraduate neurology training between university and city general hospitals The university hospital is separated into research and clinical groups and the time has now come for a system of management under which a professor leads the research group and another professor leads the clinical group. There should be a clear-cut clarification of the responsible roles of university and city general hospitals in the postgraduate education and training of neurologists. Furthermore, the professional staff and facilities of general hospitals that are affiliated with universities should be upgraded and expanded to enable them to serve more effectively as sites of clinical education and training. The position and status of neurologists at city general hospitals should be raised to the same level as that of university professors and institutions affiliated with the Japanese Society of Neurology.
With rapid advancement of non-invasive imaging technologies, it is now possible to perform a detailed assessment of brain functional reorganization in humans. Studies in hemiparesis patients due to corticospinal tract impairment strongly suggest an important role of ipsilateral cortex and supplemental motor cortices in functional reorganization of the motor system. Studies in patients with peripheral nerve disease indicate that central nervous system reorganization indeed occurs based on peripheral motor dysfunction. Data on cerebellar reorganization indicate a potential role of the reticular formation in motor functional reorganization.
In this paper, results of the recent clinical trials were reviewed, and problems in treating patients with thrombolysis were discussed. Data generated from randomized controlled trials over the past few years have shown that acute intervention can improve neurological outcome in patients with ischemic stroke. Intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator has become established as an acute treatment for stroke. Intra-arterial thrombolysis is a developing modality for the treatment of the acute stroke that shows promise in restoring cerebral arterial supply. However, thrombolysis have not approved yet in any forms in Japan. Under this circumstance, thrombolysis should be carried out in GCP-compatible clinical trials, so far. The overall results of a clinical trial cannot necessarily generalized to all patients in the trial and all similar future patients. A difference between settings of a clinical trial and of general practice should be also noted. Early recognition of stroke symptoms and immediate transfer to a suitable treatment facility should bring thrombolysis to a larger number of stroke victims. Finally, successful treatment is due in part to selecting patients who are not at increased risk for intracranial hemorrhage based on clinical and imaging features, and therefore rapid in-hospital triage protocols are mandatory.
The deposition of amyloid beta peptides (A beta) is one of the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. A beta are composed of 40-42 amino acid peptides that are proteolytically cleaved from beta APP. The deposition as diffuse plaques of a species of A beta ending at the 42nd residue (A beta 42) is one of the earliest pathological changes of AD. Importantly, mutations in beta APP genes located in positions flanking the A beta sequences have been shown to cosegregate with the clinical manifestations of AD in a subset of familial AD (FAD) pedigrees. Moreover, mutations in presenilin (PS) 1 and 2, novel polytopic membrane proteins identified as causative molecules for the majority of FAD, also increase the production of A beta 42. These results support the notion that A beta (42) plays a key role in the cascadic development of AD. Recently, PS 1 and PS 2 are shown to be the catalytic subunits of gamma-secretase that cleave the intramembrane segments of beta APP and Notch. Future therapeutic approaches to reduce amyloid deposition, including inhibitors for beta- and gamma-secretases, as well as beta-amyloid vaccine therapy, raise high hopes towards the cure and prevention of AD, although the outcome thereof would be key to the consistency of amyloid cascade hypothesis.
For the last three decades, neurology has witnessed remarkable progress in both basic sciences and clinical researches. They include detection of abnormal genes in common degenerative and metabolic diseases, clarification of brain mechanisms of movement and cognition with neurophysiology including unit recording from basal ganglia neurons, neuroimaging and neuropsychology tests. Treatment of intractable chronic diseases has also progressed. Medical, surgical and immunosuppressive treatment for Parkinson's disease, immunological diseases, and for certain metabolic diseases are examples. Neurologists in Japan contributed in research progress in the various fields. However, services in clinical medicine have devoted mainly in neurodegenerative, immunological diseases and myopathy. Promotion of nationwide clinical service for cerebrovascular disease, epilepsy and dementia is required. Research in neurology in the next century should be promoted in various fields with different methodology and targets; genes, molecular mechanisms, cellular activity, neural networks, brain as a whole and a human subject. Particularly integrated function of he brain shall be studied thoroughly not only from biological but also from psychological and social point of view. Leaders in neurology in Japan, particularly professors of neurology have been asked to chair all the activities of education, research and clinics. Merits of this system were reflected in connection of clinical and research data, resulting in establishment of new disease showing unusual combination of symptoms and signs. In future, coordination among specialists in different fields are required for further promotion of clinical researches and training of neurologists. Qualified neurological services in ordinary clinics can be achieved with cooperation of personnels in a team where neurologists are required to play a key role aiming at assurance of best QOL for patients and families.
We previously conducted a randomized controlled trial in which early supported discharge from the Department of Neurology at Huddinge Hospital in southwest Stockholm with continuity of rehabilitation at home (n = 41) was compared to routine rehabilitation services (n = 40) for moderately disabled selected stroke patients. No statistical significant differences were found in patient outcome at 3 or 6 months, but a moderately positive effect in the home rehabilitation group was suggested. In the present study we evaluated resource utilization of health and social care, impact on family caregivers during 6 months after acute stroke and patient satisfaction. A 50% reduction in total hospitalization (initial and recurrent) was observed, from 30 days in the routine rehabilitation group to 15 days in the home rehabilitation group (p &lt; 0.001). After discharge, the mean number of home visits in the home rehabilitation group was 12. In total, the routine rehabilitation group had a higher frequency of therapy contacts and daycare in outpatient care. Seventy-eight percent received help from a family caregiver in activities of daily living, yet only 15% had formal home help service. No major differences were found in use of home help service or impact on family caregivers in the form of time devoted to helping the patient or subjective well-being of spouses as per Sickness Impact Profile. Patient satisfaction was in favour of the home rehabilitation group, but a significant difference was only found in active participation in rehabilitation programme planning. In conclusion, early supported discharge with continuity of rehabilitation at home, using goal-directed functional activities based on the patient's personal interests, should be the rehabilitation service of choice for moderately disabled stroke patients fulfilling certain criteria, provided that further evaluation during the first year after stroke reveals no great changes in outcome or resource use. More research into the effectiveness and cost implications of early supported discharge with continuity of rehabilitation at home is needed in other parts of Sweden and in other countries before it can be asserted that the conclusions drawn from this study are applicable elsewhere.
Researchers haven't known exactly where in the brain all the signals that allow an animal to keep track of its limbs are located, but now a team may have located some of the neurons that first make these multisensory connections. On page 1782, researchers report evidence that a small region of the parietal cortex of the monkey brain known as area 5 may enable the monkey to integrate many sources of information about its body and thereby update its mental model of what the body is doing. The researchers based this conclusion on their finding that some area 5 neurons fire at their fastest rates when the visual feedback from a monkey's arm matches the sensory feedback, an indication that the neurons are sensitive to both streams of information.

Bone marrow stem cells give rise to a variety of hematopoietic lineages and repopulate the blood throughout adult life. We show that, in a strain of mice incapable of developing cells of the myeloid and lymphoid lineages, transplanted adult bone marrow cells migrated into the brain and differentiated into cells that expressed neuron-specific antigens. These findings raise the possibility that bone marrow-derived cells may provide an alternative source of neurons in patients with neurodegenerative diseases or central nervous system injury.
Recent research advances in neuroscience show that neurotrophic factors are proteins that affect selectively various kinds of neurons of CNS and PNS. Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is another neurotrophic factor that was first reported by Barde, a German chemist, thirty years later after the nerve growth factor had been found out. BDNF plays an important role in the growth, development, differentiation, maintenance and regeneration of various types of neurons in the CNS and has potential application to the treatment of brain injury and neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's syndrome, Huntington's chorea and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In this paper, the structure, function and potential clinical application of BDNF were reviewed.



Relationships between presynaptic function and short- and long-term plasticity were investigated at adult corticostriatal synapses. Wide variability was observed in the expression of short- and long-term synaptic plasticity. Intracellular records from 47 cells produced 17 examples of LTD (&lt;90% of control), 10 examples of no long-term change (between 90-110% of control), and 20 examples of LTP (&gt;110% of control). Similar variation existed in paired-pulse and posttetanic plasticities. The variability expressed in all three forms of plasticity appears to be related, based on correlations found between the paired-pulse ratio (PPR) and tetanus-induced short- (3 min posttetanus) and long-term plasticities (16-20 min posttetanus). These data suggest that tetanus-induced changes in synaptic strength are related to the intrinsic, preconditioned behavior of synapses. Every cell showing paired-pulse depression also expressed LTD in response to high-frequency activation of its afferents. Those synapses showing paired-pulse potentiation tended to express LTP, although exceptions did exist. Similar relationships were found in a parallel analysis of population spikes. PPR also changed in association with the expression of posttetanic and long-term depression. Greater paired-pulse potentiation was observed in medial intracellular recordings, but no medial to lateral differences were seen in posttetanic plasticities. Field recordings also showed a medial bias toward paired-pulse and posttetanic potentiation, but not in long-term plasticity. Block of postsynaptic L-type Ca(2+) channels with nifedipine eliminated LTD expression, but overall no differences were found between nifedipine and control cells.
We studied the role of cholesterol in regulated protein secretion in neuroendocrine cells by manipulating the cholesterol content of AtT-20 cells. Depletion of cellular cholesterol levels caused a reversible block of immature secretory granule biogenesis at the level of the trans-Golgi-network, whereas increased cholesterol levels promoted immature secretory granule formation. Cholesterol depletion also blocked the formation of constitutive secretory vesicles, but did not inhibit the transport between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi complex. Our results indicate that the assembly of cholesterol-based lipid microdomains is required for the biogenesis of both regulated and constitutive secretory vesicles from the trans-Golgi-network in neuroendocrine cells.
Huntington's disease (HD) is one of eight inherited neurodegenerative diseases caused by expansions of (CAG)(n) tracts that encode polyglutamine segments in expressed proteins. Studies of pathogenic mechanisms for all these late-onset diseases suffer from a common drawback: experimental studies require massive acceleration of a process that, in affected humans, usually takes decades. But is the rapid-onset disease of transgenic mouse models and in cells the same as the slow-onset disease in humans? We review recent work on HD, noting several issues whose significance is likely to be crucial - but which are as yet unresolved. We discuss these in light of the distinction between disease-specific pathogenic mechanisms and artifacts of polyglutamine overexpression. We suggest that the initial stages of HD result from dysfunction rather than death, and we consider the potential discovery of compounds that might interfere with early pathogenic events.
The physical energy that we refer to as a word, whether in isolation or embedded in sentences, takes its meaning from the knowledge stored in our brains through a lifetime of experience. Much empirical evidence indicates that, although this knowledge can be used fairly flexibly, it is functionally organized in 'semantic memory' along a number of dimensions, including similarity and association. Here, we review recent findings using an electrophysiological brain component, the N400, that reveal the nature and timing of semantic memory use during language comprehension. These findings show that the organization of semantic memory has an inherent impact on sentence processing. The left hemisphere, in particular, seems to capitalize on the organization of semantic memory to pre-activate the meaning of forthcoming words, even if this strategy fails at times. In addition, these electrophysiological results support a view of memory in which world knowledge is distributed across multiple, plastic-yet-structured, largely modality-specific processing areas, and in which meaning is an emergent, temporally extended process, influenced by experience, context, and the nature of the brain itself.
Understanding of sensory and cognitive brain processes requires information about activation timing within and between different brain sites. Such data can be obtained by magnetoencephalography (MEG) that tracks cortical activation sequences with a millisecond temporal accuracy. MEG is gaining a well-established role in human neuroscience, complementing with its excellent temporal resolution the spatially more focused brain imaging methods. As examples of MEG's role in cognitive neuroscience, we discuss time windows related to cortical processing of sensory and multisensory stimuli, effects of the subject's own voice on the activity of their auditory cortex, timing of brain activation in reading, and cortical dynamics of the human mirror-neuron system activated when the subject views another person's movements.
In this review we consider the logic and the evidence relating to the issue of dynamic grouping in human vision. Dynamic grouping is required when the visual system is creating novel descriptions, either because it is dealing with novel stimuli or it is providing information for novel purposes. In such cases, dynamic grouping provides a mechanism for discovering regularities in the data. We consider a number of examples, including grouping of visual information into surface descriptions and contour descriptions. The main issues that arise concern the configurability of the process and the effects of the propagation of local configurations. We then turn to the complex issue of visual search. Visual search allows the experimenter to establish something of the nature of pre-attentive visual descriptions and how these differ from attentive descriptions. We describe the basic results of visual search experiments in terms of the type of grouping involved. Finally, we consider the hypothesis that dynamic grouping is signalled by neuronal synchrony.
Genes associated with neurodegenerative diseases are normally expressed throughout neural development and are essential for the elaboration and maintenance of neuronal subpopulations. Disease-causing mutations can compromise defined subsets of these neural specification events in subtle ways that initially lead to impairments in the cellular homeostasis of evolving regional neuronal subpopulations, and adult-onset cell death from normally non-lethal environmental stressors. Neurodegenerative diseases may, therefore, represent an emerging class of developmental disorders characterized by novel biological responses to subthreshold neurodevelopmental abnormalities that impair targeted neuronal biosynthetic pathways without causing obvious developmental deficits. This developmental model of pathogenesis predicts that it will soon be possible to identify these dysfunctional pathways prior to the occurrence of irreversible cellular injury, and to successfully intervene using innovative neuroprotective and neural regenerative strategies.



Neonatal cryoanesthesia has recently been documented to affect morphology and behavior after a single exposure [Dev. Brain Res. 111 (1998) 89; Horm. Behav. 37 (2000) 169]. In the current experiment, we investigated the effect of one-time exposure to halothane inhalant anesthesia on neonatal rats of both sexes. Fifteen minutes of exposure on postnatal day one resulted in detectable changes in the volume of the visual cortex at 3 months. Thus, neonatal halothane alters neural development and its effects are observable in the adult rat.
In this study, the metabolic activity of rat retinal ganglion cells during postnatal development has been examined in vivo using cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. The intensity of staining was measured by optical densitometry. The activity of cytochrome oxidase in retinal ganglion cells progressively increased from postnatal day 0 (P0) and reached a peak during the second week of postnatal development (P10-P14) and declined thereafter. Our data show that the increased levels of cytochrome oxidase seen in developing retinal ganglion cells occur at the same time, when neuronal maturity and synaptogenesis reach their peaks.
Corpus callosum (CC) projections in adult mammals were generally thought to be excitatory and to use excitatory amino acids as their transmitters. Little information has been available about the electrical properties and neurochemical status of developing CC connections. The present study investigated the chemical status of rat CC axons during postnatal development by using antibodies to neuropeptide Y (NPY) and to somatostatin (SOM). Both NPY-immunoreactive (ir) and SOM-ir axons were found in the CC of the rat from newborn through adult; however, the number of SOM-ir CC axons is less than that of NPY-ir CC axons at corresponding ages. The density of both NPY-ir and SOM-ir CC axons initially increased, then peaked, and finally decreased to the mature level. In the adult, only a few NPY-ir and SOM-ir CC axons were found in the CC. These results indicate that many NPY-ir and SOM-ir CC axons are transitory during early postnatal development. The results also suggest that the functions of CC connections in adult mammals may be different from that of developing ones. The present results as well as the previous results demonstrate that both developing and mature CC connections are chemically heterogeneous.
We present an in vitro flattened retinal-scleral preparation suitable for electrophysiological studies from visually targeted amacrine and ganglion cells of the rabbit retina. In a newly designed superfusion chamber, the retinal-scleral tissue is stained with Azure B allowing for imaging of neurons in the ganglion cell layer with an infrared (IR)-sensitive CCD camera via trans-scleral IR illumination. Neurons can be visually identified and targeted for both extracellular and intracellular recordings made singly or in simultaneous pairs. The quality and stability of the recordings are excellent and the tissue remains viable for up to 10 h. This relatively simple preparation avoids the extensive surgical manipulations inherent to those based on isolated retinas or retinal slices. Moreover, the use of trans-scleral IR illumination rather than fluorescent dyes to visualize and target neurons allows for electrophysiological studies of the retina under controlled adaptational states including dark-adapted conditions.



Previous research has shown that acute corticosterone treatment can have rapid effects on learning and memory. Using the taste reactivity test (TRT), the present study examined the effect of acute administration of corticosterone on sucrose palatability and the development of LiCl-induced rapid gustatory conditioning. On each of two conditioning days rats were injected with either a low dose of lithium chloride (LiCl; 0.75 mEq, i.p.) or saline (NaCl; 0.9%, i.p.) and 10 min later, received a second injection of either corticosterone (5 mg/kg, i.p.) or cyclodextrin vehicle. Rats were then placed in the TRT chamber, where 1 min intraoral infusions of sucrose (0.3 M) were delivered every 10 min. Taste reactivity responses were videotaped and later analyzed for frequency of occurrence. Rats treated with both LiCl and corticosterone showed enhanced aversive responding and reduced ingestive responding relative to control rats treated with LiCl and vehicle. The implication that corticosterone may have a rapid enhancing effect on gustatory conditioning is discussed.
(S)-2-ethyl-7-fluoro-3-oxo-3, 4-dihydro-2H-quinoxaline-carboxylic acid isopropylester (GW420867X) inhibits HIV-1 reverse transcriptase and could be used for the treatment of HIV infection. This study quantified the movement of [14C]GW420867X into the CNS by means of a guinea-pig brain perfusion technique. Results indicated that [14C]GW420867X can enter the brain (Kin: 38.4+/-7.7 microl min(-1) g(-1)) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF; Kin: 1.2+/-0.1 microl min(-1) g(-1)). Self-inhibition studies also suggested the presence of a saturable transport system for [14C]GW420867X at the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Thus [14C]GW420867X can enter the brain via the BBB and, compared with the blood-CSF barrier, this route is the predominant pathway for the brain entry of this drug. This would suggest that GW420867X is a promising drug for the treatment of HIV infection within the brain.
The validity of congenital helplessness as a genetic rat model for human depression was investigated in cortical regions of the rat brain thought to be analogous to those showing abnormalities in human neuroimaging studies. Cortex metabolism was analyzed using quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. Congenital helpless rats showed changes in frontal and cingulate regions comparable to those that have demonstrated metabolic differences in human depression. Significant metabolic decreases were found in dorsal frontal, medial orbital, and anterior cingulate, whereas a significant increase was found in infraradiata (subgenual) cingulate. The direction of these changes were the same as those seen in human studies. These findings support the validity of congenital helplessness as a model for human depression.
