Developing oligodendrocytes (OLs) are highly vulnerable to excitotoxicity and oxidative stress, both of which are important in the pathogenesis of many brain disorders. OL excitotoxicity is mediated by ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs) of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid/kainate type on these cells. Here we report that metabotropic GluRs (mGluRs) are highly expressed in OL precursors but are down-regulated in mature OLs. Activation of group 1 mGluRs attenuates OL excitotoxicity by controlling downstream oxidative stress after iGluR overactivation and also prevents nonexcitotoxic forms of oxidative stress by inhibiting reactive oxygen species accumulation and intracellular glutathione loss. The modulating effect of group 1 mGluRs on hypoxic-ischemic OL injury is not due to iGluR endocytosis that occurs in neurons in response to mGluR activation but requires activation of PKC alpha after G protein coupling to phospholipase C. Our results reveal a previously undescribed role for mGluRs in limiting OL injury and suggest that targeting group 1 mGluRs may be a useful therapeutic strategy for treating disorders that involve excitotoxic injury and/or oxidative stress to OLs.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding MeCP2. By binding to methylated CpG dinucleotide promoter regions, MeCP2 acts as a transcriptional repressor, predicting that its absence might result in widespread aberrant gene transcription, leading to the RTT phenotype. Considering this potentially broad action of MeCP2 on expression and the complexity of the brain, especially during development, we approached the consequences of MeCP2 deficiency in a mouse model by using a temporal and regional proteomic strategy. We used the olfactory system (olfactory epithelium and bulb) because its attributes make it an excellent developmental model system. We find evidence of temporal and regional proteomic pattern differences between WT and MeCP2-deficient mice. It was possible to segregate these changes in protein expression into five biological function groups: cytoskeleton arrangement, chromatin modeling, energy metabolism, cell signaling, and neuroprotection. By combining the proteomic results with the RNA levels of the identified proteins, we show that protein expression changes are the consequence of differences in mRNA level or posttranslational modifications. We conclude that brain regions and ages must be carefully considered when investigating MeCP2 deficiency, and that not only transcription should be taken into account as a source for these changes, but posttranslational protein modifications as well.
The basolateral amygdala (ABL) is essential for the amnestic effects of benzodiazepines in aversive learning tasks. Because the alpha1 subunit of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor is critical for these amnestic actions, knowledge of the neuronal localization of this subunit in the ABL should contribute to an understanding of the candidate neuronal mechanisms involved. To examine this question, we used dual-labeling immunohistochemical techniques to study the localization of the alpha1 subunit in the ABL. Our results suggest that the alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor is localized primarily in GABAergic interneurons in the ABL at the somal level, although the intense neuropil staining in the lateral nucleus suggests that distal dendrites of pyramidal projection neurons in this nucleus may also contain high levels of the alpha1 subunit. The great majority of alpha1-immunoreactive interneurons also exhibit immunoreactivity for the beta2/3 subunits of the GABA(A) receptor. Parvalbumin-positive (PV+) interneurons are the main interneuronal subpopulation exhibiting alpha1 immunoreactivity, but some calretinin-positive interneurons also express this subunit. These data suggest that certain subpopulations of GABAergic interneurons in the ABL, especially PV+ cells, receive a robust GABAergic innervation. Because the most likely source of this innervation is intrinsic, these results suggest that PV+ interneurons could constitute an important component of interneuronal networks in the ABL. These networks may be critical for the generation of synchronized rhythmic oscillations involved in consolidation of emotional memories. The activation of alpha1-containing GABA(A) receptors in the ABL by benzodiazepines may disrupt rhythmic oscillations critical for memory consolidation.
The prefrontal cortex has been defined as that cortical territory that has &quot;essential or sustaining&quot; connections with the mediodorsal (MD) nucleus of the thalamus. However, recent studies in the monkey have documented projections from MD to the more caudal, agranular regions of the frontal cortex, suggesting that the connections of MD may be characterized by a breadth of distribution and diversity of functional roles too great to be useful as a unifying and defining feature for a specific cortical territory. In this study, we placed tracer injections in the lateral divisions of MD in cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) to assess the relative proportions of connections devoted to diverse regions of the frontal cortex (FC). Three different patterns of label were observed in the cortex, associated with different locations within lateral MD. We have designated these as the ventrolateral MD-arcuate FC circuit, having most label in areas 8 and 6; the caudoventral MD-dorsomedial FC circuit, having most label in areas 24 and presupplementary motor area (SMA); and the anterodorsal MD-anterior FC circuit, with the most label in areas 9, 46, 12, and 10. Only two of the nine cases injected in lateral MD were predominantly connected with the anterior FC. Thus, particular locales within lateral MD are connected with multiple, functionally diverse cortical regions, including several not classically recognized as &quot;prefrontal&quot; areas. This divergence may distinguish MD-frontocortical and reciprocal corticothalamic pathways from the largely segregated pathways arising from the other thalamic nuclei that are interconnected with the frontal cortex, such as those from the ventrolateral nuclear group.
The vitamin biotin is an endogenous molecule that acts as an important cofactor for several carboxylases in the citric acid cycle. Disorders of biotin metabolism produce neurological symptoms that range from ataxia to sensory loss, suggesting the presence of biotin in specific functional systems of the CNS. Although biotin has been described in some cells of nonmammalian nervous systems, the distribution of biotin in mammalian CNS is virtually unknown. We report the presence of biotin in select regions of rat CNS, as revealed with a monoclonal antibody directed against biotin and with avidin- and streptavidin-conjugated labels. Detectable levels of biotin were primarily found caudal to the diencephalon, with greatest expression in the cerebellar motor system and several brainstem auditory nuclei. Biotin was found as a somatic label in cerebellar Purkinje cells, in cell bodies and proximal dendrites of cerebellar deep nuclear neurons, and in red nuclear neurons. Biotin was detected in cells of the spiral ganglion, somata and proximal dendrites of cells in the cochlear nuclei, superior olivary nuclei, medial nucleus of the trapezoid body, and nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. Biotin was further found in pontine nuclei and fiber tracts, the substantia nigra pars reticulata, lateral mammillary nucleus, and a small number of hippocampal interneurons. Biotin was detected in glial cells of major tract systems throughout the brain but was most prominent in tracts of the hindbrain. Biotin is thus expressed in select regions of rat CNS with a distribution that correlates to the known clinical sequelae associated with biotin deficiencies.
Potential cellular targets of androgen action within skeletal muscle of the rat were determined by comparing the cellular distribution of androgen receptor (AR)-positive nuclei in the highly androgen-responsive levator ani (LA) muscle with that of the relatively androgen-unresponsive extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle. We found that androgen responsiveness correlates with AR expression in muscle fibers and not in fibroblasts. Results indicate that a much higher percentage of myonuclei in the LA are AR(+) than in the EDL (74% vs. 7%), correlating with differences in androgen responsiveness. Both muscles contain an equivalent proportion of AR(+) fibroblasts (approximately 62%). AR(+) nuclei were not observed in terminal Schwann cells in either muscle. These results suggest that ARs within LA muscle fibers mediate the androgen-dependent survival and growth of the LA muscle and its motoneurons. We also observed an unexpected enrichment of AR(+) myonuclei and fibroblasts proximate to neuromuscular junctions, suggesting that ARs at muscle synapses may selectively regulate synapse-specific genes important for the survival and growth of motoneurons. Although castration reduced the proportion of AR(+) fibroblasts in both muscles, the proportion of AR(+) myonuclei was reduced only in the LA. As expected, testosterone treatment prevented these effects of castration but, unexpectedly, increased the proportion of AR(+) myonuclei in the EDL to above normal. These results suggest that how AR expression in skeletal muscle is influenced by androgens depends not only on the particular muscle but on the particular cell type within that muscle.

Throughout the evolution of the concepts concerning the peripheral nerves, different ideas have dominated at different moments in history. The studies and demonstrations conducted in an attempt to further our knowledge of our own constitution and working at the same time enabled us to gain a better understanding of the make-up and specific functioning of the vestibular nerves, together with their central connecting elements in the brainstem: the vestibular nuclei. It may be that the first references to vestibular nerves are now lost in time, yet the Ancient Greeks already attempted to understand their functional nature by carrying out studies essentially focused on neuroanatomical aspects, but heavily influenced by philosophical concepts. It was not until the 18th century that researchers came to understand that there were differences between the vestibular nerve and the cochlear nerve --until then they were believed to be one single nerve. Another century went by before attempts were made to clarify the role it plays in balance and not in hearing. The differences between the distinct vestibular nuclei situated between the medulla oblongata and the pons were established in the 19th and 20th centuries when a number of authors, backed by previous microscopic studies, contributed to clarifying the fuzzy limits of cells separating the four classic nuclear groups and four others taken as being accessory.
Anxiety-related personality traits, such as NEO neuroticism and TCI/TPQ harm avoidance, have been shown to have significant genetic components. To date, however, no specific genetic variants that contribute to these traits have been conclusively identified. At least 26 studies have investigated a putative association between a functional serotonin transporter promoter polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) and anxiety-related personality traits. The results of these studies have been inconsistent with some studies finding evidence for an association, and others not. We performed a meta-analysis of all applicable studies investigating this association. In the overall analysis (N = 5,629 subjects), we found suggestive evidence for an association between the 5-HTTLPR short allele (s) and increased anxiety-related personality trait scores (P = 0.087). However, we also found strong evidence for heterogeneity. This heterogeneity is largely explained by substantial variation between the studies in the inventory used. When the analysis was stratified by inventory type, there was a significant association between 5-HTTLPR and NEO neuroticism (P = 0.000016), a non-significant association between 5-HTTLPR and TCI/TPQ harm avoidance (P = 0.166), and no association between 5-HTTLPR and other anxiety-related personality traits (P = 0.944). There was no evidence that these results were either due to publication bias or accounted for by any one single study. We conclude that there is a strong association between the serotonin transporter promoter variant and neuroticism as measured in the NEO personality inventory and that non-replications are largely due to small sample size and the use of different inventories.
Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) mediate proliferation and neuronal development, while aberrant CDK activity is associated with cancer and neurodegeneration. Consequently, pharmacologic inhibitors, such as 2,6,9-trisubstituted purines, which potently inhibit CDKs 1, 2, and 5, were developed to combat these pathologies. One agent, R-roscovitine (CYC202), has advanced to clinical trials as a potential cancer therapy. In primary neuronal cultures, these agents have been used to delineate the physiologic and pathologic functions of CDKs, and associated signaling pathways. Herein we demonstrate that three 2,6,9-trisubstituted purines: olomoucine, roscovitine, and purvalanol, used at concentrations ascribed by others to potently inhibit CDKs 1, 2, and 5, are powerful triggers of death in maturing cerebellar granule neurons, assessed by loss of mitochondrial reductive capacity and differential staining with fluorescent indicators of living/dead neurons. Based on several criteria, including delayed time course and establishment of an irreversible commitment point of death, pyknotic cell and nuclear morphology, and caspase-3 cleavage, the death process is apoptotic. However, pharmacological and biochemical data indicate that apoptosis is independent of CDK 1, 2, or 5 inhibition. This is based on the pattern of changes in c-jun mRNA, c-Jun protein, and Ca(2+)/cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation, and also, the ineffectiveness of structurally distinct CDK 1, 2, and 5 inhibitors butyrolactone-1 and PNU112445A to induce apoptosis. Collectively, our results, and those of others, indicate that the CDK regulation of transcription (CDKs 7 and 9) should be examined as a target of these agents, and as an indirect mediator of neuronal fate.

Sleep spindles in human and in rat are known to have a thalamocortical substrate. It has also been suggested that absence epilepsy spike and wave discharges may be generated by a similar mechanism. In addition, we have previously reported a possible thalamocortical origin of the EEG spindling rhythmic discharges associated with myoclonic jerks in the picrotoxin rat model of primary generalised epilepsy. To investigate whether pathological and physiological brain rhythms have common mechanisms of generation, we analysed four electroencephalographic (EEG) spindling activities in the rat. These were the non-convulsive spindle discharges induced by picrotoxin (picrotoxin spindles), naturally occurring absence epilepsy spike and wave discharges (absence spindles), spindle discharges during natural sleep (sleep spindles) and spindling activity that occurs under barbiturate anaesthesia (barbiturate spindles). We used power spectral analysis to define and compare the strength and brain distribution of EEG power during the spindling activities in 12 forebrain and 7 brainstem regions. There were brain-wide differences in power for each of the different spindle types with the pathological rhythms of the epilepsies containing more power than the physiological rhythms. There were also similar differences in the expression of spindles related to the region examined and no thalamic emphasis. These results provide evidence for a similar regional EEG power distribution for all four types of spindling activity and thus for the different spindles being expressions of a single phenomenon.
It has been previously shown that the peptidergic nerve fibers are present in the anterior pituitary of monkeys, dogs and rats. In our study, which is reported here, thick nerve fiber bundles, large numbers of peptidergic nerve fibers and their varicosities, which are substance P (SP)-, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)- and galanin (GAL)-immunoreactive (ir), are found in the human pituitary stalk. All these peptidergic nerve fibers run along the pituitary stalk and enter the pars distalis, and some GAL-ir nerve fibers even reach the center of the human anterior pituitary as well as in parenchyma of adenohypophysis. The number of SP-ir nerve fibers is much more than that of other kinds of peptidergic nerve fibers. All these peptidergic nerve fibers are mainly located in the medial part of the gland and distributed in its dorsal-posterior region. A substantial amount of these peptidergic nerve fibers with numerous varicosities are found to be close to the glandular tissue in the pars distalis of the human anterior pituitary. Furthermore, same SP-ir and CGRP-ir cells have been demonstrated in the pars distalis of the anterior pituitary. More or less, these peptidergic nerve fibers came also from the meningeal shell and enter the parenchyma of the anterior pituitary. Whatever the function of peptidergic nerve fibers in the human anterior pituitary might be, the concept that the adenohypophysis is regulated only hormonally by way of the portal system could be challenged.
Multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) is an ill-defined disorder in humans attributed to exposure to volatile organic compounds. This study draws on apparent parallels between individuals with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and panic disorder and a subset of those reporting MCS, using a conditioned fear task in rats. Male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were given repeated exposure to 2 ppm formaldehyde (Form) (1 h/day x 5 days/week x 4 week) or air, and after 2-3 weeks, rats were trained on the conditioned fear task. One half of Air and Form rats were given odor (orange oil, the conditioned stimulus, CS) paired with footshock (PRD) and the other half was given the same stimuli in an unpaired manner (UNP). After 24 h, rats were placed into the same context without the CS or footshock. Male and female PRD groups demonstrated contextual freezing 5-15% of the time, while the UNP groups showed freezing 30-50% of the time, with no effect of Air or Form pretreatment. For the next 5 days, rats were placed into a novel context and tested for freezing in the absence or presence of the CS. In male rats, Form pretreatment produced a significantly greater freezing response in both UNP and PRD groups in the presence of the CS, with no differences in freezing in the absence of the CS. In female rats, no significant differences between Form pretreated rats and Air controls were observed in either the PRD or UNP groups. The increase in conditioned fear responding to the CS after Form exposure in males suggests that repeated low-level Form may act as a stressor to produce sensitized responding within olfactory/limbic pathways, and may help explain the panic-like responses observed in a subset of individuals reporting MCS. Furthermore, the male/female differences suggest a gonadal hormonal contribution to this behavior.
We compared gene expression profiles of mouse and human ES cells by immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR, and membrane-based focused cDNA array analysis. Several markers that in concert could distinguish undifferentiated ES cells from their differentiated progeny were identified. These included known markers such as SSEA antigens, OCT3/4, SOX-2, REX-1 and TERT, as well as additional markers such as UTF-1, TRF1, TRF2, connexin43, and connexin45, FGFR-4, ABCG-2, and Glut-1. A set of negative markers that confirm the absence of differentiation was also developed. These include genes characteristic of trophoectoderm, markers of germ layers, and of more specialized progenitor cells. While the expression of many of the markers was similar in mouse and human cells, significant differences were found in the expression of vimentin, beta-III tubulin, alpha-fetoprotein, eomesodermin, HEB, ARNT, and FoxD3 as well as in the expression of the LIF receptor complex LIFR/IL6ST (gp130). Profound differences in cell cycle regulation, control of apoptosis, and cytokine expression were uncovered using focused microarrays. The profile of gene expression observed in H1 cells was similar to that of two other human ES cell lines tested (line I-6 and clonal line-H9.2) and to feeder-free subclones of H1, H7, and H9, indicating that the observed differences between human and mouse ES cells were species-specific rather than arising from differences in culture conditions.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS or NOS2) is expressed in malignant glioma. Previously we noted that C6 glioma cells overexpressing NOS2 displayed chemoresistance against 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) and other chloroethylnitrosourea derivatives with carbamoylating action. Herein we report experimental evidence supporting the contention that this NOS2 effect is mediated, at least in part, by S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), a potent antioxidant derived from interaction of NO and glutathione. Out of three NO donors tested, only GSNO was effective in protecting glioma cells against BCNU cytotoxicity. Furthermore, the protective effect of GSNO, similar to that of NOS2, was confined to carbamoylating, but not alkylating action. Experimental manipulations that were expected to increase or decrease cellular GSNO stores, as confirmed by immunocytochemical staining using a GSNO-specific antibody and HPLC analysis of GSNO contents in culture medium, led respectively to enhanced or reduced chemoresistance against carbamoylating cytotoxicity. Finally, neocuproine, a selective cuprous ion chelator known to neutralize GSNO actions, abolished NOS2-mediated chemoresistance against carbamoylating agents. Our results reveal a novel action of NOS2/GSNO that may potentially contribute to the development of chemoresistance against BCNU, which remains a mainstay in chemotherapy for glioblastoma multiforme.

Monomelic amyotrophy (MMA) is a benign lower motor neuron disorder in the young with male preponderance. It is characterized by insidious onset and progressive weakness and wasting of a distal extremity over a few years followed by spontaneous arrest. The exact pathogenesis is unknown. It is predominantly a sporadic disorder but rarely familial forms have been documented. In this report, we describe the phenotype of a 21-year-old man and his mother who were diagnosed to have MMA. The index case presented with left upper limb weakness and wasting of 3 years duration while his mother had right upper limb amyotrophy and weakness of 34 years. A total of 190 patients were diagnosed to have MMA in our institute over the last 27 years and this is the first case of familial MMA.
Numerous transgenic mouse models for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been generated to recapitulate the histological pathogenesis and behavioral phenotypes of AD brain. However, none of the existing models exhibits the full spectrum of AD symptoms, nor have all of the traits mimicked by the developed animal models been successfully represented within a single mouse line, indicating that the development of transgenic lines showing new features of the AD-like brain should be explored. Here we report on a transgenic mouse line, named Tg-APP (Sw, V717F)/B6, that expresses the human amyloid precursor protein (APP) containing the Swedish and the V717F Indiana mutations in the brains of inbred C57BL/6 mice, designed to eliminate the potential phenotypic variations attributed to the compound genetic backgrounds adopted in most AD mouse models. The Tg-APP (Sw, V717F)/B6 mice expressed the transgene transcript, in the heterozygote state, at a level of 2.6 +/- 0.1 fold higher than that of endogenous mouse APP. However, no Abeta-plaque deposition was produced in the brain of the Tg-APP (Sw, V717F)/B6 mice up to 18 months of age. The Tg-APP(Sw, V717F)/B6 mice at 13-15 months showed reduced expression of calbindin and c-Fos in the brain. The Tg-APP (Sw, V717F)/B6 mice at 11-14 months displayed decreased motor coordination, learning and memory deficits, and severely increased anxiety. These phenotypes were not observed in the Tg-APP (Sw, V717F)/B6 mice at 5-7 months. Microarray analysis revealed altered expression, in the amygdala of the Tg-APP (Sw, V717F)/B6 mice, of genes previously implicated in anxiety. Taken together, these results suggest that the transgenic APP, or its derivatives, produces the age-dependent pathophysiology of the AD-like brain and that the progressive cognitive impairment and anxiety induction can proceed in the absence of visible Abeta-plaque deposition.
Large conductance calcium- and voltage-activated potassium channels (BK channels) activate in response to calcium influx during action potentials and contribute to the spike repolarization and fast afterhyperpolarization. BK channels targeted to active zones in presynaptic nerve terminals have been shown to limit calcium entry and transmitter release by reducing the duration of the presynaptic spike at neurosecretory nerve terminals and at the frog neuromuscular junction. However, their functional role in central synapses is still uncertain. In the hippocampus, BK channels have been proposed to act as an 'emergency brake' that would control transmitter release only under conditions of excessive depolarization and accumulation of intracellular calcium. Here we demonstrate that in the CA3 region of hippocampal slice cultures, under basal experimental conditions, the selective BK channel blockers paxilline (10 microM) and iberiotoxin (100 nM) increase the frequency, but not the amplitude, of spontaneously occurring action potential-dependent EPSCs. These drugs did not affect miniature currents recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin, suggesting that their action was dependent on action potential firing. Moreover, in double patch-clamp recordings from monosynaptically interconnected CA3 pyramidal neurones, blockade of BK channels enhanced the probability of transmitter release, as revealed by the increase in success rate, EPSC amplitude and the concomitant decrease in paired-pulse ratio in response to pairs of presynaptic action potentials delivered at a frequency of 0.05 Hz. BK channel blockers also enhanced the appearance of delayed responses, particularly following the second action potential in the paired-pulse protocol. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that BK channels are powerful modulators of transmitter release and synaptic efficacy in central neurones.
The evolution of the ancestral eukaryotic flagellum is an example of a cellular organelle that became dispensable in some modern eukaryotes while remaining an essential motile and sensory apparatus in others. To help define the repertoire of specialized proteins needed for the formation and function of cilia, we used comparative genomics to analyze the genomes of organisms with prototypical cilia, modified cilia, or no cilia and identified approximately 200 genes that are absent in the genomes of nonciliated eukaryotes but are conserved in ciliated organisms. Importantly, over 80% of the known ancestral proteins involved in cilia function are included in this small collection. Using Drosophila as a model system, we then characterized a novel family of proteins (OSEGs: outer segment) essential for ciliogenesis. We show that osegs encode components of a specialized transport pathway unique to the cilia compartment and are related to prototypical intracellular transport proteins.
Recently, a family of temperature-activated ion channels has been identified in mammalian and nonmammalian species that appear to contribute to thermosensation. Two of these proteins, TRPV3 and TRPV4, are ion channels activated by modest increases in ambient temperature. Localization studies have indicated that both proteins, in addition to being expressed in sensory neurons, are also expressed in skin keratinocytes. These and other findings have suggested that keratinocytes might act in concert with sensory neurons to perceive our thermal environment. In this study, we demonstrate that primary keratinocytes isolated from mouse skin exhibit two distinct heat-evoked current responses to mild increases in ambient temperature. The more common of these response types bears considerable similarity to responses mediated by recombinant TRPV4, is absent in mice lacking this ion channel, and is restored upon TRPV4 reintroduction. The second, rarer response strongly resembles those mediated by recombinant TRPV3. Together, these findings demonstrate that keratinocytes can indeed act as thermosensory cells and that they do so via at least two distinct transduction mechanisms.
Beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) is the precursor of beta-amyloid (Abeta), which is implicated in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. APP complements amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (APLP2), and together they play essential physiological roles. Phosphorylation at the Thr(668) residue of APP (with respect to the numbering conversion for the APP 695 isoform) and the Thr(736) residue of APLP2 (with respect to the numbering conversion for the APLP2 763 isoform) in their cytoplasmic domains acts as a molecular switch for their protein-protein interaction and is implicated in neural function(s) and/or Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. Here we demonstrate that both APP and APLP2 can be phosphorylated by JNK at the Thr(668) and Thr(736) residues, respectively, in response to cellular stress. X11-like (X11L, also referred to as X11beta and Mint2), which is a member of the mammalian LIN-10 protein family and a possible regulator of Abeta production, elevated APP and APLP2 phosphorylation probably by facilitating JNK-mediated phosphorylation, whereas other members of the family, X11 and X11L2, did not. These observations revealed an involvement of X11L in the phosphorylation of APP family proteins in cellular stress and suggest that X11L protein may be important in the physiology of APP family proteins as well as in the regulation of Abeta production.
Clinical and preclinical studies have suggested that fluctuations in the peripheral and brain concentrations of progesterone and deoxycorticosterone and its metabolites 3alpha,5alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone and 3alpha,5alpha-tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, respectively, might play an important role in certain pathological conditions characterized by emotional or affective disturbances, including major depression, anxiety disorders, and schizophrenia. Moreover, it has been shown that administration of drugs having clinical relevance in the treatment of these pathologies influence the secretion of these steroids. It remains to be determined, however, whether such changes in the concentrations of neuroactive steroids are a cause of, a risk factor for, or a consequence of mental disorders. The observation that effective pharmacological treatment of some of these pathologies influences the concentrations of neuroactive steroids suggests that these endogenous compounds might themselves prove to be efficacious in the treatment of mental illness.



We studied the cortical evoked fields elicited by the examiner's touch on glabrous skin of the subject's index finger. Two main components of evoked fields were elicited, and these dipoles were located in the primary somatosensory cortex contralateral to the side of the subject's index finger touched by the examiner. When the timing of removal of the examiner's finger triggered the data acquisition using the photosensor, the strength of the dipole from early evoked fields was stronger than that from late ones. We showed that these evoked fields were elicited by removal and touch of the examiner's finger respectively in response to the mechanical compression and decompression of the skin.
Brain damage due to traumatic brain injury (TBI) has been associated with deficits in executive functions and the dynamic control of behaviour. Event-related brain potentials and spectral power data were recorded from eight TBI participants and eight matched controls while they completed a Go/NoGo response inhibition task. The TBI group was found to be significantly impaired at the task compared to controls, and exhibited abnormal N2 and P3 waveform components in response to NoGo stimuli relative to controls. Significant correlations were also found between alpha power, Go-trial RT and errors. We conclude that abnormal activity in the structures damaged in this group may render such patients less capable of maintaining a state of alpha desynchronisation compared to controls, resulting in poorer performance on the task.
Solitary ascidian tadpole larvae develop two types of black pigment cells in the major sensory organs of the brain. Such pigment cells have been demonstrated to express the melanogenic genes, tyrosinase and Tyrp/TRP (tyrosinase-related protein). To understand the genetic and developmental mechanisms underlying the differentiation of chordate pigment cells, we examined the function of the promoter region of Tyrp/TRP gene, an ascidian (Halocynthia roretzi) tyrosinase family gene. The expression of the gene in pigment cell lineage starts at the early-mid gastrula stages. To identify the transcriptional regulatory region of the gene allowing cell-type-specific expression, a deletion series of the HrTyrp 5' flanking region fused to a lacZ reporter gene was constructed and microinjected into ascidian fertilized eggs. The region of 73 bp in HrTyrp was identified as sufficient for expression in pigment cell-precursors of tailbud stage embryos. It is noteworthy that there is no M-box element highly conserved in the promoters for vertebrate tyrosinase family genes such as tyrosinase, Tyrp1/TRP-1 and Tyrp2/TRP-2 (Dct). Although the regulatory system of ascidian pigment-cell development is likely to contain most factors critical to vertebrate pigment-cell development, there might be critical differences in the mode of regulation, such as the developmental timing of interactions of factors, proteins and genes, involved in pigment cell differentiation and pigmentation.
We examined the spatio-temporal relationship between neurotrophic factor receptor (NTF-R) expression and motoneuron (MN) survival in the developing avian spinal cord and observed heterogeneity in the expression of NTF-Rs between, but not within, pools of MNs projecting to individual muscles. We then focused on the role of NTFs in regulating the survival of one motor pool of MNs, all of which innervate a pair of adductor muscles in the thigh and hence compete for survival during the period of programmed cell death (PCD). The complete NTF-R complement of these MNs was analyzed and found to include many, but not all, NTF-Rs. Treatment with exogenous individual NTFs rescued some, but not all, adductor MNs expressing appropriate NTF-Rs. In contrast, administration of multiple NTFs completely rescued adductor MNs from PCD. Additionally, adductor MNs were partially rescued from PCD by NTFs for which they failed to express receptors. NTF-Rs expressed by the nerve but not in the muscle target were capable of mediating survival signals to MNs in trans. Finally, the expression of some NTF-Rs by adductor MNs was not required for MN survival. These studies demonstrate the complexity in NTF regulation of a defined subset of competing MNs and suggest that properties other than NTF-R expression itself can play a role in mediating trophic responses to NTFs.
The central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) is a major site of synaptic interaction in the central auditory system. To understand how ICC neurons integrate excitatory and inhibitory inputs for processing temporal information, we examined postsynaptic responses of ICC neurons to repetitive stimulation of the lateral lemniscus at 10-100 Hz in rat brain slices. The excitatory synaptic currents mediated by AMPA and NMDA receptors and the inhibitory current mediated by GABA(A) receptors were pharmacologically isolated and recorded by whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. The response kinetics of AMPA receptor-mediated EPSCs and GABA(A) receptor-mediated IPSCs were similar and much faster than those of NMDA receptor-mediated EPSCs. AMPA EPSCs could follow each pulse of stimulation at a rate of 10-100 Hz but showed response depression during the course of repetitive stimulation. GABA(A) IPSCs could also follow stimulus pulses over this frequency range but showed depression at low rates and facilitation at higher rates. NMDA EPSCs showed facilitation and temporal summation in response to repetitive stimulation, which was most pronounced at higher rates of stimulation. GABA(A) inhibition suppressed activation of NMDA receptors and reduced both the degree of AMPA EPSC depression and the extent of temporal summation of NMDA EPSCs. The results indicate that GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition plays a crucial role in maintaining the balance of excitation and inhibition and in allowing ICC neurons to process temporal information more precisely.
We recently differentiated adult rat and human bone marrow stromal cells (MSCs) into presumptive neurons in cell culture. To determine whether the MSCs assume neuronal functions in vivo, we now characterize for the first time engraftment, migration, phenotypic expression, and long-term survival after infusion into embryonic day 15.5 (E15.5) rat ventricles in utero. By E17.5, donor cells formed discrete spheres in periventricular germinal zones, suggesting preferential sites of engraftment. The cells expressed progenitor vimentin and nestin but not mature neuronal markers. By E19.5, a subset assumed elongated migratory morphologies apposed to radial nestin-positive fibers running through the cortical white matter and plate, suggesting migration along radial glial processes. Cells remaining in germinal zones extended long, vimentin-positive fibers into the parenchyma, suggesting that the MSCs generated both migratory neurons and guiding radial glia. Consistent with this suggestion, &gt;50% of cultured mouse MSCs expressed the neuroprecursor/radial glial protein RC2. From E19.5 to postnatal day 3, MSCs populated distant areas, including the neocortices, hippocampi, rostral migratory stream, and olfactory bulbs. Whereas donor cells confined to the subventricular zone continued to express nestin, cells in the neocortex and midbrain expressed mature neuronal markers. The donor cells survived for at least 2 months postnatally, the longest time examined. Confocal analysis revealed survival of thousands of cells per cubic millimeter in the frontal cortex and olfactory bulb at 1 month. In the cortex and bulb, 98.6 and 77.3% were NeuN (neuronal-specific nuclear protein) positive, respectively. Our observations suggest that transplanted adult MSCs differentiate in a regionally and temporally specific manner.
The neurobehavioral effects of 24 hr of total sleep deprivation (SD) on working memory in young healthy adults was studied using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Two tasks, one testing maintenance and the other manipulation and maintenance, were used. After SD, response times for both tasks were significantly slower. Performance was better preserved in the more complex task. Both tasks activated a bilateral, left hemisphere-dominant frontal-parietal network of brain regions reflecting the engagement of verbal working memory. In both states, manipulation elicited more extensive and bilateral (L&gt;R) frontal, parietal, and thalamic activation. After SD, there was reduced blood oxygenation level-dependent signal response in the medial parietal region with both tasks. Reduced deactivation of the anterior medial frontal and posterior cingulate regions was observed with both tasks. Finally, there was disproportionately greater activation of the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and bilateral thalamus when manipulation was required. This pattern of changes in activation and deactivation bears similarity to that observed when healthy elderly adults perform similar tasks. Our data suggest that reduced activation and reduced deactivation could underlie cognitive impairment after SD and that increased prefrontal and thalamic activation may represent compensatory adaptations. The additional left frontal activation elicited after SD is postulated to be task dependent and contingent on task complexity. Our findings provide neural correlates to explain why task performance in relatively more complex tasks is better preserved relative to simpler ones after SD.
Clearance of extracellular glutamate is essential for limiting the activity of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) at excitatory synapses; however, the relative contribution of transporters found in neuronal and glial membranes to this uptake is poorly understood. Hippocampal interneurons located at the oriens-alveus border express mGluR1alpha, a metabotropic glutamate receptor that regulates excitability and synaptic plasticity. To determine which glutamate transporters are essential for removing glutamate at these excitatory synapses, we recorded mGluR1-mediated EPSCs from oriens-lacunosum moleculare (O-LM) interneurons in acute hippocampal slices. Stimulation in stratum oriens reliably elicited a slow mGluR1-mediated current in O-LM interneurons if they were briefly depolarized to allow Ca2+ entry before stimulation. Selective inhibition of GLT-1 [for glutamate transporter; EAAT2 (for excitatory amino acid transporter)] with dihydrokainate increased the amplitude of these responses approximately threefold, indicating that these transporters compete with mGluRs for synaptically released glutamate. However, inhibition of all glutamate transporters with TBOA (DL-threo-b-benzyloxyaspartic acid) increased mGluR1 EPSCs &gt;15-fold, indicating that additional transporters also shape activation of these receptors. To identify these transporters, we examined mGluR1 EPSCs in mice lacking GLAST (for glutamate-aspartate transporter; EAAT1) or EAAC1 (for excitatory amino acid carrier; EAAT3). A comparison of responses recorded from wild-type and transporter knock-out mice revealed that the astroglial glutamate transporters GLT-1 and GLAST, but not the neuronal transporter EAAC1, restrict activation of mGluRs in O-LM interneurons. Transporter-dependent potentiation of mGluR1 EPSCs led to a dramatic increase in interneuron firing and enhanced inhibition of CA1 pyramidal neurons, suggesting that acute or prolonged disruption of transporter activity could lead to changes in network activity as a result of enhanced interneuron excitability.
Prolonged modification of intrinsic neuronal excitability is gaining prominence as an activity-dependent form of plasticity. Here we describe a potential synaptic initiation mechanism for these changes in which release of the transmitter glutamate acts on kainate receptors to regulate the postspike slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP). This action of synaptically released glutamate was occluded by previous kainate application. Furthermore, inhibition of glutamate uptake enhanced the effects of synaptic activation. Glutamate-mediated kainate receptor inhibition of sAHP current (I(sAHP)) was blocked by the PKC inhibitor calphostin C, confirming the requirement for a metabotropic signaling cascade. These data describe a new physiological function for glutamate release: activation of metabotropic kainate receptors, which control directly the excitability of pyramidal cells and probably contribute to prolonged excitability changes.
Knowledge of body motion through space is necessary for spatial orientation, self-motion perception, and postural control. Yet, sensory afferent signals may not directly provide such information to the brain. Because motion detected by the vestibular end organs is encoded in a head-fixed frame of reference, a coordinate transformation is thus required to encode body motion. In this study, we investigated whether cerebellar motion-sensitive neurons encode the translation of the body through space. We systematically changed both the direction of motion relative to the body and the static orientation of the head relative to the trunk. The activities of motion-sensitive neurons in the most medial of the deep cerebellar nuclei, the rostral fastigial nucleus, were compared with those in the brainstem vestibular nuclei. We found a distributed representation of reference frames for motion in the rostral fastigial nucleus, in contrast to cells in the vestibular nuclei, which primarily encoded motion in a head-fixed reference frame. This differential representation of motion-related information implies potential differences in the functional roles of these areas.

Recent studies have provided partial insight into mechanisms underlying age-related declines in brain function. However, precisely where in the brain these changes occur is not entirely clear. A new report suggests that the hippocampal dentate gyrus may be the earliest locus of age-related memory decline.




Humans spontaneously imbue the world with social meaning: we see not only emotions and intentional behaviors in humans and other animals, but also anger in the movements of thunderstorms and willful sabotage in crashing computers. Converging evidence supports a role for the amygdala, a collection of nuclei in the temporal lobe, in processing emotionally and socially relevant information. Here, we report that a patient with bilateral amygdala damage described a film of animated shapes (normally seen as full of social content) in entirely asocial, geometric terms, despite otherwise normal visual perception. Control tasks showed that the impairment did not result from a global inability to describe social stimuli or a bias in language use, nor was a similar impairment observed in eight comparison subjects with damage to orbitofrontal cortex. This finding extends the role of the amygdala to the social attributions we make even to stimuli that are not explicitly social and, in so doing, suggests that the human capacity for anthropomorphizing draws on some of the same neural systems as do basic emotional responses.
Recent electrophysiological studies in monkeys have implicated the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and posterior parietal cortex (PPC) in numerical judgments. The functional organization and respective contributions of these (and other) cortical areas, however, are unknown; their neural activity during numerical judgments has not been directly compared. We surveyed activity in the PPC and the anterior inferior temporal cortex while monkeys performed a visual numerosity judgment task and compared it with a population of PFC neurons. In the PPC, the proportion of numerosity-selective neurons was highest in the fundus of the intraparietal sulcus; only few numerosity-selective neurons were found in other PPC areas or the anterior inferior temporal cortex. Further, neurons in the fundus of the intraparietal sulcus responded and conveyed numerosity earlier than PFC neurons, suggesting that numerosity information flows from the PPC to the lateral PFC. This finding suggests a parieto-frontal network for numerosity in monkeys and establishes homologies between the monkey and human brain.

There is considerable debate at present as to whether the uptake of anandamide (AEA) into cells is by a facilitated transport process or by passive diffusion driven by fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). The possibility that both processes occur, but to different extents depending upon the cell type used, has been difficult to investigate pharmacologically since available compounds show little selectivity between inhibition of AEA uptake and inhibition of FAAH. Recently, three compounds, UCM707 [N-(Fur-3-ylmethyl)arachidonamide], OMDM-1 and OMDM-2 [the 1'-(S)- and 1'-(R)-enantiomers of the 1'-4-hydroxybenzoyl analogue of oleoylethanolamide], selective for the uptake process, have been described and we have used these compounds, together with AM404 [(N-(4-hydroxyphenyl) arachidonoyl amide)] and VDM11 [(5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z)-N-(4-Hydroxy-2-methylphenyl)-5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenamide]), with the initial aim of determining which mechanism of uptake predominates in C6 glioma and RBL-2H3 cells. AM404 and VDM11 were both found to decrease the uptake of 2 microM AEA into cells (IC50 values 6-11 microM), but they also inhibited rat brain FAAH (IC50 values 1-6 microM). However, when using a different FAAH assay protocol, VDM11 was a much less potent FAAH inhibitor (IC50&gt;50 microM) regardless of the cell type and animal species used. In contrast, we confirmed that UCM707, OMDM-1 and OMDM-2 were weak inhibitors of FAAH (IC50 values &gt;50 microM) under all conditions used. However, their potency as inhibitors of AEA cellular accumulation appears to be largely dependent on the cell type and assay conditions used. In particular, the potency of UCM707 (IC50 value &gt; or =25 microM) was considerably lower than the submicromolar potency previously reported for U937 cells. It is concluded that the cause/effect relationship between AEA uptake and hydrolysis cannot be investigated uniquely by using supposedly selective inhibitors of each process.
Recent studies have suggested that neuronal death in Alzheimer's disease or ischemia could arise from dysfunction of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Although caspase-12 has been implicated in ER stress-induced apoptosis and amyloid-beta (Abeta)-induced apoptosis in rodents, it is controversial whether similar mechanisms operate in humans. We found that human caspase-4, a member of caspase-1 subfamily that includes caspase-12, is localized to the ER membrane, and is cleaved when cells are treated with ER stress-inducing reagents, but not with other apoptotic reagents. Cleavage of caspase-4 is not affected by overexpression of Bcl-2, which prevents signal transduction on the mitochondria, suggesting that caspase-4 is primarily activated in ER stress-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, a reduction of caspase-4 expression by small interfering RNA decreases ER stress-induced apoptosis in some cell lines, but not other ER stress-independent apoptosis. Caspase-4 is also cleaved by administration of Abeta, and Abeta-induced apoptosis is reduced by small interfering RNAs to caspase-4. Thus, caspase-4 can function as an ER stress-specific caspase in humans, and may be involved in pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
Our recent studies have shown that extracellular-regulated protein kinase (ERK) promotes cell death in cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) cultured in low potassium. Here we report that the &quot;death&quot; phenotypes of CGN after potassium withdrawal are heterogeneous, allowing the distinction between plasma membrane (PM)-, DNA-, and PM/DNA-damaged populations. These damaged neurons display nuclear condensation that precedes PM or DNA damage. Inhibition of ERK activation either by U0126 or by dominant-negative mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase (MEK) overexpression results in a dramatic reduction of PM damaged neurons and nuclear condensation. In contrast, overexpression of constitutively active MEK potentiates PM damage and nuclear condensation. ERK-promoted cellular damage is independent of caspase-3. Persistent active ERK translocates to the nucleus, whereas caspase-3 remains in the cytoplasm. Antioxidants that reduced ERK activation and PM damage showed no effect on caspase-3 activation or DNA damage. These data identify ERK as an important executor of neuronal damage involving a caspase-3-independent mechanism.
In vertebrate embryos, the axons of spinal commissural neurons grow toward and across the floor plate, a specialized structure located at the ventral midline. Although the initial segment of this trajectory has been intensively studied, relatively little is known about commissural axon pathfinding on the contralateral side of the floor plate in higher vertebrates. We recently demonstrated that many embryonic mouse and chick spinal commissural axons follow a complex trajectory once they cross the ventral midline. Here we use focal applications of 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3' tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) to identify four different contralateral commissural trajectories, two of which have not previously been described in the embryonic rodent spinal cord. Intermediate longitudinal commissural (ILC) axons travel away from the floor plate along an arcuate trajectory into intermediate regions of the spinal cord. In contrast, medial longitudinal commissural (MLC) axons grow alongside the floor plate, projecting primarily in the rostral direction. Bifurcating longitudinal commissural (BLC) axons branch into rostrally and caudally directed projections. Forked transverse commissural (FTC) axons either execute two orthogonal turns before crossing the floor plate or extend directly across the floor plate. We also show a variation in the relative frequencies of individual contralateral commissural projections along the dorsoventral and anteroposterior axes of the spinal cord. In addition, using a novel culture system, we demonstrate that commissural axons elaborate ILC-, MLC-, BLC-, and FTC-like trajectories in vitro. These results provide a basis for examining the mechanisms that regulate commissural axon pathfinding on the contralateral side of the floor plate in the embryonic rodent spinal cord.
Multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) in response to a long-term low-level chemical exposure is as yet an unclarified disorder. To determine the role of olfactory function in the induction of MCS, immunocytochemical analysis of the main olfactory bulb (MOB) was performed after exposure of mice to low levels of formaldehyde. A long-term exposure resulted in an increase in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive periglomerular cells and may affect the neuronal function of the MOB.
Although the selective toxicity of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) is thought to depend on the drug's transport into serotonin (5HT) neurons via the 5HT transporter, few studies have critically examined this postulation. We therefore evaluated if 5,7-DHT-induced reductions in 5HT concentrations and synthesis rate in rat brain are blocked by pretreatment with 5HT-selective reuptake inhibitors. Rats pretreated with desipramine (DMI) (to prevent norepinephrine depletion) received intracerebroventricular injections of 5,7-DHT (5, 50, 100, 200 microg/rat) 30 min after fluoxetine (20 mg/kg ip). Forty-eight hours later, they received m-hydroxybenzylhydrazine 30 min before sacrifice. The concentrations of 5HT and 5-hydroxytryptophan (5HTP, an index of 5HT synthesis) were measured in hypothalamus, cortex and brainstem. Each 5,7-DHT dose produced significant reductions in 5HT and 5HTP concentrations in all regions examined (5 microg reduced 5HT but not 5HTP), effects that were not blocked by fluoxetine. Two other 5HT reuptake blockers (chlorimipramine, alaproclate) also failed to block the 5HT and 5HTP depleting actions of 5,7-DHT. Desipramine blocked 5,7-DHT-induced norepinephrine (NE) depletion. Pretreatment with the 5HT receptor antagonist metergoline, or the 5HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (to slow 5HT neuronal firing rate) also failed to antagonize the 5HT depleting action of 5,7-DHT. Together, the data strongly suggest that the mechanism by which 5,7-DHT depletes the brain of serotonin does not involve 5HT-transporter-mediated concentration of neurotoxin in 5HT neurons, may not involve 5HT receptor interaction, and does not depend on the firing rate of the 5HT neuron.
It is generally believed that chronic alcohol consumption results in cerebellar atrophy and Purkinje cell loss, especially in the anterior vermal region. A post-mortem stereological design was applied to cerebella from 10 chronic male alcoholics (mean age 45.5 years) with a minimum of 10 years of severe addiction and 10 male controls (mean age 42.5 years). All alcoholics had pathoanatomical evidence of alcohol abuse but no clinical signs of Wernicke's encephalopathy. Cerebellum was divided into five different areas: the anterior and posterior lobe, the anterior and posterior vermis, and the flocculonodular lobe. The total cortex and white matter volume, the cerebellar surface area, the total Purkinje and granule cell number and density, and the mean volume of Purkinje cells and their cell nuclei were measured in all five regions using stereological methods. The volume of the granular layer was increased by 13% with an increase in layer thickness by 17% possibly due to oedema. Globally, the mean volume of the Purkinje cell perikaryon was decreased by 24% with a decrease in the volume of Purkinje cell nuclei by 16%. The increase of the granular layer and the decrease of Purkinje cell size resulted in a 21% global reduction of Purkinje cell density without a concomitant loss of neurons. No significant regional or global cortical and white matter atrophy was found in cerebella from alcoholics compared to controls.
Meningiomas are by far the most common tumours arising from the meninges. Progressive enlargement of the tumour leads to focal or generalised seizure disorders or neurological deficits caused by compression of adjacent neural tissue. Surgery remains the primary treatment of choice, although the use of fractionated radiotherapy or stereotactic single-dose radiosurgery is increasing for meningiomas that are incompletely excised, surgically inaccessible, or recurrent and either atypical or anaplastic. Although most meningiomas have good long-term prognosis after treatment, there are still controversies over management in a proportion of cases. We review various features of meningioma biology, diagnosis, and treatment and provide an overview of the current rationale and evidence base for the various therapeutic approaches.
Microglia (brain macrophages) are activated upon brain damage. In this study, we demonstrated that thrombin, a pro-inflammatory stimulator of microglia, induced expression of suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) in microglia. RT-PCR analysis and Northern blot analysis showed that thrombin induced SOCS3 mRNA expression. Further experiments indicated SOCS3 expression was not affected by cycloheximide, indicating thrombin directly stimulated SOCS3 transcript expression without de novo protein synthesis. We investigated whether PKCdelta played a role in thrombin-stimulated SOCS3 expression. We found that thrombin activated PKCdelta, and the specific inhibitor of PKCdelta, rottlerin, significantly suppressed thrombin-stimulated SOCS3 expression. In thrombin-pretreated cells, microglial activation-induced by another inflammatory stimulator, lipopolysaccharide, was attenuated compared to that in non-pretreated cells. These results suggest thrombin induce not only proinflammatory mediators but also negative feedback regulators of inflammation, SOCS, which prevent prolonged inflammatory reactions in microglia.
Energy homeostasis and feeding are regulated by the central nervous system. C75, a fatty acid synthase (FAS) inhibitor, causes weight loss and anorexia, implying a novel central nervous system pathway(s) for sensing energy balance. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a sensor of peripheral energy balance, is phosphorylated and activated when energy sources are low. Here, we identify a role for hypothalamic AMPK in the regulation of feeding behavior and in mediating the anorexic effects of C75. 5-Aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-beta-D-ribofuranoside (AICAR), an activator of AMPK, increased food intake, whereas compound C, an inhibitor of AMPK, decreased food intake. C75 rapidly reduced the level of the phosphorylated AMPK alpha subunit (pAMPKalpha) in the hypothalamus, even in fasted mice that had elevated hypothalamic pAMPKalpha levels. Furthermore, AICAR reversed both the C75-induced anorexia and the decrease in hypothalamic pAMPKalpha levels. C75 elevated hypothalamic neuronal ATP levels, which may contribute to the mechanism by which C75 decreased AMPK activity. C75 reduced the levels of pAMPKalpha and phosphorylated cAMP response element-binding protein (pCREB) in the arcuate nucleus neurons of the hypothalamus, suggesting a mechanism for the reduction in NPY expression seen with C75 treatment. These data indicate that modulation of FAS activity in the hypothalamus can alter energy perception via AMPK, which functions as a physiological energy sensor in the hypothalamus.
Vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1), a membrane-associated cation channel, is activated by the pungent vanilloid from chili peppers, capsaicin, and the ultra potent vanilloid from Euphorbia resinifera, resiniferatoxin (RTX), as well as by physical stimuli (heat and protons) and proposed endogenous ligands (anandamide, N-arachidonyldopamine, N-oleoyldopamine, and products of lipoxygenase). Only limited information is available in TRPV1 on the residues that contribute to vanilloid activation. Interestingly, rabbits have been suggested to be insensitive to capsaicin and have been shown to lack detectable [(3)H]RTX binding in membranes prepared from their dorsal root ganglia. We have cloned rabbit TRPV1 (oTRPV1) and report that it exhibits high homology to rat and human TRPV1. Like its mammalian orthologs, oTRPV1 is selectively expressed in sensory neurons and is sensitive to protons and heat activation but is 100-fold less sensitive to vanilloid activation than either rat or human. Here we identify key residues (Met(547) and Thr(550)) in transmembrane regions 3 and 4 (TM3/4) of rat and human TRPV1 that confer vanilloid sensitivity, [(3)H]RTX binding and competitive antagonist binding to rabbit TRPV1. We also show that these residues differentially affect ligand recognition as well as the assays of functional response versus ligand binding. Furthermore, these residues account for the reported pharmacological differences of RTX, PPAHV (phorbol 12-phenyl-acetate 13-acetate 20-homovanillate) and capsazepine between human and rat TRPV1. Based on our data we propose a model of the TM3/4 region of TRPV1 bound to capsaicin or RTX that may aid in the development of potent TRPV1 antagonists with utility in the treatment of sensory disorders.
Early onset dystonia is a movement disorder caused by loss of a glutamic acid residue (Glu(302/303)) in the carboxyl-terminal portion of the AAA+ protein, torsinA. We identified the light chain subunit (KLC1) of kinesin-I as an interacting partner for torsinA, with binding occurring between the tetratricopeptide repeat domain of KLC1 and the carboxyl-terminal region of torsinA. Coimmunoprecipitation analysis demonstrated that wild-type torsinA and kinesin-I form a complex in vivo. In cultured cortical neurons, both proteins co-localized along processes with enrichment at growth cones. Wild-type torsinA expressed in CAD cells co-localized with endogenous KLC1 at the distal end of processes, whereas mutant torsinA remained confined to the cell body. Subcellular fractionation of adult rat brain revealed torsinA and KLC associated with cofractionating membranes, and both proteins were co-immunoprecipitated after cross-linking cytoplasmically oriented proteins on isolated rat brain membranes. These studies suggest that wild-type torsinA undergoes anterograde transport along microtubules mediated by kinesin and may act as a molecular chaperone regulating kinesin activity and/or cargo binding.





Functional interactions between G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are widely reported whereas the mechanisms underlying these interactions remain unclear. A rapidly growing literature suggests that many GPCRs form heteromeric complexes and that these complexes may possess pharmacological and functional properties that differ from their respective parent receptors. In order to investigate the functional relationship between co-localized GPCRs in intact, native CNS neurons, we used intracellular recording techniques in locus coeruleus (LC) slices. The LC consists of a homogenous population of cells, all of which co-express micro-opioid and alpha(2A)-adrenergic receptors (microOR and alpha(2A)ARs, respectively). Co-administration of microOR and alpha(2A)AR agonists in vivo results in synergistic interactions in analgesic assays and heteromeric microOR-alpha(2A)AR complexes have been detected in HEK-293 co-expressing the two receptors. The LC is therefore an excellent model system to explore these interactions. Dose-response and isobolographic analysis of agonist-induced hyperpolarization in individual LC neurons revealed that the interaction between these receptors was not synergistic but additive. This result suggests that co-localized microOR and alpha(2)ARs are either not physically associated in these neurons or that heteromer formation may not fully explain the microOR-alpha(2A)AR synergistic interactions reported following agonist administration in vivo.
To evaluate the role of testosterone in pain modulation, we subcutaneously injected male and female rats with testosterone propionate (TP, 5 mg/kg in oil) or oil for 6 days; on the seventh day, all rats were subjected to the formalin test (10%, 50 microl). Behaviours were recorded in an open field (60 min). At the end of the formalin test, the rats were anaesthetized to collect blood from the abdominal aorta. Among the formalin-induced responses, licking was higher in females than males and was decreased by TP in females; jerking and flexing were only slightly affected by treatment. TP increased testosterone plasma levels in both sexes. These results indicate a role of testosterone in modulating formalin-induced responses. The effects appear to be different in males and females.
Acupuncture and electroacupuncture (EA) as complementary and alternative medicine have been accepted worldwide mainly for the treatment of acute and chronic pain. Studies on the mechanisms of action have revealed that endogenous opioid peptides in the central nervous system play an essential role in mediating the analgesic effect of EA. Further studies have shown that different kinds of neuropeptides are released by EA with different frequencies. For example, EA of 2 Hz accelerates the release of enkephalin, beta-endorphin and endomorphin, while that of 100 Hz selectively increases the release of dynorphin. A combination of the two frequencies produces a simultaneous release of all four opioid peptides, resulting in a maximal therapeutic effect. This finding has been verified in clinical studies in patients with various kinds of chronic pain including low back pain and diabetic neuropathic pain.
The amygdala plays a key role in the emotional-affective component of pain. This study is the first to analyze synaptic plasticity in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) in a model of visceral pain. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from neurons in the latero-capsular part of the CeA in brain slices from control rats and rats with zymosan-induced colitis (&gt;6 h postinduction). Monosynaptic responses were evoked by electrical stimulation of afferents from the pontine parabrachial area (PB) and from the basolateral amygdala (BLA). Enhanced synaptic transmission was observed at the nociceptive PB-CeA synapse, but not at the polymodal BLA-CeA synapse, in rats with colitis. The frequency of action potentials evoked by direct current injection was increased in CeA neurons from colitis rats, suggesting enhanced neuronal excitability. Our results provide novel evidence for an important role of the CeA in visceral pain.
In anaesthetized cats, antibody microprobes were used to measure the release of immunoreactive substance P (irSP) in the lumbar dorsal horn during electrical stimulation of primary afferent fibres at intensities suprathreshold for unmyelinated fibres. Release of irSP was detected in the region of the superficial dorsal horn. This evoked release was not reduced by clonidine hydrochloride, administered intravenously or by superfusion of the dorsal cord surface. Microprobes inserted during cord superfusion with lignocaine hydrochloride detected less irSP along their entire length, including in the region of evoked release. The results suggest that the analgesic action of clonidine does not involve reduced release of SP from the central terminals of nociceptors in the spinal cord.
Rats with an artificial stone in the left ureter display spontaneous pain behavior (ureteral 'crises') and referred hyperalgesia/contraction in the ipsilateral oblique musculature. To evaluate neuronal activation in both sensitive and motor pathways in this model, c-Fos expression was studied in the spinal cord of calculosis rats vs. sham controls. Fos-labeled cells were never observed in sham controls. In stone rats, they were found in the T10-L2 segments, throughout the dorsal horn, significantly more on the left than the right side (P &lt; 0.002). Fos-labeled cells were also found in lamina IX, containing motoneurons; at the T11-T12 level, these were significantly more on the left than the right side (P &lt; 0.03). Nociceptive input from the ureter thus activates not only sensory but also efferent neurons in the spinal cord, suggesting the triggering of reflex arcs by the visceral focus.
Morphine and other opioids have direct analgesic actions in the spinal cord and chronic spinal administration of opioid agonists is used clinically in patients suffering from severe, chronic pain. Neuropathic pain resulting from peripheral nerve injury is often less sensitive to opioid therapy than other forms of chronic pain in both humans and animal models. Changes in spinal mu-opioid receptor (MOR) expression have been demonstrated in animal models of neuropathic pain. However, these changes alone fail to account for the attenuation of opioid activity. Reduced expression of delta-opioid receptors (DOR) following peripheral nerve injury has been reported but most of these reports are limited to subjective observation. The magnitude and consistency of these changes is therefore unclear. In addition, previous studies did not evaluate the effects of nerve injury on behavioral measures to confirm induction of aberrant pain symptoms. We therefore performed quantitative image analysis to evaluate the effect of peripheral nerve injury on DOR-immunoreactivity in spinal cord sections from rats previously characterized for sensory responsiveness. We observed statistically significant decreases ipsilateral to nerve injury in all three models tested: sciatic nerve transection, chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve and L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation. These results suggest that decreases in the expression of DOR are a common feature of peripheral nerve injury.
Sixteen chronic back pain (CBP) patients, 16 tension headache (THA) patients and 16 healthy controls (HC) were exposed to four series of ten electric stimuli at perception threshold, pain threshold and 10% below pain tolerance. The EEG was recorded from three sites, in addition, the EMG from the m. frontalis and m. erector spinae, heart rate and skin conductance were assessed. The CBP patients showed significantly lower pain threshold and pain tolerance values than the HC and the THA patients whereas the THA patients displayed a higher pain tolerance. Habituation was reduced in the CBP group. N150, P260, P300 and N500 were not significantly different between the groups nor were there significant group differences in the peripheral measures. However, since the stimulation intensity was significantly lower in the CBP patients, these data are indicative of both enhanced central and peripheral reactivity. The observed lack of habituation may contribute to the persistence of chronic pain.
This report describes the in vitro features of the first somatostatin sst(1) receptor selective non-peptide antagonist, SRA880 ([3R,4aR,10aR]-1,2,3,4,4a,5,10,10a-Octahydro-6-methoxy-1-methyl-benz[g] quinoline-3-carboxylic-acid-4-(4-nitro-phenyl)-piperazine-amide, hydrogen malonate). SRA was evaluated in a number of in vitro systems of various species, both at native and recombinant receptors, using radioligand binding and second messenger/transduction studies. SRA880 has high affinity for native rat, mouse, monkey and human cerebral cortex somatostatin sst(1) receptors (pK(d) = 7.8-8.6) and for human recombinant sst(1) receptors (pK(d) = 8.0-8.1). SRA880 displayed significantly lower affinity for the other human recombinant somatostatin receptors ( pK(d) &lt; or = 6.0) or a wide range of neurotransmitter receptors, except for the human dopamine D4 receptors. SRA880 was characterized in various transduction assays: somatotropin release inhibiting factor (SRIF) induced inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP accumulation, SRIF stimulated-GTPgammaS binding, and SRIF stimulated luciferase gene expression; in all tests, SRA880 was devoid of intrinsic activity and acted as an apparently surmountable antagonist with pK(B) values of 7.5-7.7. Combined with the data from binding studies, these results suggest that SRA880 acts as a competitive antagonist. Thus, SRA880 is the first non-peptide somatostatin sst(1) receptor antagonist to be reported; SRA880 will be a useful tool for the characterization of somatostatin sst(1) receptor-mediated effects both in vitro and in vivo.
Spontaneous action potentials were recorded longitudinally for 4-7 weeks from dissociated rat occipital cortex cells cultured on planar multi-electrode plates, during their development from isolated neurons into synaptically connected neuronal networks. Activity typically consisted of generalized bursts lasting up to several seconds, separated by variable epochs of sporadic firing at some of the active sites. These network bursts displayed discharge patterns with age-dependent firing rate profiles, and durations significantly increasing in the 3rd week in vitro and decreasing after about 1 month in vitro, when they evolved into short events with prompt onsets. These findings indicate that after about a month in vitro these cultured neuronal networks have developed a degree of excitability that allows almost instantaneous triggering of generalized discharges. Individual neurons tend to fire in specific and persistent temporal relationships to one another within these network bursts, suggesting that network connectivity maintains a core topology during its development.
The research in the field of AP-1 transcription factor expression, such as Jun or Fos proteins, in the brain was a milestone in neurosciences. The last years have provided growing insights into the upstream signal transduction which controls the expression and activation of these transcriptional regulators. In particular, the c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) were considered to confer degeneration by activation of c-Jun. Recent findings, however, demonstrate an essential physiological role of JNKs in the nervous system. Here we review the specific control and dual functions of JNK isoforms which are relevant for the development of the intact brain on the one hand, and which can confer dramatic neurodegenerative effects and microglial activation on the other hand.

Male rats outperform females in spatial tasks, such as the water maze (WM). Female rats are known to have higher basal serum corticosterone (CORT) levels and to manifest a more rapid and stronger CORT response to novel stressors. Sex differences in stress responses to the handling and forced swimming in the WM task might contribute to the sex difference in WM performance. In Experiment 1, naive females were found to be impaired relative to naive males in swimming to a visible platform in a WM pool due to strongly thigmotaxic swimming by females. In Experiment 2, serum CORT, a physiological measure of stress, was highly elevated during and after WM training, with female &gt; male values and strong inverse correlations between CORT and measures of WM performance in females. Familiarization with the WM pool and test procedures by strategies pretraining prior to spatial training reduced or eliminated the sex differences in the stress response and WM performance. In Experiment 3, adrenalectomy to eliminate the stress response eliminated sex differences in WM performance. Taken together, the results suggest that male and female rats may harbor brain circuitry that is equally capable of accurate spatial navigation and memory in the WM but which may be impaired to different degrees by the differential stress responses triggered by WM testing.
There is considerable interest in elucidating neurocognitive mechanisms of cocaine addiction. This report focuses on the hippocampal memory system. Using food reward, two cognitive tasks were examined after lidocaine inactivation of the dorsal (dSUB) or ventral (vSUB) subiculum, the primary hippocampal output regions in rats. These tasks were conducted to first identify functionally relevant stereotaxic coordinates within the hippocampal memory system, in order to then examine its role in regulating drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior studied under a contextually discriminable FI 5-min(FR5:S) second-order schedule of cocaine and brief stimulus delivery. Inactivation of the dSUB and vSUB with 10microg lidocaine impaired hippocampal-dependent win-shift performance. Amygdalar-dependant conditioned cue preference, used as a test for behavioral specificity of lidocaine, was not affected following inactivation of either site. Inactivation of the dSUB with 100 microg lidocaine significantly reduced drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior studied during the cocaine self-administration maintenance phase. Following extinction, inactivation of neither the dSUB nor vSUB influenced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior induced by drug-paired cues presented alone or with a cocaine priming injection. The impairments in win-shift performance are consistent with the spatial processing functions of the dSUB and vSUB, and the reduction in drug-taking behavior is consistent with the non-spatial temporal processing functions of the dSUB. The lack of an effect of dSUB and vSUB inactivation on reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior may relate to the fact that the contextual associations with cocaine were well-practiced at the time of cue reinstatement testing, and therefore, drug-seeking behavior was likely regulated by nonhippocampal-dependent mechanisms.
The present study was designed to assess effects of aversive stimuli on learning and memory in wild-caught Arctic ground squirrels (AGS, Spermophilus parryii) using an active avoidance learning paradigm. Results indicate that animals trained with low-value aversive stimuli (air puffs and lights) retained the task better than animals trained with high-value aversive stimuli (air puffs, lights, and foot shock). Poor retention could not be explained by learning impairment, fear-induced freezing behavior or the effects of massed versus spaced training trials. Wild-caught AGS readily hibernate under laboratory conditions and provide a model of pronounced adult synaptic plasticity associated with emergence from hibernation. Characterization of learning and retention using active avoidance as well as other learning paradigms is a first step towards developing behavioral paradigms to assess cognitive function in this wild-trapped species. The present study shows that captive AGS are sensitive to aversive stimuli, argues for a direct effect on retention and suggests that high baseline levels of stress in a captive population may influence behavioral measures. The results further suggest that future studies of the effects of hibernation on learning and retention of active avoidance tasks employ low-level aversive stimuli.
Zebrafish (Brachydanio rerio) larvae (8 days) were tested singly in a swimway made up of six compartments. The larva emerged into each compartment in turn, and its response to visual features (e.g. turning away) was affected by memory of previous layouts, as well as by home tank experience. The use of stimuli placed far to the right or left proved to engage preferentially the eye system directly fed by right or left eye system (RES, LES). At least three behavioural mechanisms appeared to show similar laterality in larva and adult. Both turned right in startle-induced locomotion. In both, LES was preferentially involved in assessment of novelty. Thus, in larvae, use of LES caused more investigation of a familiar stimulus in a strange context. Finally, in larvae there was some evidence that (as is the case in adults) RES was responsible for the visual control of response. Here the evidence for the adult was the preferential use of the right eye to view the object of response, whereas for the larva, it was the enhanced ability to sustain a motor strategy when RES was in use.
The study of exploratory behavior in confined spaces can provide insights into both the spatial and the motor behavior of animals. In the present study, the behavior of rats placed inside of a cylinder (the cylinder test) for 5 min was examined to uncover: (1) the overall organization of exploratory behavior, (2) pattern of movement on the horizontal surface, (3) pattern of movement on the vertical surface, and (4) supporting and stepping movements. The results show that exploratory behavior is organized into a number of bouts of lateral and vertical scans with each bout ending by movement arrest and face washing. Within bouts, activity consists of alternating horizontal and vertical progressions that vary systematically over the course of a bout. Horizontal progressions consist of head scans, turning, and stepping, and decrease in amplitude across a bout. Vertical progressions consist of rears, head scans, and descent with an amplitude expressed by an inverted-U across bouts. Each horizontal and vertical progression is directed toward a different portion of the cylinder and the direction of lateral movements alternate within progressions and between progressions. For each rat, bouts tended to end in the same location suggesting the establishment of a home base. Eshkol-Wachmann movement analysis indicates that during progressions, the forepaws are mainly used for postural support and follow forequarter movements, while upward, downward, and sideward shifts in body weight are generated from the hind limbs. These findings illustrate that in even brief exploratory tests the three-dimensional exploratory behavior of rats is organized. The results are discussed in relation to the use of the cylinder test for analyzing a number of behaviors including exploration, locomotion, and supporting reactions.
Anxiety and depression of unknown etiology are frequent complications of the systemic autoimmune disease lupus erythematosus (SLE). To elucidate key pathogenic factors we study the &quot;autoimmunity-associated behavioral syndrome&quot; (AABS) in lupus-prone MRL-lpr mice. Based on the evidence that serum levels of the neuroactive cytokine interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) are increased both in human and murine forms of SLE, the present study examines whether sustained IFN-gamma production in non-autoimmune mice induces deficits comparable to AABS, particularly in tasks reflective of emotional reactivity and motivated behavior. For this purpose, wild-type and IFN-gamma knockout C57BL/6J mice were infected with adenovirus carrying the cDNA for murine IFN-gamma (i.p. 2 x 10(8) pfu of virus per mouse) and shortly thereafter tested in the behavioral battery used in the detection of AABS. Serum levels of IFN-gamma were found to peak 24 h after the infection, normalized within 5 days. Although all infected animals showed reduced food/water intake and body weight, the recovery rate was slower in groups injected with IFN-gamma virus. No deficits were observed in the models of anxiety, but blunted responsiveness in the sucrose preference test (a putative model of anhedonia) lasted well beyond the IFN-gamma clearance period. These results suggest that a relatively brief elevation in systemic IFN-gamma levels impairs ingestive behavior and leads to prolonged changes in motivated behavior. As such, they are consistent with the hypothesis that upregulation in synthesis of pro-inflammatory cytokines contributes to induction of AABS and more specifically, to limbic system dysfunction during lupus-like disease.
The goals of the present study were to determine if ibotenic acid lesions of the dorsal hippocampus (dHPC) or of mammillary body (MB) of the hypothalamus would induce similar contextual conditioning deficit in a fear-conditioning paradigm, previously developed in mice [Eur. J. Neurosci. 12 (2000) 2575]. Results showed that ibotenic acid lesions of the dHPC or of the MB both induced severe deficits on contextual conditioning but spared auditory conditioning, as compared to controls. This study provides direct evidence for an involvement of dHPC neurones in contextual fear conditioning and is first to demonstrate an involvement of the MB in the mediation of contextual fear conditioning.
One manner to study the role of serotonin (5-HT) in behavioral functions is through nutritional manipulation of its precursor tryptophan (TRP). By means of the method of acute TRP depletion, plasma TRP levels can be reduced in a reversible way in both humans and rats. In the present study a TRP-free protein-carbohydrate mixture was used to investigate the behavioral effects of lowering TRP and 5-HT concentrations in adult male rats. These animals were tested in models of anxiety (open field, home cage emergence test), depression (forced swimming test) and cognition (object recognition test and Morris water escape test). The TRP-free protein-carbohydrate mixture substantially reduced the ratio TRP/SigmaLNAA within 2 and 4 h by 75 and 60%, respectively. It was found that 4 h after administration, the treatment did not affect anxiety-related behavior nor did it cause depressive-like behavior. Also, no treatment effect was found on spatial learning performance in a Morris water escape test. On the other hand, performance in an object recognition test was clearly impaired after TRP depletion. Taken together, these data suggest that acute lowered central 5-HT levels are not associated with changes in affective behavior (i.e. anxiety and depression), but do impair object memory in adult rats.
Regulation of mRNA decapping is a critical determinant for gene expression. We demonstrate that the poly(A) tail-mediated regulation of mRNA decapping observed in humans can be recapitulated in vitro by the cytoplasmic poly(A)-binding protein PABP through a direct and specific binding to the 5' end of capped mRNA. The specific association of PABP with the cap occurred only within the context of the RNA whereby a cap attached to an RNA moiety served as the high-affinity substrate but not the cap structure or RNA alone. Binding of PABP to the RNA 5' end required the presence of the cap and was accentuated by the N7 methyl moiety of the cap. Interestingly, conditions that enhanced hDcp2 decapping activity reduced the affinity of PABP for cap association and consequently its ability to inhibit decapping, suggestive of a regulated association of PABP with the cap. These observations reveal a novel direct involvement of human PABP in the stabilization of mRNA by protecting the 5' end from decapping.
p27(Kip1) (p27), a CDK inhibitor, migrates into the nucleus, where it controls cyclin-CDK complex activity for proper cell cycle progression. We report here that the classical bipartite-type basic amino-acid cluster and the two downstream amino acids of the C-terminal region of p27 function as a nuclear localization signal (NLS) for its full nuclear import activity. Importin alpha3 and alpha5, but not alpha1, transported p27 into the nucleus in conjunction with importin beta, as evidenced by an in vitro transport assay. It is known that Akt phosphorylates Thr 157 of p27 and this reduces the nuclear import activity of p27. Using a pull-down experiment, 14-3-3 was identified as the Thr157-phosphorylated p27NLS-binding protein. Although importin alpha5 bound to Thr157-phosphorylated p27NLS, 14-3-3 competed with importin alpha5 for binding to it. Thus, 14-3-3 sequestered phosphorylated p27NLS from importin alpha binding, resulting in cytoplasmic localization of NLS-phosphorylated p27. These findings indicate that 14-3-3 suppresses importin alpha/beta-dependent nuclear localization of Thr157-phosphorylated p27, suggesting implications for cell cycle disorder in Akt-activated cancer cells.
The development of treatments for neuropathic pain has been hindered by our limited understanding of the basic mechanisms underlying abnormalities in nociceptor hyperexcitability. We recently showed that the polymodal receptor transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), a member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family of ion channels, may play a role in inflammatory pain (Alessandri-Haber et al., 2003). The present study tested whether TRVP4 also contributes to neuropathic pain, using a rat model of Taxol-induced painful peripheral neuropathy. Taxol is the most widely used drug for the treatment of a variety of tumor types, but the dose of Taxol that can be tolerated is limited by the development of a small-fiber painful peripheral neuropathy. We found that Taxol treatment enhanced the nociceptive behavioral responses to both mechanical and hypotonic stimulation of the hind paw. Spinal administration of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides to TRPV4, which reduced the expression of TRPV4 in sensory nerve, abolished Taxol-induced mechanical hyperalgesia and attenuated hypotonic hyperalgesia by 42%. The enhancement of osmotic nociception involves sensitization of osmotransduction in primary afferents because osmotransduction was enhanced in cultured sensory neurons isolated from Taxol-treated rats. Taxol-induced TRPV4-mediated hyperalgesia and the enhanced osmotransduction in cultured nociceptors were dependent on integrin/Src tyrosine kinase signaling. These results suggest that TRPV4 plays a crucial role in a painful peripheral neuropathy, making it a very promising target for the development of a novel class of analgesics.
Regeneration of injured adult sensory neurons within the CNS is essentially abortive, attributable in part to lesion-induced or revealed inhibitors such as the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans and the myelin inhibitors (Nogo-A, MAG, and OMgp). Much of this inhibition may be overcome by boosting the growth status of sensory neurons by delivering a conditioning lesion to their peripheral branches. Here, we identify a key role for the lesion-induced cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) in mediating conditioning lesion-induced enhanced regeneration of injured dorsal column afferents. In adult mice, conditioning injury to the sciatic nerve 1 week before bilateral dorsal column crush resulted in regeneration of dorsal column axons up to and beyond the injury site into host CNS tissue. This enhanced growth state was accompanied by an increase in the expression of the growth-associated protein GAP43 in preinjured but not intact dorsal root ganglia (DRGs). Preconditioning injury of the sciatic nerve in IL-6 -/- mice resulted in the total failure in regeneration of dorsal column axons consequent on the lack of GAP43 upregulation after a preconditioning injury. DRGs cell counts and cholera toxin beta subunit labeling revealed that impaired regeneration in knock-out mice was unrelated to cell loss or a deficit in tracer transport. In vitro, exogenous IL-6 boosted sensory neuron growth status as evidenced by enhanced neurite extension. This effect required NGF or NT-3 but not soluble IL-6 receptor as cofactors. Evidence of conditioning lesion-enhanced growth status of DRGs cells can also be observed in vitro as an earlier and enhanced rate of neurite extension; this phenomenon fails in IL-6 -/- mice preinjured 7 d in vivo. We suggest that injury-induced IL-6 upregulation is required to promote regeneration within the CNS. Our results indicate that this is achieved through a boosted growth state of dorsal column projecting sensory neurons.
Periventricular leukomalacia is a form of hypoxic-ischemic cerebral white matter injury seen most commonly in premature infants and is the major antecedent of cerebral palsy. Glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity is a predominant mechanism of hypoxic-ischemic injury to developing cerebral white matter. We have demonstrated previously the protective effect of AMPA-kainate-type glutamate receptor blockade in a rodent model of periventricular leukomalacia. The present study explores the therapeutic potential of glutamate receptor blockade for hypoxic-ischemic white matter injury. We demonstrate that AMPA receptors are expressed on developing human oligodendrocytes that populate fetal white matter at 23-32 weeks gestation, the period of highest risk for periventricular leukomalacia. We show that the clinically available anticonvulsant topiramate, when administered post-insult in vivo, is protective against selective hypoxic-ischemic white matter injury and decreases the subsequent neuromotor deficits. We further demonstrate that topiramate attenuates AMPA-kainate receptor-mediated cell death and calcium influx, as well as kainate-evoked currents in developing oligodendrocytes, similar to the AMPA-kainate receptor antagonist 6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo-(f)quinoxaline-2,3-dione (NBQX). Notably, protective doses of NBQX and topiramate do not affect normal maturation and proliferation of oligodendrocytes either in vivo or in vitro. Taken together, these results suggest that AMPA-kainate receptor blockade may have potential for translation as a therapeutic strategy for periventricular leukomalacia and that the mechanism of protective efficacy of topiramate is caused at least in part by attenuation of excitotoxic injury to premyelinating oligodendrocytes in developing white matter.
Mechanisms of cognitive decline with aging remain primarily unknown. We determined whether localized cell loss occurred in brain regions associated with age-related cognitive decline in primates. On a task requiring the prefrontal cortex, aged monkeys were impaired in maintaining representations in working memory. Stereological quantification in area 8A, a prefrontal region associated with working memory, demonstrated a significant 32 +/- 11% reduction in the number of Nissl-stained neurons compared with young monkeys. Furthermore, the number of immunolabeled cholinergic neurons projecting to this region of cortex from the nucleus basalis was also reduced by 50 +/- 6%. In contrast, neuronal number was strikingly preserved in an adjoining prefrontal cortical region also associated with working memory, area 46, and in the component of the nucleus basalis projecting to this region. These findings demonstrate extensive but highly localized loss of neocortical neurons in aged, cognitively impaired monkeys that likely contributes to cognitive decline. Cell degeneration, when present, extends transneuronally.
The mechanisms by which neurotrophins regulate growth cone motility are unclear. We investigated the role of the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) in mediating neurotrophin-induced increases in filopodial length. Our data demonstrate that neurotrophin binding to p75NTR is necessary and sufficient to regulate filopodial dynamics. Furthermore, retinal and dorsal root ganglion growth cones from p75 mutant mice are insensitive to neurotrophins but display enhanced filopodial lengths comparable with neurotrophin-treated wild-type growth cones. This suggests unoccupied p75NTR negatively regulates filopodia length. Furthermore, p75NTR regulates RhoA activity to mediate filopodial dynamics. Constitutively active RhoA blocks neurotrophin-induced increases in filopodial length, whereas inhibition of RhoA enhances filopodial lengths, similar to neurotrophin treatment. BDNF treatment of retinal neurons results in reduced RhoA activity. Furthermore, p75 mutant neurons display reduced levels of activated RhoA compared with wild-type counterparts, consistent with the enhanced filopodial lengths observed on mutant growth cones. These observations suggest that neurotrophins regulate filopodial dynamics by depressing the activation of RhoA that occurs through p75NTR signaling.
Astrocytes form extensive gap junctions with other astrocytes and with oligodendrocytes. Junctional communication between CNS glia is likely of critical importance because loss of the gap junction channel-forming proteins, connexins Cx32 and Cx47, result in severe demyelination. However, CNS glia express at least six connexins, and the cellular origins and relationships of these proteins have not been determined. We produced a Cx29 reporter mouse in which the connexin coding sequence was replaced with a histological marker, which was used to demonstrate that Cx29, Cx32, and Cx47 are expressed specifically in oligodendrocytes. To determine the relationships between astrocyte and oligodendrocyte connexins, we used double- and triple-immunofluorescence microscopy using semithin sections (&lt;1 microm) of adult mouse spinal cord. Astrocytes form two distinct classes of gap junctions with each other; those composed of Cx26 and those composed of Cx43 and Cx30. In addition, astrocytes establish two classes of intercellular channels with oligodendrocytes, heterotypic Cx26-Cx32 channels and heterotypic Cx30/Cx43-Cx47 channels that may also be heteromeric. In contrast, Cx29 does not colocalize with any of the other five connexins. The data provide the first in vivo demonstration of heterotypic intercellular channels and reveal an unexpected complexity in the composition of glial gap junctions.
Proteinase-activated receptor (PAR) 2 is expressed on a subset of primary afferent neurons and involved in inflammatory nociception. Transient receptor potential vanilloid subfamily 1 (TRPV1) is a sensory neuron-specific cation channel that responds to capsaicin, protons, or heat stimulus. Here, we show that TRPV1 is coexpressed with PAR2 but not with PAR1 or PAR3, and that TRPV1 can functionally interact with PAR2. In human embryonic kidney 293 cells expressing TRPV1 and PAR2, PAR2 agonists increased capsaicin- or proton-evoked TRPV1 currents through a PKC-dependent pathway. After application of PAR2 agonists, temperature threshold for TRPV1 activation was reduced from 42 degrees C to well below the body temperature. PAR2-mediated Fos expression in spinal cord was decreased in TRPV1-deficient mice. The functional interaction was also observed in mouse DRG neurons and proved at a behavioral level. These represent a novel mechanism through which trypsin or tryptase released in response to tissue inflammation might trigger the sensation of pain by PAR2 activation.
To act on objects in the world around us, we must first construct an accurate representation of where they are physically located. Recent investigations have begun to shed light on how the brain dynamically binds together visual and somatosensory signals to create task-dependent representations that maintain object constancy.
Mate attraction in Aplysia involves a long-distance water-borne signal (the protein pheromone attractin), which is released during egg laying. Aplysia californica attractin attracts species that produce closely related attractins, such as Aplysia brasiliana, whose geographic distribution does not overlap that of A. californica. This finding suggests that other mollusks release attractin-related pheromones to form and maintain breeding aggregations. We describe four additional members of the attractin family: A. brasiliana, Aplysia fasciata, Aplysia depilans (which aggregates with A. fasciata aggregations), and Aplysia vaccaria (which aggregates with A. californica aggregations). On the basis of their sequence similarity with A. californica attractin, the attractin proteins fall into two groups: A. californica, A. brasiliana, and A. fasciata (91-95% identity), and A. depilans and A. vaccaria (41-43% identity). The sequence similarity within the attractin family, the conserved six cysteines, and the compact fold of the NMR solution structure of A. californica attractin suggest a common fold for this pheromone family containing two antiparallel helices. The second helix contains the IEECKTS sequence conserved in Aplysia attractins. Mutating surface-exposed charged residues within this heptapeptide sequence abolishes attractin activity, suggesting that the second helix is an essential part of the receptor-binding interface.
Environmental acoustic exposure to a complex tone sequence within the critical period in infant rats resulted in the emergence of large-scale, selective changes that radically altered primary auditory cortex (A1) organization. In the sound exposure-revised A1, responses were segregated into two explicit zones representing spectrally and temporally separated lower and higher frequency tone sequence progressions. Cortical neurons between these two A1 zones were poorly driven by sound stimuli. Stimulus sequence-specific (&quot;combination-selective&quot;) responses emerged in the A1 of exposed rats. These selective representational changes induced in the critical period persisted into adulthood. These results show that the temporal order and pace of early, repetitive postnatal auditory inputs strongly affect the emergent and enduring functional organization of A1.
Inferior olive (IO) neurons are electrically coupled by cytosolic pores formed by the neuron-specific connexin 36 (Cx36). Electrical coupling in the IO figures prominently in current views about brain control of movement. However, a role for Cx36 in movement has been questioned and not definitively demonstrated. Previous reports have shown that embryonic deletion of the Cx36 gene resulted in almost complete loss of cytosolic and electrical coupling in the IO without an obvious deficit in movement, possibly due to developmental compensations in ionic conductances that can confound the approach of embryonic gene deletion. We used a replication-incompetent lentiviral vector to stably express a dominant-negative Cx36 mutant in the IO of adult rats. We show that interneuronal cytosolic coupling is severely reduced by the mutant Cx36, without effect on neuron morphology or electrical properties. Multisite electromyography revealed that blocking Cx36 in the IO impaired the coherence of muscle firing during harmaline tremor without affecting its rhythm. The data demonstrate that gap junction coupling within the IO mediated by Cx36 adds 10-20 ms of precision to the fine temporal coordination of muscle firing during movement.
Li(+) transport, intracellular immobilisation and Li(+)/Mg(2+) competition were studied in Li(+)-loaded bovine chromaffin cells. Li(+) influx rate constants, k(i), obtained by atomic absorption (AA) spectrophotometry, in control (without and with ouabain) and depolarising (without and with nitrendipine) conditions, showed that L-type voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels have an important role in Li(+) uptake under depolarising conditions. The Li(+) influx apparent rate constant, k(iapp), determined under control conditions by (7)Li NMR spectroscopy with the cells immobilised and perfused, was much lower than the AA-determined value for the cells in suspension. Loading of cell suspensions with 15 mmol l(-1) LiCl led, within 90 min, to a AA-measured total intracellular Li(+) concentration, [Li(+)](iT)=11.39+/-0.56 mmol (l cells)(-1), very close to the steady state value. The intracellular Li(+) T(1)/T(2) ratio of (7)Li NMR relaxation times of the Li(+)-loaded cells reflected a high degree of Li(+) immobilisation in bovine chromaffin cells, similar to neuroblastoma, but larger than for lymphoblastoma and erythrocyte cells. A 52% increase in the intracellular free Mg(2+) concentration, Delta[Mg(2+)](f)=0.27+/-0.05 mmol (l cells)(-1) was measured for chromaffin cells loaded with the Mg(2+)-specific fluorescent probe furaptra, after 90-min loading with 15 mmol l(-1) LiCl, using fluorescence spectroscopy, indicating significant displacement of Mg(2+) by Li(+) from its intracellular binding sites. Comparison with other cell types showed that the extent of intracellular Li(+)/Mg(2+) competition at the same Li(+) loading level depends on intracellular Li(+) transport and immobilisation in a cell-specific manner, being maximal for neuroblastoma cells.
The results of vasorespiratory studies in rats anaesthetised with pentobarbital show that (+/-) cannabidiol, a cannabinoid that lacks psychotropic actions and is inactive at cannabinoid (CB) receptors, does not affect respiration or blood pressure when injected (1-2000 microg; 3.2-6360 nmol i.a.). Cannabidiol in doses up to 2 mg (6360 nmol) i.a. or i.v. did not affect the fall in mean blood pressure or the increase in ventilation (respiratory minute volume) caused by capsaicin and high doses of anandamide, responses that are mediated by activation of vanilloid VR1 (TRPV1) receptors in this species. Similar results were obtained with (-) cannabidiol (30-100 microg i.a.; 95-318 nmol). It has previously been shown using human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells over-expressing vanilloid human VR1 (hVR1) receptors that cannabidiol is a full agonist at vanilloid VR1 receptors in vitro. However, in the intact rat cannabidiol lacked vanilloid VR1 receptor agonist effects. We conclude that there are substantial functional differences between human and rat vanilloid VR1 receptors with respect to the actions of cannabidiol as an agonist at vanilloid VR1 receptors. Studies in vivo show that cannabidiol lacks any significant effect on mean blood pressure or respiratory minute volume when injected i.a. or i.v., and that this cannabinoid does not modulate the vanilloid VR1 receptor-mediated cardiovascular and ventilatory changes reflexly evoked by capsaicin or anandamide in rats anaesthetised with pentobarbital.
We investigated the topographic and laminar organization of the intrinsic projections and interconnections of the macaque monkey perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices. Discrete anterograde tracer injections placed at various rostrocaudal and mediolateral levels in these cortices revealed extensive associational connections both within and between the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices. Areas 35, 36rm, 36rl, 36cm, and 36cl are highly interconnected, whereas area 36d (encompassing the dorsal portion of the medial temporal pole) shares only modest connections with the rest of the perirhinal cortex. Areas TH, TFm, and TFl of the parahippocampal cortex also share an extensive network of associational connections that tend to be heaviest within a given subdivision. Area 36c of the perirhinal cortex is the main interface between the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices. Its heaviest connections are with area 36r and the anterior aspect of area TF. The laminar organization of all these connections is typical of associational projections. Anterograde tracer experiments revealed that these projections are distributed through both deep and superficial layers, although heavier projections are directed toward the superficial layers. Results of retrograde tracer experiments suggested that the projections from caudal areas (36c or TF) to area 36r are of the feedforward type, whereas the projections from areas 36r and 36c to area TF are of the feedback type. These findings suggest that the perirhinal cortex is at a higher level than the parahippocampal cortex in the hierarchy of associational cortices. We discuss the functional implications of the organization of these extensive networks of intrinsic, associational projections.
The major excitatory, binaural inputs to the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) are from two groups of neurons with different functions-the ipsilateral medial superior olive (MSO) and the contralateral lateral superior olive (LSO). A major inhibitory, binaural input emerges from glycinergic neurons in the ipsilateral LSO. To determine whether these inputs converge on the same postsynaptic targets in the ICC, two different anterograde tracers were injected in tonotopically matched areas of the MSO and the LSO on the opposite side in the same animal. The main findings were that the boutons from MSO axons terminated primarily in the central and caudal parts of the ICC laminae but that contralateral LSO terminals were concentrated more rostrally and on the ventral margins of the MSO inputs. In contrast, the ipsilateral LSO projection converged with the MSO inputs and was denser than the contralateral LSO projection. Consistent with this finding, retrograde transport experiments showed that the very low-frequency areas of the ICC with dense MSO inputs also received inputs from greater numbers of ipsilateral LSO neurons than from contralateral LSO neurons. The results suggest that different binaural pathways through the low-frequency ICC may be formed by the segregation of excitatory inputs to ICC from the MSO and the contralateral LSO. At the same time, the ipsilateral LSO is a major inhibitory influence in the target region of the MSO. These data support the concept that each frequency-band lamina in the ICC may comprise several functional modules with different combinations of inputs.
The transcriptional regulator Gli3 and the secreted signal Shh influence induction, patterning, and differentiation at several sites of mesenchymal/epithelial (M/E) interaction including the limbs, heart, face, and forebrain. We asked whether loss of function of these two genes has specific consequences for early differentiation of the primary olfactory pathway-which comprises both craniofacial and forebrain structures and depends on M/E induction during initial stages of development. Loss of Gli3 or Shh function does not compromise several aspects of olfactory receptor neuron (ORN) and olfactory ensheathing cell maturation; however, directed outgrowth of ORN axons and their initial targeting to the telencephalon is altered. In Gli3 mutant extra toes-Jackson (Xt(J)Xt(J)) embryos, ORN axons defasciculate and project aberrantly near the forebrain. They rarely enter the central nervous system, and their association with mesenchymal laminin is disrupted. In Shh-/-embryos, ORN axons exit a single olfactory epithelium (OE) that develops centrally within an altered mesenchymal environment in a dysmorphic proboscis. These axons project as a single nerve toward the mutant forebrain; however, their trajectory varies according to the position of the proboscis relative to the forebrain. These alterations in axon outgrowth probably reflect compromised inductive interactions in the olfactory primordia because neither Gli3 nor Shh are expressed in olfactory neurons. Thus, two genes that influence induction and subsequent differentiation of craniofacial structures and the forebrain have distinct consequences for ORN axon growth during the initial genesis of the olfactory pathway.
Retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase, applied to cut peripheral nerves, was used to determine the rostrocaudal distribution of motoneurones supplying different branches of the ventral ramus for a single mid- or caudal thoracic segment in the cat. The motoneurones occupied a length of spinal cord equal to the segmental length but displaced rostrally from the segment as defined by the dorsal roots, with the number of motoneurones per unit length of cord higher in the rostral part of a segment (close to the entry of the most rostral dorsal root) than in the caudal part. The cross-sectional area of the ventral horn showed a rostrocaudal variation that closely paralleled the motoneurone distribution. The ratio between the number of motoneurones per unit length in the caudal and rostral regions of a segment (0.70) was similar to the ratio previously reported for the strength of functional projections of expiratory bulbospinal neurones (0.63). This is consistent with the motoneurones being the main targets of the bulbospinal neurones.

We report a case of spinal intradural schwannoma presenting with intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography studies were negative, but MR imaging of the spine revealed a large hemorrhagic tumor in the thoraco-lumbar junction. The tumor was misdiagnosed as ependymoma of the conus medullaris. This case illustrates the importance of a high index of suspicion for spinal disease in angiographically-negative subarachnoid hemorrhage and pitfalls in MR diagnosis of thoraco-lumbar tumors.


Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) refers to random, small deviations from perfect bilateral symmetry in morphological traits. These minor deviations from the ideal phenotype reflect environmental and genetic perturbations experienced during ontogeny. FA has been associated with negative health outcomes and many developmental disorders in humans. The prevalence of developmental disorders and adult health vary according to the month of birth, suggesting that seasonal stressors may leave enduring signs in the adult body, marked by high FA. The current study examined the relationship between FA and birth season. Data were collected for 205 males and females (average age = 20.39 years) on FA of 10 bilateral traits (second, third, fourth, and fifth digit length, palm height, wrist diameter, elbow width, ear height, foot breadth, and ankle circumference). Additional relationships were also investigated among FA, testosterone (T), and birth order. Results indicate that ear FA was lower for fall births compared to winter births in males. In females, palm FA was lower for fall births compared to those of the spring. FA of the digits was positively associated with T in males. Average FA, excluding the digits, decreased as the number of maternal siblings increased for both sexes. T concentrations in males were positively associated with the number of younger brothers. Our results generally confirm previous research on seasonal variation in adult longevity and neurological and psychiatric disorders, suggesting that winter and spring births are at risk for asymmetric developmental trajectory.
We performed a linkage analysis on 25 extended multiplex Portuguese families segregating for bipolar disorder, by use of a high-density single-nucleotide-polymorphism (SNP) genotyping assay, the GeneChip Human Mapping 10K Array (HMA10K). Of these families, 12 were used for a direct comparison of the HMA10K with the traditional 10-cM microsatellite marker set and the more dense 4-cM marker set. This comparative analysis indicated the presence of significant linkage peaks in the SNP assay in chromosomal regions characterized by poor coverage and low information content on the microsatellite assays. The HMA10K provided consistently high information and enhanced coverage throughout these regions. Across the entire genome, the HMA10K had an average information content of 0.842 with 0.21-Mb intermarker spacing. In the 12-family set, the HMA10K-based analysis detected two chromosomal regions with genomewide significant linkage on chromosomes 6q22 and 11p11; both regions had failed to meet this strict threshold with the microsatellite assays. The full 25-family collection further strengthened the findings on chromosome 6q22, achieving genomewide significance with a maximum nonparametric linkage (NPL) score of 4.20 and a maximum LOD score of 3.56 at position 125.8 Mb. In addition to this highly significant finding, several other regions of suggestive linkage have also been identified in the 25-family data set, including two regions on chromosome 2 (57 Mb, NPL = 2.98; 145 Mb, NPL = 3.09), as well as regions on chromosomes 4 (91 Mb, NPL = 2.97), 16 (20 Mb, NPL = 2.89), and 20 (60 Mb, NPL = 2.99). We conclude that at least some of the linkage peaks we have identified may have been largely undetected in previous whole-genome scans for bipolar disorder because of insufficient coverage or information content, particularly on chromosomes 6q22 and 11p11.
The relationship between age and IQ was evaluated in a cross-sectional sample of 80 individuals with Williams syndrome (17 to 52 years). The relationship between age and WAIS-R subtest scores was such that increases and decreases in raw scores occurred at a rate sufficient to maintain stability of age-corrected scaled scores, indicating a developmental trajectory similar to that of the WAIS-R normative sample. Despite stability of age- corrected scaled scores with age, increased age was related to higher Performance IQ. This disparity, which occurs during the conversion of sums of scaled scores to IQs, may be unique to the WAIS-R. Although Performance IQ increased with age, results imply that the overall IQ of an adult with Williams syndrome will likely remain stable.
The vast majority of neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the primary circadian pacemaker in mammals, contain the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA. Most studies investigating the role of GABA in the SCN have been performed using nocturnal rodents. Activation of GABA(A) receptors by microinjection of muscimol into the SCN phase advances the circadian activity rhythm of nocturnal rodents, but only during the subjective day. Nonphotic stimuli that reset the circadian pacemaker of nocturnal rodents also produce phase advances during the subjective day. The role of GABA in the SCN of diurnal animals and how it may differ from nocturnal animals is not known. In the studies described here, the GABA(A) agonist muscimol was microinjected directly into the SCN region of diurnal unstriped Nile grass rats (Arvicanthis niloticus) at various times in their circadian cycle. The results demonstrate that GABA(A) receptor activation produces large phase delays during the subjective day in grass rats. Treatment with TTX did not affect the ability of muscimol to induce phase delays, suggesting that muscimol acts directly on pacemaker cells within the SCN. These data suggest that the circadian pacemakers of nocturnal and diurnal animals respond to the most abundant neurochemical signal found in SCN neurons in opposite ways. These findings are the first to demonstrate a fundamental difference in the functioning of circadian pacemaker cells in diurnal and nocturnal animals.

Chorioallantoic membranes (CAMs) were used to determine which extracellular matrix molecules play essential roles in growth and vascular development in vivo and whether expression of critical molecules is affected by cigarette smoke exposure. Treatment of CAMs on day 5 of development with antibodies to CD44 or tenascin, but not to other matrix molecules, inhibited CAM growth and affected various aspects of blood vessel development including normal growth and branching of vessels, migration of vessels, and formation and differentiation of the capillary plexus. DNA synthesis was inhibited by antibodies to both C44 and tenascin which probably accounted for many of the phenotypic changes observed in treated CAMs. CD44 was located on all cells in day 5 CAMs, and tenascin, while present throughout the CAM, was especially abundant around large, non-migratory mesodermal blood vessels and endodermal cells that were positioned away from the direction of blood vessel migration. These data suggest that while tenascin is required for normal blood vessel migration, high levels of tenascin inhibit migration. The different distributions of CD44 and tenascin in CAMs and the observation that antibodies to either CD44 or tenascin produced similar phenotypes indicate that CD44 and tenascin were not functionally redundant. Mainstream smoke solutions, which produce a phenotype similar to that seen with anti-tenascin and anti-CD44, inhibited expression of CD44 mRNA and increased tenascin mRNA expression. 3-Ethylpyridine, a chemical in cigarette smoke that produced changes in CAM development similar to anti-CD44 and anti-tenascin treatment, also increased tenascin mRNA expression, but did not affect CD44. Together these data show that tenascin and CD44 play critical roles in early growth and vascular development of the CAM and support the idea that 3-ethylpyridine in mainstream smoke impairs CAM growth and vascular development by targeting expression of tenascin. 3-Ethylpyridine is generally regarded as safe and is used in many consumer products including food and tobacco.

Three cases of spontaneous arteriovenous fistulas of the vertebral artery (VAF) are reported. In one case the only symptom was a cervical bruit; in the other two cases, symptoms of multiple cervical radiculopathy were also observed. Definitive diagnostic findings were obtained by Doppler ultrasonography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and angiography. Clinical signs of radiculopathy disappeared after endovascular balloon occlusion of the fistula, in about 1 month. In one case the vertebral artery was occluded without clinical consequences.

To illuminate the societal implications of NBIC (nano-bio-info-cogno) technologies it is critical to place them within a broad historical context. By viewing recent human history as a series of techno-economic waves with accompanying socio-political responses, a framework emerges that can be used to understand how business, politics, and human culture will be affected by NBIC technologies. One important development that the NBIC convergence is making possible is neurotechnology, the set of tools that can influence the human central nervous system, especially the brain. The diffusion of neurotechnology will give rise to a new type of human society-a post-industrial, post-informational neurosociety.
Developers of NBIC (Nano-Bio-Info-Cogno) technologies face a multitude of obstacles, not the least of which is navigating the public ethics of their applied research. Biotechnologies have received widespread media attention and spawned heated interest in their perceived social implications. Now, in view of the rapidly expanding purview of neuroscience and the growing array of technologic developments capable of affecting or monitoring cognition, the emerging field of neuroethics calls for a consideration of the social and ethical implications of neuroscientific discoveries and trends. To negotiate the complex ethical issues at stake in new and emerging kinds of technologies for improving human cognition, we need to overcome political, disciplinary, and religious sectarianism. We need analytical models that protect values of personhood at the heart of a functional democracy-values that allow, as much as possible, for individual decision-making, despite transformations in our understanding and ability to manipulate cognitive processes. Addressing cognitive enhancement from the legal and ethical notion of &quot;cognitive liberty&quot; provides a powerful tool for assessing and encouraging NBIC developments.
The prostaglandin synthesizing enzyme cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) has emerged as a critical pathogenic factor in brain diseases associated with activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, including stroke and neurodegenerative diseases. However, the COX-2 reaction products responsible for these deleterious effects have not been identified. In particular, the relative contribution to the neurotoxicity of COX-2-derived prostanoids and reactive oxygen species has not been defined. We found that the brain damage produced by direct injection of NMDA into the somatosensory cortex is attenuated by the COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 or in COX-2-null mice, but that the associated production of free radicals is not. Furthermore, COX-2 inhibition reduces the lesions even if the deleterious effects of free radicals are eliminated by the scavenger superoxide dismutase. The protection exerted by NS-398 is counteracted by a stable analog of prostaglandin E2. The findings directly implicate COX-2-derived prostanoids, rather then radicals, in the COX-2-dependent component of the damage mediated by NMDA receptors and strengthen the rationale for using COX-2 inhibitors in the treatment of neurological diseases associated with glutamate neurotoxicity.
It is unclear how immune cells traffic between the lymphoid compartment and the central nervous system (CNS), which lacks lymphatic vessels and is shielded by the blood-brain barrier. We studied the expression of CCR7, a chemokine receptor required for migration of T cells and dendritic cells (DCs) to lymphoid organs, in the CNS of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) to gain insight into pathways for CNS immune cell trafficking. Inflamed MS lesions contained numerous CCR7+ myeloid cells expressing major histocompatibility complex class II, CD68 and CD86, consistent with maturing DCs. CCR7+ DCs also were identified in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). These observations suggested that the afferent limb of CNS immunity is comprised, in part, of DCs, which are generated within the CNS and migrate to deep cervical lymph nodes through the CSF after antigen capture. Ninety percent of CSF T cells expressed CCR7 and CSF from patients with MS was relatively depleted of CCR7-negative effector-memory T cells. In contrast, all T cells in parenchymal MS lesions lacked CCR7, indicating local retention and differentiation of central-memory T cells upon restimulation by antigen within the CNS. These data suggested that the efferent limb of CNS immunity is executed by central-memory T cells, which enter CSF directly from the circulation.

Fear conditioning can be rapidly obtained over long trace intervals, but its specificity with respect to both time and stimulus is uncertain. Long-trace fear conditioning often parallels contextual conditioning, and it is sensitive to hippocampal lesions. These properties of trace conditioning are not directly addressed by timing models and multiple-time-scale models of conditioning. It is proposed that during early stages of conditioning, a joint representation of the context and the stimulus trace may underlie conditioned responses, and that discriminative processes allow the emergence of specific responses in a later stage.





Epibatidine has been used in a wide dose range and was found to produce both nociceptive and antinociceptive effects. The different effects were partly explained by an action on multiple nicotinic receptor systems. The present study investigated the possibility that part of the action of intraspinally or subcutaneously administered (+/-) epibatidine, is mediated through an action on muscarinic receptors. Radioligand receptor assays were performed using homogenates of rat spinal cord and muscarinic M1-M5 receptors expressed in Sf9 cells. The intraspinal acetylcholine releasing effect of intraspinally and subcutaneously administered (+/-) epibatidine was studied with and without with atropine pretreatment. (+/-) Epibatidine has affinity for muscarinic receptors both in spinal cord tissue and expressed in Sf9 cells. The intraspinal administration of 160 microM (+/-) epibatidine produced an increase in acetylcholine release that was reduced by pretreatment with 100 microM atropine. Subcutaneous administration of 30 microg/kg (+/-) epibatidine produced an increase in intraspinal acetylcholine release that was not inhibited by 5 mg/kg subcutaneous atropine pretreatment. We conclude that (+/-) epibatidine, in microM concentrations, is a partial muscarinic receptor agonist that may interact with spinal muscarinic receptors to increase acetylcholine release. Epibatidine induced spinal acetylcholine release observed after subcutaneous administration appears not to be mediated via muscarinic receptor. The dual action on both nicotinic receptors and muscarinic receptors may explain the potent analgesic effect observed after epibatidine administration.
Previous studies have shown that low-efficacy benzodiazepines may function as full agonists, partial agonists or antagonists, depending upon the sensitivity of the assay to detect a drug's agonist effects. To date, these differential effects have only been observed across tasks, as these drugs rarely produce full agonist and antagonist effects in a single preparation. The purpose of the present study was to examine the agonist and antagonist effects of various benzodiazepines in a motor task in which the sensitivity of the task differed across conditions. To this end, rats were trained to walk on a rotorod apparatus rotating at low (4 rpm), medium (20 rpm) and high (36 rpm) speeds, and the motor-impairing effects of representative low (bretazenil), intermediate (clonazepam) and high (diazepam) efficacy benzodiazepines were examined. Diazepam and clonazepam reduced the latency for rats to fall from the rotorod at all three speeds, with both drugs being more potent at the high speed than at lower speeds. Bretazenil was also effective at decreasing motor performance at the high speed, but was not effective at lower speeds. In drug combination tests, bretazenil antagonized the effects of diazepam and clonazepam under conditions in which it was not effective when administered alone, effectively demonstrating both full agonist and antagonist effects in the same preparation. These data indicate that the sensitivity of a motor task to detect a drug's agonist effects can be manipulated by altering its relative level of difficulty, and that lower-efficacy benzodiazepines are more sensitive than higher-efficacy benzodiazepines to these manipulations.
The functional consequences of the mutation of a conserved Cys-214 in Galpha(i1) have been investigated. We reported herein that substitutions of Cys-214 of Galpha(i1) to either alanine or tryptophan abolished the intrinsic GTPase activity. Free phosphate release from [32P]GTP-bound Galpha(i1) C214A or [32P]GTP-bound Galpha(i1) C214W was at least 30-fold lower than that of the wild-type Galpha(i1) in single-turnover GTPase assays. Consistently, tryptic proteolysis of C214A and C214W proteins showed that they were partially protected by GTP, further confirming that the GTPase activity in both mutant proteins was impaired. Expression of C214A or C214W mutants in Chinese hamster ovary K1 cells caused significant inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. However, the mutations did not significantly affect the GTP[S] (guanosine 5'-[gamma-[35S]thio]triphosphate)-binding activity. Both C214A and C214W mutants serve as good substrates for pertussis toxin-catalysed ADP ribosylation, indicating that they interact well with betagamma subunits. Moreover, RGS4 protein, a GTPase-activating protein for Galpha(i1), cannot interact with Cys-214 mutants even in the presence of AlF4-, which induces the transition state of Galpha. In summary, our findings suggest that C214A or C214W are GTPase-deficient mutants and can functionally serve as constitutively active forms of Galpha(i1) in cells.
Glial cells are derived from stem cells that mature through specific stages of development to generate fully differentiated astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Several types of intermediate precursors have been described and in some cases lineage relationships identified although this remains a subject of controversy. We review recent findings and discuss some possibilities. Motoneuron-oligodendrocyte precursors (MNOPs), white matter progenitor cells (WMPCs), polydendrocytes, glial restricted precursors (GRPs), astrocyte precursor cells (APCs), and oligodendroblasts are likely all derived from earlier appearing stem cells but segregate at different stages in development. Some of these precursors persist in the adult, and it is these glial progenitors rather than stem cells that respond after injury and participate in the repair process. Although which specific glial progenitor responds remains unclear, the availability of new markers will likely resolve this issue. We believe that the development of consensus sets of markers and an improvement in our ability to define stages of glial maturation will lead to a clearer appreciation of the importance of glia in the etiopathology of disease.
AMPA receptor ion channels are of paramount importance for postsynaptic excitation. Several reports demonstrate that AMPA receptors are present in the presynaptic compartment and point to a role of these receptors in the modulation of presynaptic function. We discuss here the possibility that not only ion influx through the receptor, but also biochemical cascades, activated by ligand binding and independent from ion flux, might contribute to AMPA mediated presynaptic modulation.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) controls critical cellular decisions between distinct fates in many systems, particularly in stem cells. The Shh network functions as a genetic switch, and we have theoretically and computationally analyzed how its structure can endow it with the ability to switch fate choices at a threshold Shh concentration. The network is composed of a positive transcriptional feedback loop embedded within a negative signaling feedback loop. Specifically, positive feedback by the transcription factor Gli, which upregulates its own expression, leads to a switch that can adopt two distinct states as a function of Shh. However, Gli also upregulates the signaling repressor Patched, negative feedback that reins in the strong Gli autoregulatory loop. Mutations that have been associated with cancer are predicted to yield an irreversible switch to a high Gli state. Finally, stochastic simulation reveals the negative Patched feedback loop serves a critical function of dampening Gli fluctuations to reduce spontaneous state switching and preserve the network's robust, switch-like behavior. Tightly linked positive and negative feedback loops are present in many signaling systems, and the Shh system is therefore likely representative of a large set of gene regulation networks that control stem cell fate throughout development and into adulthood.
Clearance of apoptotic cells by macrophages is considered important for prevention of inflammatory responses leading to tissue damage. The phosphatidylserine receptor (PSR), which specifically binds to phosphatidylserine (PS) exposed on the surface of apoptotic cells, mediates uptake of apoptotic cells in vitro, yet the physiologic relevance of PSR remains unknown. This issue was addressed by generating PSR-deficient (PSR(-/-)) mice. PSR(-/-) mice exhibited severe anemia and died during the perinatal period. In the PSR(-/-) fetal livers, erythroid differentiation was blocked at an early erythroblast stage. In addition, PSR(-/-) embryos exhibited thymus atrophy owing to a developmental defect of T-lymphoid cells. Clearance of apoptotic cells by macrophages was impaired in both liver and thymus of PSR(-/-) embryos. However, this did not induce up-regulation of inflammatory cytokines. These results indicate that during embryonic development, PSR-mediated apoptotic cell uptake is required for definitive erythropoiesis and T lymphopoiesis, independently of the prevention of inflammatory responses.

1. A high-throughput assay utilizing the voltage/ion probe reader (VIPR) technology identified salicylidene salicylhydrazide (SCS) as being a potent selective inhibitor of alpha2beta1gamma1 GABA(A) receptors with a maximum inhibition of 56+/-5% and an IC(50) of 32 (23, 45) nm. 2. Evaluation of this compound using patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques demonstrated that the compound behaved in a manner selective for receptors containing the beta1 subunit (e.g. maximum inhibition of 68.1+/-2.7% and IC(50) value of 5.3 (4.4, 6.5) nm on alpha2beta1gamma1 receptors). The presence of a beta1 subunit was paramount for the inhibition with changes between alpha1 and alpha2, gamma1 and gamma2, and the presence of a subunit having little effect. 3. On all subtypes, SCS produced incomplete inhibition with the greatest level of inhibition at alpha1beta1gamma1 receptors (74.3+/-1.4%). SCS displayed no use or voltage dependence, suggesting that it does not bind within the channel region. Concentration - response curves to GABA in the presence of SCS revealed a reduction in the maximum response with no change in the EC(50) or Hill coefficient. In addition, SCS inhibited pentobarbitone-induced currents. 4. Threonine 255, located within transmembrane domain (TM) 1, and isoleucine 308, located extracellularly just prior to TM3, were required for inhibition by SCS. 5. SCS did not compete with the known allosteric modulators, picrotoxin, pregnenolone sulphate, dehydroepiandrosterone 3-sulphate, bicuculline, loreclezole or mefenamic acid. Neither was the inhibition by SCS influenced by the benzodiazepine site antagonist flumazenil. 6. In conclusion, SCS is unique in selectively inhibiting GABA(A) receptors containing the beta1 subunit via an allosteric mechanism. The importance of threonine 255 and isoleucine 308 within the beta1 subunit and the lack of interaction with a range of GABA(A) receptor modulators suggests that SCS is interacting at a previously unidentified site.
The role of histamine H(1), H(2), H(3) and H(4) receptors in acute itch induced by histamine was investigated in female BalbC mice. Scratching was induced by intradermal injections of pruritogen into the back of the neck and &quot;itch&quot; assessed by quantifying the scratching evoked. Histamine (0.03-80 micromol), histamine-trifluoromethyl-toluidine (HTMT, H(1) agonist, 0.002-2 micromol), clobenpropit (H(4) agonist, H(3) antagonist, 0.002-0.6 micromol) and to a lesser extent imetit (H(3)/H(4) agonist, 0.03-3 micromol) all induced dose-dependent scratching. Dimaprit (H(2) agonist, 0.04-40 micromol) did not cause scratching. Mepyramine (H(1) antagonist, 20 mg kg(-1), i.p.) reduced scratching evoked by histamine and HTMT, but not that caused by H(3) or H(4) agonists. Thioperamide (H(3)/H(4) antagonist, 20 mg kg(-1), i.p.) reduced scratching induced by histamine, H(3) and H(4) agonists, but not that caused by HTMT. The non-sedating H(1) antagonist, terfenadine, also significantly reduced the scratching induced by the H(1) agonist, HTMT. Cimetidine (H(2) antagonist, 20 mg kg(-1), i.p.) did not affect histamine-induced scratching. These results indicate that activation of histamine H(4) receptors causes itch in mice, in addition to the previously recognised role for H(1) receptors in evoking itch. Histamine H(4) receptor antagonists therefore merit investigation as antipruritic agents.
1. Somatostatin (somatotropin release inhibiting factor; SRIF) acts via five G protein-coupled receptors (sst(1)-sst(5)) that modulate multiple cellular effectors. The aim of this study was to compare two functional effects of the human sst(2) receptor stably expressed in CHO-K1 cells in a single experiment using a duplex assay for intracellular calcium and serum response element (SRE)-driven luciferase expression. 2. Intracellular calcium was measured using a fluorometric imaging plate reader II (FLIPR II). SRIF-14 rapidly and transiently increased intracellular calcium with a pEC(50) of 8.74+/-0.03 (n=52). At 5 h after FLIPR II measurements, luciferase expression was determined. SRIF-14 concentration-dependently increased luciferase expression (pEC(50)=9.06+/-0.03, n=52). 3. Natural and synthetic agonist/antagonist ligands for SRIF receptors were tested in the duplex assay. Correlation of agonist potencies and efficacies between the two responses were significant (r(2)=0.83 and 0.90, pEC(50) and E(max), respectively). 4. Pertussis toxin pretreatment reduced SRIF-14/octreotide-mediated intracellular calcium increases by 45-47% and luciferase expression by 95-98%. 5. Thapsigargin pretreatment abolished the SRIF-14/octreotide-mediated intracellular calcium increase but had no effect on luciferase expression. 6. In conclusion, SRIF stimulates an increase in intracellular calcium and SRE-luciferase expression via human sst(2) receptors in CHO-K1 cells. The increase in luciferase is mediated via G(i)/G(o) while intracellular calcium increase is mediated by both G(i)/G(o) proteins and pertussis toxin-insensitive G proteins, and is mainly via release of calcium from intracellular stores. SRIF ligands display a similar recognition profile suggesting that the ligand/receptor/G protein/effector interaction is similar for the two parameters.
Mutations in the SPG7 gene, encoding the mitochondrial protein paraplegin, were the first to be identified in autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia (ARHSP). Four different SPG7 mutations have been described so far in association with both pure and complicated HSP phenotypes. Muscle biopsies from the most severely affected patients have shown histological evidence of an oxidative phosphorylation defect. We identified six ARHSP kindreds, in whom linkage to SPG7 could not be excluded, and 29 sporadic spastic paraplegia patients. The 17 exons and flanking regions of the SPG7 gene were screened for mutations using a combination of single-stranded conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and sequencing. Three patients were found to carry compound heterozygous SPG7 mutations, comprising five novel and one previously described mutation. Muscle biopsies from two SPG7 mutation patients did not show any histological evidence of an oxidative phosphorylation defect. However, biochemical analysis revealed a reduction in citrate synthase-corrected complex I and complex II/III activities in muscle and complex I activity in mitochondrial-enriched fractions from cultured myoblasts, suggesting that either a primary or a secondary defect of respiratory chain function may play an important role in the pathogenesis of the disease.
Commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kits are commonly used to assess levels of proinflammatory cytokines in biological samples. Most of these kits require sample volumes of at least 50 microl. Thus, in order to examine multiple cytokines, volumes greater than 100 microl must be collected. However, the volume of many biological samples, especially those collected from the central nervous system (i.e., microdialysates, push-pull perfusions, or cerebrospinal fluid samples), is much less than 100 microl. Therefore, we developed a method for analyzing multiple cytokines from a single, low-volume biological sample, which involves serially assaying the samples on multiple proinflammatory cytokine ELISA kits. In many cases, assaying for one cytokine does not interfere with subsequent assay for another cytokine in the same sample. Moreover, when interference is observed, the interfering factor can be identified and its effect minimized.
Infections with bacterial pathogens can induce increased anxiety-like behaviors in rodents without otherwise noticeable behavioral or physiological symptoms of sickness, as shown with the food-borne pathogen Campylobacter jejuni. This observation implicates the ability of the brain to sense, and respond to, such an infection. We tested our hypothesis that intestinal infection with the gram-negative bacterium C. jejuni leads to activation of certain brain regions that process gastro-intestinal sensory information. The induction of c-Fos protein as a marker for neuronal activation was assessed in the brains of mice inoculated orally with live C. jejuni, as compared to saline-treated controls. Upon colonization of the intestines, C. jejuni activated visceral sensory nuclei in the brainstem (the nucleus of the solitary tract and the lateral parabrachial nucleus) both one and two days after the oral challenge. In addition, increased c-Fos expression occurred in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus on the second day. This neural response occurred in the absence of measurable systemic immune activation, as serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and interleukin-6 were undetectable and/or unchanged. These findings support the notion that information about infection with C. jejuni in the gut is indeed relayed to the visceral sensory structures in the brain. The brain responses observed could contribute to changes in behavior observed after infection.

Broca's region in the dominant cerebral hemisphere is known to mediate the production of language but also contributes to comprehension. This region evolved only in humans and is constituted of Brodmann's areas 44 and 45 in the inferior frontal gyrus. There is, however, evidence that Broca's region overlaps, at least in part, with the ventral premotor cortex. We summarize the evidence that the motor related part of Broca's area is localized in the opercular portion of the inferior frontal cortex, mainly in area 44 of Brodmann. According to our own data, there seems to be a homology between Brodmann area 44 in humans and the monkey area F5. The non-language related motor functions of Broca's region comprise complex hand movements, associative sensorimotor learning and sensorimotor integration. Brodmann's area 44 is also a part of a specialized parieto-premotor network and interacts significantly with the neighboring premotor areas.
There are two significant problems in using functional neuroimaging methods to study language. Improving the state of functional brain imaging will depend on understanding how the dependent measure of brain imaging differs from behavioral dependent measures (the &quot;dependent measure problem&quot;) and how the activation of the motor system may be confounded with non-motor aspects of processing in certain experimental designs (the &quot;motor output problem&quot;). To address these problems, it may be necessary to shift the focus of language research from the study of linguistic competence to the understanding of language use. This will require investigations of language processing in full multi-modal and environmental context, monitoring of natural behaviors, novel experimental design, and network-based analysis. Such a combined naturalistic approach could lead to tremendous new insights into language and the brain.
In this paper we report the results of an experiment in which subjects read syntactically unambiguous and ambiguous sentences which were disambiguated after several words to the less likely possibility. Understanding such sentences involves building an initial structure, inhibiting the non-preferred structure, detecting that later input is incompatible with the initial structure, and reactivating the alternative structure. The ambiguous sentences activated four areas more than the unambiguous sentences. These areas are the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), the right basal ganglia (BG), the right posterior dorsal cerebellum (CB) and the left median superior frontal gyrus (SFG). The left IFG is normally activated when syntactic processing complexity is increased and probably supports that function in the current study as well. We discuss four hypotheses concerning how these areas may support comprehension of syntactically ambiguous sentences. (1) The left IFG, right CB and BG could support articulatory rehearsal used to support the processing of ambiguous sentences. This seems unlikely since the activation pattern associated with articulatory rehearsal in other studies is not similar to that seen here. (2) The CB acts as an error detector in motor processing. Error detection is important for recognizing that the wrong sentence structure has been chosen initially. (3) The BG acts to select and sequence movements in the motor domain and in cognitive domains may serve to inhibit competing and completed plans which is not unlike inhibiting the initially non-preferred structure or &quot;unchoosing&quot; the initial choice when incompatible syntactic input is received. (4) The left median SFG is relevant for the evaluation of plausibility. Evaluating the plausibility of the two possibilities provides an important basis for choosing between them. The notion of the use of domain general cognitive processes to support a linguistic process is in line with recent suggestions that the a given area may subserve a specific cognitive task because it carries out an appropriate sort of computation rather than because it supports a specific cognitive domain.
Fourteen native speakers of German heard normal sentences, sentences which were either lacking dynamic pitch variation (flattened speech), or comprised of intonation contour exclusively (degraded speech). Participants were to listen carefully to the sentences and to perform a rehearsal task. Passive listening to flattened speech compared to normal speech produced strong brain responses in right cortical areas, particularly in the posterior superior temporal gyrus (pSTG). Passive listening to degraded speech compared to either normal or flattened speech particularly involved fronto-opercular and subcortical (Putamen, Caudate Nucleus) regions bilaterally. Additionally the Rolandic operculum (premotor cortex) in the right hemisphere subserved processing of neat sentence intonation. As a function of explicit rehearsing sentence intonation we found several activation foci in the left inferior frontal gyrus (Broca's area), the left inferior precentral sulcus, and the left Rolandic fissure. The data allow several suggestions: First, both flattened and degraded speech evoked differential brain responses in the pSTG, particularly in the planum temporale (PT) bilaterally indicating that this region mediates integration of slowly and rapidly changing acoustic cues during comprehension of spoken language. Second, the bilateral circuit active whilst participants receive degraded speech reflects general effort allocation. Third, the differential finding for passive perception and explicit rehearsal of intonation contour suggests a right fronto-lateral network for processing and a left fronto-lateral network for producing prosodic information. Finally, it appears that brain areas which subserve speech (frontal operculum) and premotor functions (Rolandic operculum) coincidently support the processing of intonation contour in spoken sentence comprehension.
Spoken language comprehension requires the coordination of different subprocesses in time. After the initial acoustic analysis the system has to extract segmental information such as phonemes, syntactic elements and lexical-semantic elements as well as suprasegmental information such as accentuation and intonational phrases, i.e., prosody. According to the dynamic dual pathway model of auditory language comprehension syntactic and semantic information are primarily processed in a left hemispheric temporo-frontal pathway including separate circuits for syntactic and semantic information whereas sentence level prosody is processed in a right hemispheric temporo-frontal pathway. The relative lateralization of these functions occurs as a result of stimulus properties and processing demands. The observed interaction between syntactic and prosodic information during auditory sentence comprehension is attributed to dynamic interactions between the two hemispheres.




Injured nerves regenerate their axons in the peripheral (PNS) but not the central nervous system (CNS). The contrasting capacities have been attributed to the growth permissive Schwann cells in the PNS and the growth inhibitory environment of the oligodendrocytes in the CNS. In the current review, we first contrast the robust regenerative response of injured PNS neurons with the weak response of the CNS neurons, and the capacity of Schwann cells and not the oligodendrocytes to support axonal regeneration. We then consider the factors that limit axonal regeneration in both the PNS and CNS. Limiting factors in the PNS include slow regeneration of axons across the injury site, progressive decline in the regenerative capacity of axotomized neurons (chronic axotomy) and progressive failure of denervated Schwann cells to support axonal regeneration (chronic denervation). In the CNS on the other hand, it is the poor regenerative response of neurons, the inhibitory proteins that are expressed by oligodendrocytes and act via a common receptor on CNS neurons, and the formation of the glial scar that prevent axonal regeneration in the CNS. Strategies to overcome these limitations in the PNS are considered in detail and contrasted with strategies in the CNS.

Gap junctions form channels between adjacent cells. The core proteins of these channels are the connexins. Regulation of gap junction communication (GJC) can be modulated by connexin-associating proteins, such as regulatory protein phosphatases and protein kinases, of which c-Src is the best-studied. Structural proteins, notably zona occludens-1 (ZO-1) and microtubules, have been found recently at gap junctions. Along with the expansion of the list of connexin-associating proteins, reports have appeared that suggest that connexins might have additional roles in addition to their channel function, such as transcriptional and cytoskeletal regulation. Here, gap junction interacting proteins are reviewed and their function is addressed. The striking similarity of proteins present at the cytoplasmic face of tight junctions, adherens junctions and gap junctions and their possible role in gene transcription and cytoskeletal anchorage is highlighted.
The expression in microglia of two K+ channel populations, inwardly- and delayed outwardly rectifying channels (Kir, Kdr), is under the control of a variety of signals among which inflammatory and immunomodulatory agents. This makes K+ channels good candidates for the control of cell activities and for their adaptation to the changes of the functional state of the cell. Here we investigated on the role played by Kir channels in the control of cytoplasmic Ca2+ movements. In particular, we focused on those linked to nucleotide receptors, which are known to regulate a variety of functions in microglia. By a Fura-2-based video-imaging approach we recorded Ca2+ transients induced by P2 activation. These were composed of an initial peak, mainly due to release from endoplasmic reticulum, and of a long lasting plateau linked to Ca2+ influx through cation non-selective and capacitative channels. In patch-clamp experiments, we observed that Ba2+ (1-100 microM) could inhibit Kir current, but was not effective on Kdr and ATP-induced K+ current. By using Ba2+ as a specific blocker of Kir channels, we found that their inhibition caused a decrease of the Ca2+ level, especially at the end of the 20s long agonist application period. The effect of Ba2+ was mimicked by high K(+)-induced depolarization. We conclude that Kir channels contribute to modulate the amplitude and time course of the ATP-induced Ca2+ transient through the control of membrane potential. We suggest that microglial cells adapt signal transduction mechanisms to the changes of their functional state also by varying the expression and modulating the activity of inwardly rectifying K+ channels.
To estimate the prevalence of tension-type headache, migraine and other headaches, 1850 schoolchildren, age 7-15 years, from the city of Uppsala, were invited to complete a questionnaire. The response rate was 74.1%. To validate the information from the questionnaires, 131 children and their parents were interviewed. Using the criteria of the International Headache Society, the 1-year prevalence of tension-type headache and migraine was 9.8 and 11.0%, respectively. However, these prevalence rates increased considerably, to 23.0 and 17.0%, respectively, when excluding the criteria defining the number of earlier episodes and duration of headache. The prevalence of headache increased with age, similarly in girls and boys up to 11 years, and thereafter only in girls. The preponderance in teenage girls was even more pronounced for tension-type headache than for migraine. Our results indicate an increase over time in headache prevalence when compared with findings in a study conducted in the same city in 1955.
The aim of this study was to examine the prevalence of headache and primary headache disorders like migraine and tension-type headaches among adolescents, and to explore the differences in headache prevalence and frequency by gender and age. This cross-sectional study was conducted in Nord-Trndelag county, Norway, during the years 1995-97. In total, 8984 (88%) out of 10 202 invited adolescents aged 12-19 years participated in the youth part of the Nord-Trndelag Health Study [Helseunderskelsen i Nord-Trndelag (HUNT)]. The total study population in this study consisted of 8255 individuals after exclusion of invalid questionnaires and students outside the target range of 13-18 years of age. The students completed a comprehensive questionnaire, and one of the questions was whether the students had experienced any headaches during the last 12 months. In addition, 5847 of these students were also subject to an interview in which they were asked whether they had experienced recurring headaches during the last year and, if so, were they classified as migraine (MI), tension-type headache (TTH) or non-classifiable headache. In the total questionnaire-based population, 76.8% reported having had headaches during the last 12 months (69.4% boys and 84.2% girls). Among those who also were interviewed, 29.1% reported having recurrent headaches (21.0% boys and 36.5% girls). The overall 1-year prevalence of migraine was 7%, of tension-type headache 18%, and of non-classifiable headache 4.8%. Higher prevalence rates were found for girls in all age groups and for all headache categories. The overall frequency of recurrent headaches did not vary significantly with age, but girls had significantly more frequent headaches than boys. We concluded that headache in general, and recurrent primary headache disorders like migraine and tension-type headaches, are common somatic complaints among Norwegian adolescents, especially among girls.
We studied the duration of migraine attacks among children and adolescents who reported headache attacks lasting &lt;2 h. Among the 720 children who attended our specialist headache clinic, over a period of 6 years, 231 children had migraine with or without aura fulfilling the International Headache Society (IHS) criteria for the diagnosis of migraine. A further 15 children reported headache attacks typical of migraine, but of duration &lt;2 h. They were asked to fill prospective headache diaries in order to determine with accuracy the duration of their headache attacks. Ten (67%) of these children provided prospective fully analysable headache diaries and recorded a total of 120 headache attacks, 66 attacks (55%) lasting for &lt;1 h each, 30 attacks (25%) lasting between 1 and 2 h, and 24 attacks (20%) lasting &gt;2 h. Patient-based analysis of the headache diaries showed that only three children consistently had headache attacks lasting &lt;1 h. Seven children had some of their headache attacks lasting for at least 1 h and four had some of their headache attacks lasting at least 2 h. This study shows that headache attacks in children with migraine can be variable, and brief attacks are rare. A combination of short (&lt;1 h) and long (&gt;2 h) attacks of headache can coexist in the same patient. The IHS diagnostic criteria of 1988 for migraine in children should therefore acknowledge such variation and allow reduction of the duration of migraine attacks to 1 h.
SNAT1 mediates glutamine (Gln) influx into neurons and is believed to replenish the transmitters pools of glutamate (Glu) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). We investigated its distribution and cellular localization in the cerebral cortex and neighboring regions of rats and humans using light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical methods with specific antibodies. In the first somatic sensory cortex of rats and in areas 9, 10, 21 and 46 of the human cortex, numerous SNAT1-positive (+) cells were present in the cortical parenchyma and in the white matter; &gt;95% of SNAT1+ cells were neurons, but some were astrocytes. Most SNAT1+ cells were pyramidal neurons, but numerous non-pyramidal neurons were also observed: SNAT1/GABA double-labeling studies showed that SNAT1 is expressed in all GABA+ neurons. SNAT1/synaptophysin studies showed that &lt;0.1% of all synaptophysin+ puncta coexpressed SNAT1. SNAT1 immunoreactivity (ir) was also in leptomeninges, ependymal cells and choroid plexus. Electron microscopic studies showed that neuronal SNAT1 ir was almost exclusively observed in perikarya and dendritic profiles. SNAT1 ir was also in distal astrocytic processes, including end feet profiles, and in leptomeninges. These findings suggest that the major function of SNAT1 is not to replenish the transmitter pools of Glu and GABA.
Neurons in the monkey dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) fire persistently during the delay period of working memory tasks. To determine how repetitive firing affects the efficacy of synaptic inputs to DLPFC layer 3 neurons, we examined the effects of repetitive presynaptic stimulation on the amplitude and temporal summation of EPSPs. Recordings were obtained in monkey DLPFC brain slices from regular spiking (RS) pyramidal cells and two types of interneurons, fast spiking (FS) and adapting non-pyramidal (ANP) cells. Repetitive stimulation of presynaptic axons in layer 3 caused EPSP depression in RS and FS neurons, but EPSP facilitation in ANP cells. A shorter EPSP duration produced weaker temporal summation in FS neurons compared to the other cell classes. Thus, due to the combined effects of dynamic changes in EPSP amplitude and differences in temporal summation, the effect of a presynaptic spike train differed according to the postsynaptic cell class. Similar results were obtained when recording unitary EPSPs evoked in connected pairs of presynaptic RS pyramidal cells and postsynaptic RS, FS or ANP neurons. In addition, similar differences in the efficacy of sustained inputs among cell classes were observed when delay-related firing was reproduced in vitro by stimulating inputs with the timing of spike trains recorded from the DLPFC of monkeys performing a delayed-response task. We suggest that the transition from baseline firing rates to higher frequency delay-related firing may lead to the differential activation of distinct cell populations, with corresponding significant effects on the patterns of activity in local prefrontal circuits.
The study aimed to identify task-related brain activation networks whose change in expression exhibits subject differences as a function of differential susceptibility to sleep deprivation. Brain activity during a non-verbal recognition memory task was investigated in an event-related functional MRI paradigm both prior to and after 48 h of sleep deprivation. Nineteen healthy subjects participated. Regional covariance analysis was applied to data. An activation network pattern was identified whose expression decreased from pre- to post-sleep deprivation in 15 out 19 subjects (P &lt; 0.05). Differential decrease in expression correlated with worsening performance in recognition accuracy (P &lt; 0.05). Sites of de-activation were found in the posterior cerebellum, right fusiform gyrus and precuneus, and left lingual and inferior temporal gyri; increased activation was found in the bilateral insula, claustrum and right putamen. A network whose expression decreased after sleep deprivation and correlated with memory performance was identified. We conclude that this activation network plays a role in cognitive function during sleep deprivation.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) provide a critical link between the hemodynamic response, as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging, and the dynamics of the underlying neuronal activity. Single-trial ERP recordings capture the oscillatory activity that are hypothesized to underlie both communication between brain regions and amplified processing of behaviorally relevant stimuli. However, precise interpretations of ERPs are precluded by uncertainty about their neural mechanisms. One influential theory holds that averaged sensory ERPs are generated by partial phase resetting of ongoing electroencephalographic oscillations, while another states that ERPs result from stimulus-evoked neural responses. We formulated critical predictions of each theory and tested these using direct, intracortical analyses of neural activity in monkeys. Our findings support a predominant role for stimulus-evoked activity in sensory ERP generation, and they outline both logic and methodology necessary for differentiating evoked and phase resetting contributions to cognitive and motor ERPs in future studies.
A significant problem faced by pharmaceutical companies today is the failure of lead compounds in the later stages of development due to unexpected toxicities. We have used two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry to identify a proteomic signature associated with hepatocellular steatosis in rats after dosing with a compound in preclinical development. Liver toxicity was monitored over a 5 day dosing regime using blood biochemical parameter measurements and histopathological analysis. As early as 6 h postdosing, livers showed hepatocellular vacuolation, which increased in extent and severity over the course of the study. Alterations in plasma glucose, alanine aminotransferase, and aspartate aminotransferase were not detected until the third day of dosing and changed in magnitude up to the final day. The proteomic changes were observed at the earliest time point, and many of these could be associated with known toxicological mechanisms involved in liver steatosis. This included up-regulation of pyruvate dehydrogenase, phenylalanine hydroxylase, and 2-oxoisovalerate dehydrogenase, which are involved in acetyl-CoA production, and down-regulation of sulfite oxidase, which could play a role in triglyceride accumulation. In addition, down-regulation of the chaperone-like protein, glucose-regulated protein 78, was consistent with the decreased expression of the secretory proteins serum paraoxonase, serum albumin, and peroxiredoxin IV. The correlation of these protein changes with the clinical and histological data and their occurrence before the onset of the biochemical changes suggest that they could serve as predictive biomarkers of compounds with a propensity to induce liver steatosis.
The vomeronasal (VN) systems of rodents and opossums are of the segregated type, i.e alpha-subtype G protein Gi2- or Go-expressing VN neurons, which are sensory cells, project discretely to the rostral or caudal region of the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB). Although this zone-specific projection is believed to be a common feature for processing pheromones in mammals, we previously found a uniform-type VN system in goat in which only Gi2-expressing VN axons terminate at the AOB. In most mammals, it remains unclear whether their VN systems are of the segregated or uniform type. Therefore, we investigated morphologically the VN systems of different mammalian species (dog, horse, musk shrew and common marmoset). Consequently, all VN axons of the examined animals were positively stained with immunohistochemistry for Gi2 in the same way as that in the goat. On the other hand, we observed immunoreactivities against Go in the olfactory axons, but not in the VN axons. These results suggest that many mammals have uniform-type VN systems, and at least two types of VN systems exist in terrestrial mammals. This morphological evidence will help us determine the processing function of VN systems.
Taste aversion studies have demonstrated that rats conditioned to avoid monosodium glutamate (MSG) with amiloride added to reduce the intensity of the sodium component of MSG taste, generalize this aversion to aspartic acid and to L-AP4, but not to ionotropic glutamate receptor agonists. That is, MSG, L-AP4 and aspartate have similar tastes to rats. However, conditioned taste aversion methods are unable to show to what extent the tastes of two substances are different. If two substances activate the same afferent processes (e.g. taste receptors), they are likely to produce the same tastes, but if they activate different afferent processes, the subject may detect differences between the tastes of the substances. In this study, rats were tested to determine if they could discriminate between the tastes of these agonists and MSG. We also established the detection thresholds for NMDA, aspartic acid and L-AP4, with and without amiloride (a sodium channel antagonist). Taste threshold values were 1-4 mM for NMDA and aspartic acid and 0.5-2.5 microM for L-AP4. None were affected by 30 micro M amiloride. Rats could readily distinguish between the tastes of MSG and NMDA but they had difficulty discriminating between the tastes of aspartic acid and MSG. Rats could also easily distinguish between 10-100 mM MSG and 0.01-5 mM L-AP4. However, in two separate experiments error rates increased significantly when L-AP4 concentrations were between 10-100 mM, indicating that the tastes of L-AP4 and MSG were similar at these concentrations.
The relation between morningness (M) - eveningness (E) and lifestyle regularity was studied in a convenience sample of 100 healthy subjects aged between 20 and 59 yrs (47 males and 53 females; mean age 33.6 yrs). Morningness-eveningness was measured by a single administration of the 13-item Composite Scale for Morningness (CSM). Lifestyle regularity was measured by requiring subjects to complete a five-item Social Rhythm Metric diary (SRM-5) each evening for two weeks. Each week of SRM-5 was analyzed separately and the two SRM scores averaged to yield the lifestyle regularity measure for the subject. Subjects were categorized by morningness into top and bottom quartiles of CSM score (denoted M-types and E-types, respectively), with the remaining 50% of subjects denoted as intermediate (I-types). Mean SRM scores significantly differed between the three morningness groups (p &lt;0.001) in the order E-types (SRM = 3.6), then I-types (SRM=4.0), then M-types (SRM=4.9), with higher scores indicating greater daily lifestyle regularity. The effect size of the E-type versus M-type difference was approximately 1.3. The relationship between the CSM and SRM scores was also confirmed using a correlational analysis (rho = 0.428; p &lt; 0.001). This correlational finding was substantially weaker when age was partialed out (r=0.186; p=0.065), although there was still a trend toward a significan relationship. Thus it appears that morning types appear to be more regular in their daily lifestyle than are evening types, suggesting a relationship between these two aspects of human circadian behavior.





People with vision loss sometimes experience visual hallucinations associated with Charles Bonnet syndrome. The appearance of these hallucinations often causes anxiety for the sufferer and can be difficult for the attending eye care professional to manage. A review of the literature highlighted a range of visual, pharmacological and social management regimes that may alleviate these hallucinations, albeit using small samples in uncontrolled trials. Eye care practitioners should be aware of methods of rehabilitation in Charles Bonnet syndrome that may lead to resolution of the visual hallucinations.
Until recently, the only established function of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was the termination of cholinergic neurotransmission. Therefore, the use of AChE inhibitors to treat symptoms caused by cholinergic imbalances in Alzheimer disease (AD) represented a rational approach. However, it is now clear that AChE and the cholinergic system may have broader effects in AD. Of particular interest may be signal transduction pathways mediated through cholinergic receptors that promote nonamyloidogenic amyloid precursor protein processing and decrease tau phosphorylation, and the role of AChE in the aggregation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide. In addition, the neuronal and nonneuronal cholinergic systems have important roles in the modulation of regional cerebral blood flow. These findings may modify the overly simplistic cholinergic hypothesis in AD that is limited to symptomatic treatment and ignores the potential of cholinergic therapies as disease-modifying agents. Chronic increases in AChE activity may exacerbate neurodegenerative processes, make clinically relevant levels of AChE inhibition more difficult to achieve, and cause the therapeutic value of cholinesterase inhibitors (ChE-Is) to be limited and temporary. Rapidly reversible ChE-Is appear to increase AChE activity over the longer term whereas, remarkably, irreversible or very slowly reversible ChE-Is do not seem to have this effect. If such differences between ChE-Is are shown to have clinical correlates, this may prompt reconsideration of the rationale and expectations of some agents in the long-term management of AD.





There is a lack of data about the practice effect and test-retest reliability (TRR) on many attentional and executive tests in neuropsychology. In this study, 37 subjects aged 52 to 80 were tested three times with an inter-assessment interval of 14 days. The battery included the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test, the Stroop interference test, the Letter-Number Sequencing test, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III (WAIS-III), the Ruff 2 and 7 Selective Attention Test, the Tower of London, the Verbal Fluency test, and simple, choice, and sequential reaction time tests. The results showed that tasks were generally subject to a practice effect, except for those with alternate forms. In all tests, there were a number of scores demonstrating good TRR, but others, although largely used in clinical practice, failed to reach acceptable TRR standards. Usually, time derived scores were associated with the best TRR.

The structure of the brain and the nature of evolution suggest that, despite its uniqueness, language likely depends on brain systems that also subserve other functions. The declarative/procedural (DP) model claims that the mental lexicon of memorized word-specific knowledge depends on the largely temporal-lobe substrates of declarative memory, which underlies the storage and use of knowledge of facts and events. The mental grammar, which subserves the rule-governed combination of lexical items into complex representations, depends on a distinct neural system. This system, which is composed of a network of specific frontal, basal-ganglia, parietal and cerebellar structures, underlies procedural memory, which supports the learning and execution of motor and cognitive skills, especially those involving sequences. The functions of the two brain systems, together with their anatomical, physiological and biochemical substrates, lead to specific claims and predictions regarding their roles in language. These predictions are compared with those of other neurocognitive models of language. Empirical evidence is presented from neuroimaging studies of normal language processing, and from developmental and adult-onset disorders. It is argued that this evidence supports the DP model. It is additionally proposed that &quot;language&quot; disorders, such as specific language impairment and non-fluent and fluent aphasia, may be profitably viewed as impairments primarily affecting one or the other brain system. Overall, the data suggest a new neurocognitive framework for the study of lexicon and grammar.
Using both the lesion method and functional imaging (positron emission tomography) in large cohorts of subjects investigated with the same experimental tasks, we tested the following hypotheses: (A) that the retrieval of words which denote concrete entities belonging to distinct conceptual categories depends upon partially segregated regions in higher-order cortices of the left temporal lobe; and (B) that the retrieval of conceptual knowledge pertaining to the same concrete entities also depends on partially segregated regions; however, those regions will be different from those postulated in hypothesis A, and located predominantly in the right hemisphere (the second hypothesis tested only with the lesion method). The analyses provide support for hypothesis A in that several regions outside the classical Broca and Wernicke language areas are involved in name retrieval of concrete entities, and that there is a partial segregation in the temporal lobe with respect to the conceptual category to which the entities belong, and partial support for hypothesis B in that retrieval of conceptual knowledge is partially segregated from name retrieval in the lesion study. Those regions identified here are seen as parts of flexible, multi-component systems serving concept and word retrieval for concrete entities belonging to different conceptual categories. By comparing different approaches the article also addresses a number of method issues that have surfaced in recent studies in this field.
The cortical regions of the brain traditionally associated with the comprehension of language are Wernicke's area and Broca's area. However, recent evidence suggests that other brain regions might also be involved in this complex process. This paper describes the opportunity to evaluate a large number of brain-injured patients to determine which lesioned brain areas might affect language comprehension. Sixty-four chronic left hemisphere stroke patients were evaluated on 11 subtests of the Curtiss-Yamada Comprehensive Language Evaluation - Receptive (CYCLE-R; Curtiss, S., &amp; Yamada, J. (1988). Curtiss-Yamada Comprehensive Language Evaluation. Unpublished test, UCLA). Eight right hemisphere stroke patients and 15 neurologically normal older controls also participated. Patients were required to select a single line drawing from an array of three or four choices that best depicted the content of an auditorily-presented sentence. Patients' lesions obtained from structural neuroimaging were reconstructed onto templates and entered into a voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping (VLSM; Bates, E., Wilson, S., Saygin, A. P., Dick, F., Sereno, M., Knight, R. T., &amp; Dronkers, N. F. (2003). Voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping. Nature Neuroscience, 6(5), 448-450.) analysis along with the behavioral data. VLSM is a brain-behavior mapping technique that evaluates the relationships between areas of injury and behavioral performance in all patients on a voxel-by-voxel basis, similar to the analysis of functional neuroimaging data. Results indicated that lesions to five left hemisphere brain regions affected performance on the CYCLE-R, including the posterior middle temporal gyrus and underlying white matter, the anterior superior temporal gyrus, the superior temporal sulcus and angular gyrus, mid-frontal cortex in Brodmann's area 46, and Brodmann's area 47 of the inferior frontal gyrus. Lesions to Broca's and Wernicke's areas were not found to significantly alter language comprehension on this particular measure. Further analysis suggested that the middle temporal gyrus may be more important for comprehension at the word level, while the other regions may play a greater role at the level of the sentence. These results are consistent with those seen in recent functional neuroimaging studies and offer complementary data in the effort to understand the brain areas underlying language comprehension.
Activity of neuronal populations is usually measured with multielectrode systems. In this paper a procedure is described for estimating population activity changes in rat cerebellar cortex, using one microelectrode. Signals consisted of simple, complex spikes and interspike recorded background activity (RBA). After their separation, simple spikes were averaged, forming a simple spike template (SST). The remaining RBA was simulated (SBA), by superimposing SST waveforms with random time delays and intensities. A series of SBA was formed, differing in the superposition frequency (f(sup)) of individual SST. Mean amplitude spectra (Amp(SBA)) were calculated and Amp(SBA)=f(f(sup)) treated as a calibration line for estimating activity level of the surrounding neuronal population. Since the uniform probability distribution of SST intensities proved inadequate, we derived a new one, based on the power function for spike intensity vs. electrode distance attenuation. A family of new lines emerged, depending on the model parameters. Since all were linear in the log-log plots, with slopes not varying significantly, we proposed a method for estimating population activity changes in different experimental conditions, using two measured values of Amp(RBA). Relative nature of the results makes this method suitable for comparative studies.
Oxidative stress, linked to Abeta-lipid interactions, plays a pathogenetic role in Alzheimer's disease. We investigated modifications of lipid peroxidation products in plasma of 52 AD patients, 42 healthy controls and 16 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a neurodegenerative disease where oxidative stress also plays a pathogenetic role. Final lipid peroxidation products were measured in plasma by thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) assay before and after ex vivo oxidative stress catalysed by copper. There were no significant changes at basal conditions, but after copper-induced oxidation TBARS levels were higher in AD patients (19.0 microM +/- 2.2) versus both controls (5.2 microM +/- 0.8, p&lt;0.001) and ALS patients (7.6 microM +/- 2.1, p&lt;0.01). Stimulated TBARS levels were significantly higher in mild and moderate AD (p&lt;0.0001) with respect to controls, but not in severe AD patients, with a significant inverse correlation between disease severity and lipid peroxidation (p&lt;0.005, r2=0.21). Treatment of a subgroup (13) of mild and moderate AD patients with vitamin C and E for three months decreased plasma lipoperoxidation susceptibility by 60%. Thus, oxidative stress, expressed as ex vivo susceptibility to lipid peroxidation, appears to be an early phenomenon, probably related to AD pathogenetic mechanisms.
Behavioral tasks must be evaluated in terms of the cognitive functions they require in order to be performed. All of the tasks described in this chapter can be used with each of four experimental manipulations: stimulation of a single brain region by drugs or small electrical current, impairment of normal function by production of a lesion or administration of appropriate pharmacological agents, recording of brain activity during the performance of a specific behavioral task, or behavioral phenotyping of transgenic and knockout mice for genes expressed in specific brain regions. This unit describes protocols for the radial arm maze task and the water maze task, both of which require intact spatial memory abilities.
Animal tests of anxiety are used to screen novel compounds for anxiolytic or anxiogenic activity, to investigate the neurobiology of anxiety, and to assess the impact of other occurrences such as exposure to predator odors or early rearing experiences. This unit presents protocols for the most commonly used animal tests of anxiety. The Geller-Seifter conflict test, the social interaction test, light/dark exploration, the elevated plus-maze, defensive burying, and the thirsty rat conflict. The protocols are described in terms of drug screening tests, but can be modified easily for other purposes.
Patch clamping refers to a wide range of electrophysiological measurements, all of which have in common the use of patch pipets and the formation of gigaohm seals. The purpose of this unit is to describe the fabrication of patch pipets. The aspects of the pipet geometry that are important to different applications and the different procedures that have been found to most reliably and simply achieve these results are described. Parameters for glass selection are detailed in the beginning of the unit. Pulling patch and whole-cell pipets, elastomer coating, fire polishing, pipet filling, and pipet testing in an experimental setup are highlighted. Additional support protocols describe alternative ways to optimize pipet geometry and cleaning the glass before pulling. Considerations for noise and dynamic performance are emphasized as these two requirements for single-channel and whole-cell current measurements dictate how the pipets must be fabricated.
In culture, hippocampal cells can develop to express neuronal antigens and acquire mature neuronal morphologies, including axons, complex dendritic trees, and synapses that are electrophysiologically active. This system is suitable for studying neuronal differentiation and other events, such as synaptogenesis. It is also a valuable model for investigating synaptic plasticity and exploring the mechanisms of neuronal degeneration. This unit provides a protocol for culturing neurons prepared from embryonic (E-18) rat or mouse hippocampus, but could also be used to grow neurons from embryonic cortex, olfactory bulb, striatum, or spinal cord. A second method is included for preparing neuronal cultures from embryos with different genotypes, such as those from transgenic mice. Also described is the preparation of polyornithine- and fibronectin-coated coverslips, which are highly adhesive and promote neurite outgrowth, for use in the culture protocols.
Many physiological studies require microscopic examination of the recorded neuron for identification. This unit describes how intracellular and extracellular recording can be combined with single-neuron staining to enable sequential physiological and morphological studies.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) is implicated in some developmental processes, including neuronal survival, differentiation, and precursor proliferation. To define the roles of nNOS in neuronal development, we utilized the olfactory system as a model. We hypothesized that the role of nNOS may be influenced by its localization. nNOS expression was developmentally regulated in the olfactory system. During early postnatal development, nNOS was expressed in developing neurons in the olfactory epithelium (OE), while in the adult its expression was restricted to periglomerular (PG) cells in the olfactory bulb (OB). At postnatal week 1 (P1W), loss of nNOS due to targeted gene deletion resulted in a decrease in immature neurons in the OE due to decreased proliferation of neuronal precursors. While the pool of neuronal precursors and neurogenesis normalized in the nNOS null mouse by P6W, there was an overgrowth of mitral or tufted cells dendrites and a decreased number of active synapses in the OB. Cyclic GMP (cGMP) immunostaining was reduced in the OE and in the glomeruli of the OB at early postnatal and adult ages, respectively. Our results suggest that nNOS appears necessary for neurogenesis in the OE during early postnatal development and for glomerular organization in the OB in the adult. Thus, the location of nNOS, either within cell bodies or perisynaptically, may influence its developmental role.
Mitf (gene for microphthalmia-associated transcription factor) encodes a transcription factor of the basic/helix-loop-helix/leucine-zipper family and is a key regulator during the development of two different types of melanin-producing cell lineages, namely neural crest-derived melanocytes/melanophores, and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) differentiated from the outer layer of the eye cup. Mitf-deficient mice show a lack of melanocytes and small eyes caused by abnormal RPE development. An interesting feature of Mitf is the existence of multiple isoforms with different amino termini and their functions in the development of these melanin-producing pigment cells. In this study, we isolated two Mitf homologues (XlMitfalpha and XlMitfbeta) and their isoforms from Xenopus laevis. Alignment analysis of the amino acid sequences of the N-termini suggests that these isoforms are homologues of mouse Mitf-M (expressed specifically in the melanocyte lineage) and Mitf-A (strongly expressed in the RPE, although this expression is ubiquitous). In Xenopus, XlMitfalpha is strongly expressed in the melanophore lineage (especially in premigratory melanoblasts) and the presumptive RPE and the epiphysis, in which melanin-producing cells differentiate in some vertebrates. Conservation of the Mitf isoforms expected to possess specific functions in the development of melanin-producing cells and of the expressions in such cell types in Xenopus suggest that XlMitf plays a central role in the development of melanin-producing cell lineages, and that, as in mice and humans, most of the signaling molecules or transcription factors implicated genetically in the development of melanin-producing cell lineages affect either Mitf expression or its function (Goding [2000] Genes Dev. 14:1712-1728).
Short- and long-term effects of brief maternal separation, maternal exposure to novel male odor, and standard rearing were compared in NMRI mice. The first condition consisted of 15 min of daily exposure of pups to clean bedding (CB), and the second condition consisted of 15 min of mothers' exposure to the odor of strange males (SM), for 14 days after birth starting from postnatal Day 1. Thus, both conditions entailed the same period of maternal separation. A control mother-offspring group was left undisturbed (nonhandled, N-H). Corticosterone levels of mothers and pups were measured at the end of the last manipulation session. Corticosterone levels were higher in SM mothers, differing from both those of CB and of control dams; CB pups showed the highest corticosterone levels in comparison with the pups belonging to the other groups. Maternal behavior observed as furthest as possible from the daily separation session did not differ among the three groups. The behavioral response to 0.5 mg/kg of apomorphine in 15-day-old pups was enhanced in both CB and SM animals, which suggests an alteration of dopaminergic functioning. Finally, adult CB and SM male mice showed an increase in the percentage of time and entries into the open arms of the plus-maze in comparison to nonhandled males. This study indicates that exposure to ecologically relevant stimuli elicited a stress response in lactating dams. This &quot;social stress&quot; brings about short- and long-term effects in the offspring, even in the absence of any direct manipulation of the pups.
In vertebrate embryos, streams of cranial neural crest (CNC) cells migrate to form segmental pharyngeal arches and differentiate into segment-specific parts of the facial skeleton. To identify genes involved in specifying segmental identity in the vertebrate head, we screened for mutations affecting cartilage patterning in the zebrafish larval pharynx. We present the positional cloning and initial phenotypic characterization of a homeotic locus discovered in this screen. We show that a zebrafish ortholog of the human oncogenic histone acetyltransferase MOZ (monocytic leukemia zinc finger) is required for specifying segmental identity in the second through fourth pharyngeal arches. In moz mutant zebrafish, the second pharyngeal arch is dramatically transformed into a mirror-image duplicated jaw. This phenotype resembles a similar but stronger transformation than that seen in hox2 morpholino oligo (hox2-MO) injected animals. In addition, mild anterior homeotic transformations are seen in the third and fourth pharyngeal arches of moz mutants. moz is required for maintenance of most hox1-4 expression domains and this requirement probably at least partially accounts for the moz mutant homeotic phenotypes. Homeosis and defective Hox gene expression in moz mutants is rescued by inhibiting histone deacetylase activity with Trichostatin A. Although we find early patterning of the moz mutant hindbrain to be normal, we find a late defect in facial motoneuron migration in moz mutants. Pharyngeal musculature is transformed late, but not early, in moz mutants. We detect relatively minor defects in arch epithelia of moz mutants. Vital labeling of arch development reveals no detectable changes in CNC generation in moz mutants, but later prechondrogenic condensations are mispositioned and misshapen. Mirror-image hox2-dependent gene expression changes in postmigratory CNC prefigure the homeotic phenotype in moz mutants. Early second arch ventral expression of goosecoid (gsc) in moz mutants and in animals injected with hox2-MOs shifts from lateral to medial, mirroring the first arch pattern. bapx1, which is normally expressed in first arch postmigratory CNC prefiguring the jaw joint, is ectopically expressed in second arch CNC of moz mutants and hox2-MO injected animals. Reduction of bapx1 function in wild types causes loss of the jaw joint. Reduction of bapx1 function in moz mutants causes loss of both first and second arch joints, providing functional genetic evidence that bapx1 contributes to the moz-deficient homeotic pattern. Together, our results reveal an essential embryonic role and a crucial histone acetyltransferase activity for Moz in regulating Hox expression and segmental identity, and provide two early targets, bapx1 and gsc, of moz and hox2 signaling in the second pharyngeal arch.
Mutations in the gene parkin in humans (PARK2) are responsible for a large number of familial cases of autosomal-recessive Parkinson disease. We have isolated a Drosophila homolog of human PARK2 and characterized its expression and null phenotype. parkin null flies have 30% lower mass than wild-type controls which is in part accounted for by a reduced cell size and number. In addition, these flies are infertile, show significantly reduced longevity, and are unable to jump or fly. Rearing mutants on paraquat, which generates toxic free radicals in vivo, causes a further reduction in longevity. Furthermore, loss of parkin results in progressive degeneration of most indirect flight muscle (IFM) groups soon after eclosion, accompanied by apoptosis. However, parkin mutants have normal neuromuscular junction recordings during the third larval instar stage, suggesting that larval musculature is intact and that parkin is required only in pupal and adult muscle. parkin flies do not show an age-dependent dopaminergic neuron loss in the brain, even after aging adults for 3 weeks. Nevertheless, degeneration of IFMs demonstrates the importance of parkin in maintaining specific cell groups, perhaps those with a high-energy demand and the concomitant production of high levels of free radicals. parkin mutants will be a valuable model for future analysis of the mechanisms of cell and tissue degeneration.
Glucokinase (GK) is hypothesized to be the critical glucosensor of pancreatic beta-cells and hypothalamic glucosensing neurons. To understand the role of GK in glucoprivic counterregulatory responses, we injected alloxan, a GK inhibitor and toxin, into the third ventricle (3v) to target nearby GK-expressing neurons. Four and 6 days after 3v, but not 4v, alloxan injection, alloxan-treated rats ate only 30% and their blood glucose area under the curve was only 28% of saline controls' after systemic 2-deoxy-D-glucose. In addition, their hyperglycemic response to hindbrain glucoprivation induced with 5-thio-glucose was impaired, whereas fasting blood glucose levels and food intake after an overnight fast were elevated. These impaired responses were associated with the destruction of 3v tanycytes, reduced glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactivity surrounding the 3v, neuronal swelling, and decreased arcuate nucleus neuropeptide Y (NPY) mRNA. Nevertheless, hypothalamic GK mRNA was significantly elevated. Two weeks after alloxan injection, 3v tanycyte destruction was reversed along with restoration of feeding and hyperglycemic responses to both systemic and hindbrain glucoprivation. At this time there were significant decreases in GK, NPY, and proopiomelanocortin mRNA. Thus, neural substrates near and around the 3v affected by alloxan may be critically involved in the expression of these glucoprivic responses.
In the early 1990s, a new family of receptors were cloned that were found to mediate the intracellular metabolic effects of glutamate via coupling to secondary messenger systems, that is, the metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors. Eight such receptors (mGlu1 to mGlu8) have been cloned to date, and according to their amino acid sequence, pharmacology and second-messenger coupling, these receptors have been clustered into three groups (I-III). In contrast to the glutamate-gated ion channels (NMDA, AMPA and kainate receptors), which are responsible for fast excitatory transmission, mGlu receptors have been shown to play a modulatory role in the glutamatergic synaptic transmission either by modulating the ion channel activity or by influencing neurotransmitter release. Given the fact that the mGlu receptors are G-protein- coupled, they obviously constitute a new attractive group of &quot;drugable&quot; targets for the treatment of various CNS disorders. The recent discovery of small molecules that selectively bind to receptors of group I (mGlu1 and mGlu5) and group II (mGlu2 and mGlu3) allowed significant advances in our understanding of the roles of these receptors in brain physiology and pathophysiology. The identification of MPEP (2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine), a highly selective and brain-penetrant mGlu5 receptor antagonist, allowed the exploration of the therapeutic potential of this class of compounds. Subsequent behavior studies revealed that--with the exception of benzodiazepines--mGlu5 receptor antagonists exhibit the widest and most robust anxiolytic activity in preclinical models seen to date. Upcoming clinical studies will soon indicate if the preclinical anxiolytic-like efficacy translates into anxiolytic activity in humans.
Capillary electrophoresis (CE) has been established as powerful tool for single cell analysis. Newly developed sampling, separation and detection methods have allowed the investigation of single mammalian cells with CE despite their small size and complex composition. Advances in sample injection techniques include several novel methods for the injection of whole cells and sampling techniques for the study of cellular secretion. CE of single mammalian cells has been applied in a wide range of fields including protein analysis, neuroscience, and oncology. The development of new detection schemes in the analysis of single mammalian cells with CE has included studies of protein expression and the utilization of mass spectrometric and electrochemical detection. Subcellular mammalian cell analysis with CE also has been investigated.
The role of acetylcholine (ACh) as a key neurotransmitter in the central and peripheral nervous system is well established. However, the role of ACh may be broader because ACh may also function as an autocrine or paracrine signaling molecule in a variety of nonneuronal tissues. To begin to establish ACh of nonneuronal origin as a paracrine hormone in lung, we have examined neonatal and adult monkey bronchial epithelium for the components involved in nicotinic cholinergic signaling. Using immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR, we have demonstrated in lung bronchial epithelial cells (BECs) expression of choline acetyltransferase, the vesicular ACh transporter, the choline high-affinity transporter, alpha7, alpha4, and beta2 nicotinic ACh receptor (nAChR) subunits, and the nAChR accessory protein lynx1. Confocal microscopy demonstrates that these factors are expressed in epithelial cells and are clearly distinct from neighboring nerve fibers. Confirmation of RNA identity has been confirmed by partial sequence analysis of PCR products and by cDNA cloning. Primary culture of BECs confirms the synthesis and secretion of ACh and the activity of cholinesterases. Thus, ACh meets all the criteria for an autocrine/paracrine hormone in lung bronchial epithelium. The nonneuronal cholinergic signaling pathway in lung provides a potentially important target for cholinergic drugs. This pathway may also explain some of the effects of nicotine on fetal development and also provides additional mechanisms by which smoking affects lung cancer growth and development.
In rodents, the metallothionein (MT) family is composed of four members, MT-1 to MT-4. MT-1&amp;2 are expressed in virtually all tissues including those of the Central Nervous System (CNS), while MT-3 (also called Growth Inhibitory Factor) and MT-4 are expressed prominently in the brain and in keratinizing epithelia, respectively. For the understanding of the physiological functions of these proteins in the brain, the use of transgenic mice has provided essential information. Results obtained inMT-1&amp;2-null mice and in MT-1-overexpressing mice strongly suggeset that these MT isoforms are important antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic proteins in the brain. Results inMT-3-null mice show a very different pattern, with no support for MT-1&amp;2-like functions. Rather, MT-3 could be involved in neuronal sprouting and survival. Results obtained in a model of peripheral nervous system injury also suggest that MT-3 could be involved in the control of nerve growth.


Voltage-gated Na+ channels (VGSCs) are well known for mediating regenerative cell membrane depolarization and conduction of electrical signalling in nerves and muscles. However, VGSCs may also be expressed in traditionally &quot;non-excitable&quot; cell types, including lymphocytes, glia, fibroblasts and metastatic cancer cells of epithelial origin. Both the diversity and modulation of VGSC expression are far more complex than was initially apparent. There are at least 10 different genes that encode the alpha-subunits of VGSCs. Since VGSCs can contribute to a range of human disease conditions, it is important to understand both the control and consequences of VGSC functioning and how these aspects may be altered under pathophysiological conditions. Such mechanisms can be at the transcriptional, pre-translational or post-translational levels. This article reviews recent literature that has contributed to our understanding of how individual VGSC subtypes can generate their unique physiological signatures within different cell types. We also highlight emerging areas of interest, in particular, the finding of multiple expression of individual VGSC subtypes within single cells, the generation of alternative splice variants and the increasingly complex set of mechanisms of plasticity through which individual VGSC subtypes may be subtly controlled, including intracellular trafficking of VGSC protein.
Human glioblastoma cell cultures were established and the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and the gap-junction protein connexin 43 (Cx43) was confirmed by Western blot. Following treatment with 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PB), increased concentrations of non-phosphorylated GFAP were seen, while phosphorylated isoforms remained intact. Immunocytochemical staining of glioblastoma cells revealed an intracellular redistribution of GFAP. In addition to cytoplasmic immunostaining, GFAP immunoreactivity was also associated with the nucleus and/or the nuclear membrane. Phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated Cx43 proteins were increased 2- to 5-fold following 4-PB treatment, and were redistributed to areas of the cell surface, participating in cell-to-cell contacts. In addition, functional gap-junction coupling was amplified, as indicated by increased fluorescent dye transfer, and elevated levels of Cx43 protein were detected in parallel with enhanced gap-junction communication. Induced cell differentiation, with improved functional coupling of tumour cells, may be of importance for therapeutic strategies involving intercellular transport of low molecular-weight compounds.
Behavioural disturbances are frequently observed in Parkinson's disease (PD), including mood and anxiety disorders. The existence of a comorbidity between such psychiatric disorders in PD patients has been suggested only in a few studies. To assess the prevalence of mood and anxiety disturbances, and the rate of comorbidity of such disorders in PD. Secondary aim was to correlate the prevalence of psychiatric disorders in PD with age, sex, laterality of motor symptomatology, clinical features, severity of disease, age of onset and PD duration, and anti-parkinsonian therapy. Ninety consecutive PD outpatients, and 90 age- and sex-matched controls were included. All PD patients enrolled were non-fluctuating (21 de novo, 69 treated with levodopa or dopamine agonists). PD patients and controls with Mini Mental State Examination score &lt;23 were excluded. Psychiatric diagnosis was performed by semistructured interview according with DSM-IV criteria and the severity of depressive and anxious symptoms was rated with clinical rating scales. Major depression was found in 21.1% PD patients vs. 3.3% controls (P &lt; 0.01, chi-square analysis), dystimia in 18.8% PD patients vs. 4.4% controls (P &lt; 0.05), panic disorders in 30% PD patients vs. 5.5% controls (P &lt; 0.01). No difference in the prevalence of other anxiety disorders was observed between the two groups. The comorbidity of mood and anxiety disorders was found in 19.3% PD patients vs. 8.6% controls (P &lt; 0.01). No correlation was reported between the prevalence of behavioural disturbances and any of the demographic, clinical or pharmacological data taken into account. Our findings might suggest the existence of a wide spectrum of psychiatric disorders in PD ranging from pure depressive disorders, comorbid depressive and anxiety disorders, and pure anxiety disorders, presumably linked to the same neurobiological substrate.
A robust increase in dopaminergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell has been reported to be consistently associated with the long-term expression of behavioural sensitization to drugs of abuse. However, little is known about how this affects the neuronal network of the NAc. We made cellular recordings in NAc slices of saline- and amphetamine-pretreated adult rats and found that expression of behavioural sensitization was associated with long-lasting changes in the basal firing pattern of cholinergic interneurons up to 3 weeks after the last drug injection. Consequently, upon amphetamine sensitization, an inhibiting effect of the nicotinic receptor blocker mecamylamine on the amplitudes of spontaneous GABAergic synaptic currents as well as on the failure rate of electrically evoked GABAergic currents was found that was not present under control conditions. Thus, behavioural sensitization to amphetamine is associated with an up-regulation of the endogenous activation of nicotinic receptors that, in turn, stimulate the GABAergic synaptic transmission within the NAc shell. This is a new mechanism by which drugs of abuse may induce alterations in the processing and integration of NAc inputs involved in psychomotor sensitization.
Mutations in the amyloid precursor protein that result in substitutions of glutamic acid at residue 22 of the amyloid beta protein (A beta) with glutamine (Q22, Dutch) or glycine (G22, Arctic) cause aggressive familial neurological diseases characterized by cerebrovascular haemorrhages or Alzheimer's-type dementia, respectively. The present study compared the ability of these peptides to block long-term potentiation (LTP) of glutamatergic transmission in the hippocampus in vivo. The effects of intracerebroventricular injection of wild-type, Q22 and G22 A beta(1-40) peptides were examined in the CA1 area of urethane-anaesthetized rats. Both mutant peptides were approximately 100-fold more potent than wild-type A beta at inhibiting LTP induced by high-frequency stimulation when solutions of A beta were freshly prepared. Fibrillar material, as determined by electron microscopy, was obvious in all these peptide solutions and exhibited appreciable Congo Red binding, particularly for A beta(1-40)G22 and A beta(1-40)Q22. A soluble fraction of A beta(1-40)G22, obtained following high-speed centrifugation, retained full activity of the peptide solution to inhibit LTP, providing strong evidence that in the case of the Arctic disease a soluble nonfibrillar form of A beta may represent the primary mediator of A beta-related cognitive deficits, particularly early in the disease. In contrast, nonfibrillar soluble A beta(1-40)Q22 supernatant solution was approximately 10-fold less potent at inhibiting LTP than A beta(1-40)G22, a finding consistent with fibrillar A beta contributing to the inhibition of LTP by the Dutch peptide.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the anterior hypothalamus contains a light-entrainable circadian pacemaker. Neurons in the SCN are part of a circuit that conveys light information from retinal efferents to the pineal gland. Light presented during the night acutely increases mRNA levels of the circadian clock genes Per1 and Per2 in the SCN, and acutely suppresses melatonin levels in the pineal gland. The present study investigated whether the ability of light to increase Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels and suppress pineal melatonin levels requires sodium-dependent action potentials in the SCN. Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels in the SCN and pineal melatonin levels were measured in Syrian hamsters injected with tetrodotoxin (TTX) prior to light exposure or injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). TTX inhibited the ability of light to increase Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels and suppress pineal melatonin levels. TTX did not, however, influence the ability of NMDA to increase Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels, though it did inhibit the ability of NMDA to suppress pineal melatonin levels. These results demonstrate that action potentials in the SCN are not necessary for NMDA receptor activation to increase Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels, but are necessary for NMDA receptor activation to decrease pineal melatonin levels. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that the mechanism through which light information is conveyed to the pacemaker in the SCN is separate from and independent of the mechanism through which light information is conveyed to the SCN cells whose efferents suppress pineal melatonin levels.
Adenosine is an important regulator of neuronal excitability. Zaprinast is a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor, and has been shown in the hippocampal slice to suppress excitation. This action can be blocked by an adenosine receptor antagonist, and therefore is presumably due to adenosine release stimulated by exposure to zaprinast. To explore the mechanism of this phenomenon further, we examined the effect of zaprinast on adenosine release itself in cultured rat forebrain neurons. Zaprinast significantly stimulated extracellular adenosine accumulation. The effect of zaprinast on adenosine appeared to be mediated by increasing intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and activation of protein kinase A (PKA): (i) zaprinast stimulated intracellular cAMP accumulation; (ii) a cAMP antagonist (Rp-8-Br-cAMP) significantly reduced the zaprinast effect on adenosine; (iii) an inhibitor of phosphodiesterase (PDE)1 (vinpocetine) and an activator of adenylate cyclase (forskolin) mimicked the effect of zaprinast on adenosine. We also found that zaprinast had no effect on adenosine in astrocyte cultures, and tetrodotoxin completely blocked zaprinast-evoked adenosine accumulation in neuronal cultures, suggesting that neuronal activity was likely to be involved. Consistent with a dependence on neuronal activity, NMDA receptor antagonists (MK-801 and D-APV) and removal of extracellular glutamate by glutamate-pyruvate transaminase blocked the effect of zaprinast. In addition, zaprinast was shown to stimulate glutamate release. Thus, our data suggest that zaprinast-evoked adenosine accumulation is likely to be mediated by stimulation of glutamate release by a cAMP- and PKA-dependent mechanism, most likely by inhibition of PDE1 in neurons. Furthermore, regulation of cAMP, either by inhibiting cAMP-PDE activity or by stimulating adenylate cyclase activity, may play an important role in modulating neuronal excitability. These data suggest the existence of a homeostatic negative feedback loop in which increases in neuronal activity are damped by release of adenosine following activation of glutamate receptors.
The concentrations of glutamic and aspartic acids were measured in the dialysate obtained with vertical microdialysis probes implanted into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of sexually potent male rats during sexual activity. Animals showed noncontact erections when put in the presence of, and copulated with, a receptive (ovarietomized oestrogen- and progesterone-primed) female rat. The concentrations of glutamic and aspartic acids in the paraventricular dialysate increased by 37 and 80%, respectively, above baseline values during exposure to the receptive female rat and by 55 and 127%, respectively, during copulation. No changes in the concentrations of glutamic and aspartic acids were detected in the paraventricular dialysate when sexually potent male rats were exposed to nonreceptive (ovariectomized not oestrogen- and progesterone-primed) female rats or when impotent male rats were used. The injection into the paraventricular nucleus of the excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist dizocilpine (5 micro g), a noncompetitive N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor antagonist, reduced noncontact erections and significantly impaired copulatory activity. The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (5 micro g) was also able to impair copulatory activity, but to a much lower extent than dizocilpine. In contrast, (+/-)-2-amino-4-phosphono-butanoic acid, a metabotropic receptor antagonist (5 micro g), was found to be ineffective. These results confirm the involvement of the paraventricular nucleus in the control of erectile function and copulatory behaviour and show that excitatory amino acid concentration increases in the paraventricular nucleus when penile erection occurs in physiological contexts.
The purine nucleoside adenosine is released during seizure activity and exerts an anticonvulsant influence through inhibition of glutamate release and hyperpolarization of neurons via adenosine A(1) receptors. However, activation of adenosine A(2A) and A(3) receptors may counteract the inhibitory effects of A(1) receptors. We have therefore examined the extent to which endogenous adenosine released during seizure activity activates the different adenosine receptor subtypes and the implications for seizure activity in the rat hippocampus in vitro. Brief trains of high-frequency stimulation in nominally Mg(2+)-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid evoked epileptiform activity and resulted in a transient depression of the simultaneously recorded CA1 field excitatory postsynaptic potential. In the presence of 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine (CPT), an adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, the occurrence of spontaneous seizure activity was greatly increased as was the duration and intensity of evoked seizures, whilst the postictal depression of basal synaptic transmission was greatly attenuated. Application of ZM 241385, an adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist, shortened the duration of epileptiform activity, whereas administration of MRS 1191, an adenosine A(3) receptor antagonist, both decreased the duration and intensity of seizures. Combined application of the A(2A) and A(3) receptor antagonists also resulted in a reduction in seizure duration and intensity. However, no evidence was found for a role for protein kinase C in the regulation of seizure activity by endogenous adenosine. Our data confirm the dominant anticonvulsant role that endogenous and tonic adenosine play via the A(1) receptor, and suggest that the additional adenosine receptor subtypes may compromise this anticonvulsant property through promotion of seizure activity.
Statistics is nowadays the customary language of functional imaging. It is common to express an experimental setting as a set of null hypotheses over complex models and to present results as maps of p-values derived from sophisticated probability distributions. However, the growing interest in the development of advanced statistical algorithms is not always paralleled by similar attention to how these techniques may regiment the ways in which users draw inferences from their data. This article investigates the logical bases of current statistical approaches in functional imaging and probes their suitability to inductive inference in neuroscience. The frequentist approach to statistical inference is reviewed with attention to its two main constituents: Fisherian &quot;significance testing&quot; and Neyman-Pearson &quot;hypothesis testing&quot;. It is shown that these conceptual systems, which are similar in the univariate testing case, dissociate into two quite different methods of inference when applied to the multiple testing problem, the typical framework of functional imaging. This difference is explained with reference to specific issues, like small volume correction, which are most likely to generate confusion in the practitioner. Further insight into this problem is achieved by recasting the multiple comparison problem into a multivariate Bayesian formulation. This formulation introduces a new perspective where the inferential process is more clearly defined in two distinct steps. The first one, inductive in form, uses exploratory techniques to acquire preliminary notions on the spatial patterns and the signal and noise characteristics. The (smaller) set of likely spatial patterns generated is then tested with newer data and a more rigorous multiple hypothesis testing technique (deductive step).
Although glutamate is a simple molecule, its actions in the limbic system and areas concerning anxiety are complex and widespread. These actions are mediated through different combinations of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Preclinical studies have shown that compounds active at NMDA, AMPA/kanate and metabotropic receptors might have anxiolytic properties. The major research effort so far has been directed towards the development of compounds which modulate the function of NMDA receptors. In general, the utility of NMDA and AMPA/kanate antagonists is greatly hampered by adverse effects. For the treatment of clinical anxiety disorder a more delicate regulation of the glutaminergic system is required. It is encouraging that different ways to fine-tune the glutaminergic system are emerging, e.g., modulators of the glycine site and compounds acting at the AMPA receptor. Metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists and antagonists are in particular promising in this respect. It can be expected that selective modulators of glutamate activity will be of great clinical significance for the treatment of anxiety disorders.
Segmental instability represents one of several different factors that may cause or contribute to the failed back surgery syndrome after lumbar microdiscectomy. As segmental lumbar instability poses diagnostic problems by lack of clear radiological and clinical criteria, only little is known about the occurrence of this phenomenon following primary microdiscectomy. Retrospectively, the records of 2,353 patients were reviewed according to postoperative symptomatic segmental single-level instability after lumbar microdiscectomy between 1989 and 1997. Progressive neurological deficits increased (mean of 24 months; SD: 12, range 1-70) after the initial surgical procedure in 12 patients. The mean age of the four men and eight women was 43 years (SD: 6, range 40-77). The main symptoms and signs of secondary neurological deterioration were radicular pain in 9 of 12 patients, increased motor weakness in 6 of 12 patients and sensory deficits in 4 of 12 patients. All 12 symptomatic patients had radiological evidence of segmental changes correlating with the clinical symptoms and signs. All but one patient showed a decrease in the disc height greater than 30% at the time of posterior spondylodesis compared with the preoperative images before lumbar microdiscectomy. All patients underwent secondary laminectomy and posterior lumbar sponylodesis. Postoperatively, pain improved in 8 of 9 patients, motor weakness in 3 of 6 patients, and sensory deficits in 2 of 4 patients. During the follow-up period of 72+/-7 months, one patient required a third operation to alleviate spinal stenosis at the upper end of the laminectomy. Patients with secondary segmental instability following microdiscectomy were mainly in their 40s. Postoperative narrowing of the intervertebral space following lumbar microdiscectomy is correlated to the degree of intervertebral disc resection. It can therefore be concluded that (1) patients in their 40s are prone to postoperative narrowing of the intervertebral disc space and hence subsequent intervertebral instability and (2) that a small extent of intervertebral disc resection and preservation of the &quot;segmental frame&quot; may be beneficial in those patients. The present study demonstrated for the first time that the degree of extensive operative techniques in microdiscectomy increased the risk of subsequent segmental instability. In addition, narrowing of the intervertebral space of more than 30% represents a clear radiological sign of segmental instability.
The cervico-ocular reflex (COR) works in conjunction with the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) and the optokinetic reflex (OKR) in order to prevent visual slip over the retina during head movement. The COR induces eye movements in response to proprioceptive signals from the neck. We investigated whether the COR gain can be adapted by inducing a mismatch between vision and neck proprioception, in analogy to VOR adaptation. Thirteen healthy subjects were rotated in the dark in a trunk-to-head manner (the head fixed in space while the body passively rotated sinusoidally with a peak velocity of 1.25 degrees /s). Eye movements were recorded with infrared video-oculography under various adaptive conditions. Analysis showed a small but significant reduction in COR gain in the suppression conditions. This means that the cervico-ocular reflex can be modified after only 10 min of concurrent visual and cervical stimulation.
There are time delays in visuomanual and oculomotor pathways, and some of these time delays may be due to the finite time required to process visual motion signals and to extract accurate information about the speed and direction of the motion. The present experiments were designed to ascertain the time required to obtain a reliable estimate of the direction of target motion. Subjects were asked to indicate the final direction of a moving target, which abruptly changed direction and shortly thereafter disappeared, by pointing to its expected emergence at the boundary of an occlusion. Subjects made small but consistent errors that overestimated the target's change in direction. These errors depended little on the amount of time the target was visible (ranging from 50 to 400 ms) after it changed direction. Pointing direction was strongly correlated with gaze, which was dominated by a saccade initiated shortly after the target changed direction. The pointing errors were explained by the fact that the saccade always intercepted the (occluded) target, but then continued in the same direction toward the boundary of the occlusion. The analysis reveals that target direction was estimated accurately even at the shortest viewing time.
N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors plays an important role during brain development and receptor activation has been shown to promote neuronal survival. The mechanisms by which NMDA increases neuronal survival are not fully understood. Here, we show that treatment with low concentrations of NMDA upregulates the neuroprotective molecule, X-chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) in cultured hippocampal neurons at the post-transcriptional level. In contrast, NMDA treatment decreased mRNA and protein levels of caspase-3 in these neurons. The activation of the caspase-3 was also inhibited by NMDA, and the neurons were more resistant towards death caused by high concentrations of glutamate and staurosporine. Data on cytochrome c release in hippocampal neurons showed that NMDA pretreatment inhibits the mitochondrial pathway of cell death. The results demonstrate that the activation of NMDA receptors induces an anti-apoptotic program in hippocampal neurons that involves mitochondria and alterations of the levels of caspase-3 and XIAP. These findings are of importance for understanding the function of NMDA receptors in the control of neuronal survival during development and in other conditions.
Neural trauma, such as traumatic brain injury or stroke, results in a vigorous inflammatory response at and near the site of injury, with cytokine production by endogenous glial cells and invading immune cells. Little is known of the effect that these cytokines have on neural stem cell function. Here we examine the effects of two inflammatory cytokines, interferon-gamma (IFN gamma) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), on adult neural stem cells. Neural stem cells grown in the presence of either cytokine failed to generate neurospheres. Cytotoxicity assays showed that TNF alpha but not IFN gamma was toxic to the neural stem cells under proliferative conditions. Under differentiating conditions, neither cytokine was toxic; however, IFN gamma enhanced neuronal differentiation, rapidly increasing beta III-tubulin positive cell numbers 3-4 fold and inhibiting astrocyte generation. Furthermore, neurite outgrowth and the number of neurites per neuron was enhanced in cells differentiated in the presence of IFN gamma. Therefore, both inflammatory cytokines examined have substantial, but different effects on neural stem cell function and suggests that regulation of the inflammatory environment following brain injury may influence the ability of neural stem cells to repair the damage.
We investigated the effects of ovariectomy (OVX) and 17 beta-estradiol (0.18 mg per pellet) treatment on spatial learning and memory, hippocampal beta amyloid (A beta) levels, and amyloid plaque counts in double transgenic mice (A/P) carrying mutated amyloid precursor protein (APPswe) and presenilin-1 (PS1-A246E). After OVX at 3 months of age, the mice received estrogen treatment for the last 3 months of their lifetime before they were killed at 6, 9, or 12 months of age. Estrogen treatment in A/P OVX mice increased the number of correct choices in a position discrimination task in the T-maze, and slightly improved their performance in a win-stay task (1/8 arms baited) in the radial arm maze (RAM). However, estrogen treatment did not reverse the A beta-dependent cognitive deficits of A/P mice in the water maze (WM) spatial navigation task. Furthermore, ovariectomy or estrogen treatment in OVX and sham-operated A/P mice had no effect on hippocampal amyloid accumulation. These results show that the estrogen treatment in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) improves performance in the same learning and memory tasks as in the normal C57BL/6J mice. However, the estrogen effects in these mice appeared to be unrelated to A beta-induced cognitive deficits. Our results do not support the idea that estrogen treatment decreases the risk or alleviates the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease by inhibiting the accumulation of A beta or formation of amyloid plaques.
Previous studies have demonstrated methamphetamine (METH)-induced toxicity to dopaminergic and serotonergic axons in rat striatum. Although several studies have identified the nature of reactive astrogliosis in this lesion model, the response of microglia has not been examined in detail. In this investigation, we characterized the temporal relationship of reactive microgliosis to neuropathological alterations of dopaminergic axons in striatum following exposure to methamphetamine. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered a neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine and survived 12 h, or 1, 2, 4, and 6 days after treatment. Immunohistochemical methods were used to evaluate reactive changes in microglia throughout the brain of methamphetamine-treated rats, with a particular focus upon striatum. Pronounced morphological changes, indicative of reactive microgliosis, were evident in the brains of all methamphetamine-treated animals and were absent in saline-treated control animals. These included hyperplastic changes in cell morphology that substantially increased the size and staining intensity of reactive microglia. Quantitative analysis of reactive microglial changes in striatum demonstrated that these changes were most robust within the ventrolateral region and were maximal 2 days after methamphetamine administration. Analysis of tissue also revealed that microglial activation preceded the appearance of pathological changes in striatal dopamine fibers. Reactive microgliosis was also observed in extra-striatal regions (somatosensory and piriform cortices, and periaqueductal gray). These data demonstrate a consistent, robust, and selective activation of microglia in response to methamphetamine administration that, at least in striatum, precedes the appearance of morphological indicators of axon pathology. These observations raise the possibility that activated microglia may contribute to methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity.
Peripheral electrical stimulation (PES) has been utilized to manage chronic pain associated with nerve injury. However, the data on clinical effectiveness are conflicting and the neurophysiological mechanism is not well known. This study was designed to assess whether PES relieved neuropathic pain and its possible mechanisms. The neuropathic pain model was made with lumbar 5th (L5) and 6th (L6) spinal nerve ligations in rats. Nociceptive responses of the rats were assessed by the cold plate test (the number and duration of paw lifts that occurred in 5 min on a 5 +/- 1 degrees C cold plate). PES with a frequency of 2 Hz and at increasing strengths was given for 30 min via stainless-steel needles inserted into standard acupoints on the leg and back, respectively. Immunochemistry was used to examine the immunoreactivity of the NMDA receptor 1 (NR1) subunit in the spinal cord dorsal horn. The results are as follows: (1) PES relieved neuropathic pain and the effect was blocked by 1.0 mg/kg naloxone. (2) The effect of one session of PES lasted up to 12 h. (3) Repetitive PES showed a cumulative effect and no tolerance was observed. (4) There was a significant increase of NR1 immunoreactivity in the superficial laminae of the spinal cord of neuropathic pain rats as compared with naive rats. This increase could be reversed by repetitive 2 Hz PES. These results suggest that PES can relieve neuropathic pain, and that mu-opioid receptors and NMDA receptors are involved in the effect of PES.
Previous studies have described the embryonic and postnatal development of CRF, as well as the type 1 CRF receptor in the mouse cerebellum. The present immunohistochemical study localizes the cellular distribution of the type 2 CRF receptor (CRF-R2) during postnatal development of the mouse cerebellum. Western blot analysis indicates that the antibody used in this analysis recognizes both a full-length and a truncated isoform of the type 2 receptor. We propose that each isoform has a unique cellular distribution. In the present study, the postnatal (P) development (P0-P14) and cellular localization of CRF-R2 in different cell types was analyzed using PAP and double-label fluorescent immunohistochemistry; cell-specific antibodies were used to identify cells expressing CRF-R2 at different stages of postnatal development. At P0, CRF-R2 immunoreactivity was localized within the somata of Purkinje cells and migrating GABAergic interneurons. CRF-R2 was first observed in the initial axonal segments of some Purkinje cells at P5, and was evident in many Purkinje cell axon hillocks at P8. Punctate immunoreactivity is present in the molecular layer by P5 and is interpreted to be immunolabeled parallel fibers. Between P8 and P14, CRF-R2 immunostaining is present in the initial axonal segments of Golgi cells, within the internal granule cell layer. Finally, CRF-R2 is present in both radial glia in the molecular layer as well as in astrocytes in the white matter and internal granule cell layer from P5 to P14. The present results suggest that CRF-R2, both the truncated and the full-length isoforms, are present in the developing cerebellum, each with a unique cellular distribution. The immunohistochemical evidence indicates that the truncated isoform of the type 2 CRF receptor is in the axons of several different types of cerebellar cortical neurons, and suggests that CRF could play a role in cerebellar development by modulating the release of transmitters from excitatory and/or inhibitory interneurons, which in turn could directly alter the maturation of cerebellar circuits. In contrast, the binding of a ligand to the full-length isoform of CRF-R2 or to CRF-R1, both in a postsynaptic location, may have a more direct effect on regulating the responsiveness of these cells to growth factors or neurotransmitters released from afferent axons by regulating permeability of ion channels or altering second messenger systems.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease, in which mainly dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra in the brain degenerate, leading to a depletion of dopamine (DA) in the striatum. The most important motor disturbances of the disease are bradykinesia (slowing down of movement), hypokinesia (poverty of movement), rigidity (muscle stiffness), tremor and postural instability. Besides these well-known motor symptoms, non-motor symptoms may develop, such as depression, cognitive impairment and psychosis. Psychotic symptoms constitute a relatively common but nevertheless serious complication, with visual hallucinations and paranoid delusions often being most prominent. These symptoms are important contributors to patient and caregiver distress and are often important risk factors for nursing home placement. Exogenous (related to therapeutic interventions) factors are of major importance but endogenous (related to the disease process itself) factors might also contribute to the development of psychotic symptoms in PD. Therapeutic strategies comprise reduction of antiparkinsonian treatment, cholinesterase inhibitors and atypical antipsychotics. As psychotic symptoms in PD are often influenced by both endogenous and exogenous factors, a combination of strategies may be chosen.
While current antipsychotic medications are often efficacious for the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, there remains a critical need for compounds with improved tolerability and efficacy for the negative symptoms and cognitive dysfunction associated with this disease. There is a growing body of evidence suggesting that the potentiation of N -methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function may be a useful approach for the treatment of schizophrenia. One proposed strategy for this potentiation is to increase synaptic levels of the neurotransmitter glycine by blocking the glycine transporter-1. Since glycine acts as a required co-agonist for the NMDA receptor complex; this approach allows an increase in the effectiveness of normal glutamatergic signalling at the NMDA receptor complex. Recent preclinical research, focused on the development and testing of novel glycine transporter-1 inhibitors, suggests that this approach may be feasible. Converging clinical evidence suggesting therapeutic efficacy following the potentiation of glycinergic activity further supports this approach. Clinical studies with novel glycine re-uptake inhibitors will provide critical information regarding the therapeutic utility and tolerability of this treatment for schizophrenia and other disorders associated with NMDA receptor hypofunction.
Headache disorders are ubiquitous, common, disabling and to a very large extent treatable in primary care. In this review, the important headache disorders are described together with their impact on public health. Suggestions are set out for their optimal management, although many of these are necessarily based more on expert opinion than on formal evidence, since clinical trials have covered only narrow areas of headache treatment. Most people whose lives are adversely affected by headache disorders benefit from drug interventions, either acute or preventative, but other forms of treatment are always important and should never be overlooked. An important disorder is entirely iatrogenic: its recognition is crucial to its effective management, which requires medication withdrawal. Future research is needed not only into the mechanisms of headache causation, as a prerequisite for the development of better treatments, but also into public health aspects seeking an explanation of (and remedy for) the low priority given worldwide to headache-related healthcare despite the severe human and socioeconomic consequences.
Intermittent exposure to addictive drugs causes long-lasting changes in responsiveness to these substances due to persistent molecular and cellular alterations within the meso-corticolimbic system. In this report, we studied the expression profiles of 159 genes in the rat nucleus accumbens during morphine exposure (14 days, 10 mg/kg s.c.) and drug-abstinence (3 weeks). We used real-time quantitative PCR to monitor gene expression after establishing its sensitivity and resolution to resolve small changes in expression for genes in various abundance classes. Morphine-exposure (5 time points) and subsequent abstinence (6 time points) induced phase-specific temporal gene expression of distinct functional groups of genes, for example, short-term homeostatic responses. Opiate withdrawal appeared to be a new stimulus in terms of gene expression and mediates a marked wave of gene repression. Prolonged abstinence resulted in persistently changed expression levels of genes involved in neuronal outgrowth and re-wiring. Our findings substantiate the hypothesis that this new gene program, initiated upon morphine-withdrawal, may subserve long-term neuronal plasticity involved in the persistent behavioral consequences of repeated drug-exposure.
Snails are intermediate hosts to schistosome parasites, some of which are the main cause of human schistosomiasis (bilharzia), and have been used as models for parasite-host interactions for a long time. Here, we have characterized a novel internal defense peptide of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis, of which the relative abundance in brain tissue increases upon infection with the avian schistosome Trichobilharzia ocellata. This protein, named granularin, is secreted by granular cells, which are numerous in the connective tissue surrounding the brain. The protein is unique because it comprises only a single Von Willebrand factor type C domain that is normally found in large transmembrane and secreted extracellular matrix proteins. The granularin gene is twice up-regulated during parasitation. Purified granularin stimulates phagocytosis of foreign particles by blood hemocytes. Together, our data indicate that granularin represents a novel protein that acts as an opsonin in the molluscan internal defense response.
Apoptosis is characterized by chromatin condensation, phosphatidylserine translocation, and caspase activation. Neuronal apoptotic death involves the participation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which have also been implicated in necrotic cell death. In this study we evaluated the role of different ROS in neuronal death. Superoxide anion was produced by incubating cells with xanthine and xanthine oxidase plus catalase, singlet oxygen was generated with rose Bengal and luminic stimuli, and hydrogen peroxide was induced with the glucose and glucose oxidase. Cultured cerebellar granule neurons died with the characteristics of apoptotic death in the presence of superoxide anion or singlet oxygen. These two conditions induced caspase activation, nuclear condensation, phosphatidylserine translocation, and a decrease in intracellular calcium levels. On the other hand, hydrogen peroxide led to a necrosis-like cell death that did not induce caspase activation, phosphatidylserine translocation, or changes in calcium levels. Cell death produced by both singlet oxygen and superoxide anion, but not hydrogen peroxide, was partially reduced by an increase in intracellular calcium levels. These results suggest that formation of specific ROS can lead to different molecular cell death mechanisms (necrosis and apoptosis) and that ROS formed under different conditions could act as initiators or executioners on neuronal death.
This article focuses on the distinct role of chemokines and chemokine receptors during CNS inflammation in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) as an animal model for multiple sclerosis (MS). We review the evidence that chemokines and chemokine receptors have an intrinsic role in regulating and amplifying the inflammatory reactions in EAE or MS leading to disease outcome. A variety of studies examining temporal chemokine expression patterns, using chemokine and chemokine receptor knockout mice as well as administering passive anti-chemokine antibodies indicates that these molecules are critical regulatory components for leukocyte recruitment and/or leukocyte retention in the CNS. Therefore, chemokine and chemokine receptor expression is tightly interrelated to composition of inflammatory cells in CNS lesions and the onset of clinical diseases and provide viable targets for therapeutic intervention.
In the previous study, we have shown the complementary expression of TrkB subtypes (TK+ and T1) in the adult monkey cerebellar cortex. In this study, to clarify when that expression pattern appeared, we examined the expressions of TrkB subtypes and its ligand brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis. At the newborn stage, both TK+ and T1 were expressed uniformly in the cerebellar cortex. At postnatal month 3.5, the uneven expression of TrkB subtypes was observed, while the BDNF immunoreactivity was strongly detected in all regions of the cerebellar cortex. The expression patterns of TrkB subtypes and BDNF at both postnatal month 6 and year 7 were the same as those at postnatal month 3.5. Western blot analysis demonstrated that TK+ and T1 were expressed at high levels in the synaptic membrane from newborn to adult stages. Furthermore, the dimerization of TrkB subtypes changed at postnatal month 3, which was similar to the adult pattern: at the newborn stage, the TK+ and TK- homodimers; after postnatal month 3.5, the TK+ and TK- homodimers, and the TK+/TK- heterodimer. These findings suggest that the localization of TrkB subtypes in each Purkinje would be changed at postnatal month 3.5, resulting in the uneven expression of TrkB subtypes and the change of TrkB dimerization.
The majority of genes of multicellular organisms encode proteins with functions that are not required for viability but contribute to important physiological functions such as behavior and reproduction. It is estimated that 75% of the genes of Drosophila melanogaster are nonessential. Here we report on a strategy used to establish a large collection of stocks that is suitable for the recovery of mutations in such genes. From approximately 72,000 F(3) cultures segregating for autosomes heavily treated with ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS), approximately 12,000 lines in which the treated second or third chromosome survived in homozygous condition were selected. The dose of EMS induced an estimated rate of 1.2-1.5 x 10(-3) mutations/gene and predicts five to six nonessential gene mutations per chromosome and seven to nine alleles per locus in the samples of 6000 second chromosomes and 6000 third chromosomes. Due to mosaic mutations induced in the initial exposure to the mutagen, many of the lines are segregating or are now fixed for lethal mutations on the mutagenized chromosome. The features of this collection, known as the Zuker collection, make it a valuable resource for forward and reverse genetic screens for mutations affecting a wide array of biological functions.
Many gene families in mammals have members that are expressed more or less uniquely in the retina or differentially in specific retinal cell types. We describe here analyses of nine such gene families with regard to phylogenetic relationships and chromosomal location. The families are opsins, G proteins (alpha, beta, and gamma subunits), phosphodiesterases type 6, cyclic nucleotide-gated channels, G-protein-coupled receptor kinases, arrestins, and recoverins. The results suggest that multiple new gene copies arose in all of these families very early in vertebrate evolution during a period with extensive gene duplications. Many of the new genes arose through duplications of large chromosome regions (blocks of genes) or even entire chromosomes, as shown by linkage with other gene families. Some of the phototransduction families belong to the same duplicated regions and were thus duplicated simultaneously. We conclude that gene duplications in early vertebrate evolution probably helped facilitate the specialization of the retina and the subspecialization of different retinal cell types.
In Alzheimer's disease brain, beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposition is accompanied by astrocyte activation, whose role in the pathogenesis of the disease is still unclear. To explore the subject, we compared Abeta neurotoxicity in pure hippocampal cultures and neuronal-astrocytic cocultures, where astrocytes conditioned neurons but were not in contact with them or Abeta. In the presence of astrocytes, neurons were protected from Abeta neurotoxicity. Neuritic dystrophy was reduced, synapses were partially preserved, and apoptosis was contrasted. The protection disappeared when astrocytes were also treated with Abeta, suggesting that Abeta-astrocyte interaction is deleterious for neurons. This was supported by comparing Abeta neurotoxicity in pure neurons and neurons grown on astrocytes. In this case, where astrocytes were also in contact with Abeta, neuritic damage was enhanced and expression of synaptic vesicle proteins decreased. Our results suggest that astrocytes can protect neurons from Abeta neurotoxicity, but when they interact with Abeta, the protection is undermined and neurotoxicity enhanced.

The current status of the effects of ovarian steroids on learning and memory remains somewhat unclear, despite a large undertaking to evaluate these effects. What is emerging from this literature is that estrogen, and perhaps progesterone, influences learning and memory, but does so in a task-dependent manner. Previously, we have shown that ovariectomized rats given acute treatments of estrogen acquire allocentric or &quot;place&quot; tasks more easily than do rats deprived of estrogen, but acquire egocentric or &quot;response&quot; learning tasks more slowly than do those deprived of hormone, suggesting that estrogen treatment may bias the strategy a rat is able to use to solve tasks. To determine if natural fluctuations in ovarian hormones influence cognitive strategy, we tested whether strategy use fluctuated across the estrous cycle in reproductively intact female rats. We found that in two tasks in which rats freely choose the strategy used to solve the task, rats were more likely to use place strategies at proestrous, that is, when ovarian steroids are high. Conversely, estrous rats were biased toward response strategies. The data suggest that natural fluctuations in ovarian steroids may bias the neural system used and thus the cognitive strategies chosen during learning and memory.
In humans and other primates, violent actions performed by victims of aggression are often directed toward an individual or object that is not the source of provocation. This psychological phenomenon is often called displaced aggression. We demonstrate that displaced aggression is either rooted in evolutionarily conserved behavioral and neuroendocrine mechanisms, or represent a convergent pattern that has arisen independently in fish and mammals. Rainbow trout that briefly encountered large, aggressive fish reacted with increased aggression toward smaller individuals. There was a strong negative correlation between received aggression and behavioral change: Individuals subjected to intense aggression were subdued, while moderate assaults induced strong agitation. Patterns of forebrain serotonin turnover and plasma cortisol suggest that the presence of socially subordinate fish had an inhibitory effect on neuroendocrine stress responses. Thus, subordinate individuals may serve as stress-reducing means of aggressive outlet, and displaced aggression toward such individuals appears to be a behavioral stress coping strategy in fishes.
Male green anole lizards court females using a red throat fan (dewlap) and copulate by intromitting one of two penises (hemipenes). These structures begin sexually monomorphic, but by adulthood males have larger dewlaps, only males have hemipenes, and many of the neuromuscular components of both systems show male-biased dimorphisms. We hypothesized that testosterone (T), which increases in juvenile males but not females about a month after hatching, facilitates masculinization. To test this idea, on post-hatching day 30, gonadally intact females received either a blank or T implant, and males were either castrated or sham-castrated. At day 90, juveniles were euthanized and the length of the cartilage and cross-sectional areas of the muscle fibers and motoneurons required for dewlap extension were examined. We also measured the cross-sectional areas of the hemipenes and associated muscle fibers and motoneurons, and counted the motoneurons. T-treated females had longer cartilages and larger dewlap muscle fibers compared to those with blank implants. No effects on motoneurons were detected, and no females possessed hemipenes or associated musculature. In males, castration produced shorter dewlap cartilages and smaller hemipenes; other measures were not affected by treatment. These data indicate that components of the dewlap system differentiate relatively late in development, that T likely mediates the process, and that although components of the copulatory system are plastic in juvenile males, sexual differentiation of peripheral features is complete before day 30. The data also suggest that target structures (dewlap cartilage and hemipenes), compared to their neuromuscular effectors, are particularly sensitive to developmental T exposure.
Recent studies have suggested that variants of CYP46A1, encoding cholesterol 24-hydroxylase (CYP46), confer risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD), a prospect substantiated by evidence of genetic association from several quantitative traits related to AD pathology, including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of the 42 amino-acid cleavage product of beta-amyloid (Abeta42) and the tau protein. In the present study, these claims have been explored by the genotyping of previously associated markers in CYP46A1 in three independent northern European case-control series encompassing 1323 individuals and including approximately 400 patients with measurements of CSF Abeta42 and phospho-tau protein levels. Tests of association in case-control models revealed limited evidence that CYP46A1 variants contributed to AD risk across these samples. However, models testing for potential effects upon CSF measures suggested a possible interaction of an intronic marker (rs754203) with age and APOE genotype. In stratified analyses, significant effects were evident that were restricted to elderly APOE epsilon4 carriers for both CSF Abeta42 ( P=0.0009) and phospho-tau ( P=0.046). Computational analyses indicate that the rs754203 marker probably does not impact the binding of regulatory factors, suggesting that other polymorphic sites underlie the observed associations. Our results provide an important independent replication of previous findings, supporting the existence of CYP46A1 sequence variants that contribute to variability in beta-amyloid metabolism.
Monte Carlo (MC) methods can accurately simulate scatter in X-ray imaging. However, when low noise scatter projections have to be simulated these MC simulations tend to be very time consuming. Rapid computation of scatter estimates is essential for several applications. The aim of the work presented in this paper is to speed up the estimation of noise-free scatter projections while maintaining their accuracy. Since X-ray scatter projections are often rather smooth, an approach is chosen whereby a short MC simulation is combined with a data fitting program that is robust to projection truncation and noise. This method allows us to estimate the smooth scatter projection rapidly. The speed-up and accuracy achieved by using the fitting algorithm were validated for the projection simulation of a small animal X-ray CT system. The acceleration that can be obtained over standard MC simulations is typically two orders of magnitude, depending on the accuracy required. The proposed approach may be useful for rapid simulation of patient and animal studies and for correction of the image-degrading effects of scatter in tomography.
We study spatial learning and navigation for autonomous agents. A state space representation is constructed by unsupervised Hebbian learning during exploration. As a result of learning, a representation of the continuous two-dimensional (2-D) manifold in the high-dimensional input space is found. The representation consists of a population of localized overlapping place fields covering the 2-D space densely and uniformly. This space coding is comparable to the representation provided by hippocampal place cells in rats. Place fields are learned by extracting spatio-temporal properties of the environment from sensory inputs. The visual scene is modeled using the responses of modified Gabor filters placed at the nodes of a sparse Log-polar graph. Visual sensory aliasing is eliminated by taking into account self-motion signals via path integration. This solves the hidden state problem and provides a suitable representation for applying reinforcement learning in continuous space for action selection. A temporal-difference prediction scheme is used to learn sensorimotor mappings to perform goal-oriented navigation. Population vector coding is employed to interpret ensemble neural activity. The model is validated on a mobile Khepera miniature robot.
The image of an opaque object is created by observing the reflection of the light incident on its surface. The dichromatic reflection model describes the surface reflection as the sum of two components, diffuse and specular terms. The specular reflection component is usually strong in its intensity and polarized significantly compared to the diffuse components. On the other hand, the intensity of the diffuse component is weak and it tends to be unpolarized except near occluding contours. Thus, the observation of an object through a rotating polarizer approximately yields images containing constant diffuse component and specular component of different intensity. In this paper, we show that diffuse and specular components of surface reflection can be separated as two independent components when we apply Independent Component Analysis to the images observed through a polarizer of different orientations. We give a separation simulation of artificial data and also give some separation results of real scenes.
Although a wealth of evidence supports the hypothesis that some functions of the nervous system may be altered during exposure to microgravity, the possible changes in basic neuronal physiology are not easy to assess. Indeed, few studies have examined whether microgravity affects the development of neurons in culture. In the present study, a suspension of dissociated cortical cells from rat embryos were exposed to 24 h of simulated microgravity before plating in a normal adherent culture system. Both preexposed and control cells were used after a period of 7-10 d in vitro. The vitality and the level of reactive oxygen species of cultures previously exposed did not differ from those of normal cultures. Cellular characterization by immunostaining with a specific antibody displayed normal neuronal phenotype in control cells, whereas pretreatment in simulated microgravity revealed an increase of glial fibrillary acidic protein fluorescence in the elongated stellate glial cells. Electrophysiological recording indicated that the electrical properties of neurons preexposed were comparable with those of controls. Overall, our results indicate that a short time of simulated microgravity preexposure does not affect dramatically the ability of dissociated neural cells to develop and differentiate in an adherent culture system.
Bipolar patients generally spend much more time in the depressed phase of their illness than the manic phase, and there are many more bipolar type II and bipolar spectrum disorder patients than there are bipolar type I. Additionally, there is a significant risk of suicide in bipolar patients when depressed. The treatment of the depressed phase of bipolar disorder is therefore a matter of some priority. Here, we review current evidence supporting the use of five groups of treatments: anti-depressants; lithium; anti-convulsants (valproate, and carbamazepine, lamotrigine, gabapentin); anti-psychotics; and other treatments (electroconvulsive therapy, benzodiazepines, sleep-deprivation, and dopamine agonists). From this review, it is apparent that the literature regarding the treatment of bipolar depression is significantly limited in several key areas. Nonetheless, from the evidence currently available, the treatments with the best evidence for efficacy are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and lamotrigine. There is also some evidence in favour of bupropion and moclobemide. Although lithium and olanzapine monotherapies can also be beneficial, they appear less efficacious than antidepressants. One of the major concerns about treatment with antidepressants has been the risk of precipitating a switch into mania. However, recent studies suggest that, if a mood stabilizer and antidepressant are given concurrently, then the risk of switching is minimized. There is also recent evidence for an independent antidepressant action for at least one atypical antipsychotic. Therefore, the conclusion from this review, in contrast to previous suggestions, is that a combination of an atypical antipsychotic and either an SSRI or lamotrigine may provide a useful first-line treatment for depressed bipolar disorder patients. Further research is clearly required to examine this approach and compare it with other possible treatment options.
The effect of fast-acting compression on speech recognition in fully modulated (FUM) noise in listeners with normal and impaired hearing was investigated in two experiments We wanted to determine the relationships between the benefit from compression and some audiological factors. Furthermore, the sensitivity to changes in compression parameters was also evaluated. The results showed that two-thirds of the listeners performed worse with fast-acting compression than with linear processing. Normal-hearing listeners showed the most benefit from compression. A significant relationship was found between benefit from compression and speech-to-noise ratio at threshold (SNRT) in slightly modulated (SM) noise. Pure-tone threshold was found to be a weak predictor of benefit from compression. No relationship was found between benefit from compression and the release of masking for the FUM noise. The variability in the results across different compression parameters was related to SNRT in SM noise. The results suggest an inverse relationship between benefit from compression and the severity of the suprathreshold hearing loss
Antiepileptic drugs acting through the potentiation of GABA-ergic pathways have harmful effects on brain development. Increased risk of impaired intellectual development was reported in children born to women treated for epilepsy during pregnancy. Here we examined the vulnerability of the developing brain to treatment with one of the new antiepileptic drugs--vigabatrin--during two time periods in newborn mice (postnatal days 1-7 and 4-14) which parallel the third trimester of human embryo brain development. Delayed development of sensory and motor reflexes, reduced mobility in the open field, impaired object recognition and deficient spatial learning and memory were observed independently of the treatment period. On the contrary, specific susceptibility to the age of exposure was detected in various motor functions. A number of morphological correlates may explain these behavioral alterations; a transient increase in CA1 pyramidal cell layer (P &lt; 0.001) and decrease in granular cell layer (P &lt; 0.05) in hippocampus were detected at postnatal day 7. In addition, a significantly lower cell density was observed in the adult mouse brain in all layers of the M2 cerebral cortex of mice treated during days 4-14, compared to the controls (P &lt; 0.05). Our findings demonstrated short- and long-term deleterious effects of vigabatrin treatment and suggest a specific vulnerability of the developing motor system to GABA enhancement during the first postnatal week.


Cytokine signaling is negatively regulated by a set of SH2 domain-containing proteins, the Suppressors of Cytokine Signaling (SOCS) acting as intracellular modulators. Experimental evidence indicates that SOCS gene expression is induced by cytokines and pro-inflammatory stimuli and is highly controlled both at transcription and translation level. Furthermore, SOCS proteins appear rapidly degraded inside the cells, mostly controlling their stability by interacting with specific molecules such as elongin B and C. It has been shown that SOCS-1/JAB, a member of the SOCS family, interacts with TRIM-8/Gerp, a new ring protein specifically binding SOCS-1 recombitant polypeptide in-vitro and in-vivo. Trim-8/Gerp, transcribes IFN-gamma in epithelial and lymphoid cells and is expressed mostly ubiquitously in murine and human tissues. Here in this report we present the genomic organization of this new SOCS-1 interactor, and we add new tools for extending investigation of the complex mechanism that undergoes negatively regulation of cytokine signaling.


Methamphetamine (METH) and 3,4-meythylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; 'ecstasy') are currently major drugs of abuse. One of the major concerns of amphetamines abuse is their potential neurotoxic effect on dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons. Although data from human studies are somewhat limited, compelling evidence suggests that these drugs cause neurotoxicity in rodents and primates. Recent studies in transgenic and knockout mice identified the role of dopamine transporters, nitric oxide, apoptotic proteins, and inflammatory cytokines in amphetamines neurotoxicity. Further research into the mechanisms underlying the dopaminergic and serotonergic neurotoxicity and the behavioral corollaries of these neuronal insults could facilitate our understanding of the consequences of human abuse of METH and MDMA on cognition, drug-seeking behavior, extinction and relapse.
In a two-alternative, forced-choice experiment, subjects had to compare the pitches of two sounds, A and B. Each sound was composed of four successive harmonics of a fundamental frequency between 100 to 250 Hz, added in cosine or Schrder phase. The harmonic frequencies of A were lower than those of B; the missing fundamental frequency of A was higher than that of B. The dominance of the missing fundamental versus the spectrally cued pitch--a pitch percept corresponding to spectral components--was measured as a function of nA, the lowest harmonic in A. The pitch percept is dominated by the missing fundamental if the harmonics are resolved (nA&lt;7). If the harmonics become unresolved and are added in Schrder phase, the dominance shifts to a spectrally cued pitch (7&lt;nA&lt;13; 75% of the subjects). In the cosine phase condition, many subjects could detect the fundamental pitch well into the unresolved harmonic range (nA&gt;20). For others, the transition was in the realm of partly resolved harmonics. This shows that the temporal envelope modulation of stimuli with only four unresolved harmonics can give a relatively clear fundamental pitch percept. However, this percept varies considerably among subjects.
The purpose of this paper was to study spinal inhibition during several different motor tasks in healthy human subjects. The short-latency, reciprocal inhibitory pathways from the common peroneal (CP) nerve to the soleus muscle and from the tibial nerve to the tibialis anterior muscle were studied as a depression of ongoing voluntary electromyograph (EMG) activity. First, the effect of stimulus intensity on the amount of inhibition was examined to decide an appropriate stimulation to study the task-dependent modulation of inhibition. Then, the inhibition at one level of stimulation (1.5 x motor threshold) was investigated during standing, walking, and running. The change in slope of inhibition vs. EMG level, which approximates the fraction of ongoing activity that is inhibited, decreased with CP stimulation from 0.52 during standing to 0.30 during fast walking (6 km/h) to 0.17 during running at 9 km/h. Similarly, the slope decreased with tibial nerve stimulation from 0.68 (standing) to 0.42 (fast walking) to 0.35 (running at 9 km/h). All differences, except the last one, were highly significant (P &lt; 0.01, Student's t-test). However, the difference between walking (0.42) and running (0.36) at the same speed (6 km/h) was not significant with tibial nerve stimulation and only significant at P &lt; 0.05 with CP nerve stimulation (0.30, 0.20). Also, the difference between standing (0.52) and slow walking (3 km/h; 0.41) with CP stimulation was not significant, but it was significant (P &lt; 0.01) with tibial nerve stimulation (0.68, 0.49). In conclusion, our findings indicate that spinal reciprocal inhibition decreases substantially with increasing speed and only changes to a lesser extent with task.
Endocannabinoids, including 2-arachidonoylglycerol and anandamide (N-arachidonoylethanolamine; AEA), have neuroprotective effects in the brain through actions at CB1 receptors. However, AEA also binds to vanilloid (VR1) receptors and induces cell death in several cell lines. Here we show that anandamide causes neuronal cell death in vitro and exacerbates cell loss caused by stretch-induced axonal injury or trophic withdrawal in rat primary neuronal cultures. Administered intracerebroventricularly, AEA causes sustained cerebral edema, as reflected by diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging, regional cell loss, and impairment in long-term cognitive function. These effects are mediated, in part, through VR1 as well as through calpain-dependent mechanisms, but not through CB1 receptors or caspases. Central administration of AEA also significantly upregulates genes involved in pro-inflammatory/microglial-related responses. Thus, anandamide produces neurotoxic effects both in vitro and in vivo through multiple mechanisms independent of the CB1 receptor.



The quantitative assessment of tremor represents the main difficulty in clinical evaluation. We developed a software package - T-Lab - for the biomechanical analysis of hyperkinetic movement disorders. This software can receive and elaborate data from an electronic device interfaced with a personal computer. The aim of our study was to verify the validity of the PC-aided method proposed in the routine assessment of tremor. We did this by a correlation (regression) analysis between the scores obtained by Webster's Amplitude Clinical Scale and the amplitude data by T-Lab and between EMG data and frequency measures of T-Lab. Forty-seven patients presenting with upper limb tremor were enrolled. Four series of data were obtained: two series for frequency and two for amplitude. A significant correlation between all sets of data compared was found. T-Lab represents a valid, objective and useful device of quantifying tremors in clinical practice.
Porphyria is a group of disorders caused by alterations in the enzymatic pathway involved in haem biosynthesis. The clinical picture consists of extraneurological and neurological manifestations, seizures being an important feature. The pathogenesis of seizures is probably related to metabolic imbalance such as hyponatremia and to the intrinsic epileptogenic role of some porphyrins. Many studies report that neural damage can follow a porphyric attack, suggesting that these lesions can be epileptogenic. Several reports also pointed out that porphyria can be precipitated by some antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). More recent AEDs appeared and need assessment in relation to porphyria. An educational program including a registry of patients with porphyria, an intensive study of family history and the genetic background may be useful to obtain better epidemiological data and a clearer understanding of pathogenesis. Application of neuroimaging may detect epileptogenic foci, helping to define the specific risk of seizures for each patient.
Recent years have witnessed a considerable increase in both fundamental knowledge and available experimental techniques in the basic neurosciences. Unfortunately, clinical translation of these findings vis--vis a direct benefit to patients who suffer from psychiatric diseases has not been as rapid. It is likely that this will change in the near future. We discuss some of the knowledge and expanding techniques of basic neuroscience, focusing on those that may be most promising regarding the future impact of the current molecular medicine revolution in psychiatry. Some of the more exciting findings (basic mechanisms, techniques, and clinical methodologies) that are expected to have a major impact on both our understanding of the biological underpinnings of psychiatric diseases and the development of novel and/or improved therapies include genetics, epigenetics, transcriptomics/proteomics, neuroimaging, animal models, and improved psychiatric endophenotypes.

It is easier to produce and comprehend a series of sentences when they have similar syntactic structures. This &quot;syntactic priming&quot; effect was investigated during silent sentence reading using (i) blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) response as a physiological measure in an f MRI study and (ii) reading time as a behavioral measure in a complementary self paced reading paradigm. We found that reading time and left anterior temporal activation were decreased when subjects read sentences with similar relative to dissimilar syntactic forms. Thus, syntactic adaptation during sentence comprehension is demonstrated in a neural area that has previously been linked to both lexical semantic and sentence processing.
It is widely acknowledged that the prefrontal cortex plays a major role in cognitive control processes. One important experimental paradigm for investigating such higher order cognitive control is the task-switching paradigm. This paradigm investigates the ability to switch flexibly between different task situations. In this context, it has been found that participants are able to anticipatorily prepare an upcoming task. This ability has been assumed to reflect endogenous cognitive control. However, it is difficult to isolate task preparation process from task execution using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In the present study, we introduce a new experimental manipulation to investigate task preparation with fMRI. By manipulating the number of times a task was prepared, we could demonstrate that the left inferior frontal junction (IFJ) area (near the junction of inferior frontal sulcus and inferior precentral sulcus), the right inferior frontal gyrus, and the right intraparietal sulcus are involved in task preparation. By manipulating the cue-task mapping, we could further show that this activation is not related to cue encoding but to the updating of the relevant task representation. Based on these and previous results, we assume that the IFJ area constitutes a functionally separable division of the lateral prefrontal cortex. Finally, our data suggest that task preparation does not differ for switch and repetition trials in paradigms with a high proportion of switch trials, casting doubt on the assumption that an independent task set reconfiguration process takes place in the preparation interval.
Waves have long been thought to be a fundamental mechanism for communicating information within a medium and are widely observed in biological systems. However, a quantitative analysis of biological waves is confounded by the variability and complexity of the response. This paper proposes a robust technique for extracting wave structure from experimental data by calculating &quot;wave subspaces&quot; from the KL decomposition of the data set. If a wave subspace contains a substantial portion of the data set energy during a particular time interval, one can deduce the structure of the wave and potentially isolate its information content. This paper uses the wave subspace technique to extract and compare wave structure in data from three different preparations of the turtle visual cortex. The paper demonstrates that wave subspace caricatures from the three cortical preparations have qualitative similarities. In the numerical model, where information about the underlying dynamics is available, wave subspace landmarks are related to activation and changes in behavior of other dynamic variables besides membrane potential.

There is controversy over whether Ca(2+) binds to the BK(Ca) channel's intracellular domain or its integral-membrane domain and over whether or not mutations that reduce the channel's Ca(2+) sensitivity act at the point of Ca(2+) coordination. One region in the intracellular domain that has been implicated in Ca(2+) sensing is the &quot;Ca(2+) bowl&quot;. This region contains many acidic residues, and large Ca(2+)-bowl mutations eliminate Ca(2+) sensing through what appears to be one type of high-affinity Ca(2+)-binding site. Here, through site-directed mutagenesis we have mapped the residues in the Ca(2+) bowl that are most important for Ca(2+) sensing. We find acidic residues, D898 and D900, to be essential, and we find them essential as well for Ca(2+) binding to a fusion protein that contains a portion of the BK(Ca) channel's intracellular domain. Thus, much of our data supports the conclusion that Ca(2+) binds to the BK(Ca) channel's intracellular domain, and they define the Ca(2+) bowl's essential Ca(2+)-sensing motif. Overall, however, we have found that the relationship between mutations that disrupt Ca(2+) sensing and those that disrupt Ca(2+) binding is not as strong as we had expected, a result that raises the possibility that, when examined by gel-overlay, the Ca(2+) bowl may be in a nonnative conformation.


There are several magnetic resonance (MR) imaging methods to measure brain volume and cerebral atrophy; however, the best measure for examining potential relationships between such measures and neuropsychological performance has not been established. Relationships between seven measures of MR derived brain volume or indices of atrophy and neuropsychological performance in the elderly subjects of the population-based Cache County, Utah Study of Aging and Memory (n = 195) were evaluated. The seven MR measures included uncorrected total brain volume (TBV), TBV corrected by total intracranial volume (TICV), TBV corrected by the ratio of the individuals TICV by group TICV (TBVC), a ventricle-to-brain ratio (VBR), total ventricular volume (TVV), TVV corrected by TICV, and a measure of parenchymal volume loss. The cases from the Cache County Study were comprised of elderly individuals classified into one of four subject groups based on a consensus diagnostic process, independent of quantitative MR imaging findings. The groups included subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD, n = 85), no dementia but mild/ambiguous (M/A) deficits (n = 30), a group of subjects with non-AD dementia or neuropsychiatric disorder including vascular dementia (n = 60), and control subjects (n = 20). Neuropsychological performance was based on the Mini-Mental Status Exam (MMSE) and an expanded neuropsychological test battery (consortium to establish a registry for Alzheimer's disease (CERAD). The results demonstrated that the various quantitative MR measures were highly interrelated and no single measure was statistically superior. However, TBVC, TBV/TICV and VBR consistently exhibited the more robust relationships with neuropsychological performance. These results suggest that a single corrected brain volume measure or index is sufficient in studies examining global MR indicators of cerebral atrophy in relation to cognitive function and recommends use of either TBVC, TBV/TICV, or VBR.
Alcoholic Korsakoff's syndrome (KS) is marked by remote memory impairment together with characteristic profound anterograde memory deficits. Despite previous studies of memory processes in KS, questions remain regarding the nature and severity of these impairments and identification of brain systems that underlie these different memory impairments. This study examined remote and anterograde memory function in 5 KS patients in comparison with 8 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 24 normal control subjects (NC). In addition, relationships between memory performance and regional brain volumes were examined in the KS group. Overall, the KS group showed severe impairment on both remote and anterograde memory measures, performing at the level of the AD group on most measures. Differences were observed on the pattern of temporal gradient for verbal recognition, with KS exhibiting a more steeply graded rate of decline over the most recent period examined. Severity of the remote memory deficit in KS was not associated with severity of anterograde memory deficit. Examination of brain structure-function relationships in the KS subjects revealed that photo naming of remote historical information was related to posterior cortical white matter volumes but not hippocampal volumes; sequencing was related to prefrontal but not hippocampal volumes. By contrast, a measure of anterograde memory for nonverbal visual material showed a relationship to hippocampal but not regional cortical white matter volumes. This set of dissociations, which parallels that observed in our earlier study of AD, is now documented in KS and provides further evidence that these separate cortical and limbic brain systems are principal neural substrates of the remote and anterograde memory and sequencing deficits in KS.
We sought to identify magnetic resonance- (MR)-imaged structures associated with declarative memory in a community-dwelling sample of elderly Mexican-American individuals with a spectrum of cognitive decline. Measured structures were the hemispheric volumes of the hippocampus (HC), parahippocampal gyrus, and remaining temporal lobes, as well as severity of white matter signal hyperintensities (WMH). Participants were an imaged subsample from the Sacramento Area Latino Study of Aging (SALSA), N = 122. Individuals were categorized as normal, memory impaired (MI), cognitively impaired non-demented (CIND), or demented. We show that WMH was the strongest structural predictor for performance on a delayed free-recall task (episodic memory) in the entire sample. The association of WMH with delayed recall was most prominent in elderly normals and mildly cognitively impaired individuals with no dementia or impairment of daily function. However, the left HC was associated with verbal delayed recall only in people with dementia. The right HC volume predicted nonverbal semantic-memory performance. We conclude that WMH are an important pathological substrate that affects certain memory functions in normal individuals and those with mild memory loss and discuss how tasks associated with WMH may rely upon frontal lobe function.

The 'Bondy operation', or modified Bondy radical mastoidectomy, consists of a modification of the radical procedure by which the mastoid and epitympanum are exteriorized with preservation of the pars tensa and ossicular chain. In the 10-year period from 1986 to 1996, 53 patients of the ENT Department of the University of Pisa underwent a modified Bondy radical mastoidectomy, performed with a personalized procedure; 45 of them had a follow up of at least five years. After the surgical operation, the ears were free of complications in 38 cases (84.5 per cent), while in the other seven cases residual cholesteatoma (one case), tympanic retraction (four cases) or recurrent otorrhoea and phlogosis (two cases) were observed. The post-operative hearing level was unchanged or improved in 41 patients (91 per cent) (33 subjects had an unchanged gap and eight an improved gap), and only in the remaining four cases was the gap made worse. Based on our experience, the modified Bondy radical mastoidectomy is an extremely effective operation with a clear place in modern ENT surgery. When performed on carefully selected patients, it has been proven to offer good functional and anatomical results.

Few studies have explored adult psychiatric outpatients who were bullied in childhood. The aim of this study was to contrast social-demographic variables of adult psychiatric outpatients who reported bullying in childhood with those without such reports. One hundred sixty consecutive adult patients from a psychiatric outpatient clinic completed self-administered questionnaires about cohabitation status, level of education, work status, and occupation. Bullying was measured by an inventory used in schools. The results showed that psychiatric outpatients bullied in childhood were more often singles, had significantly lower levels of education, often received social benefits, and worked as shop assistants rather than as engineers and schoolteachers. Those bullied in childhood showed poorer psychosocial adjustment as adults.
Cerebrospinal fluid levels of methionine (MET), homocysteine (HCY) and cystathionine were studied in patients with psychotic disorders (n=36) and in healthy controls (n=25). Patients had significantly higher MET than controls (p&lt;0.00001), and ten of the patients had MET levels above anyone of the controls. Moreover, three young male patients had HCY levels highly above any of the controls. There were no significant gender differences in any of the parameters. Neither ageing nor neuroleptic treatment offered an explanation for the increase of MET, because also young and drug-naive patients had significantly higher MET than the controls. We conclude that patients with psychotic disorders, at least in a phase of acute exacerbation, are often in a state of disturbed one-carbon metabolism.
Phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) controls the metabolism of phospholipids in cell membranes. In the brain, PLA(2) influences the processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and thus the production of the amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta), which are the major components of the senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Reduced PLA(2) activity has been reported in brain and in platelets of AD patients. In the present study we investigated PLA(2) activity in platelets from 21 AD patients as compared to 17 healthy elderly controls and 11 individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Subjects were cognitively assessed by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the CAMDEX schedule. Platelet PLA(2) activity was determined by radio-enzymatic assay, which mainly detected a calcium-independent form of the enzyme present also in the brain (iPLA(2)). PLA(2) activity was significantly lower in AD than in controls (p &lt; 0.001). Mean PLA(2) activity in MCI individuals was between the values of AD patients and controls, with a subgroup showing PLA as low as the lowest AD patients, but the differences from MCI were not significant from AD and control groups. Lower PLA(2) activity was significantly correlated with a worse cognitive performance both at the MMSE (p = 0.001) and the cognitive sub-scale of the CAMDEX inventory (p = 0.002). Our data replicate previous findings of reduced platelet PLA(2) activity in AD. Both reduced PLA(2) activity and the correlation with impaired cognition were also reported in brain tissue of AD patients, suggesting thus that the present determinations in platelets may be related to a reduction in the brain. In the brain the inhibition of PLA(2) inhibits the physiological secretion of the APP, a mechanism that increases Abeta formation. Further longitudinal studies should investigate whether those MCI individuals with the lowest PLA(2) values in platelets would be at a higher risk to develop AD during a longitudinal follow up.
Neurons of the peripheral nervous system are capable of extensive regeneration following axonal injury. This regenerative response is accompanied by changes in gene expression in axotomized neurons and associated nonneuronal cells. In the sympathetic nervous system, a few of the genes affected by axonal injury have been identified; however, a broad sampling of genes that could reveal additional and unexpected changes in expression has been lacking. We have used DNA microarray technology to study changes in gene expression within 48 h of transecting the postganglionic trunks of the adult rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG). The expression of more than 200 known genes changed in the ganglion, most of these being genes not previously associated with the response to injury. In contrast, only 10 genes changed following transection of the preganglionic cervical sympathetic trunk. Real-time RT-PCR analysis verified the upregulation of a number of the axotomy-induced genes, including activating transcription factor-3 (ATF-3), arginase I (arg I), cardiac ankyrin repeat protein, galanin, osteopontin, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), parathyroid hormone-related peptide, and UDP-glucoronosyltransferase. Arg I mRNA and protein were shown to increase within neurons of the axotomized SCG. Furthermore, increases in the levels of putrescine and spermidine, a diamine and polyamine produced downstream of arg I activity, were also detected in the axotomized SCG. Our results identified many candidate genes to be studied in the context of peripheral nerve regeneration. In addition, the data suggest a potential role for putrescine and spermidine, acting downstream of arg I, in the regenerative process.
Chronic cocaine use in humans and animal models is known to lead to pronounced alterations in glutamatergic function in brain regions associated with reinforcement. Previous studies have examined ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR) subunit protein level changes following acute and chronic experimenter-administered cocaine or after withdrawal periods from experimenter-administered cocaine. To evaluate whether alterations in expression of iGluRs are associated with cocaine reinforcement, protein levels were assessed after binge (8 h/day, 15 days; 24-h access, days 16-21) cocaine self-administration and following 2 weeks of abstinence from this binge. Western blotting was used to compare levels of iGluR protein expression (NR1-3B, GluR1-7, KA2) in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), substantia nigra (SN), nucleus accumbens (NAc), striatum and prefrontal cortex (PFC) of rats. iGluR subunits were altered in a time-dependent manner in all brain regions studied; however, selective alterations in certain iGluR subtypes appeared to be associated with binge cocaine self-administration and withdrawal in a region-specific manner. In the SN and VTA, alterations in iGluR protein levels compared with controls occurred only following binge access, whereas in the striatum and PFC, iGluR alterations occurred with binge access and following withdrawal. In the NAc, GluR2/3 levels were increased following withdrawal compared with binge access, and were the only changes observed in this region. Because subunit composition determines the functional properties of iGluRs, the observed changes may indicate alterations in the excitability of dopamine transmission underlying long-term biochemical and behavioral effects of cocaine.
Aggregation of disease proteins is believed to be a central event in the pathology of polyglutamine diseases, whereas the relationship between aggregation and neuronal death remains controversial. We investigated this question by expressing mutant huntingtin (htt) with a defective adenovirus in different types of neurons prepared from rat cerebral cortex, striatum or cerebellum. The distribution pattern of inclusions is not identical among different types of primary neurons. On day 2 after infection, cytoplasmic inclusions are dominant in cortical and striatal neurons, whereas at day 4 the ratio of nuclear inclusions overtakes that of cytoplasmic inclusions. Meanwhile, nuclear inclusions are always predominantly present in cerebellar neurons. The percentage of inclusion-positive cells is highest in cerebellar neurons, whereas mutant htt induces cell death most remarkably in cortical neurons. As our system uses htt exon 1 protein and thus aggregation occurs independently from cleavage of the full-length htt, our observations indicate that the aggregation process is distinct among different neurons. Most of the neurons containing intracellular (either nuclear or cytoplasmic) aggregates are viable. Our findings suggest that the process of mutant htt aggregation rather than the resulting inclusion body is critical for neuronal cell death.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type-3, also known as Machado-Joseph Disease, is one of many inherited neurodegenerative disorders caused by polyglutamine-encoding CAG repeat expansions in otherwise unrelated disease genes. Polyglutamine disorders are characterized by disease protein misfolding and aggregation; often within the nuclei of affected neurons. Although the precise mechanism of polyglutamine-mediated cell death remains elusive, evidence suggests that proteolysis of polyglutamine disease proteins by caspases contributes to pathogenesis. Using cellular models we now show that the endogenous spinocerebellar ataxia type-3 disease protein, ataxin-3, is proteolyzed in apoptotic paradigms, resulting in the loss of full-length ataxin-3 and the corresponding appearance of an approximately 28-kDa fragment containing the glutamine repeat. Broad-spectrum caspase inhibitors block ataxin-3 proteolysis and studies suggest that caspase-1 is a primary mediator of cleavage. Site-directed mutagenesis experiments eliminating three, six or nine potential caspase cleavage sites in the protein suggest redundancy in the site(s) at which cleavage can occur, as previously described for other disease proteins; but also map a major cleavage event to a cluster of aspartate residues within the ubiquitin-binding domain of ataxin-3 near the polyglutamine tract. Finally, caspase-mediated cleavage of expanded ataxin-3 resulted in increased ataxin-3 aggregation, suggesting a potential role for caspase-mediated proteolysis in spinocerebellar ataxia type-3 pathogenesis.
According to the amyloid hypothesis, accumulation of amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) in the brain is the primary pathogenic event in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent evidence indicates that A beta within the intravascular space is linked to A beta deposited in the brain suggesting that transport of A beta between the brain, blood and cerebrospinal fluid, and across the blood-brain barrier, regulates brain A beta. Thus, understanding A beta exchanges between brain and blood, and vice versa, and developing transport-based systemic A beta-lowering strategies may provide new important insights into pathogenesis and therapeutic control of AD.
The mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT) is increasingly implicated in neuronal cell death. In the present study, isolated respiring brain mitochondria were examined for their ability to undergo calcium-induced mPT and their sensitivity to mPT inhibition by cyclosporin A (CsA). Previous studies have suggested a heterogeneous response to calcium, a limitation of CsA inhibition, and a relative resistance in the ability of respiring brain mitochondria to undergo mPT. Using fluorometric and electron microscopic analyses, we found that virtually the whole population of respiring brain mitochondria readily undergo mPT and swell upon calcium exposure. Further, brain mitochondria were highly sensitive to CsA which potentiated morphological recovery after transient swelling as well as completely blocked mPT induction in the presence of a low concentration of ADP. Using flow cytometry, which allows analysis of individual mitochondria, we demonstrate that both brain and liver mitochondria display homogeneous responses to calcium-induced mPT. We conclude that the mPT is one likely target for the broad in vivo neuroprotective effects displayed by CsA when allowed to penetrate the blood-brain barrier, and that development of compounds inhibiting mPT may prove beneficial for the treatment of severe brain disease.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) promotes neuronal survival and differentiation and stimulates neurite outgrowth. NGF is synthesized as a precursor, proNGF, which undergoes post-translational processing to generate mature beta-NGF. It has been assumed that, in vivo, NGF is largely processed into the mature form and that mature NGF accounts for the biological activity. However, we recently showed that proNGF is abundant in CNS tissues whereas mature NGF is undetectable, suggesting that proNGF has biological functions beyond its role as a precursor. To determine whether proNGF exhibits biological activity, we mutagenized the precursor-processing site and expressed unprocessed, cleavage-resistant proNGF protein in insect cells. Survival and neurite outgrowth assays on murine superior cervical ganglion neurons and PC12 cells indicated that proNGF exhibits neurotrophic activity similar to mature 2.5S NGF, but is approximately fivefold less active. ProNGF binds to the high-affinity receptor, TrkA, as determined by cross-linking to PC12 cells, and is also slightly less active than mature NGF in promoting phosphorylation of TrkA and its downstream signaling effectors, Erk1/2, in PC12 and NIH3T3-TrkA cells. These data, coupled with our previous report that proNGF is the major form of NGF in the CNS, suggest that proNGF could be responsible for much of the biological activity normally attributed to mature NGF in vivo.
This review examines the involvement of nitrotyrosine as a marker for peroxynitrite-mediated damage in the dopamine neuronal system. We propose that the dopamine neuronal phenotype can influence the cytotoxic signature of peroxynitrite. Dopamine and tetrahydrobiopterin are concentrated in dopamine neurons, and both are essential for their proper neurochemical function. It is not well appreciated that dopamine and tetrahydrobiopterin are also powerful blockers of peroxynitrite-induced tyrosine nitration. What is more, the reaction of peroxynitrite with either dopamine or tetrahydrobiopterin forms chemical species (i.e. o-quinones and pterin radicals, respectively) whose cytotoxic effects may be manifested far earlier than nitrotyrosine formation in the course of dopamine neuronal damage. A better understanding of how the dopamine neuronal phenotype modulates the effects of reactive nitrogen species could reveal early steps in drug- and disease-induced damage to the dopamine neuron and form the basis for rational, protective therapies.
The hard palate of rodents is a mucous membrane covered by a keratinized epithelium that typically contains Merkel cell (MC)-neurite complexes. MCs have engendered considerable research activity because of their involvement in mechanoreception and possibly also Merkel cell carcinomas. MCs derive from the neural crest, differentiate under control of peripheral nerve factors, are enriched in large dense core vesicles, and secrete neuropeptides and other neuroactive molecules. Upon stimulation, MC-neurite complexes produce slowly adapting type I responses. Here we emphasize that the murine hard palate is a highly differentiated sensory region, as shown by intravital staining with a styryl dye and immunocytochemistry with antibodies to vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs). The entire palate contained densities of sensory endings and MC-neurite complexes, that nearly paralleled in abundance the vibrissal pads. MCs were differentially distributed in the murine palate; clusters of MCs were most abundant in the antemolar and intermolar rugae, while individual MCs were particularly enriched in the rugae at the mid-portion of the palate and in the postrugal field. VGLUT1, VGLUT2 and VGLUT3 were expressed in MCs throughout, although immunostained MCs were most frequently encountered in intermolar than antemolar rugae. The same transporters were also present in corpuscular endings at the summit of the rugae and in intraepithelial free nerve endings throughout the palate. VGLUTs presumably load glutamate into large dense core vesicles in MCs and into small clear vesicles in corpuscular and free nerve endings. The data suggest that glutamate release, or co-release, is likely to represent an important functional aspect of palatine Merkel cells and neighboring corpuscular and free nerve endings.
Transplantation of neural progenitors or stem cells is a most useful tool to investigate the relative contribution of cell-autonomous mechanisms and environmental cues in the regulation of cell specification and differentiation during CNS development. To assess the capability of neocortical progenitor cells to integrate into foreign brain regions, here we examined the fate of precursor cells isolated from the dorsal telencephalon of E12 ss-actin-EGFP transgenic mouse embryos after heterotopic/heterochronic transplantation to the E16 rat brain in utero. Our observations show that donor cells were able to penetrate, survive and produce mature cell types into wide regions of the host CNS. Namely, EGFP-positive cells acquired site-specific neuronal identities in many telencephalic regions, including neocortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb and corpus striatum. In contrast, incorporation into more caudal sites was much less efficient. A fraction of donor cells formed large aggregates that remained segregated from the host milieu. Such aggregates contained mature neurons and glia, including some EGFP-negative elements of host origin, and developed the complex organization of the mature nervous tissue. On the other hand, transplanted cells that engrafted in the parenchyma of extratelencephalic regions predominantly generated glial types. The few neurons failed to acquire obvious site-specific phenotypic traits and did not integrate into the local host architecture. Altogether, our observations indicate that E12 neocortical progenitors are already committed towards regional identities and are unable to modify their phenotypic choices when exposed to heterotopic environmental conditions along different rostro-caudal domains of the embryonic CNS.
A variety of data suggest that noradrenaline and acetylcholine may interact in the basal forebrain, however no morphological studies have addressed whether indeed cholinergic neurons express adrenergic receptors. We have investigated the presence of alpha-adrenergic receptor subtype alpha2A-AR in cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain. Cholinergic neurons were identified with an antibody against choline acetyltransferase and the receptor with a polyclonal antibody raised against a 47 amino acid fragment of the third intracellular loop of the alpha2A-AR. For double labeling at the light microscopic level the Ni-DAB/DAB technique was used, and for electron microscopy an immunoperoxidase/immunogold method was applied. We detected the alpha2A-AR protein in cholinergic as well as in non-cholinergic neurons. Almost half of all cholinergic neurons contained this adrenergic receptor. Double-labeled neurons were distributed throughout the rostro-caudal extent of the basal forebrain cholinergic continuum, including the medial septum, vertical and horizontal diagonal band nuclei, pallidal regions, substantia innominata and the internal capsule. Non-cholinergic neurons that expressed the alpha2A-AR outnumbered cholinergic/alpha2A-AR neurons by several factors. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of alpha2A-AR in cholinergic neurons in the medial septum, vertical and horizontal diagonal band nuclei. Gold particles (10 nm) indicative of alpha2A-AR were diffusely distributed in the cytoplasm and accumulated in cytoplasmic areas near the Golgi complex and cysterns of the endoplasmic reticulum and were associated with the cellular membranes at synaptic and non-synaptic locations. Since many of the alpha2A-AR+/non-cholinergic neurons we detected are likely to be GABAergic cells, our data support the hypothesis that noradrenaline may act via basal forebrain cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons to influence cortical activity.
Interferon-beta (IFN-beta) ameliorates disease course in a subset of patients with MS. The reasons for heterogeneity of clinical responses, however, are unclear. We assessed possible effects of IFN-beta on the gene expression of the leukocyte adhesion molecules VLA-4 and LFA-1 during the first year of treatment of 50 patients with relapsing-remitting MS who showed differential clinical responses. We observed a significant reduction of VLA-4 (P=0.002) and LFA-1 (P=0.03) mRNA expression compared to baseline in first-year clinical responders (n=22). In contrast, first-year IFN-beta non-responders (n=28) had unchanged levels of VLA-4 and LFA-1. In vitro treatment of PBMC with IFN-beta indicated a direct effect on transcription of the integrins' genes. Transcriptional downmodulation of adhesion molecules during IFN-beta treatment may contribute to its mode of action in MS.




Positron emission tomography (PET) is a powerful imaging technique which enables in vivo examination of brain functions. It allows non-invasive quantification of cerebral blood flow, metabolism, and receptor binding. In the past PET has been employed mainly in the research setting due to the relatively high costs and complexity of the support infrastructure, such as cyclotrons, PET scanners, and radiochemistry laboratories. In recent years, because of advancements in technology and proliferation of PET scanners, PET is being increasingly used in clinical neurology to improve our understanding of disease pathogenesis, to aid with diagnosis, and to monitor disease progression and response to treatment. This article aims to provide an overview of the principles of PET and its applications to clinical neurology.

Investigations of the effects of radiation on neuropsychological functions have revealed variable outcomes, ranging from no effect to severe cognitive impairment. However, many of the previous studies have relied on retrospective data or have been limited by methodological problems. In this study, prospective neuropsychological assessments were compared at baseline (after surgery and before radiotherapy) and within 4 months of completion of radiotherapy (except one case), to examine early-delayed effects of radiation on intellectual and cognitive functioning. Sixteen adult patients with either low- or high-grade brain tumours, 15 of whom were treated with radiotherapy, were compared with 8 control participants with nonmalignant brain tumours whom did not undergo radiotherapy. All participants had lesions situated mainly in the frontal lobes. All groups of patients had evidence of intellectual and cognitive impairment at baseline. The low- and high-grade brain tumour groups showed a differential pattern of performance following radiotherapy, with the low-grade tumour group's performance being more competent on all of the five main neuropsychological measures. Their pattern of improvement was very similar to that of the nonmalignant brain tumour group who had not undergone radiotherapy. The present study provides some preliminary information about the neuropsychological deficits associated with primary brain tumours, their severity, and the relationship between neuropsychological functioning and brain tumours and radiotherapy.
Down syndrome is the most frequent genetic cause of mental retardation, having an incidence of 1 in 700 live births. In the present study we used a transgenic mouse in vivo library consisting of 4 yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) transgenic mouse lines, each bearing a different fragment of the Down syndrome critical region 1 (DCR-1), implicated in brain abnormalities characterizing this pathology. The 152F7 fragment, in addition to genes also located on the other DCR-1 fragments, bears the DYRK1A gene, encoding for a serine-threonine kinase. The neurobehavioral analysis of these mouse lines showed that DYRK1A overexpressing 152F7 mice but not the other lines display learning impairment and hyperactivity during development. Additionally, 152F7 mice display increased brain weight and neuronal size. At a biochemical level we found DYRK1A overexpression associated with a development-dependent increase in phosphorylation of the transcription factor FKHR and with high levels of cyclin B1, suggesting for the first time in vivo a correlation between DYRK1A overexpression and cell cycle protein alteration. In addition, we found an altered phosphorylation of transcription factors of CREB family. Our findings support a role of DYRK1A overexpression in the neuronal abnormalities seen in Down syndrome and suggest that this pathology is linked to altered levels of proteins involved in the regulation of cell cycle.
Following chronic sacral spinal cord transection in rats the affected tail muscles exhibit marked spasticity, with characteristic long-lasting tail spasms evoked by mild stimulation. The purpose of the present paper was to characterize the long-lasting reflex seen in tail muscles in response to electrical stimulation of the tail nerves in the awake spastic rat, including its development with time and relation to spasticity. Before and after sacral spinal transection, surface electrodes were placed on the tail for electrical stimulation of the caudal nerve trunk (mixed nerve) and for recording EMG from segmental tail muscles. In normal and acute spinal rats caudal nerve trunk stimulation evoked little or no EMG reflex. By 2 wk after injury, the same stimulation evoked long-lasting reflexes that were 1) very low threshold, 2) evoked from rest without prior EMG activity, 3) of polysynaptic latency with &gt;6 ms central delay, 4) about 2 s long, and 5) enhanced by repeated stimulation (windup). These reflexes produced powerful whole tail contractions (spasms) and developed gradually over the weeks after the injury (&lt; or =52 wk tested), in close parallel to the development of spasticity. Pure low-threshold cutaneous stimulation, from electrical stimulation of the tip of the tail, also evoked long-lasting spastic reflexes, not seen in acute spinal or normal rats. In acute spinal rats a strong C-fiber stimulation of the tip of the tail (20 x T) could evoke a weak EMG response lasting about 1 s. Interestingly, when this C-fiber stimulation was used as a conditioning stimulation to depolarize the motoneuron pool in acute spinal rats, a subsequent low-threshold stimulation of the caudal nerve trunk evoked a 300-500 ms long reflex, similar to the onset of the long-lasting reflex in chronic spinal rats. A similar conditioned reflex was not seen in normal rats. Thus there is an unusually long low-threshold polysynaptic input to the motoneurons (pEPSP) that is normally inhibited by descending control. This pEPSP is released from inhibition immediately after injury but does not produce a long-lasting reflex because of a lack of motoneuron excitability. With chronic injury the motoneuron excitability is increased markedly, and the pEPSP then triggers sustained motoneuron discharges associated with long-lasting reflexes and muscle spasms.
Over the months following sacral spinal cord transection in adult rats, a pronounced spasticity syndrome emerges in the affected tail musculature, where long-lasting muscle spasms can be evoked by low-threshold afferent stimulation (termed long-lasting reflex). To develop an in vitro preparation to examine the neuronal mechanisms underlying spasticity, we removed the whole sacrocaudal spinal cord of these spastic chronic spinal rats (&gt;1 mo after S(2) sacral spinal transection) and maintained it in artificial cerebral spinal fluid in a recording chamber. The ventral roots were mounted on monopolar recording electrodes in grease, and the reflex responses to dorsal root stimulation were recorded and compared with the reflexes seen in the awake chronic spinal rat. When the dorsal roots were stimulated with a single pulse, a long-lasting reflex occurred in the ventral roots, with identical characteristics to the long-lasting reflex in the awake spastic rat tail. The reflex response was low threshold (T), short latency, long duration ( approximately 2 s), and enhanced by repeated stimulation. Brief high-frequency stimulation trains (0.5 s, 100 Hz, 1.5 x T) evoked even longer duration responses (5-10 s), with repeated bursts of activity that were similar to the repeated muscle spasms evoked in awake rats with stimulation trains or manual skin stimulation. Stimulation of a given dorsal root evoked long-lasting reflexes in both the ipsilateral and contralateral ventral roots. Long-lasting reflexes did not occur in the sacrocaudal spinal cord of acute spinal rats (S(2) transection), which is similar to the areflexia seen in awake acute spinal rats. However, long-lasting reflexes could be made to occur in the acute spinal rat by altering K(+) (7 mM) or Mg(2+) (0 mM) concentrations, or by application of high doses of the neuromodulators norepinephrine (NE, &gt;20 microM) or serotonin (5-HT, &gt;20 microM). In chronic spinal rats, much lower doses of these neuromodulators (0.1 microM) enhanced the long-lasting reflexes, suggesting a denervation supersensitivity to 5-HT and NE following injury. Higher doses of NE or 5-HT produced a paradoxical inhibition of the long-lasting reflexes. The high dose inhibition by NE was mimicked by the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist clonidine but not the alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor agonist methoxamine. In summary, the sacral spinal in vitro preparation offers a new approach to the study of spinal cord injury and analysis of antispastic drugs.
The role of potassium channels in regulating spontaneous firing and sound-evoked responses in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus was studied by recording single-unit activity before and during iontophoretic application of a nonspecific potassium channel blocker, tetraethylammonium (TEA). Tone bursts and sinusoidal amplitude-modulated tones were used to evoke auditory responses. Our results show that release of TEA increased the width of spikes for all neurons tested. There was an increase in spontaneous firing for most of the neurons. There was also an increase in responses to tone bursts for most of the neurons, although in some cases there was a reduction in the evoked responses. TEA also increased the firing rate in responses to sinusoidal amplitude-modulated sounds in the majority of the neurons tested. For some neurons, the change in firing reduced the selectivity of responses for particular rates of modulation. There was also a reduction in the synchrony of action potentials to the modulation envelope in many cells. Our results show that potassium channels are important for regulating the strength of sound-evoked responses and the level of spontaneous activity, and determining the temporal properties of responses to amplitude-modulated sounds.
One model of episodic memory posits that during slow-wave sleep (SWS), the synchronized discharges of hippocampal neurons in relation to sharp waves &quot;replay&quot; activity patterns that occurred during the waking state, facilitating synaptic plasticity in the neocortex. Although evidence of replay was found in the hippocampus in relation to sharp waves, it was never shown that this activity reached the neocortex. Instead, it was assumed that the rhinal cortices faithfully transmit information from the hippocampus to the neocortex and reciprocally. Here, we tested this idea using 3 different approaches. 1) Stimulating electrodes were inserted in the entorhinal cortex and temporal neocortex and evoked unit responses were recorded in between them, in the intervening rhinal cortices. In these conditions, impulse transfer occurred with an extremely low probability, in both directions. 2) To rule out the possibility that this unreliable transmission resulted from the artificial nature of electrical stimuli, crosscorrelation analyses of spontaneous neocortical, perirhinal, and entorhinal firing were performed in unanesthetized animals during the states of waking and SWS. Again, little evidence of propagation could be obtained in either state. 3) To test the idea that propagation occurs only when large groups of neurons are activated within a narrow time window, we computed perievent histograms of neocortical, perirhinal, and entorhinal neuronal discharges around large-amplitude sharp waves. However, these synchronized entorhinal discharges also failed to propagate across the perirhinal cortex. These findings suggest that the rhinal cortices are more than a relay between the neocortex and hippocampus, but rather a gate whose properties remain to be identified.
The striatum plays an important role in &quot;habitual&quot; learning and memory and has been hypothesized to implement a reinforcement-learning algorithm to select actions to perform given the current sensory input. Many experimental approaches to striatal activity have made use of temporally structured tasks, which imply that the striatal representation is temporal. To test this assumption, we recorded neurons in the dorsal striatum of rats running a sequential navigation task: the multiple T maze. Rats navigated a sequence of four T maze turns to receive food rewards delivered in two locations. The responses of neurons that fired phasically were examined. Task-responsive phasic neurons were active as rats ran on the maze (maze-responsive) or during reward receipt (reward-responsive). Neither maze- nor reward-responsive neurons encoded simple motor commands: maze-responses were not well correlated with the shape of the rat's path and most reward-responsive neurons did not fire at similar rates at both food-delivery sites. Maze-responsive neurons were active at one or more locations on the maze, but these responses did not cluster at spatial landmarks such as turns. Across sessions the activity of maze-responsive neurons was highly correlated when rats ran the same maze. Maze-responses encoded the location of the rat on the maze and imply a spatial representation in the striatum in a task with prominent spatial demands. Maze-responsive and reward-responsive neurons were two separate populations, suggesting a divergence in striatal information processing of navigation and reward.
Auditory responsiveness in nucleus HVC, a high-order sensorimotor area of the avian song system, is modulated by changes in behavioral state. Modulation is not observed in the primary thalamo-recipient auditory area Field L, the indirect source of auditory input to HVC. In this study, we show that auditory responsiveness in nucleus interfacialis (NIf), the immediate auditory afferent to HVC, is modulated by behavioral state. While auditory responsiveness is generally greater in NIf during wakefulness and in HVC during sedation, simultaneous recordings reveal a co-variation of auditory response magnitude. This co-variation is observed both in awake birds, where responses are spontaneously variable, and in sedated birds during manipulations of arousal levels. Auditory responses in NIf and HVC, which are selective for the bird's own song (BOS) during sedation, become predominantly unselective during wakefulness. This loss of selectivity is accompanied by a decrease in the similarity of NIf and HVC response patterns. To explore the role of NIf in shaping HVC auditory responses, we pharmacologically manipulated NIf while recording in HVC. Injection of the GABA(A) agonist muscimol into NIf eliminated most spontaneous activity and all auditory responses in the ipsilateral HVC, while injections of the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline increased HVC auditory responsiveness and selectivity. These findings indicate that HVC is not the initial site of behavioral state-dependent modulation in the song system. Together with the suppression of HVC auditory responses by muscimol in NIf, these results suggest that NIf plays an important role in the flow of auditory information to HVC.
To examine the mechanisms underlying milk-ejection bursts of oxytocin (OT) neurons during suckling, both in vivo and in vitro studies were performed on supraoptic OT neurons from lactating rats. The bursts were first recorded extracellularly in anesthetized rats. Burst-related electrical parameters were essentially the same as previous reports except for a trend toward transient decreases in basal firing rates immediately preceding the burst. From putative OT neurons in slices with extracellular recordings, bursts that closely mimicked the in vivo bursts were elicited by phenylephrine, an alpha1-adrenoceptor agonist, in a low-Ca(2+) medium. Moreover, in whole cell patch-clamp recordings, the in vitro bursts were recorded from immunocytochemically identified OT neurons. After a transient decrease in the basal firing rate, the in vitro bursts started with a sudden increase in the firing rate, quickly reaching a peak level, then gradually decaying, and ended with a postburst inhibition. A brief depolarization of the membrane potential and an increase in membrane conductance appeared after the onset of the burst. Spikes during a burst were characterized by a significant increase in the duration and decrease in the amplitude around the peak rate firing. These bursts were significantly different from short-lasting burst firing of vasopressin neurons in membrane potential changes, time to reach peak firing rate, spike amplitude and duration during peak rate firing. Our extensive analysis of these results suggests that the in vitro burst is a useful model for further study of mechanisms underlying milk-ejection bursts of OT neurons in vivo.
We previously reported that mice with a deletion of the preprotachykinin-A (pptA) gene, from which substance P (SP) and neurokinin A (NKA) are derived, exhibit reduced behavioral responses to intense stimuli, but that behavioral hypersensitivity after injury is unaltered. To understand the contribution of SP and NKA to nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord, we recorded single-unit activity from wide dynamic range neurons in the lamina V region of the lumbar dorsal horn of urethane-anesthetized wild-type and ppt-A null mutant (-/-) mice. We found that intensity coding to thermal stimuli was largely preserved in the ppt-A -/- mice. Neither the peak stimulus-evoked firing nor the neuronal activity during the initial phase (0-4 s) of the 41-49 degrees C thermal stimuli differed between the genotypes. However, electrophysiological responses during the late phase of the stimulus (5-10 s) and poststimulus (11-25 s) were significantly reduced in ppt-A -/- mice. To activate C-fibers and to sensitize the dorsal horn neurons we applied mustard oil (MO) topically to the hindpaw. We found that neither total MO-evoked activity nor sensitization to subsequent stimuli differed between the wild-type and ppt-A -/- mice. However, the time course of the sensitization and the magnitude of the poststimulus discharges were reduced in ppt-A -/- mice. We conclude that SP and/or NKA are not required for intensity coding or sensitization of nociresponsive neurons in the spinal cord, but that these peptides prolong thermal stimulus-evoked responses. Thus whereas behavioral hypersensitivity after injury is preserved in ppt-A -/- mice, our results suggest that the magnitude and duration of these behavioral responses would be reduced in the absence of SP and/or NKA.
Reflexively orienting toward a peripheral cue can influence subsequent responses to a target, depending on when and where the cue and target appear relative to each other. At short delays between the cue and target [cue-target onset asynchrony (CTOA)], subjects are faster to respond when they appear at the same location, an effect referred to as reflexive attentional capture. At longer CTOAs, subjects are slower to respond when the two appear at the same location, an effect referred to as inhibition of return (IOR). Recent evidence suggests that these phenomena originate from sensory interactions between the cue- and target-related responses. The capture of attention originates from a strong target-related response, derived from the overlap of the cue- and target-related activities, whereas IOR corresponds to a weaker target-aligned response. If such interactions are responsible, then modifying their nature should impact the neuronal and behavioral outcome. Monkeys performed a cue-target saccade task featuring visual and auditory cues while neural activity was recorded from the superior colliculus (SC). Compared with visual stimuli, auditory responses are weaker and occur earlier, thereby decreasing the likelihood of interactions between these signals. Similar to previous studies, visual stimuli evoked reflexive attentional capture at a short CTOA (60 ms) and IOR at longer CTOAs (160 and 610 ms) with corresponding changes in the target-aligned activity in the SC. Auditory cues used in this study failed to elicit either a behavioral effect or modification of SC activity at any CTOA, supporting the hypothesis that reflexive orienting is mediated by sensory interactions between the cue and target stimuli.
Antipsychotic (neuroleptic) drugs induce structural alterations in synaptic terminals and changes in the expression of presynaptic protein genes. Whether there are also changes in corresponding postsynaptic (dendritic) markers has not been determined. We describe the effect of 14-day treatment with typical (haloperidol, chlorpromazine) or atypical (clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone) antipsychotics on the expression of two dendritic protein genes, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and spinophilin, using in situ hybridization, in the rat hippocampus, retrosplenial, and occipitoparietal cortices. MAP2 mRNA was increased modestly in the dentate gyrus and retrosplenial cortex by chlorpromazine, risperidone, and olanzapine and in the occipitoparietal cortex by chlorpromazine, haloperidol, and risperidone. None of the antipsychotics affected spinophilin mRNA in any area. Overall, these results show a modulation of MAP2 gene expression, likely reflecting functional or structural changes in the dendritic tree in response to some typical and atypical antipsychotics. The lack of change in spinophilin mRNA suggests that dendritic spines are not affected selectively by the drugs. The data provide further evidence that antipsychotics regulate genes involved in synaptic structure and function. Such actions may underlie their long-term effects on neural plasticity in areas of the brain implicated in the pathology of schizophrenia.
Previous work demonstrated the presence of an isoform of Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger in the nuclear envelope of neurons and NG108-15 cells that is tightly associated with GM1 ganglioside and potentiated by the latter. This contrasted with the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger(s) in the plasma membrane, which were suggested to associate more loosely with GM1. To study these aspects of Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger expression in nonneuronal neural cells, we have examined nuclear and plasma membrane exchanger patterns in astrocytes and C6 cells, a glia-derived line. We find both cell types contain the tightly associated exchanger/GM1 complex in the nuclear envelope but, surprisingly, only astrocytes possess Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger activity in the plasma membrane. This is the first reported example of a cell (C6) with Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers in the nuclear envelope but not in the plasma membrane. RT-PCR established the presence of the NCX1 subtype in C6 cells and both NCX1 and NCX2 in astrocytes. Comparison was made with NG108-15 cells, which have Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers in both nuclear and plasma membranes, and Jurkat cells, which have no Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger in either membrane. Culturing of C6 cells in the presence dibutyryl-cAMP caused upregulation of a high molecular weight isoform of the exchanger together with GM1 in the nuclear envelope, resulting in significant elevation of Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger activity in the latter. Application of exogenous GM1 to nuclei from non-treated cells also potentiated exchanger activity, although to a lesser degree. The Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger/GM1 complex occurs in the inner membrane of the nuclear envelope, suggesting a functional role in transferring Ca(2+) between nucleoplasm and the envelope lumen.
The recent development of techniques for stimulating and recording from individual neurons grown on semiconductor chips has ushered in a new era in the field of neuroelectronics. Using this approach to construct complex neural circuits on silicon from individual neurons will require improvements at the neuron/semiconductor interface and advances in controlling synaptogenesis. Although devices incorporating vertebrate neurons may be an ultimate goal, initial investigations using neurons from the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis have distinct advantages. Simple two-cell networks connected by electrical synapses have already been reconstructed on semiconductor chips. Furthermore, considerable progress has been made in controlling the processes that underlie chemical synapse formation in Lymnaea. Studies of Lymnaea neural networks on silicon chips will lead to a deeper understanding of the long-term dynamics of simple neural circuits and may provide the basis for reliable interfaces for new neuroprosthetic devices.
The injury of Phineas Gage has fueled research on and fascination with the localization of cerebral functions in the past century and a half. Most physicians and anatomists believed that Gage sustained a largely bilateral injury to the frontal lobes. However, previous studies seem to have overlooked a few less obvious, but essential details. This has led us to reanalyze the injury using three-dimensional reconstruction and quantitative computer-aided techniques and to propose a new biomechanical model, in order to determine the location and extent of the injury and explain Gage's improbable survival. Unlike previous studies on this subject, our findings are based on computer-generated three-dimensional reconstructions of a thin-slice computed tomography scan (CAT) of Phineas Gage's skull. The results of our image analysis were corroborated with the clinical findings, thoroughly recorded by Dr. Harlow in 1848, as well as with a systematic examination of the original skull specimen. Our results show that the cerebral injury was limited to the left frontal lobe, did not extend to the contralateral side, did not affect the ventricular system, and did not involve vital intracranial vascular structures. Although modern neuroscience has perhaps outgrown the speculations prompted by this famous case, it is still a living part of the medical folklore and education. Setting the record straight based on clinical reasoning, observation of the physical evidence, and sound quantitative computational methods is more than mere minutia and of interest for the broad medical community.
The complement cascade has been suggested to be involved in development of secondary brain damage following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Previous studies have shown that reactive microglia are involved in activation of the complement cascade following various injuries to the nervous system. Macrophages seem to have a significant role in this process, but it is still unclear whether these cells, as well as the complement components, are derived from reactive microglia or if these biological events only can occur as a result from the influx of plasma and monocytes via a disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB). The aim of this study was to investigate the response of microglial cells and the complement system in the absence of plasma/blood components following a standardized crush injury in an entorhinal-hippocampal slice culture. There was a clear increase in complement component C1q and C5b-9-IR (Membrane Attack Complex, MAC) in the area near the crush injury. MAC-IR appeared as numerous dots in clusters which co-localized with anti-NeuN labelled neurons in the injury border zone. Complement C1q-IR co-localized with reactive microglia, co-labelled with OX42 antisera. These findings show activation of the complement cascade near the injury zone and in particular, formation of MAC at the surface of neurons in this area. There was a distinct activation of microglial cells (OX42-IR) near the site of injury, as well as an increase in ED-1 expressing macrophages. In the absence of blood and plasma components it is likely that ED-1-labelled cells represent reactive microglia transformed into macrophages. In addition, Neurons (Neun-IR) near the injury were found to co-localize with clusterin-IR indicating upregulation of a defense system to the endogenous complement attack. The present study provides evidence that microglia and complement is activated in the injury border zone of the tissue slice in a similar fashion as in vivo following TBI, despite the absence of plasma/blood products and cells. These findings support the hypothesis that reactive microglia have a key role in complement activation following TBI by local synthesis of complement with a potential impact on development of secondary neuronal insults.
Alkyl-substituted butyrolactones have both inhibitory and stimulatory effects on GABA(A) receptors. Lactones with small alkyl substitutions at the alpha-position positively modulate the channel, whereas beta-substituted lactones tend to inhibit the GABA(A) receptor. These compounds mediate inhibition through the picrotoxin site of the receptor. A distinct binding site that mediates the stimulatory actions of lactones is presumed to exist, although no definitive evidence to support this claim exists. In the present study, we used in vivo and in vitro assays to evaluate the effects of the enantiomers of a novel lactone, alpha-benzyl-alpha-methyl-gamma-butyrolactone (alpha-BnMeGBL), on the GABA(A) receptor. R-(-)-alpha-BnMeGBL was 2-fold more potent than the S-(+)-alpha-BnMeGBL in blocking pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures in CF-1 mice. The (+)-enantiomer inhibited binding of t-butylbicyclophosporothionate with a higher affinity than the (-)-enantiomer (IC(50) of 0.68 and 1.1 mM, respectively). Whole cell patch-clamp recordings from recombinant alpha1beta2gamma2 receptors stably expressed in HEK293 cells demonstrated that both compounds stimulated GABA-activated current. The maximal stimulation was approximately 2-fold greater with (+)-alpha-BnMeGBL than that seen with (-)-alpha-BnMeGBL. Both enantiomers of alpha-BnMeGBL directly gated the GABA(A) receptor at mM concentrations, in a nonstereoselective manner. Our data demonstrate the stimulatory actions of alpha-BnMeGBL on GABA(A) receptor function display enantioselectivity and provide strong evidence for the existence of a true &quot;lactone site&quot; on the receptor.
The cystic fibrosis (CF) transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) is a cAMP-dependent Cl(-) channel that is defective in CF disease. CFTR activity has been shown to be regulated by the G(q)/phospholipase C-linked P2Y2 subtype of P2Y nucleotide receptors (P2YR) in various systems. Here, we tested whether other P2YR may exert a regulation on CFTR activity and whether CFTR may in turn exert a regulation on P2YR signaling. Using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reactions, antisense oligodeoxynucleotide knockdown, and measurements of intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), we showed that, in addition to P2Y2R, Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells also express functional P2Y1R. P2Y1R were activated by 2-methylthioadenosine 5'-diphosphate &gt; 2-methylthioadenosine-5'-triphosphate &gt; ADP with an EC(50) of 30 nM, 0.2 microM, and 0.8 microM, respectively. Activation of P2Y1R increased [Ca(2+)](i), which was prevented by the P2Y1R antagonists pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS) (10 microM) and N6-methyl 2'-deoxyadenosine 3',5'-bisphosphate (MRS2179) (10 microM) and by pretreatment with P2Y1R antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. In CHO-K1 and CHO-KNUT (mock-transfected) cells lacking CFTR, both P2Y1R and P2Y2R caused [Ca(2+)](i) mobilization via pertussis toxin (PTX)-insensitive G(q/11)-proteins. In contrast, in CFTR-expressing CHO cells (CHO-BQ1), the P2Y1R response was completely PTX-sensitive, indicating that P2Y1R couples to G(i/o)-proteins, whereas the P2Y2R response remained PTX-insensitive. In CHO-BQ1 cells, P2Y1R activation by ADP (100 microM) failed to inhibit both forskolin (1 microM)-induced CFTR activation, measured using iodide ((125)I) efflux, and forskolin (0.1-10 microM)-evoked cAMP increase. Together, our results indicate that, in contrast to P2Y2R, P2Y1R does not modulate CFTR activity in CHO cells and that CFTR expression may alter the G-protein-coupling selectivity of P2Y1R.
The production of visually guided reaching movements relies on a large neural network. Based on indirect experimental evidence, it has been suggested that the superior colliculus, a subcortical centre known for its key role in controlling rapid orienting gaze shifts, also belongs to this network. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of the cat superior colliculus (SC) in the control of visually guided reaching movements. To address this issue, we studied the effect of SC electrical stimulation on forelimb reaching movements in two cats trained to catch a piece of food. Electrical stimulation delivered just after the movement onset yielded a consistent perturbation of the movement trajectory of the forelimb extremity. This perturbation followed stimulation onset by 56 +/- 11 ms on average, and consisted of a deviation of the spatial path and a deceleration of the movement. The forelimb perturbation was elicited in the absence of concomitant gaze or head displacement in 52% of the stimulation trials. Forelimb perturbations were followed by in-flight adjustments so that reaching movements reliably ended on the target. The present results constitute the first behavioural evidence for a contribution of the cat SC to the control of visually guided forelimb movements.
A role for myoendothelial gap junctions (MEGJs) has been proposed in the action of the vasodilator endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF). EDHF activity varies in disease and during ageing, but little is known of the role of EDHF during development when, in many organ systems, gap junctions are up-regulated. The aims of the present study were therefore to determine whether an up-regulation of heterocellular gap junctional coupling occurs during arterial development and whether this change is reflected functionally through an increased action of EDHF. Results demonstrated that in the saphenous artery of juvenile WKY rats, MEGJs were abundant and application of acetylcholine (ACh) evoked EDHF-mediated hyperpolarization and relaxation in the presence of N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) and indomethacin to inhibit nitric oxide and prostaglandins, respectively. Responses were blocked by a combination of charybdotoxin plus apamin, or 1-[(2-chlorophenyl)diphenylmethyl]-1H-pyrazole (TRAM-34) plus apamin, or by blockade of gap junctions with the connexin (Cx)-mimetic peptides, (43)Gap26, (40)Gap27 and (37,43)Gap27. On the other hand, we found no evidence for the involvement of the putative chemical mediators of EDHF, eicosanoids, L-NAME-insensitive nitric oxide, hydrogen peroxide or potassium ions, since 14,15-epoxyeicosa-5(Z)-enoic acid (14,15-EEZE), hydroxocobalamin, catalase or barium and ouabain were without effect. In contrast, in the adult saphenous artery, MEGJs were rare, EDHF-mediated relaxation was absent and hyperpolarizations were small and unstable. The present study demonstrates that MEGJs and EDHF are up-regulated during arterial development. Furthermore, the data show for the first time that this developmentally regulated EDHF is dependent on direct electrotonic coupling via MEGJs.
Previous studies have outlined an important role for serotonin (5-HT) in the development of synaptic connectivity and function in the cerebral cortex. In this study, we have examined the effects of 5-HT on synaptic function in prefrontal cortex at a time of intense synapse formation and remodelling. Whole-cell recordings in slices derived from animals aged postnatal (P) days 16-20 showed that administration of 5-HT induced a robust increase in synaptic activity that was blocked by CNQX but not by bicuculline. This 5-HT-induced increase in glutamate-mediated synaptic activity was pharmacologically heterogeneous as it was differentially inhibited by the receptor subtype-selective antagonists SB-269970, MDL 100907 and GR 113808 and thus involved 5-HT(7), 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(4) receptors. These results, obtained in juvenile cortex, contrast with those seen in adults where the increase in spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) was mediated solely by 5-HT(2A) receptors. In developing cortex, activation of 5-HT(7), but not 5-HT(2A) or 5-HT(4) receptors, elicited a robust inward current. However, the facilitation of synaptic activity mediated by all three of these receptors involved increases in both the amplitude and frequency of sEPSCs and was blocked by TTX. These results are best interpreted as indicating that all three receptor subtypes increase synaptic activity by exciting neuronal elements within the slice. No evidence was found for a postsynaptic facilitation of synaptic currents by 5-HT. Together, these results show that the repertoire of electrophysiologically active 5-HT receptors in prefrontal cortex is developmentally regulated, and that 5-HT(7) and 5-HT(4) receptors play a previously unsuspected role in regulating synaptic activity in this region.
Major alterations of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) system that can be reversed by successful antidepressant therapy are often seen in depressed patients. Persuasive evidence points to the involvement of a dysfunctional glucocorticoid receptor (GR) system in these changes. Support for this also comes from studies of transgenic mice that express an antisense RNA, complementary to the GR mRNA, and have numerous neuroendocrine characteristics of human depression as well as altered behaviour. Many of these neuroendocrine and behavioural characteristics of the transgenic mice can be reversed by antidepressants. A possible explanation for this is that the antidepressant-induced increase in GRs renders the HPA axis more sensitive to glucocorticoid feedback. This new insight into antidepressant drug action suggests a novel approach to the development of antidepressant drugs.

Antiplatelet agents are effective for secondary prevention after ischemic stroke, although they do not always prevent recurrent events. Laboratory studies confirm that therapy with 3 antiplatelet agents is superior to dual therapy or monotherapy at inhibiting platelet and leucocyte function. We report here a 69-year-old man who had recurrent strokes despite single or dual antiplatelet agents, but who responded to a combination of aspirin, dipyridamole, and clopidogrel. Likewise, triple antiplatelet therapy was effective in a series of 8 additional patients during a period of 28 months of follow up. Because combining 3 agents runs the risk of major bleeding, clinical trials are essential to address issues of safety and efficacy in patients with stroke.


Infection of neonatal mice with reovirus T3 Dearing (T3D), the prototypic neurotropic reovirus, causes fatal encephalitis associated with neuronal injury and virus-induced apoptosis throughout the brain. T3D variant K (VarK) is an antigenic variant that has a nearly 1 million-fold reduction in neurovirulence following intracerebral (i.c.) inoculation compared to T3D and a restricted pattern of central nervous system injury with damage limited to the hippocampus, sparing other brain regions. We wished to determine whether the restricted pattern of VarK-induced injury was due to a reduced capacity to replicate in or injure cortical, as opposed to hippocampal, tissue. We found that following i.c. inoculation, VarK grew to similar titers as T3D in the hippocampus but had significantly lower titers in the cortex. Both viruses grew to identical titers and infected the same percentage of cells in mouse primary hippocampal cultures (MHC). In mouse primary cortical cultures (MCC) both the number of infected cells and the viral yield per infected cell were significantly lower for VarK than T3D. VarK-induced apoptosis was limited to the hippocampus in vivo, and in vitro both viruses induced apoptosis equally in MHC but VarK induced significantly less apoptosis than T3D in MCC. Growth of T3D in MCC was reduced to levels comparable to those of VarK following treatment of MCC with caspase inhibitors. Conversely, induction of apoptosis in VarK-infected MCC with fatty acid synthase-activating antibody significantly enhanced viral yield. These results suggest that the decreased neurovirulence of VarK may be due to its failure to efficiently induce apoptosis in cortical neurons.
JC virus (JCV), a human neurotropic polyomavirus, demonstrates a selective glial cell tropism that causes cell death through lytic infection. Whether these cells die via apoptosis or necrosis following infection with JCV remains unclear. To investigate the mechanism of virus-induced cell death, we used a human central nervous system progenitor-derived astrocyte cell culture model developed in our laboratory. Using in situ DNA hybridization, immunocytochemistry, electron microscopy, and an RNase protection assay, we observed that astrocytes support a progressive JCV infection, which eventually leads to nonapoptotic cell death. Infected astrocyte cell cultures showed no difference from noninfected cells in mRNA expression of the caspase family genes or in any ultrastructural features associated with apoptosis. Infected cells demonstrated striking necrotic features such as cytoplasmic vacuolization, watery cytoplasm, and dissolution of organelles. Furthermore, staining for caspase-3 and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling were not detected in infected astrocyte cultures. Our findings suggest that JCV-induced cell death of these progenitor cell-derived astrocytes does not utilize an apoptosis pathway but exhibits a pattern of cell destruction consistent with necrotic cell death.
Dendritic cells (DC) of the CD11c(+) myeloid phenotype have been implicated in the spread of scrapie in the host. Previously, we have shown that CD11c(+) DC can cause a rapid degradation of proteinase K-resistant prion proteins (PrP(Sc)) in vitro, indicating a possible role of these cells in the clearance of PrP(Sc). To determine the mechanisms of PrP(Sc) degradation, CD11c(+) DC that had been exposed to PrP(Sc) derived from a neuronal cell line (GT1-1) infected with scrapie (ScGT1-1) were treated with a battery of protease inhibitors. Following treatment with the cysteine protease inhibitors (2S,3S)-trans-epoxysuccinyl-L-leucylamido-3-methylbutane (E-64c), its ethyl ester (E-64d), and leupeptin, the degradation of PrP(Sc) was inhibited, while inhibitors of serine and aspartic and metalloproteases (aprotinin, pepstatin, and phosphoramidon) had no effect. An endogenous degradation of PrP(Sc) in ScGT1-1 cells was revealed by inhibiting the expression of cellular PrP (PrP(C)) by RNA interference, and this degradation could also be inhibited by the cysteine protease inhibitors. Our data show that PrP(Sc) is proteolytically cleaved preferentially by cysteine proteases in both CD11c(+) DC and ScGT1-1 cells and that the degradation of PrP(Sc) by proteases is different from that of PrP(C). Interference by protease inhibitors with DC-induced processing of PrP(Sc) has the potential to modify prion spread, clearance, and immunization in a host.
During the past 30 years, songbirds have become a popular model for neuroscience research. The author reviews three fundamental discoveries that have revolutionized the field and changed the way we understand the structure and function of the brain.
During the last 30 years, a number of revolutionary discoveries in the field of neuroscience have come from what was, at first, an unexpected direction: songbird research. Investigations into seasonal and sex-specific differences in birdsong development have led to important revelations about the impact of sex hormones on brain development and the hormonally controlled plasticity of brain structure, as well as the particularly surprising discovery that neurogenesis continues to occur in the adult brain (see Harding, p. 28). The work of Fernando Nottebohm is widely recognized as having played a key role in bringing these findings to light and thus forcing a general re-examination of established principles of neuroscience. Fernando Nottebohm is Dorothea L. Leonhardt Distinguished Professor at The Rockefeller University, and Director of The Rockefeller Field Research Center for Ethology and Ecology, a 1,200-acre facility located in Millbrook, NY, that provides researchers the opportunity to study behavior and brain function under natural conditions. Nottebohm's pioneering work on the neural control of birdsong has led to major discoveries with large impacts in the fields of animal behavior and neuroscience, and has made him one of the founders of neuroethology, the study of how the nervous system controls animal behavior. Nottebohm is a Member of the National Academy of Sciences, USA, and a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. We had a chance to sit down with him to discuss his distinguished career working with laboratory birds.

The accurate diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) is not only important for deciding on treatment strategies and providing a prognosis, but also crucial for studies designed to investigate the aetiology and pathogenesis of parkinsonian disorders. Over recent decades, improvements in the characterisation of the parkinsonian syndromes have led to improvements in clinical diagnostic accuracy; however, clinical criteria alone are not always sufficient to distinguish between IPD and other parkinsonian syndromes, particularly in the early stages of disease and in atypical presentations. Therefore, in addition to the development and implementation of diagnostic clinical assessments, there is a need for available objective markers to aid the physician in the differential diagnosis of IPD. Functional neuroimaging holds the promise of improved diagnosis and allows assessment in early disease. In this review, the use of PET and single photon emission CT in the differential diagnosis of IPD are discussed.


Fluorine magnetic resonance spectroscopy (19F MRS), spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) and proton anatomical magnetic resonance imaging (1H MRI) were performed on brains and lower extremities of six subjects in vivo concurrently with HPLC of serum to investigate tissue and plasma drug localization and withdrawal kinetics in humans treated with fluvoxamine or fluoxetine. 19F MRS signal was unexpectedly detected in the lower extremities months after complete disappearance of signal from plasma and brain. MRSI suggested that the lower extremity fluvoxamine signal originated mainly from bone marrow. Results suggest long-term sequestration of these drugs or their metabolites mainly in bone marrow and possibly in surrounding tissue and demonstrate the usefulness of MRS to reveal drug-trapping compartments in the body.
Engrailed-1, a homeobox containing transcriptional repressor, is known to play an important role in the development of the vertebrate limb. In its absence, mouse limbs develop with improper specification of dorsal identity and digit abnormalities. We report here that specific malformations in the mutant limb are dependent on strain background. We have subdivided these defects on the basis of morphology to define five independent traits. Each of these shows marked differences in prevalence among the 129/S1 and C57BL/6J strains carrying the En1(hd) mutation. In a genome-wide scan using SSLP markers, we have determined the location of one significant modifier and several additional suggestive loci responsible for these traits, each a facet of the En1(-/-) phenotype. We propose this type of sensitized genetic screen as a model approach for the discovery and mapping of quantitative loci that affect the subtle details of limb pattern formation.
The goal of The Jackson Laboratory Neuroscience Mutagenesis Facility is to generate mouse models of human neurological disease. We describe three new models obtained from a three-generation screen for recessive mutations. Homozygous mutant mice from lines nmf2 and nmf5 exhibit hind limb paralysis and juvenile lethality. Homozygous nmf58 mice exhibit a less severe movement disorder that includes sustained dystonic postures. The mutations were mapped to the distal region of mouse Chromosome (Chr) 15. Failure to complement a mutant allele of a positional candidate gene, Scn8a, demonstrated that the mutations are new alleles of Scn8a. Missense mutations of evolutionarily conserved residues of the sodium channel were identified in the three lines, with the predicted amino acid substitutions N1370T, I1392F, and L1404H. These residues are located within the pore loop of domain 3 of sodium channel Na(v)1.6. The lethal phenotypes suggest that the new alleles encode proteins with partial or complete loss of function. Several human disorders are caused by mutation in the pore loop of domain 3 of paralogous sodium channel genes. Line nmf5 contains a second, independent mutation in the rd13 locus that causes a reduction in cell number in the outer nuclear layer of the retina. rd13 was mapped to the distal 4 Mb of Chr 15. No coding or splice site mutations were detected in Pde1b, a candidate gene for rd13. The generation of three independent Scn8a mutations among 1100 tested G3 families demonstrates that the Scn8a locus is highly susceptible to ENU mutagenesis. The new alleles of Scn8a will be valuable for analysis of sodium channel physiology and disease.
The improvements in the motor ability in patients with Parkinson's disease due to antiparkinsonian medication is well-known and widely documented. Recent results, based both on kinematic parameters and standard electromyographic (EMG) signal analysis, clearly indicated that the medication reduced, as expected, the clinical signs of Parkinson's disease, but did not restore agonist burst duration modulation with distance in elbow flexion movements. The main aim of the present work is to shed more light on this medication effect using a wavelet analysis approach on multiple EMG signals recorded both on shoulder and elbow muscles in ballistic or rapid movements. The wavelet cross-correlation information allows us to evidence some important quantitative features of the EMG signals due to medication.

The heart is one of the organs affected during the later stages of diabetes. Mitochondrial function has already been proposed to be affected during the course of diabetes. Nevertheless, little information is known concerning the impact of antioxidants in heart mitochondria of a milder model for diabetes, such as the Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rat, where mitochondrial function appears ameliorated. The objective of this work was to test if injections of Vitamin E and Coenzyme Q10, alone and in combination, were able to modify mitochondrial performance in the hearts of GK rats. Several aspects of mitochondrial function were measured, such as the respiratory control ratio and the electric potential, as well as the mitochondrial accumulation of Vitamin E and Coenzymes Q9 and Q10. We observed that only Vitamin E appeared to have a positive impact on the mitochondrial phosphorylation efficiency and on mitochondrial performance, namely on the ability to generate the electric transmembrane potential in the presence of supra-physiological calcium concentrations. Vitamin E administration also increased the mitochondrial concentration of Coenzyme Q10. None of the treatments was able to reverse the diabetic phenotype in GK rats. We conclude that in this model of mild hyperglycemia, administration of antioxidants may have a marginal positive impact on mitochondrial function.
We previously found evidence for the exocytosis of aspartate from excitatory nerve terminals in hippocampus [J. Neurosci. 18, (1998) 6059]. Here we show, by immunogold electron microscopy in hippocampal slices that aspartate is co-localized and co-exocytosed with GABA from synaptic vesicles in nerve endings assumed to be inhibitory on dentate granule cells and CA1 pyramidal cells. By immunogold double labeling cytochemistry in perfusion fixed hippocampus, we further find that GABA-positive terminals forming symmetric synaptic specializations on perikarya of granule and pyramidal cells express NMDA receptors. In addition, NMDA receptors are present at synapses on granule cell bodies that have asymmetric synaptic specializations and contain high levels of GABA. Glutamate levels are low in the described types of GABA-positive nerve terminals, but high in terminals making asymmetric synapses on dendritic spines, whereas aspartate is localized with high levels in all of these types of terminal. We propose that aspartate is exocytotically released not only from glutamatergic terminals, but also from GABAergic terminals to act on NMDA receptors and may have a role in the regulation of synaptic transmission. Under pathological conditions, release of an excitatory transmitter at an inhibitory synapse could contribute to the development of, for example, epilepsy.
Proliferation of neural stem cells in the embryonic cerebral cortex is regulated by many growth factors and their receptors. Among the key molecules stimulating stem cell proliferation are FGF-2 and the FGF receptor-1. This ligand-receptor system is highly dependent on the surrounding heparan sulfates. We have found that heparin-binding growth-associated molecule (HB-GAM, also designated as pleiotrophin) regulates neural stem cell proliferation in vivo and in vitro. Deficiency of HB-GAM results in a pronounced, up to 50% increase in neuronal density in the adult mouse cerebral cortex. This phenotype arises during cortical neurogenesis, when HB-GAM knockout embryos display an enhanced proliferation rate as compared to wild-type embryos. Further, our in vitro studies show that exogenously added HB-GAM inhibits formation and growth of FGF-2, but not EGF, stimulated neurospheres, restricts the number of nestin-positive neural stem cells, and inhibits FGF receptor phosphorylation. We propose that HB-GAM functions as an endogenous inhibitor of FGF-2 in stem cell proliferation in the developing cortex.
The tauopathies are a group of disorders characterised by aggregation of the microtubule-associated protein tau and include Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the fronto-temporal dementias (FTD). We have used Drosophila to analyse how tau abnormalities cause neurodegeneration. By selectively co-expressing wild-type human tau (0N3R isoform) and a GFP vesicle marker in motorneurons, we examined the consequences of tau overexpression on axonal transport in vivo. The results show that overexpression of tau disrupts axonal transport causing vesicle aggregation and this is associated with loss of locomotor function. All these effects occur without neuron death. Co-expression of constitutively active glycogen-synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) enhances and two GSK-3beta inhibitors, lithium and AR-A014418, reverse both the axon transport and locomotor phenotypes, suggesting that the pathological effects of tau are phosphorylation dependent. These data show that tau abnormalities significantly disrupt neuronal function, in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, before the classical pathological hallmarks are evident and also suggest that the inhibition of GSK-3beta might have potential therapeutic benefits in tauopathies.
Current medical and surgical therapies for Parkinson's disease provide symptomatic control of motor impairments rather than slowing or halting the progression of the disease. Previous clinical trials examining drugs such as dopamine agonists and selegiline for neuroprotective effects used &quot;surrogate&quot; outcomes, including clinical measures (rating scales, time to require levodopa), neuroimaging techniques (beta-CIT single photon emission computed tomography; fluorodopa positron emission tomography), and mortality tracking. These studies failed to provide conclusive results because of design faults such as failing to control for symptomatic effects, small sample size, and not accounting for the possible effects of drugs on radionuclide tracer handling. Lessons must be learned from these failed neuroprotection trials. This review summarises the problems with previous neuroprotection studies and makes recommendations for future trial design. It is concluded that the primary outcome of explanatory trials should continue to be clinical measures such as the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). It should be assumed that all agents have a symptomatic effect, which necessitates evaluation after a prolonged drug washout period. To achieve the evaluation after a prolonged drug washout period more effectively, trials must be performed in early disease and over a short period (6-12 months) so that symptomatic therapy is not required. To achieve adequate statistical power, these trials will need to include thousands of patients. Radionuclide imaging can only be used in such trials after considerable methodological work has been performed to establish its validity and reliability. To be affordable, such large explanatory trials need more streamlined designs with fewer hospital visits, fewer outcome measures, and rationalised safety monitoring. The clinical effectiveness of promising compounds from explanatory trials will need to be established in large long-term pragmatic trials using outcome measures such as quality of life, cost-effectiveness, and mortality. Such pragmatic trials could be continuations of the explanatory trials: after the primary outcome of the explanatory study (e.g., UPDRS) has been reported in an interim analysis, the trial could be continued for a further 5 to 10 years to report on quality of life and health economics outcomes.


After more than a decade of collecting large neuroimaging datasets, neuroscientists are now working to archive these studies in publicly accessible databases. In particular, the fMRI Data Center (fMRIDC), a high-performance computing center managed by computer and brain scientists, seeks to catalogue and openly disseminate the data from published fMRI studies to the community. This repository enables experimental validation and allows researchers to combine and examine patterns of brain activity beyond that of any single study. As with some biological databases, early scientific, technical and sociological concerns hindered initial acceptance of the fMRIDC. However, with the continued growth of this and other neuroscience archives, researchers are recognizing the potential of such resources for identifying new knowledge about cognitive and neural activity. Thus, the field of neuroimaging is following the lead of biology and chemistry, mining its accumulating body of knowledge and moving toward a 'discovery science' of brain function.
Imaging, from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to localization of specific macromolecules by microscopies, has been one of the driving forces behind neuroinformatics efforts of the past decade. Many web-accessible resources have been created, ranging from simple data collections to highly structured databases. Although many challenges remain in adapting neuroscience to the new electronic forum envisioned by neuroinformatics proponents, these efforts have succeeded in formalizing the requirements for effective data sharing and data integration across multiple sources. In this perspective, we discuss the importance of spatial systems and ontologies for proper modeling of neuroscience data and their use in a large-scale data integration effort, the Biomedical Informatics Research Network (BIRN).
The elucidation of the human and mouse genomes provides new opportunities for exploring the genetic underpinnings of complex mammalian behaviors. This information also provides new windows into the pathophysiology and treatment of neuropsychiatric diseases. Optimal use of the rapidly escalating numbers of mouse lines engineered for these purposes is hindered, however, by practical and theoretical limitations of common behavioral analyses. New strategies combining automated behavioral monitoring and information technologies are currently under development in both academic and industrial settings. These hold promise, both for improving the throughput of mouse behavioral assessment and for providing new insights into the neurobiology of mammalian behavioral regulation.
Multiple electrodes are now a standard tool in neuroscience research that make it possible to study the simultaneous activity of several neurons in a given brain region or across different regions. The data from multi-electrode studies present important analysis challenges that must be resolved for optimal use of these neurophysiological measurements to answer questions about how the brain works. Here we review statistical methods for the analysis of multiple neural spike-train data and discuss future challenges for methodology research.
How does the brain orchestrate perceptions, thoughts and actions from the spiking activity of its neurons? Early single-neuron recording research treated spike pattern variability as noise that needed to be averaged out to reveal the brain's representation of invariant input. Another view is that variability of spikes is centrally coordinated and that this brain-generated ensemble pattern in cortical structures is itself a potential source of cognition. Large-scale recordings from neuronal ensembles now offer the opportunity to test these competing theoretical frameworks. Currently, wire and micro-machined silicon electrode arrays can record from large numbers of neurons and monitor local neural circuits at work. Achieving the full potential of massively parallel neuronal recordings, however, will require further development of the neuron-electrode interface, automated and efficient spike-sorting algorithms for effective isolation and identification of single neurons, and new mathematical insights for the analysis of network properties.
Proteomics is complementary to genomic approaches anchored in DNA and RNA. Global characterization of proteins is providing new insights into general biological structures as well as synapses, receptor complexes and other neuronal and glial features. Current challenges for proteomics of the nervous system include problems relating to sample preparation, brain complexity, limited databases and informatics tools. The combination of proteomics with other global functional genomic approaches at the levels of genome and transcriptome, together with network biology, will provide important bridges between genes, physiology and pathology.
The diverse functions of the brain are mediated by neurons and glia whose phenotype is defined by a dynamically maintained set of gene transcripts, or 'transcriptome'. Large-scale analysis of gene expression in postmortem brain using microarray technology has the potential to elucidate molecular changes that occur in disease states. There are unique challenges associated with studies of postmortem brain, including limited sample sizes and variable clinical phenotypes that are typical of complex disorders. Nevertheless, recent microarray-based studies have implicated both individual dysregulated genes and abnormal patterns of gene expression in brain disorders.
Neurogenomics is the study of how the genome as a whole contributes to the evolution, development, structure and function of the nervous system. It includes investigations of how genome products (transcriptomes and proteomes) vary in time and space. Neurogenomics differs markedly from the application of genome sciences to other systems, particularly in the spatial category, because anatomy and connectivity are paramount to our understanding of function in the nervous system. We focus here on some of the influences of genomics and its associated technologies on neuroscience. We discuss comparative genomics, gene expression atlases of the brain, network genetics and applications to behavioral phenotypes, and consider the culture, organization and funding of genome-scale projects.


A standard view in the neuroscience literature is that the frontal lobes sustain our ability to process others' mental states such as beliefs, intentions and desires (this ability is often referred to as having 'theory of mind'). Here we report evidence from brain-damaged patients showing that, in addition to involvement of the frontal lobes, the left temporoparietal junction is necessary for reasoning about the beliefs of others.



L27 domain, initially identified in the Caenorhabditis elegans Lin-2 and Lin-7 proteins, is a protein interaction module that exists in a large family of scaffold proteins. The domain can function as an organization center of large protein assemblies required for establishment and maintenance of cell polarity. We have solved the high-resolution NMR structure of a tetrameric complex of L27 domains containing two SAP97-mLin-2 L27 domain heterodimers. Each L27 domain contains three a-helices. The first two helices of each domain are packed together to form a four-helical bundle in the heterodimer. The third helix of each L27 domain forms another four-helical bundle that assembles the two heterodimers into a tetramer. The structure of the complex provides a mechanistic explanation for L27 domain-mediated polymerization of scaffold proteins, a process that is crucial for the assembly of supramolecular complexes in asymmetric cells.
Calcium activated K(+) channels (K(Ca) channels) are found in a variety of smooth muscle tissues, the most characterized of which are the large conductance K(Ca) channels (BK(Ca) or maxi-K(+) channels). Recent medicinal chemistry efforts have identified novel BK(Ca) openers including 2-amino-5-(2-fluoro-phenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrrole-3-carbonitrile (NS-8), BMS-204352 and its analog 3-(5-chloro-2-hydroxy-phenyl)-3-hydroxy-6-trifluoromethyl-1,3-dihydro-indol-2-one (compound 1), and 5,7-dichloro-4-(5-chloro-2-hydroxy-phenyl)-3-hydroxy-1H-quinolin-2-one (compound 2). Although these compounds are effective BK(Ca) openers as shown by electrophysiological methods, little is known about their effects on smooth muscle contractility. In this study, the responsiveness of structurally diverse BK(Ca) openers-NS-8, compounds 1 and 2 and the well characterized nonselective NS-1619-was assessed using segments of endothelium denuded rat aorta, rat and guinea pig detrusor precontracted with extracellular K(+), and Landrace pig detrusor stimulated by electrical field. In all preparations, the compounds tested inhibited or completely abolished contractions with similar potencies (-logIC(50) values: 3.8 to 5.1). In rat aorta, in the presence of 80 mM K(+), the compounds significantly shifted the concentration-response curve to the right compared with those obtained in 30 mM K(+). These data are consistent with K(+) channel (BK(Ca) channel) activation as the underlying mechanism of relaxation by compounds that share the electrophysiological property of BK(Ca) current activation. The similar potencies at detrusor and vascular smooth muscle suggest that the achievement of smooth muscle selectivity in vitro with the representative compounds examined in this study may prove to be a challenge when targeting BK(Ca) channels for smooth muscle indications such as overactive bladder.
Herein we review the role of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and how ApoE interacts with various risk factors. ApoE is localized with the major pathological hallmarks of AD, extracellular amyloid deposits and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles. The ApoE4 allele is associated with the development of late-onset familial and sporadic AD. ApoE4 has a gene dose effect on the risk and age of onset of AD. ApoE mRNA and protein are found predominantly in astrocytes within the CNS. There is also a high expression of ApoE mRNA in the brains of people with sporadic AD. ApoE acts as a cholesterol transporter in the brain. Cholesterol controls amyloid production and deposition by regulating beta-secretase. In transgenic animal studies, ApoE4 expression causes neuropathology and behavioral deficits. We also discuss data from three different cohorts for AD in the general population, in different racial and ethnic groups and the role of the 4 allele in the clinical onset of the disease. Although the 4 allele is an important genetic risk factor for AD, it accounts for a fairly small fraction of disease in the population. The effect of the 4 allele on annual decline in episodic memory is significantly stronger than its effect on decline in other cognitive systems. Notably, the 2 allele has an equal and opposite effect. Thus, ApoE allele status influences risk of AD by a relatively selective effect on episodic memory. Mechanistically, the role of APoE in AD needs to be established in terms of its gene expression, which ultimately controls levels of various ApoE isoforms. Transcriptional regulation suggests complex regulation of this gene and the resultant ApoE protein in injured neurons. We discuss the characteristics of ApoE regulatory elements, including their interactions with different transcription factors, to understand ApoE gene expression. Thus, ApoE4 contributes to the pathogenesis of AD, but additional environmental risk factors will also be identified independent of ApoE and other genetic polymorphisms.
In this review, evidence is provided that apolipoprotein E (apoE) genotype accounts for the majority of Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk and pathology. The three major human isoforms, apoE2, apoE3, and apoE4, are encoded by different alleles (2, 3, 4) and regulate lipid metabolism and redistribution. ApoE isoforms differ in their effects on AD risk and pathology. Clinical and epidemiological data have indicated that the 4 allele may account for 50% of AD in the United States. Further, the rarity of AD among carriers of the 2 allele suggests that allelic variations in the gene encoding this protein may account for over 95% of AD cases. ApoE4 disrupts memory function in rodents. Further studies have indicated that fragments of apoE may contribute to both plaque and tangle formation. Thus, the epidemiologic and basic science evidence suggest that apoE genotype accounts for the vast majority of AD risk and pathology.
Despite very numerous studies on Alzheimer's disease (AD), especially on amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, little information has been obtained thus on the causes of the disease. Evidence is described here that implicates firstly herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV1) as a strong risk factor when it is present in brain of carriers of the type 4 allele of the gene for apolipoprotein E (APOE-4). Indirect support comes from studies indicating the role of APOE in several diverse diseases of known pathogen cause. A second putative risk factor is the bacterium, Chlamydia pneumoniae. This pathogen has been identified and localized in AD brain. Current studies aimed at &quot;proof of principle&quot; address the entry of the organism into the CNS, the neuroinflammatory response to the organism, and the role that the organism plays in triggering AD pathology. An infection-based animal model demonstrates that following intranasal inoculation of BALB/c mice with C. pneumoniae, amyloid plaques/deposits consistent with those observed in the AD brain develop, thus implicating this infection in the etiology of AD.
For the purposes of this debate here we argue the case that cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) has a direct role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Firstly, there is a very close relationship between CAA and AD and they share genetic risk factors. Secondly, we propose a specific mechanism which puts age-related cerebrovascular degeneration at a crucial point in the pathogenesis of AD as follows. Amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) is normally eliminated from the brain along with extracellular fluid by bulk flow along the perivascular pathway. Age-related fibrosis of cerebral cortical and meningeal arteries leads to impaired drainage of Abeta along the perivascular pathway and, together with the production of Abeta by smooth muscle cells and perivascular cells, is responsible for accumulation of Abeta as CAA. Reduced elimination leads to increased concentration of soluble Abeta in the extracellular fluid of the brain parenchyma. Increased concentration of soluble Abeta leads to the formation of insoluble Abeta plaques, other features of AD pathology, and dementia.
Pioneering work in the 1950s by Christian Anfinsen on the folding of ribonuclease has shown that the primary structure of a protein &quot;encodes&quot; all of the information necessary for a nascent polypeptide to fold into its native, physiologically active, three-dimensional conformation (for his classic review, see [Science 181 (1973) 223]). In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) appears to play a seminal role in neuronal injury and death. Recent data have suggested that the proximate effectors of neurotoxicity are oligomeric Abeta assemblies. A fundamental question, of relevance both to the development of therapeutic strategies for AD and to understanding basic laws of protein folding, is how Abeta assembly state correlates with biological activity. Evidence suggests, as argued by Anfinsen, that the formation of toxic Abeta structures is an intrinsic feature of the peptide's amino acid sequence-one requiring no post-translational modification or invocation of peptide-associated enzymatic activity.
Chemokines are small secreted proteins that are essential for the recruitment and activation of specific leukocyte subsets at sites of inflammation and for the development and homeostasis of lymphoid and nonlymphoid tissues. During the past decade, chemokines and their receptors have also emerged as key signaling molecules in neuroinflammatory processes and in the development and functioning of the central nervous system. Neurons and glial cells, including astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglia, have been identified as cellular sources and/or targets of chemokines produced in the central nervous system in physiological and pathological conditions. In this article, we provide an update of chemokines and chemokine receptors expressed by glial cells focusing on their biological functions and implications in neurological diseases.
Recent experimental results have demonstrated a glial activation during long-term pain that produces and releases cytokines, free oxygen radicals, nitric oxide, and other neuroactive substances in the spinal cord dorsal horns. Such activation might generate a vicious circle by increasing the neuronal excitability level due to a decreased astroglial glutamate uptake and thereby reinforce pain signals that travel up to the thalamus and further up into the parietal cortex for identification and interpretation. In this paper, we adapt new knowledge on neuronal-glial signaling in the CNS to develop tentative explanations at the cellular level for the maintenance of pain signals in the brain, for formation of &quot;pain memory,&quot; and even for the increased pain sensitivity that persons with chronic pain often experience in body regions other than those originally affected. We also suggest a hypothetical mechanism at the cellular level underlying the mental fatigue from which persons with chronic pain may suffer. This hypothesis relies on the impaired astroglial glutamate uptake capacity due to the production of neuroactive substances, altered conditions in the chronic pain state, and the anxiety and stress reactions that may occur secondary to the pain. Neuronal activity over time in the dysfunctional state of the astroglial network leads to an increase in extracellular glutamate levels in the vicinity of glutamate synapses. In turn, this increase leads over time to less precision in glutamate transmission. The increased extracellular glutamate levels lead to increased excitability and increased energy requirements. When cellular energy decreases the glutamate transmission decreases, and according to our hypothesis, this is one cause of mental fatigue. New strategies for treatment of chronic pain and the associated mental fatigue are formulated and should be explored.
The human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) regulatory protein Tat is produced in the early phase of infection and is essential for virus replication. Together with other viral products, Tat has been implicated in the pathogenesis of HIV-1-associated dementia (HAD). As HIV-1 infection in the brain is very limited and macrophage/microglial cells are the only cellular type productively infected by the virus, it has been proposed that many of the viral neurotoxic effects are mediated by microglial products. We and others have shown that Tat affects the functional state of microglial cells, supporting the hypothesis that activated microglia play a role in the neuropathology associated with HIV-1 infection. This review describes the experimental evidence indicating that Tat stimulates microglia to synthesize potentially neurotoxic molecules, including proinflammatory cytokines and free radicals, and interferes with molecular mechanisms controlling cAMP levels, intracellular [Ca2+], and ion channel expression.
Alexander disease, a rare fatal disorder of the central nervous system, causes progressive loss of motor and mental function. Until recently it was of unknown etiology, almost all cases were sporadic, and there was no effective treatment. It was most common in an infantile form, somewhat less so in a juvenile form, and was rarely seen in an adult-onset form. A number of investigators have now shown that almost all cases of Alexander disease have a dominant mutation in one allele of the gene for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) that causes replacement of one amino acid for another. Only in very rare cases of the adult-onset form is the mutation present in either parent. Thus, in almost all cases, the mutation arises as a spontaneous event, possibly in the germ cell of one parent.
We produced anti-asialo-GM1 (GA1) polyclonal antibodies by sensitizing New Zealand rabbits with GA1 and investigated the epitopes and pathogenic role of anti-GA1 antibodies that appeared in serum. The serum blocked neuromuscular transmission, but not acetylcholine (ACh)-induced potentials, in muscle-spinal cord cocultured cells. The effect was complement independent. The antibodies inhibited voltage-gated Ca2+ channel (VGCC). The epitopes recognized by the antibodies were located in the outer membrane of Schwann cells and motor axons of Wistar rat ventral roots and on motor axons extended from spinal cord to muscle cells in muscle-spinal cocultured cells. The ACh-induced potential was not reduced by the addition of sera, suggesting the blockade is presynaptic. Thus, anti-GA1 antibodies may block neuromuscular transmission by suppressing VGCC on axonal terminals of motor nerves.
The peripheral olfactory system has a remarkable capacity for repair. We have performed an immunohistochemical study of the cellular changes that occur after zinc sulfate irrigation of the nasal cavity. The rapid loss of epithelial cells was followed by the proliferation of basal cells and the restoration of the epithelium with olfactory tissue. Horizontal basal cell markers, anti-cytokeratin 5/6 (CK5/6), and the Bandeiraea simplicifolia (BS-1) lectin initially co-localized on day 1 after treatment but rapidly displayed a disparity in their staining profile, with CK5/6 immunoreactive cells having a profile more akin to cells expressing the sustentacular marker cytokeratin 18 (CK18). This suggests CK5/6 and BS-1 label a different subset of horizontal basal cells. Axonal degeneration and regeneration was studied with a panel of markers to olfactory receptor neurons, their terminals, and olfactory bulb dendrites. The glial cells of the peripheral olfactory system, olfactory ensheathing cells, remained in position, with little change in immunoreactivity to laminin, although an increase in the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein was observed. The events and the extent of reconstitution of the olfactory system after degeneration serves as a foundation for future studies designed to understand the unique regenerative capacity of the olfactory system.

The neurocognitive pathways by which placebo effects operate are poorly understood. Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging was used to assess the brain response of patients with chronic abdominal pain (irritable bowel syndrome; IBS) to induced intestinal discomfort both before and after a 3-week placebo regimen. A daily symptom diary was used to measure symptom improvement. Increases in right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (RVLPFC) activity from pre- to post-placebo predicted self-reported symptom improvement, and this relationship was mediated by changes in dorsal anterior cingulate (dACC), typically associated with pain unpleasantness. These results are consistent with disruption theory [Lieberman, M.D., 2003. Reflective and reflexive judgment processes: a social cognitive neuroscience approach. In: Forgas, J.P., Williams, K.R., von Hippel, W. (Eds.), Social Judgments: Explicit and Implicit Processes. Cambridge Univ. Press, New York, pp. 44-67], which proposes that activation of prefrontal regions associated with thinking about negative affect can diminish dACC and amygdala reactivity to negative affect stimuli. This is the first study to identify a neural pathway from a region of the brain associated with placebos and affective thought to a region closely linked to the placebo-related outcome of diminished pain unpleasantness.
A dominant tendency in cerebral studies has been the attempt to locate architecturally distinct parts of the cortex and assign special functions to each, through histological, clinical or hypothesis-based imaging experiments. Here we show that the cerebral cortex can also be subdivided into different components temporally, without any a priori hypotheses, based on the principle of functional independence. This states that distinct functional subdivisions have activity time courses (ATCs) that are, if not independent, at least characteristic to each when the brain is exposed to natural conditions. To approach a time-based anatomy experimentally, we recorded whole-brain activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and analyzed the data with independent component analysis (ICA). Our results show that a multitude of cortical areas can be identified based purely on their characteristic ATCs during natural conditions. We demonstrate that a more &quot;rich&quot; stimulation (free viewing of a movie) leads to more areas being activated in a specific way than conventional stimuli, allowing for a more detailed dissection of the cortex into its subdivisions. We show that stimulus-driven functionally specialized areas can be identified by intersubject correlation even if their function is unknown. Chronoarchitectonic mapping thus opens the prospect of identifying previously unknown cortical subdivisions based on natural viewing conditions by exploiting the characteristic temporal &quot;fingerprint&quot; that is unique to each.
Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) enables imaging of brain activation by measuring changes in the concentration of oxy- and deoxy-hemoglobin (Hb). Shortening the length of the intertrial interval (ITI) seems to be a precondition for further cognitive event-related fNIRS experiments because it leads to higher statistical power. Therefore, this study investigated whether the ITI may be reduced from 12, 6, 4 s to at least 2 s. Brain activation was examined with a NIRO-300 spectrometer at the lateral prefrontal cortex in 17 healthy subjects during a randomized event-related color-word matching Stroop task. In the left lateral prefrontal cortex, the concentration of deoxy-Hb decreased significantly stronger during incongruent than neutral trials for an ITI of 12, 6, and 2 s due to coping with interference. For 4 s of ITI, no hemodynamic interference effect was detected, which was paralleled by low behavioral interference. Further, we examined whether the length of the ITI influenced the mean hemodynamic response. Shortening the ITI reduced the amplitude of oxy-Hb in contrast to deoxy-Hb, which remained almost unaltered. Summarizing results, randomized event-related cognitive fNIRS studies enable short ITIs particularly if changes in deoxy-Hb are considered.
Previous neuroimaging studies have shown that neural activity changes with task practice. The types of changes reported have been inconsistent, however, and the neural mechanisms involved remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the influence of practice on different component processes of working memory (WM) using a face WM task. Event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) methodology allowed us to examine signal changes from early to late in the scanning session within different task stages (i.e., encoding, delay, retrieval), as well as to determine the influence of different levels of WM load on neural activity. We found practice-related decreases in fMRI signal and effects of memory load occurring primarily during encoding. This suggests that practice improves encoding efficiency, especially at higher memory loads. The decreases in fMRI signal we observed were not accompanied by improved behavioral performance; in fact, error rate increased for high WM load trials, indicating that practice-related changes in activation may occur during a scanning session without behavioral evidence of learning. Our results suggest that practice influences particular component processes of WM differently, and that the efficiency of these processes may not be captured by performance measures alone.
There is ongoing debate about how semantic information is acquired, whether this occurs independently of episodic memory, and what role, if any, brain areas such as hippocampus are required to play. We used auditory stimuli and functional MRI (fMRI) to assess brain activations associated with the incidental acquisition of new and true facts about the world of the sort we are exposed to day to day. A control task was included where subjects heard sentences that described novel scenarios involving unfamiliar people, but these did not convey general knowledge. The incidental encoding task was identical for two stimulus types; both shared the same episodic experience (lying in the brain scanner) and conveyed complex information. Despite this, and considering only those stimuli successfully encoded, compared to a baseline task, a more extensive network of brain regions was found to be associated with exposure to new facts including the hippocampus. Direct comparison between the two stimulus types revealed greater activity in dorsal, ventrolateral and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, medial dorsal nucleus of the thalamus, and temporal cortex for fact stimuli. The findings suggest that successful encoding is not invariably associated with activation of one particular brain network. Rather, activation patterns may depend on the type of materials being acquired, and the different processes they engender when subjects encode. Qualitatively, from postscan debriefing sessions, it emerged that the factual information was found to be potentially more useful. We suggest that current or prospective utility of incoming information may be one factor that influences the processes engaged during encoding and the concomitant neuronal responses.
Behavioural and neuropsychological evidence suggests that abstract and concrete concepts might be represented, retrieved and processed differently in the human brain. Using fMRI, we demonstrate that retrieval of abstract relative to sensory-based semantics during synonym judgements increased activation in a left frontotemporal system that has been associated with semantic processing particularly at the sentence level. Since activation increases were observed irrespective of the degree of difficulty, we suggest that these differential activations might reflect a particular retrieval mechanism or strategy for abstract concepts. In contrast to sensory-based semantics, the meaning of abstract concepts is largely specified by their usage in language rather than by their relations to the physical world. Subjects might therefore generate an appropriate semantic sentential context to fully explore and specify the meaning of abstract concepts. Our results also explain why abstract semantics is vulnerable to left frontotemporal lesions.
Our aim was to quantify with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) changes in brain activity in concussed athletes and compare the results with those of normal control subjects. Regional brain activations associated with a working memory task were obtained from a group of concussed athletes (15 symptomatic, 1 asymptomatic) and eight matched control subjects, using blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) fMRI. The average percent signal change from baseline to working memory condition in each region of interest was computed. Symptomatic concussed athletes demonstrated task-related activations in some but not all the regions of interest, even when they performed as well as the control subjects. Furthermore, several concussed athletes had additional increases in activity outside the regions of interest, not seen in the control group. Quantitative analysis of BOLD signals within regions of interest revealed that, in general, concussed athletes had different BOLD responses compared to the control subjects. The task-related activation pattern of the one symptom-free athlete was comparable to that of the control group. We also repeated the study in one athlete whose symptoms had resolved. On the first study, when he was still symptomatic, less task-related activations were observed. On follow-up, once his symptoms had disappeared, the task-related activations became comparable to those of the control group. These results demonstrate the potential of fMRI, in conjunction with the working memory task, to identify an underlying pathology in symptomatic concussed individuals with normal structural imaging results.

Recent evidence argues that the oncogenesis and growth of CNS tumors occurs through dysregulated molecular and cellular mechanisms of neural development. New insights have emerged that have had a significant impact on both research and treatment of these cancers.
There is accumulating evidence that Ras, and Ras-related GTPases of the Rho family, such as RhoA, RhoB and Rac1, are involved in synaptic plasticity in brain regions such as the hippocampus. We have recently shown that Rho family GTPases are activated by synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Since the function of these GTPases is dependent on post-translational isoprenylation by either farnesyl or geranylgeranyl transferases, we tested the hypothesis that inhibition of isoprenylation would modify long-term potentiation (LTP). Farnesyl transferase inhibition, which suppressed activation of RhoB and Ras but not RhoA or Rac1, reduced the magnitude of LTP, while geranylgeranyl transferase inhibition, which inhibited RhoA and Rac1 but not RhoB, increased the magnitude of LTP. In addition, Y-27632, a specific inhibitor of a downstream effector of Rho GTPases-Rho-kinase-also increased the magnitude of LTP. This provides strong evidence that GTPases are important mediators of synaptic plasticity, and demonstrates that Rho-kinase acts to reduce the degree of plasticity at hippocampal synapses during LTP. Rho-kinase inhibitors have the unusual property of increasing the magnitude of LTP, and so may be potential cognitive enhancers.
The mechanism underlying the development of tolerance to morphine is still incompletely understood. Morphine binds to opioid receptors, which in turn activates downstream second messenger cascades through heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide binding proteins (G proteins). In this paper, we show that G(z), a member of the inhibitory G protein family, plays an important role in mediating the analgesic and lethality effects of morphine after tolerance development. We blocked signaling through the G(z) second messenger cascade by genetic ablation of the alpha subunit of the G protein in mice. The Galpha(z) knockout mouse develops significantly increased tolerance to morphine, which depends on Galpha(z) gene dosage. Further experiments demonstrate that the enhanced morphine tolerance is not caused by pharmacokinetic and behavioural learning mechanisms. The results suggest that G(z) signaling pathways are involved in transducing the analgesic and lethality effects of morphine following chronic morphine treatment.
An increasing body of evidence suggests that native kainate receptors form ion channels from homomeric and heteromeric combinations of five receptor subunits: GluR5, GluR6, GluR7, KA1 and KA2. We have examined the activity of agonists and antagonists at recombinant human kainate receptors expressed in HEK293 cells, using both whole-cell electrophysiological recording and 96-well plate fluo-3 based calcium microfluorimetry (FLIPR). Both homomeric (GluR5 and GluR6) and heteromeric (GluR5/6, GluR5/KA2 and GluR6/KA2) receptors were examined. Heteromeric receptor assemblies showed electrophysiological and pharmacological profiles which were distinct from homomeric channels. Several agonists, including AMPA, ATPA and (S)-5-iodowillardiine, and antagonists, including gamma-D-glutamylaminomethylsulphonic acid (GAMS) and the decahydroisoquinoline compounds LY293558, LY377770 and LY382884, were found to act at GluR5-containing channels while having no effect at GluR6 homomers. AMPA, ATPA and (S)-5-iodowillardiine did activate GluR6/KA2 heteromers, but only as partial agonists. Additionally, ATPA was shown to act as an antagonist at homomeric GluR6 receptors at high concentrations (IC50 approximately 2 mM). Kynurenic acid was also found to differentiate between GluR6 and GluR6/KA2 receptors, antagonizing glutamate at GluR6 (IC50 = 0.4 mM), while having no effect at GluR6/KA2 channels. The results of the current study provide a broad pharmacological characterization of both homomeric and heteromeric recombinant human kainate receptors, and identify which compounds are likely to be useful tools for studying these various receptor subtypes.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies in depressed subjects report smaller volumes of amygdala, hippocampus, inferior anterior cingulate, and the orbital prefrontal cortex (OPFC), components of the limbic-cortico-thalamic circuit. Major depression occurs more commonly in women, raising the possibility of an additional psychopathological process affecting women and not men. We sought to determine whether volumetric differences related to mood disorders are dependent on sex. Eight male and 10 female depressed subjects, meeting DSM III R criteria for a major depressive episode, and eight male and 10 female healthy volunteers had MRI scans on a 1.5 T GE Signa Advantage scanner. The regions of interest included amygdala, hippocampus, inferior anterior cingulate, and OPFC. In all analyses, regional volumes were normalized for total cerebral volume. Volumetric changes in the ROIs showed a significant sex by diagnosis interaction, indicating a different pattern of volumetric changes in depressed males compared with females relative to controls. Relative to sex-matched controls, the left inferior anterior cingulate was smaller in depressed males (23%) compared with depressed females (11%). Depressed females but not depressed males had smaller amygdala compared with controls (F-value = 4.946, p = 0.033). No significant volumetric differences were noted in the hippocampus or OPFC. No volumetric correlations were noted with clinical variables, depression subtypes, or a reported history of sexual or physical abuse. Sex may affect volumetric deficits in amygdala and anterior cingulate cortex in mood disorders, but no effects were found in the hippocampus or OPFC. The biology of mood disorders in females may differ in some aspects from males, and may contribute to the higher rate of depression in women.
In humans, nicotine has been shown to improve attention in both normal and impaired individuals. Observations in rats reflect some, but not all aspects of the nicotine-induced improvements in humans. To date these findings have not been replicated in mice. To examine the effect of nicotine on sustained attention in mice, we have established a version of the 5-choice serial reaction-time (5-CSR) task with graded levels of difficulty, based upon spatial displacement and a variable intertrial interval. Using this paradigm, microgram doses of nicotine produced a consistent reduction in the level of omissions and an improvement in proportion correct in normal mice. This improvement in sustained attention was made irrespectively of whether mice had previously received nicotine. In an attempt to elucidate which nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtype(s) mediate this effect, we examined the performance of alpha7 nAChR knockout (KO) mice in the 5-CSR task. alpha7 nAChR KO mice not only acquired the task more slowly than their wild-type littermates, but on attaining asymptotic performance, they exhibited a higher level of omissions. In conclusion, by increasing the level of task difficulty, the performance of mice was maintained at sufficiently low levels to allow a demonstrable improvement in performance upon nicotine administration. Furthermore, as alpha7 KO mice are clearly impaired in the acquisition and asymptotic performance of this task, the alpha7 nAChR may be involved in mediating these effects of nicotine.
People are very likely to start psychoactive drug use during adolescence, an earlier onset being associated with a higher risk of developing addiction later in life. In experiment I, Pre- (postnatal day (pnd) 23-35), Mid- (pnd 36-48), or Post- (pnd 49-61) adolescent mice underwent a restricted-drinking period (2 h/day for 12 days), one bottle containing water and the other containing nicotine (10 mg/l) or water. After this period, Mid-adolescents showed prominent exploration and reduced anxiety in the plus-maze. This ontogenetic profile was dampened by nicotine consumption. After 2 months, these mice were tested in a novel environment (30 min/day for 3 days). Locomotor-habituation profiles were specifically disrupted by nicotine consumption during Mid-adolescence, suggesting this age as a critical period. In experiment II, Mid-adolescent (pnd 35-44) and adult (pnd &gt; 70) mice were pretreated with nicotine (0, 0.03, 0.10, 0.30 mg/kg/day for 10 days). Acute nicotine administration had opposite effects on anxiety in adolescents and adults. At 2 months after pretreatment, we measured levels of AMPA GluR2/3 subunits, thought to be involved in the control of addictive behaviors. Nicotine exposure during Mid-adolescence dose-dependently downregulated these subunits in the striatum and hippocampus, but comparable exposure during adulthood had either opposite or no effects. NMDA NR2A/B subunits were affected by nicotine, but without age-related differences. The present data identified a nicotine-vulnerable age window, characterized by long-term disruption of locomotor habituation and downregulation of AMPA receptors. These findings support neurobiological vulnerability to drugs in adolescent humans.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is not an unusual disease in an elderly population. The clinical outcome has improved over time. It has been suggested that elderly SAH patients would benefit from endovascular aneurysm treatment. The aim of this study was to evaluate technical results and clinical outcome in a series of elderly SAH-patients treated with endovascular coil embolization. Sixty-two patients (&gt; or = 65 years) presenting with aneurysmal SAH underwent early endovascular coil embolization at Uppsala University Hospital between September 1996 and December 2000. In all 62 cases included in the study, endovascular coil embolization was considered the first line of treatment. Admission variables, specific information on technical success, degree of occlusion and procedural complications, and outcome figures were recorded. Clinical grade on admission was Hunt and Hess (H&amp;H) I-II in 39%, H&amp;H III in 27% and H&amp;H IV-V in 34% of the patients. The proportion of posterior circulation aneurysms was 24%. Coil embolization was successfully completed in 94%. The degree of occlusion of the treated aneurysm was complete occlusion in 56%, neck remnant in 21%, residual filling in 11%, other remnant in 5% and not treated in 6%. The rate of procedural complications was 11%. Outcome after 6 months was favorable in 41%, severe disability in 36% and poor in 22%. Favorable outcome was achieved in 57% of the H&amp;H I-II patients, 47% of the H&amp;H III patients and 17% of the H&amp;H IV-V patients. Endovascular aneurysm treatment can be performed in elderly patients with SAH with a high level of technical success, acceptable aneurysm occlusion results, an acceptable rate of procedural complications and fair outcome results.
Bilateral lesioning of the presublingual nucleus (nucleus praepositus hypoglossi) of the medulla oblongata induced significant changes in the nature of baseline spine activity in the locus coeruleus. After lesioning, the mean frequency of spike activity of locus coeruleus neurons decreased more than two-fold. The numbers of neurons with train-grouped activity and polymodal neurons increased significantly. Exclusion of the solitary tract nucleus led to an increase in the number of neurons with regular activity and some decrease in the mean discharge frequency in locus coeruleus neurons. These data support the suggestion that the presublingual nucleus plays a significant role in the transmission of afferent influences on the activity of locus coeruleus neurons.
A fully fledged neuroscience of personality is beginning to emerge, shaped and guided in large measure by the seminal work of Jeffrey A. Gray over a period of 40 years. In this Festschrift, I trace the theoretical development of Gray's approach--now known as Reinforcement Sensitivity Theory (RST)--out of the Eysenckian tradition to its most recent articulation. Experimental attempts to test RST are reviewed and the theoretical problems raised by this literature discussed. Also presented are data relating to a recent clarification of RST, viz. the joint subsystems hypothesis, which postulates a fundamental interdependence of appetitive and aversive systems in the typical human laboratory. The value of Gray's general approach to building behavioural theories on the bases of both the conceptual nervous system and the real nervous system is validated in personality, which has long been thought a philosophical mystery rather than a standard problem to be tackled by scientific method.
We present in this paper a picture of the neural systems controlling defense that updates and simplifies Gray's &quot;Neuropsychology of Anxiety&quot;. It is based on two behavioural dimensions: 'defensive distance' as defined by the Blanchards and 'defensive direction'. Defensive direction is a categorical dimension with avoidance of threat corresponding to fear and approach to threat corresponding to anxiety. These two psychological dimensions are mapped to underlying neural dimensions. Defensive distance is mapped to neural level, with the shortest defensive distances involving the lowest neural level (periaqueductal grey) and the largest defensive distances the highest neural level (prefrontal cortex). Defensive direction is mapped to separate parallel streams that run across these levels. A significant departure from prior models is the proposal that both fear and anxiety are represented at all levels. The theory is presented in a simplified form that does not incorporate the interactions that must occur between non-adjacent levels of the system. It also requires expansion to include the dimension of escapability of threat. Our current development and these proposed future extensions do not change the core concepts originally proposed by Gray and, we argue, demonstrate their enduring value.
Three-dimensional (3D) ultrasonography is new technology based on automatic volume acquisition of ultrasound images, and computer-aided image reconstruction. In the present study, we used a commercially available 3D ultrasonographic instrument for electrophysiological and neuroanatomical experiments in the macaque monkey. 3D reconstruction for multiplanar analysis and surface rendering were useful to observe the microelectrode or microinjection pipette in the cerebral cortex or deep brain structure. The present results indicate that the 3D ultrasonography for monkey brain is a more powerful tool for experiments in vivo than conventional two-dimensional (2D) ultrasonography.

In vitro techniques are used increasingly to screen for and characterize neurotoxicants. In many cases, chemical-induced injury to developing neurons has been examined in vitro by assessing morphological changes in differentiation and neurite growth. This research evaluated the use of proteins associated with axonal growth and synaptogenesis as surrogates for morphological measurement of neuronal differentiation. PC12 cells, which differentiate upon nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulation, were used as the in vitro model. NGF-induced (50 ng/ml) differentiation (cells with at least one neurite with a length equal to the cell body diameter) and neurite growth (length of longest neurite) were determined using light microscopy and computer-based quantitative image analysis. PC12 cell differentiation and neurite growth reached a plateau after 6 days in culture. Expression of the axonal growth associated protein 43 (GAP-43) and the synaptic protein synapsin I were assessed simultaneously by Western blot during cell differentiation. Expression of GAP-43 was low on Culture Day 0 and increased progressively to maximum levels on Culture Day 5. Likewise, synapsin I expression increased slowly on Days 0-4, and then rapidly on Days 5-7 of culture. Pharmacologic inhibitors of NGF-induced signaling were used to test the sensitivity of the proteins to chemical disruption of differentiation. The MAP kinase inhibitor, U0126 (5-30 microM) and the PKC inhibitor, bisindolylmaleimide I (Bis I; 1.25-5 microM) inhibited differentiation and neurite outgrowth in a concentration-dependent manner. U0126 and Bis I significantly decreased GAP-43, but not synapsin I expression. Interestingly, the PI-PLC inhibitor edelfosine (ET-18; 5-30 microM) stimulated differentiation at early times of exposure followed by a significant decrease in neurite length at later time points. However, ET-18 did not alter the expression of GAP-43 or synapsin I. These data suggest that GAP-43 may be a useful indicator of the status of PC12 cell differentiation.
This study is among the first to examine specific neurobehavioral deficits in children exposed at very low lead levels. A systematic analysis for the presence of a threshold of lead exposure was conducted. The sample consisted of 246 African American, inner-city children from whom blood lead concentrations were assessed at 7.5 years of age. The results consistently show neurobehavioral deficits in relation to low levels of lead in the areas of intelligence, reaction time, visual-motor integration, fine motor skills, attention, including executive function, off-task behaviors, and teacher-reported withdrawn behaviors. Effects were identified in the specific domains of attention, executive function, visual-motor integration, social behavior, and motor skills, which have been previously suggested as part of lead's &quot;behavioral signature&quot;. Visual inspection of nonparametric regression plots suggested a gradual linear dose-response relation for most endpoints. No threshold discontinuity was evident. Regression analyses in which lead exposure was dichotomized at 10 microg/dl were no more likely to be significant than analyses dichotomizing exposure at 5 microg/dl. Given that associations were found between lead levels as low as 3 microg/dl for multiple outcomes, these data provide additional evidence that there is no apparent lower bound threshold for postnatal lead exposure.
Developmental changes of P300 event related potential were evaluated in healthy children and adults aged from 7 to 29 years old, adopting 2 pairs of oddball stimuli: a non-verbal sound (tone burst: TB) pair and a verbal sound (VS) pair. P300 was evident for the target stimuli. In adult subjects, P300 was dominant at Pz for both stimuli. Peak latency of P300 was significantly longer for VS than for TB in both groups. P300 amplitude of the child group was higher than that of the adult group, however, there was no difference in P300 amplitude between stimuli conditions. Developmental changes of P300 from each stimuli condition were simulated by a quadratic equation. The age showing the shortest P300 peak latency was younger for TB (20.3 years) than for VS (23.6 years). The P300 peak latency reduced around 10 years old more rapidly for VS than for TB. In conclusion, there was no difference of the dominancy of P300 between the stimuli. The developmental changes of P300 were regulated by several components of the sound stimuli, such as their frequency.
The aim of this study was to measure the amplitude of accommodation for junior level school children and to compare it with age-expected values. A junior level school in Gteborg, Sweden, was randomly chosen and the amplitude of accommodation among 76 children aged 6-10 years was examined using Donders' push-up method. The results showed lower amplitude than expected in a large group of children. Results also showed lower amplitude than previously reported for this age group, especially under monocular conditions, which revealed an average dioptric difference from the expected value of -3.60 dioptres (D) right eye (mean 12.40 D, median 12.00 D, S.D. 3.7 D) and -3.50 D left eye (mean 12.50 D, median 12.70 D, S.D. 3.8 D) (p &lt; 0.001 for both eyes). Consequently, we conclude that it cannot be assumed that the amplitude of accommodation is in the expected amplitude range for all children of these ages.
At least 5 million patients with chronic and severely debilitating pain exist among the adult population in Germany, i.e. 8% of this population. Various biological and psychosocial risk factors contribute to the continuing chronicity of pain, resulting in enormous direct and indirect costs totalling an estimated 38 billion euro annually. The introduction of a medical specialty for pain treatment in 1998 has not appreciably affected the quality of outpatient pain management. In contrast, more recent approaches of multimodal treatment, including medical, psychological and behavioral components, have shown a significant and lasting effect in patients with a high incidence of workplace incapacitation and sick leave. In particular, the GRIP pilot project (Gttingen Intensive Back Project) has resulted in an increased rate (to 200%) of return to the workplace and in a decrease in health system expenses to 50% of the pretreatment level.
Until recently the paradigms of pain research were predominantly related to acute pain in humans and animals. Some 20 years ago the focus of basic and clinical research was shifted towards the mechanisms of chronic pain. Usually the nociceptors of our joints respond only to overload and lesions and thus serve protective functions. However, in case of a lasting pain condition mechanisms emerge in the nervous system that result in an increasing sensitivity of the neuronal pain system-these are the initial steps toward the process of pain chronicity. Inflammatory mediators including cytokines result in a dramatic enhancement of peripheral nervous system sensitivity. The ensuing plastic changes in the central neurotransmitter systems result in long term potentiation of synaptic transmission and may include adaptations in neuronal gene transcription. Interactions between the nervous and immune systems as well as learning processes may further wind up pain sensitivity. The tendency of perpetuation inherent to these processes contribute to pain chronicity-can this be halted by preventive treatment strategies?

The role of 5-HT(1B/1D), 5-HT(2) and 5-HT(3) receptors in mediating descending inhibition of spinal reflexes activated by application of fentanyl to the fourth ventricle has been studied in rabbits decerebrated under N(2)O/isoflurane anaesthesia. In the control state, intraventricular fentanyl (3-30 microg kg(-1)) depressed, to an equal extent, short- and long-latency reflexes in the medial gastrocnemius muscle nerve evoked by electrical stimulation of all sural nerve afferents. Inhibition of reflexes resulted from a decreased base line excitability in the reflex pathway accompanied by a reduction in the rate of temporal summation of responses. Fentanyl-induced suppression of short- and long-latency reflexes was significantly reduced after intrathecal administration of the selective 5-HT(2)-receptor antagonist ICI 170,809 (300 microg). The same dose of the selective 5-HT(1B/1D) blocker GR 127,935 reduced inhibition from intraventricular fentanyl only for long-latency reflexes (i.e. those parts of the response for which the afferent drive is provided mainly by Adelta and C-fibre afferents). The 5-HT(3) antagonist tropisetron (also 300 microg intrathecal) did not significantly alter the descending inhibition of reflexes evoked by fentanyl. Both GR 127,935 and tropisetron reduced temporal summation of reflexes per se, effects that were reversed by intraventricular fentanyl. These data suggest that the descending pathway(s) activated by intraventricular fentanyl liberate 5-HT in the spinal cord to inhibit withdrawal reflexes by acting at 5-HT(2) and 5-HT(1B/1D), but not 5-HT(3) receptors. 5-HT(1B/1D), and to a lesser extent 5-HT(3) receptors also appear to have a role in modulating temporal summation of reflexes evoked by repetitive stimuli.
Extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) is a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) that mediates several cellular responses to mitogenic and differentiation signals, and activation of ERK in dorsal horn neurons by noxious stimulation is known to contribute to pain hypersensitivity. In order to elucidate the pathophysiological mechanisms of the cauda equina syndrome, secondary to spinal canal stenosis, we evaluated walking dysfunction triggered by forced exercise and activation of ERK in the dorsal horn using a rat model of neuropathic intermittent claudication. Rats in the lumbar canal stenosis (LCS) group showed a shorter running distance from 1 to 14 days after surgery. Two minutes after running on the treadmill apparatus, phosphorylation of ERK was induced in neurons in the superficial laminae in the LCS group but not in the sham group, whereas there was no change in the deeper laminae. Intrathecal administration of the MAPK kinase inhibitor, U0126, 30 min before running, clearly increased the running distance, whereas there was no significant change in the vehicle control group 3 days after surgery. In addition, a prostaglandin E1 analog, OP-1206 alpha-CD, administered orally, improved the walking dysfunction, and further, inhibited activation of ERK following running 7 days after surgery. These findings suggest that intermittent claudication triggered by forced walking might affect the phosphorylation of ERK in the superficial laminae, possibly via transient (partial) ischemia of the spinal cord. ERK activation in the dorsal horn neurons may be involved in the transient pain in the neuropathic intermittent claudication model.
Many sources of disability impact on quality of life and some are likely to remain relatively refractory to pharmacological or surgical treatment. Rehabilitative approaches may help despite the paucity of randomized control studies. There is increasing evidence from neuroscience, reviewed here, that supports current rehabilitative approaches and most importantly, can be the basis for future rehabilitative approaches. Parkinson's disease is complex and the disabilities not absolute but relative. These disabilities can be affected by the environment or context in which the motor activities occur. These observations can be exploited and argue for the potential of rehabilitative approaches.
Alpha synuclein (alpha-SN) is a ubiquitous protein that is especially abundant in the brain and has been postulated to play a central role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease, and other neurodegenerative disorders. Here, we show that alpha-SN plays dual role of neuroprotection and neurotoxicity depending on its concentration or level of expression. In addition, our study shows that alpha-synuclein is differentially expressed in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. PD patients expressed more alpha-synuclein than healthy controls. Thus, the alpha-synuclein expression in the peripheral immune system might be one of the primary causes of immune abnormalities in PD patients.
When asked to identify targets embedded within a rapid consecutive stream of visual stimuli, observers are less able to identify the second target (T2) when it is presented within half a second of the first (T1); this deficit has been termed the attentional blink (AB). Rapid serial visual presentation methodology was used to investigate the relationship between the AB and object files (episodic representations implicated in object identification and perceptual constancy). An inverse linear relationship was found between the degree of object file continuity and AB magnitude. An important locus of object file continuity was the intervening stream items between T1 and T2. The results are discussed in terms of the heuristic of the object file to preserve limited attentional capacity.
The extracellular matrix of adult neural tissue contains chondroitin sulphated proteogylcans that form a dense peri-neuronal net surrounding the cell body and proximal dendrites of many neuronal classes. Development of the peri-neuronal net beyond approximately postnatal day 17 obscures visualization and often access by patch electrodes to neuronal membranes with the result that patch clamp recordings are most readily obtained from early postnatal animals. We describe a technique in which the surface tension of a sucrose-based medium promotes partial dissociation of thin tissue slices from adult tissue. Surface tension spreads the tissue and loosens the peri-neuronal net from neuronal membranes within minutes and in the absence of proteolytic enzymes. Furthermore, the extent of dissociation can be controlled so as to maintain the overall slice structure and allow identification of specific cell classes. Excellent structural preservation of neurons and dendrites can be obtained and full access by patch electrodes made possible for current- or voltage-clamp recordings in tissue well beyond the development of peri-neuronal nets. We demonstrate the feasibility of using this approach through patch recordings from neurons in the brainstem and cerebellum of adult gymnotiform fish and in deep cerebellar nuclei of rats as old as 6 months.
In the present study, we investigated the influence of intrathecal (i.t.) administration of morphine and endomorphin-1 on the level of pronociceptin/orphanin FQ and opioid receptor-like 1 (ORL1) receptor mRNAs in the lumbar part of the spinal cord in the rat model of neuropathic pain. The ligation of the sciatic nerve did not change the levels of pronociceptin/orphanin FQ and ORL1 receptor mRNAs in laminae I-VI of the dorsal horn when measured by in situ hybridisation 2 and 7 days after the nerve injury, but ORL1 receptor mRNA level in the ventral horn was significantly increased. Two micro-opioid receptor agonists, morphine and endomorphin-1, whose effectiveness in neuropathic pain is different, also disparately influenced nociceptin/orphanin FQ system in this pain model, inasmuch as an increase in pronociceptin/orphanin FQ and ORL1 receptor mRNAs was observed in laminae I-VI after morphine administration (5 microg i.t.) but not after endomorphin-1 treatment (5 microg i.t.). Moreover, the injection of ORL1 receptor antagonists (PhePsi; 30 microg i.t.) before morphine potentiated the effect of morphine in neuropathic pain model. Therefore, the activation of the endogenous nociceptin/orphanin FQ system, which is known to exhibit antiopioidergic activity, apart from its analgesic action, could be the reason for lower responsiveness to morphine in neuropathic pain.
The use of the single-trial fear conditioning paradigm allows for control over the exact moment when an animal is exposed to a learning event, making it possible to study both the initial neurobiological changes that are associated with learning and changes that take place over long periods of time. In the present study, we performed detailed analyses of the alterations in phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C-beta1a (PLC-beta1a) levels and enzyme activities in subcellular fractions prepared from the hippocampal formation (HPF) and medial frontal cortex (MFC) 1, 3, 5, 7, 24, and 72 h following single-trial fear conditioning. We observed tissue- and time-dependent changes in both PLC-beta1a enzyme activity and anti-PLC-beta1a immunoreactivity in each subcellular fraction. Based on these observations, we hypothesize that changes in PLC-beta1a catalytic activity and subcellular distribution play important roles in neuronal signaling processes that are required for fear-conditioned learning and memory.
Cognitive impairments frequently accompany epileptic disorders. Here, we examine two neuroprotective agents, the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist ketamine and the dopaminergic antagonist acepromazine, for their efficacy in attenuating cognitive impairments in the lithium-pilocarpine (LI-PILO) model of rat limbic epilepsy. Declarative-like cognitive behaviors were assessed in a Morris water maze task that consisted successively of spatial and nonspatial (cued platform) training. Whereas the ketamine-treated (Ket) LI-PILO rats performed equally in all respects to nonseized control rats for the spatial and nonspatial components of the water maze task, the acepromazine-treated (Ace) LI-PILO rats failed to demonstrate learning in either the hidden or cued platform variants of the task and did not demonstrate any place learning in the platform-removed probe trials. We further assessed nondeclarative (associative) cognitive behaviors with a standard contextual fear-conditioning protocol. LI-PILO rats treated with acepromazine failed to learn the Pavlovian relationship; Ket LI-PILO rats performed equivalently to nonseized controls. Cumulatively, these data suggest robust cognitive sparing for LI-PILO rats with pharmacological NMDA receptor antagonism following induction of status epilepticus (SE). This cognitive sparing occurs despite earlier findings that the mean amount of total brain damage with LI-PILO is equivalent for Ket and Ace rats.
Most of gastrointestinal, breast and lung cancer cells express carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). Therefore, this protein represents a suitable target for innovative diagnostic and immunotherapeutic strategies of various tumours. Presently CEA can be involved in three main approaches concerning cancer detection and therapy, i.e. (a) detection of tumour cells in the peripheral blood, bone marrow or lymph node using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)-based measurement of CEA mRNA; (b) targeting of anticancer agents or radionuclides by tumour-selective anti-CEA monoclonal antibodies (mAbs); (c) use of antitumour vaccines capable of eliciting major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-restricted immune responses against CEA-derived peptides. Actually, it has been shown that the expression of CEA can be up-regulated by pharmacological agents including, antineoplastic drugs (i.e. 5-fluorouracil), cytokines (i.e. interferons or interleukin-6), differentiating agents (i.e. sodium butyrate) and protein kinase inhibitors (i.e. staurosporine). Therefore, the use of drugs capable of increasing CEA expression, could amplify the sensitivity of diagnostic procedures that rely on CEA determination. Moreover, the same agents could increase the efficacy of vaccines based on immunogenic CEA-derived peptides restricted by the MHC. The purpose of this review is to describe several agents that are able to increase CEA expression and to discuss the rational bases for new strategies in cancer detection and therapy aimed at increasing the expression of tumour-associated antigens.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) and anxiety disorders such as generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) are often accompanied by chronic painful symptoms. Examples of such symptoms are backache, headache, gastrointestinal pain, and joint pain. In addition, pain generally not associated with major depression or an anxiety disorder, such as peripheral neuropathic pain (e.g., diabetic neuropathy and postherpetic neuralgia), cancer pain, and fibromyalgia, can be challenging for primary care providers to treat. Antidepressants that block reuptake of both serotonin and norepinephrine, such as the tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., amitriptyline), have been used to treat pain syndromes in patients with or without comorbid MDD or GAD. Venlafaxine, a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, has been safe and effective in animal models, healthy human volunteers, and patients for treatment of various pain syndromes. The use of venlafaxine for treatment of pain associated with MDD or GAD, neuropathic pain, headache, fibromyalgia, and postmastectomy pain syndrome is reviewed. Currently, no antidepressants, including venlafaxine, are approved for the treatment of chronic pain syndromes. Additional randomized, controlled trials are necessary to fully elucidate the role of venlafaxine in the treatment of chronic pain.
Adaptive natural gradient descent (ANGD) method realizes natural gradient descent (NGD) without needing to know the input distribution of learning data and reduces the calculation cost from a cubic order to a square order. However, no performance analysis of ANGD has been done. We have developed a statistical-mechanical theory of the simplified version of ANGD dynamics for soft committee machines in on-line learning; this method provides deterministic learning dynamics expressed through a few order parameters, even though ANGD intrinsically holds a large approximated Fisher information matrix. Numerical results obtained using this theory were consistent with those of a simulation, with respect not only to the learning curve but also to the learning failure. Utilizing this method, we numerically evaluated ANGD efficiency and found that ANGD generally performs as well as NGD. We also revealed the key condition affecting the learning plateau in ANGD.
A neuron in an active cortical circuit is subject to a fluctuating synaptic drive mediated by conductance changes. It was recently demonstrated that synaptic conductance effects in vivo significantly alter the integrative properties of neurons. These effects are missed in models that approximate the synaptic drive as a fluctuating current. Here the membrane-potential distribution and firing rate are derived for the integrate-and-fire neuron with delta correlated conductance-based synaptic input using the Fokker-Planck formalism. A number of different input scenarios are examined, including balanced drive and fluctuation changes at constant conductance, the latter of which corresponds to shifts in synchrony in the presynaptic population. This minimal model captures many experimentally observed conductance-related effects such as reduced membrane-potential fluctuations in response to increasing synaptic noise. The solvability of the model allows for a direct comparison with current-based approaches, providing a basis for assessing the validity of existing approximation schemes that have dealt with conductance change. In particular, a commonly used heuristic approach, whereby the passive membrane time constant is replaced by a drive-dependent effective time constant, is examined. It is demonstrated that this approximation is valid in the same limit that the underlying diffusion approximation holds, both for delta correlated as well as filtered synaptic drive.
A model of two n:m coupled phase oscillators is studied, where both oscillators are subject to random forces, but only one oscillator is repetitively stimulated with a pulsatile stimulus. The focus of the paper is on transmission of transient responses as well as transient synchronization and desynchronization, which are stimulus locked, i.e., tightly time locked to the stimulus. A bistability or multistability of stable synchronized states of the two-phase oscillators (modulo 2pi ) occurs due to the n:m coupling. Accordingly, after stimulation the two oscillators may tend to qualitatively different stable states, which leads to a cross-trial (CT) response clustering (i.e., a switching between qualitatively different poststimulus responses across trials) of either one of the oscillators or both. A stochastic CT phase resetting analysis allows one to detect such transient responses and provides a reliable estimation of the transmission time. In contrast, CT averaging (averaging over an ensemble of responses), CT standard deviation, and CT cross correlation fail in studying the transmission of such stimulus-locked responses, even in the simpler case of 1:1 coupling. In particular, even though being used as golden standard for the analysis of evoked responses in medicine and neuroscience, CT averaging typically causes severe artifacts and misinterpretations.
Total body fat is restored after the surgical removal (i.e., partial lipectomy) of white adipose tissue (WAT), and this is accomplished via increases in the mass of nonexcised WAT pads. The underlying mechanism for this apparent regulation of total body fat is unknown. One possibility is via the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) innervation of WAT and brown adipose tissue (BAT) through the regulation of lipolysis and thermogenesis, respectively. Specifically, decreases in SNS activity might fuel lipectomy-induced body fat compensation through energy saved from decreased BAT thermogenesis and would promote lipid accretion through decreased WAT basal lipolysis. Therefore, we tested whether lipectomy triggered decreases in the SNS drive [as indicated by the norepinephrine turnover (NETO)] to nonexcised WAT or to BAT, at times before the lipectomy-induced fat pad mass compensation was complete. Siberian hamsters received either sham or bilateral epididymal WAT lipectomy, and NETO was measured in the remaining WAT and interscapular BAT (IBAT) before, and 3 and 6 weeks after surgery. Total dissected WAT, and inguinal and retroperitoneal WAT masses were significantly increased following lipectomy, whereas dorsal subcutaneous WAT and IBAT masses, as well as food intake, were unchanged. The only significant change in NETO was a marked decrease (approximately 90%) in IBAT NETO at Week 3 postlipectomy compared with the sham-lipectomized controls. These findings suggest that the lipid accretion of nonexcised WAT pads triggered by lipectomy may be partially fueled by decreased BAT thermogenesis, inasmuch as decreased IBAT NETO reflects decreased BAT heat production.
The aims of the present study were (i) to investigate the effects of environmental enrichment during periadolescence on different behavioural and neurochemical responses in male CD-1 mice at adulthood and (ii) to describe the relative role of the physical and social components of the enrichment in producing these effects. Thirty 5-day-old mice were randomly assigned to one of the following housing conditions lasting five consecutive days: (i) individually housed in a standard cage, (ii) housed in pairs in a standard cage, (iii) individually housed in a physically enriched cage, and (iv) housed in pairs in a physically enriched cage. At adulthood, 80 days after the enrichment exposure, the explorative behaviour in an open field, as well as the behaviour in agonistic encounters, was evaluated in association with the analysis of selected central (hypothalamic levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived growth factor(BDNF)) and peripheral (plasma corticosterone levels) biochemical parameters. The results show that the long-term effects of the physical and the social enrichment are different and not additive. In particular, while social enrichment by itself exerted very limited effects, physical enrichment decreased the exploratory activity and altered social behaviour. Mice housed in pairs in an enriched cage showed low activity levels in the open field, and they tended to become more frequently dominant, although showing a more affiliative and less aggressive social interaction strategy. Furthermore, they presented low levels of hypothalamic NGF and high levels of brain-derived growth factor, suggesting an important effect of the combination of social and physical enrichment on neurobehavioral markers of brain plasticity and on animal ability to cope with social challenges.
Following exposure of our eye to very intense illumination, we experience a greatly elevated visual threshold, that takes tens of minutes to return completely to normal. The slowness of this phenomenon of &quot;dark adaptation&quot; has been studied for many decades, yet is still not fully understood. Here we review the biochemical and physical processes involved in eliminating the products of light absorption from the photoreceptor outer segment, in recycling the released retinoid to its original isomeric form as 11-cis retinal, and in regenerating the visual pigment rhodopsin. Then we analyse the time-course of three aspects of human dark adaptation: the recovery of psychophysical threshold, the recovery of rod photoreceptor circulating current, and the regeneration of rhodopsin. We begin with normal human subjects, and then analyse the recovery in several retinal disorders, including Oguchi disease, vitamin A deficiency, fundus albipunctatus, Bothnia dystrophy and Stargardt disease. We review a large body of evidence showing that the time-course of human dark adaptation and pigment regeneration is determined by the local concentration of 11-cis retinal, and that after a large bleach the recovery is limited by the rate at which 11-cis retinal is delivered to opsin in the bleached rod outer segments. We present a mathematical model that successfully describes a wide range of results in human and other mammals. The theoretical analysis provides a simple means of estimating the relative concentration of free 11-cis retinal in the retina/RPE, in disorders exhibiting slowed dark adaptation, from analysis of psychophysical measurements of threshold recovery or from analysis of pigment regeneration kinetics.
Arachidonic acid (AA) and Gamma linolenic acid have been shown to limit glioma cell growth, stimulate apoptosis and lipid peroxidation. However, brain tumours are characterised by cellular heterogeneity and responding cell populations have not been identified. Brain tumour samples from patients were disaggregated. In cell preparations from 7 gliomas, reactive oxygen species (ROS), morphology and plasma membrane integrity were monitored +/-18-36 microM AA for 15-120 min using flow cytometry. Basal oxidative activity related to cell size/morphology, small granular cells showed lower activity. AA stimulation of ROS formation depended on cell size/morphology. Large, less granular cells showed greater AA stimulation. In 17 gliomas, GFAP immunofluorescence was demonstrated in larger cell populations. The large GFAP positive cell population with low side scatter was the highest responding cell population, suggesting selective tumour cell sensitivity to AA induced ROS formation. ROS may have a role in AA induced cell death and anti-tumour activity of AA in glioma.
We report the case of a patient who presented with catatonic features and delusion of test-tube pregnancy in the background of previous sexual abuse. The reported case illustrates the importance of contemporary themes in the evolution of psychopathology.
The effects of the sensory modality of the lead stimulus and of task difficulty on attentional modulation of the electrical and acoustic blink reflex were examined. Participants performed a discrimination and counting task with either two acoustic, two visual, or two tactile lead stimuli. In Experiment 1, facilitation of the electrically elicited blink was greater during task-relevant than during task-irrelevant lead stimuli. Increasing task difficulty enhanced magnitude facilitation for acoustic lead stimuli. In Experiment 2, acoustic blink facilitation was greater during task-relevant lead stimuli, but was unaffected by task difficulty. Experiment 3 showed that a further increase in task difficulty did not affect acoustic blink facilitation during visual lead stimuli. The observation that blink reflexes are facilitated by attention in the present task domain is consistent across a range of stimulus modality and task difficulty conditions.
We examined preattentive auditory change detection in 7- to 9-year-old children. The question of interest was whether the preattentive comparison of stimuli indexed by the scalp-recorded mismatch negativity (MMN) was performed on representations of individual stimulus features or on gestalt representations of their combined attributes. The design of the study, based on a work by D. Deacon, J. Nousak, M. Pilotti, W. Ritter, and C. Yang (Psychophysiology, 1998), was such that both feature and gestalt representations could have been available to the comparator mechanism generating the MMN. The data indicated that for the majority of the children-those that exhibited an inverse relationship between the amplitude of the MMN and the probability of the deviant-the MMN was based on feature-specific information. This study also provides a method to obtain MMNs to deviants in three different features in the time usually required to obtain an MMN to a single acoustic feature.
Accumulating evidence suggests that schizophrenic patients do not use context efficiently. Also, studies suggest similarities in clinical and cognitive profiles between schizophrenic and schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) individuals, and epidemiological studies point to a genetic link between the two disorders. This study examined electrophysiological correlates of processing sentence context in a group of SPD women in a classical N400 sentence paradigm. The study assessed if the dysfunction in context use found previously in schizophrenia and male SPD also exists in female SPD. We tested 17 SPD and 16 matched normal control women. The results suggest the presence of abnormality in context use in female SPD similar to that previously reported for male schizophrenic and SPD individuals, but of lesser degree of severity. In SPD women, relative to their comparison group, a more negative N400 was found only to auditory congruent sentences.
The main aim of the present experiment was to determine whether extensive musical training facilitates pitch contour processing not only in music but also in language. We used a parametric manipulation of final notes' or words' fundamental frequency (F0), and we recorded behavioral and electrophysiological data to examine the precise time course of pitch processing. We compared professional musicians and nonmusicians. Results revealed that within both domains, musicians detected weak F0 manipulations better than nonmusicians. Moreover, F0 manipulations within both music and language elicited similar variations in brain electrical potentials, with overall shorter onset latency for musicians than for nonmusicians. Finally, the scalp distribution of an early negativity in the linguistic task varied with musical expertise, being largest over temporal sites bilaterally for musicians and largest centrally and over left temporal sites for nonmusicians. These results are taken as evidence that extensive musical training influences the perception of pitch contour in spoken language.
Calcified aortic stenosis (CAS) is an unusual cause of cerebral infarct. The presence of cerebral intra-vascular or intra-parenchymatous calcifications, symptomatic or not, is suggestive of the diagnosis of CAS. We report two patients who experienced stroke induced by spontaneous calcic emboli from a calcified aortic valve and underline the importance of brain CT scan.
The neurochemistry of language and the neuropharmacology of aphasia are two domains of cognitive neuroscience still in their infancy. In this article we review what is known about these two domains, especially with regard to treating aphasia with drugs. Selected neurotransmitters can improve language function in certain patients with aphasia. We discuss which neurotransmitters work for which language functions in which patients, and why.


For over 20 years, charitable organizations have worked to promote research that will cure the paralysis associated with spinal cord injury (SCI). When they began this quest, the consequences of SCI were thought to be permanent; that once damaged, the spinal cord could not be repaired. Today, the same organizations are credited with funding research that has realized many significant advances, brought new optimism and changed the outlook of researchers, clinicians and injured individuals alike. Progress in understanding the basic biology of spinal cord repair means that it is now a case of how soon useful treatments will be available, rather than if there will ever be anything to offer. With this in mind, many of the organizations that promote spinal cord research have formed an alliance to determine the ways in which their collaboration can hasten progress. The mission and objectives of this alliance, termed the International Campaign for Cures of Spinal Cord Injury Paralysis (ICCP), are described here.




The innervation of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) by the ventral tegmental area (VTA) has an important role in incentive-motivation and cognitive functions. Although this projection has been extensively studied, the precise actions of its transmitters, dopamine (DA) and GABA, on PFC pyramidal neurons remain to be determined. We have recently shown that VTA stimulation elicits a sustained depolarization in PFC pyramidal neurons resembling the periodic depolarizations (up states) these neurons exhibit. This response was shortened by a D1 antagonist, suggesting that DA may sustain depolarized up states in PFC neurons. Here, we tested whether spontaneous PFC up states in vivo require spontaneous VTA activity. Intracellular recordings from PFC neurons conducted simultaneously with VTA local field potentials (LFPs) revealed PFC membrane potential fluctuations occurring synchronously with VTA field potential transitions. Extracellular PFC recordings performed simultaneously with VTA LFPs also indicated a high coherence between these two regions, with VTA oscillations trailing PFC oscillations by a few milliseconds. Furthermore, blockade of VTA activity with lidocaine transiently eliminated PFC LFPs, but not PFC cell up states; instead, up states became irregular during intra-VTA lidocaine administration. These results suggest that baseline levels of VTA activity are necessary for synchronizing PFC pyramidal neurons in the up-down oscillations observed in the anesthetized preparation, allowing the emergence of slow EEG components.
We have earlier described models for measuring local net release rates of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) in vivo across skeletal, coronary, pulmonary, and splanchnic vascular beds. Aim of the present study was to investigate whether there is a net release of t-PA across the human cerebral vascular bed and whether an acute regulated release can be induced by sympathoadrenal activation. Fourteen male subjects undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting were investigated prior to surgery and during sternotomy-induced sympathoadrenal activation. Blood samples were obtained simultaneously from the radial artery and the jugular bulb. Blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery (V(MCA)) was determined by transcranial Doppler. Cerebral net release of t-PA was calculated as the arterio-venous concentration gradient times V(MCA). Prior to surgery there was a significant cerebral net release of t-PA (131 and 42 ng/min for t-PA antigen and activity, respectively). The release was significantly induced by sternotomy (to 271 and 80 ng/min, respectively). No significant cerebral net release of plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1) was detected throughout the experiment. The results show that there is a basal net release of t-PA across the human cerebral vascular bed and that sympathoadrenal activation induces a local regulated release of t-PA.
The goal of this investigation was to determine whether chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA)-induced apoptosis is prevented by ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) or tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDC) and to characterize the involvement of mitochondria in the process. Cultured human HepG2 cells were treated in a dose- and time-dependent protocol in order to establish a sufficiently low exposure to CDCA that causes apoptosis but not necrosis. Low-dose CDCA induced an S-phase block and G2 arrest of the cell cycle, as determined by flow cytometry. As a result, cell proliferation was inhibited. CDCA-induced apoptosis, as determined by fluorescence microscopy of Hoechst 33342-stained nuclei, was evident upon coincubation with TUDC. Additionally, after exposure to UDCA plus CDCA, the cell membrane was permeable to fluorescent dyes. Caspase-9-like activity, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage, and extensive DNA fragmentation were detected in CDCA-exposed cells and in cells coincubated with TUDC, but not UDCA. CDCA caused a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and depletion of ATP, both of which were potentiated by UDCA but not TUDC. The results suggest that UDCA potentiates CDCA cytotoxicity, probably at the level of induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). Consequently, as suggested by the lack of the main hallmarks of the apoptotic pathway, in the presence of UDCA, CDCA-induced apoptosis is not properly executed but degenerates into necrosis.
The parasitoid solitary wasp Ampulex compressa uses the cockroach Periplaneta americana as a food supply for its larvae. To subdue its prey, the wasp injects a venom cocktail into the brain of the cockroach. We investigated channel activity of A. compressa venom by collecting venom and incorporating it into a planar lipid bilayer. The venom, reconstituted into the bilayer, showed ion channel activity, forming a fast-fluctuating channel with a small conductance of 20+/-0.1pS, with no voltage sensitivity. These channels were not observed when the venom was digested with proteases before application to the bilayer, but were not affected by exposure to protease after their incorporation into the bilayer, indicating that the active venom component is a peptide. The channels were found to be cation selective with similar selectivity for the monovalent cations K(+), Li(+) and Na(+), but showed high selectivity against anions (Cl(-)) and divalent cations (Ca(2+) and Mg(2+)). This study is the first demonstration and biophysical characterization of channel activity in the venom of A. compressa. The possible functional significance of this channel activity is discussed in light of the unusual nature of the effects of this wasp venom on the behavior of its prey.
Humans crave the company of others and suffer profoundly if temporarily isolated from society. Much of the brain must have evolved to deal with social communication and we are increasingly learning more about the neurophysiological basis of social cognition. Here, we explore some of the reasons why social cognitive neuroscience is captivating the interest of many researchers. We focus on its future, and what we believe are priority areas for further research.
This article provides a new, more comprehensive view of event-related brain dynamics founded on an information-based approach to modeling electroencephalographic (EEG) dynamics. Most EEG research focuses either on peaks 'evoked' in average event-related potentials (ERPs) or on changes 'induced' in the EEG power spectrum by experimental events. Although these measures are nearly complementary, they do not fully model the event-related dynamics in the data, and cannot isolate the signals of the contributing cortical areas. We propose that many ERPs and other EEG features are better viewed as time/frequency perturbations of underlying field potential processes. The new approach combines independent component analysis (ICA), time/frequency analysis, and trial-by-trial visualization that measures EEG source dynamics without requiring an explicit head model.
To associate events that are disparate in time, the brain must record, retain and perhaps even reflect on the individual events themselves. Aspects of such learning can be probed with trace conditioning, during which an animal learns to associate events that are temporally distant from one another. For decades, we have known that the formation of so-called trace memories (in which one stimulus is associated with a second stimulus that is discontinuous and later in time) depends on the hippocampal formation. Recent findings indicate that the hippocampus is crucial for the initial acquisition of trace memories but not for their expression or long-term storage. More recent findings implicate neurogenesis, synaptogenesis and awareness in the formation of trace memories.
Studies on neural networks indicate that the pattern of amnesia that occurs in Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be reproduced by synaptic loss, but only when this loss is accompanied by synaptic scaling, a homeostatic mechanism that maintains the level of excitatory input on postsynaptic neurons. It is suggested that increased cholinergic activity during the early stages of AD contributes to synaptic scaling and that acetylcholinesterase inhibitors improve cognition in AD patients by boosting this mechanism.
Astroglia have long been thought to play merely a supporting role in the life of the neuron. However, these star-shaped cells have recently been the focus of intense study that has begun to emphasize remarkable and novel roles for these amazing cells. While astroglia play positive roles in the life of the neuron, they can simultaneously exert negative influences. Kinouchi et al. convincingly demonstrate and characterize an inhibitory role played by astroglia after neuronal transplantation. These findings remind us that astroglia exert positive and negative influences on neuronal survival, migration, neurite outgrowth and functional integration. Here, we review the complementary and often contradictory roles of astroglia during neuronal integration.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal, progressive neurodegenerative disease that kills motor neurons. Despite a long disappointing history of human trials with neurotrophins, including insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), Kaspar and colleagues have successfully slowed disease in transgenic ALS mice by forcing motor neurons to produce IGF-1 following retrograde delivery of recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) injected into muscle. With the clinical safety of both IGF-1 and AAV already established, this provides real hope for an effective treatment of ALS.
Blood vessel curvature is responsible for the appearance of nonaxial velocity components and for minor changes in the pattern of the axial flow. All the velocity components are expected to contribute to the Doppler signal produced by the ultrasound (US) backscattered by the insonated blood cells, the axial velocity, contributing to the actual volumetric blood flow, and the transverse velocity, causing the recirculating vortices. A detailed, separate analysis of the velocity components is, therefore, mandatory to quantify how vessel curvature can affect results and clinical diagnosis. Both experimental in vitro measures and numerical simulations were performed on a curved tube and the Doppler power spectra so obtained were compared. The satisfactorily agreement of the above spectra shows that the nonaxial velocity components are easily detectable with clinical equipment and that their amplitude, as expected, is not negligible and can bias Doppler measurements and resulting clinical diagnosis.
An earlier analysis, which yielded an optimal pair of blue and green primaries (436 &amp; 490 nm) for tritanomaloscopy, is reevaluated. That analysis minimized population variance in the mid-match points of color normals by taking into account, for a set of blue and green tritanopic metamers, the contributions of the lens and macular pigment variances and of matching range. The revision to the matching-range contribution takes into account the effect, neglected in the original analysis, of the varying angle between the blue-green primary mixture lines and the corresponding cyan test and yellow desaturant mixture lines. Use is made of new measurements of the macular pigment absorbance spectrum, a new estimate of the lens absorbance spectrum, the population variances of the lens and macular pigment, and of matching-range data for a current Moreland equation. Tritanopic metamers are derived from a revised set of cone fundamentals. The net effect of all of these revisions on the specification of optimal primaries is small (440 and 488 nm). However, larger changes are involved in the choice of test and desaturant wavelengths.
The ability of color-deficient observers to discriminate between illuminant changes and surface-reflectance changes in a scene was tested with natural and Munsell reflectance spectra. To avoid the confounding effects of spatial structure, stimuli were simulations of Mondrian-like colored patterns, presented on a computer-controlled color monitor. Protanopes performed less well than normal trichromats, regardless of the type of reflectance spectra, but they were least disadvantaged with patterns comprising reflectance spectra drawn from urban and rural scenes, more characteristic of the natural environment.
If surfaces in a scene are to be distinguished by their color, their neural representation at some level should ideally vary little with the color of the illumination. Four possible neural codes were considered: von-Kries-scaled cone responses from single points in a scene, spatial ratios of cone responses produced by light reflected from pairs of points, and these quantities obtained with sharpened (opponent-cone) responses. The effectiveness of these codes in identifying surfaces was quantified by information-theoretic measures. Data were drawn from a sample of 25 rural and urban scenes imaged with a hyperspectral camera, which provided estimates of surface reflectance at 10-nm intervals at each of 1344 x 1024 pixels for each scene. In computer simulations, scenes were illuminated separately by daylights of correlated color temperatures 4000 K, 6500 K, and 25,000 K. Points were sampled randomly in each scene and identified according to each of the codes. It was found that the maximum information preserved under illuminant changes varied with the code, but for a particular code it was remarkably stable across the different scenes. The standard deviation over the 25 scenes was, on average, approximately 1 bit, suggesting that the neural coding of surface color can be optimized independent of location for any particular range of illuminants.
It is implicit in many cone-specific ERG studies that the amplitude is proportional to the numbers of cones stimulated. The objective of these experiments was to test this idea by comparing ERGs obtained from different areas of the retina with histological data on cone-density distributions. The histology (Curcio et al., 1990) shows that the cumulative number of cones in the human retina increases exponentially with stimulus diameter between 0- and 40-deg eccentricity. L-, M-, and (L+M) cone-driven 30-Hz ERGs were obtained from a series of stimuli with one of the following configurations: (1) Circular stimuli of different angular subtense up to 70-deg diameter. (2) Annuli with 70-deg outer diameter but variable inner diameter. (3) Annuli of constant area but increasing eccentricity. Cone contrasts were equalized for each stimulus condition. The modulated and nonmodulated regions of the screen had the same mean hue and luminance. The data suggest that the L+M cone ERG amplitude increases with stimulus diameter in direct proportion to the estimated number of cones stimulated. Furthermore, the total L+M responses appear to be predicted from individual L and M responses by simple linear summation for both the disc and annular stimuli.
Most platyrrhine monkeys have a triallelic M/L opsin gene polymorphism that underlies significant individual variations in color vision. A survey of the frequencies of these polymorphic genes suggests that the three alleles occur with equal frequency among squirrel monkeys (subfamily Cebinae), but are not equally frequent in a number of species from the subfamily Callitrichinae. This departure from equal frequency in the Callitrichids should slightly increase the ratio of dichromats to trichromats in the population and significantly alter the relative representation of the three possible dichromatic and trichromatic phenotypes. A particular feature of the inequality is that it leads to a relative increase in the number of trichromats whose M/L pigments have the largest possible spectral separation. To assess whether these trichromatic phenotypes are equally well equipped to make relevant visual discriminations, psychophysical experiments were run on human observers. A technique involving the functional substitution of photopigments was used to simulate the discrimination between fruits among a background of leaves. The goal of the simulation was to reproduce in the cones of human observers excitations equivalent to those produced in monkey cones as the animals view fruit. Three different viewing conditions were examined involving variations in the relative luminances of fruit and leaves and the spectrum of the illuminant. In all cases, performance was best for simulated trichromacies including M/L pigments with the largest spectral separation. Thus, the inequality of opsin gene frequency in Callitrichid monkeys may reflect adaptive pressures.

The main pathstones of methodological approaches to objective exploration of mental activity outlined by I.P. Pavlov in 1903, in particular, such its features as the ability to forsee the results, expediency, reasonable character, and adaptivity of behavior are considered. Stages of methodological perfection of investigations of the inner (mental) states of living organisms, semantic transformation of conditioned reflex, conditioning of the first and second orders, systems of conditioned reflexes, psychonervous activity, causal and extrapolative reflexes are analyzed. The significance of the development of the theory of the functional system by P.K. Anokhin and the modern state of its understanding are shown. The functional significance and neurophysiologic mechanisms of movement task, programming, motivation, memory engram, reinforcement etc. is discussed.
In clinical practise, the notion that some complex regional pain syndromes (CRPS) are associated with sympathetic facilitation of nociceptive transmission is widespread. However, physiological increases in cutaneous sympathetic nerve activity have not been found to influence the firing properties of cutaneous polymodal nociceptive (high-threshold mechano-heat sensitive) fibers in human subjects. Whether the same applies to low-threshold cutaneous mechanoreceptors is not known. Such an effect could be relevant for sympathetic facilitation of nociception, given that tactile afferents are implicated in the allodynia associated with CRPS. This issue was addressed by recording the responses of single cutaneous mechanoreceptors in the glabrous skin of the finger pads to constant mechanical stimuli, at rest and during physiological increases in cutaneous sympathetic activity produced by arousal stimuli. Unitary recordings were made from 17 rapidly adapting (15 FAI and 2 FAII) and 20 slowly adapting (9 SAI and 11 SAII) afferents located in the finger pads via tungsten microelectrodes inserted percutaneously into the median nerve at the wrist in nine subjects. A servomotor applied 1 s constant-displacement ramp-and-hold indentations to the receptor-bearing digit every 3 s. Displacement and compression force were recorded. Blood flow in the finger pad and sweating in the palm were measured contralaterally. Increases in cutaneous sympathetic outflow caused only modest changes in the spontaneous and compression-evoked firing of tactile afferents. These changes were usually (for 26/37 afferents) related to the associated decreases in skin blood flow. The latency from the start of the ramp stimulus to the onset of firing was inversely correlated to flow (i.e. unit response was delayed during vasoconstriction) for 11/31 units (7/15 FAI, 1/2 FAII, 2/9 SAI, 1/5 SAII), whereas no units showed a positive correlation. Compression-evoked firing rates were positively correlated to flow (i.e. vasoconstriction reduced firing rates) for 14/31 units (2/15 FAI, 1/2 FAII, 7/9 SAI, 4/5 SAII), whereas no units showed a negative correlation. 10/11 SAII afferents exhibited spontaneous background firing, which increased for 4 and decreased for 4 in response to arousal stimuli, presumably reflecting their sensitivity to changes in skin stretch associated with sympathetically mediated reductions in blood volume in the finger pad. Two afferents showed no change, but nor was there significant vasoconstriction in these recordings. Thus, arousal stimuli reduced rather than augmented tactile afferent firing. The close relation to blood flow for all types of afferents, and the different responses among SAII afferents, suggest that sympathetically mediated changes in afferent firing properties are indirect, i.e. secondary to changes in the mechanoreceptors' tissue environment rather than to a direct sympathetic effect on the endings.
In the present study, we evaluated the effects of extended exposure procedures to contextual fear cues as a way of reducing intertrial responses (ITRs), a characteristic stereotyped behavior displayed in 2-way Shuttle Box avoidance overtraining. We used rat strains psychogenetically selected for efficient (Roman high-avoidance; RHA) versus poor 2-way Shuttle Box performance (Roman low-avoidance; RLA), the former being fearless/impulsive relative to the latter. Additionally, Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were compared with RHAs to have a measure of the ITRs exhibited by another, non-selected group of animals. The main findings were that after extended exposure RHAs diminished their ITRs without affecting avoidance performance, although they emitted a pattern of ITRs somewhat excessive as compared with SDs. We concluded that three factors could influence the expression of ITRs in RHA rats: (1) the repetitive and stereotyped responding induced by 2-way Shuttle Box overtraining; (2) contextual fear conditioning; and (3) a genetic background associated with high impulsiveness.
Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels mediates synaptic transmission at numerous central synapses. However, electrophysiological and pharmacological evidence linking Ca+ channel activity with neurotransmitter release in the vertebrate mature spinal cord is scarce. In the current report, we investigated in a slice preparation from the adult turtle spinal cord, the effects of various Ca+ channel antagonists on neurotransmission at terminals from the dorsolateral funiculus synapsing motoneurons. Bath application of tetrodotoxin or NiCl2 prevented the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), and this effect was mimicked by exposure to a zero-Ca2+ solution. Application of polypeptide toxins that block N- and P/Q-type channels (omega-CTx-GVIA and omega-Aga-IVA) reduced the EPSP amplitude in a dose-dependent manner. By analyzing the input resistance and the EPSP time course, and using a paired pulse protocol we determined that both toxins act at presynaptic level to modulate neurotransmitter release. RT-PCR studies showed the expression of N- and P/Q-type channel mRNAs in the turtle spinal cord. Together, these results indicate that N- and P/Q-type Ca2+ channels may play a central role in the regulation of neurotransmitter release in the adult turtle spinal cord.
We performed a microstimulation study of the subthalamic region of Parkinsonian patients who underwent bilateral electrode implantation in the subthalamic nuclei and whose heart rate and heart rate variability were recorded. The stimulation of the dorsalmost region, which includes the zona incerta and the dorsal pole of the subthalamic nucleus, produced autonomic responses that were constant over time. In fact, hidden stimulations (the patient is not aware of being stimulated) and open stimulations (the patient is aware of being stimulated) always induced the same responses. By contrast, the stimulation of the ventralmost region, which includes the ventral pole of the subthalamic nucleus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata, produced autonomic and emotional responses that were inconstant over time and varied according to the condition. In fact, different responses were elicited with hidden and open stimulations. These data suggest that the dorsal subthalamic nucleus and/or the zona incerta are involved in autonomic control, whereas the ventral subthalamic nucleus and/or the substantia nigra reticulata are involved in associative/limbic-related autonomic activity. The difference between the open and hidden stimulations in the ventral subthalamic region can explain previous studies in which open and hidden stimulations produced different therapeutic outcomes.
Mutations in the NF2 tumor suppressor gene encoding merlin induce the development of tumors of the nervous system. Merlin is highly homologous to the ERM (ezrin-radixin-moesin) family of membrane/cytoskeleton linker proteins. However, the mechanism for the tumor suppressing activity of merlin is not well understood. Previously, we characterized a novel role for merlin as a protein kinase A (PKA)-anchoring protein, which links merlin to the cAMP/PKA signaling pathway. In this study we show that merlin is also a target for PKA-induced phosphorylation. In vitro [gamma-(33)P]ATP labeling revealed that both the merlin N and C termini are phosphorylated by PKA. Furthermore, both in vitro and in vivo phosphorylation studies of the wild-type and mutated C termini demonstrated that PKA can phosphorylate merlin at serine 518, a site that is phosphorylated also by p21-activated kinases (PAKs). Merlin was phosphorylated by PKA in cells in which PAK activity was suppressed, indicating that the two kinases function independently. Both in vitro and in vivo interaction studies indicated that phosphorylation of serine 518 promotes heterodimerization between merlin and ezrin, an event suggested to convert merlin from a growth-suppressive to a growth-permissive state. This study provides further evidence on the connection between merlin and cAMP/PKA signaling and suggests a role for merlin in the cAMP/PKA transduction pathway.
The effects of norepinephrine in the brain and periphery are terminated primarily by active reuptake of the catecholamine via cocaine- and amphetamine-sensitive norepinephrine transporters (NETs). Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) down-regulates NET by sequestering it from the plasma membrane, although the underlying mechanism is not yet known. Previously, we showed robust expression of endogenous NETs in rat placental trophoblasts (Jayanthi, L. D., Vargas, G., and DeFelice, L. J. (2002) Br. J. Pharmacol. 135, 1927-1934). Here we report a significant reduction in native NET function and surface expression in these cells following phorbol ester (beta-PMA) treatment. The beta-PMA-mediated down-regulation of NET occurs by a rapid sequestration of NETs from the plasma membrane and is calcium-independent. Reversible biotinylation experiments revealed a significant enhancement of NET endocytosis following beta-PMA treatment. Chemical treatments and expression of dominant negative mutants of dynamin 1 and 2 failed to prevent the beta-PMA effect, suggesting a clathrin-independent pathway. In contrast, treatment with the cholesterol-disrupting agent filipin, which blocks caveolae/lipid raft-mediated internalization, completely blocked the beta-PMA-mediated NET sequestration. Discontinuous sucrose density gradient centrifugation revealed NET in the lipid raft fractions. Following beta-PMA treatment, there was reduced NET levels in the lipid raft fractions suggesting that cholesterol-rich lipid rafts mediate PKC-triggered NET internalization. Metabolic labeling and immunoprecipitation studies revealed that NET phosphorylation is stimulated severalfold by PKC activation and protein phosphatase 1/2A inhibition. Together, these findings demonstrate for the first time that in trophoblasts (i) PKC activation regulates NET function and surface expression by an enhanced internalization process that is lipid raft-mediated and (ii) PKC and protein phosphatase(s) modulation regulates NET phosphorylation.
The molecular basis of cone photoreceptor-specific gene expression is largely unknown. In this study, we define cis-acting DNA sequences that control the cell type-specific expression of the zebrafish UV cone pigment gene by transient expression of green fluorescent protein transgenes following their injection into zebrafish embryos. These experiments show that 4.8 kb of 5'-flanking sequences from the zebrafish UV pigment gene direct expression specifically to UV cones and that this activity requires both distal and proximal sequences. In addition, we demonstrate that a proximal region located between -215 and -110 bp (with respect to the initiator methionine codon) can function in the context of a zebrafish rhodopsin promotor to convert its specificity from rod-only expression to rod and UV cone expression. These experiments demonstrate the power of transient transgenesis in zebrafish to efficiently define cis-acting regulatory sequences in an intact vertebrate.
Strong inward rectifier potassium (Kir2) channels are important in the control of cell excitability, and their functions are modulated by interactions with intracellular proteins. Here we identified a complex of scaffolding/trafficking proteins in brain that associate with Kir2.1, Kir2.2, and Kir2.3 channels. By using a combination of affinity interaction pulldown assays and co-immunoprecipitations from brain and transfected cells, we demonstrated that a complex composed of SAP97, CASK, Veli, and Mint1 associates with Kir2 channels via the C-terminal PDZ-binding motif. We further demonstrated by using in vitro protein interaction assays that SAP97, Veli-1, or Veli-3 binds directly to the Kir2.2 C terminus and recruits CASK. Co-immunoprecipitations indicated that specific Veli isoforms participate in forming distinct protein complexes in brain, where Veli-1 stably associates with CASK and SAP97, Veli-2 associates with CASK and Mint1, and Veli-3 associates with CASK, SAP97, and Mint1. Additionally, immunocytochemistry of rat cerebellum revealed overlapping expression of Kir2.2, SAP97, CASK, Mint1, with Veli-1 in the granule cell layer and Veli-3 in the molecular layer. We propose a model whereby Kir2.2 associates with distinct SAP97-CASK-Veli-Mint1 complexes. In one complex, SAP97 interacts directly with the Kir2 channels and recruits CASK, Veli, and Mint1. Alternatively, Veli-1 or Veli-3 interacts directly with the Kir2 channels and recruits CASK and SAP97; association of Mint1 with the complex requires Veli-3. Expression of Kir2.2 in polarized epithelial cells resulted in targeting of the channels to the basolateral membrane and co-localization with SAP97 and CASK, whereas a dominant interfering form of CASK caused the channels to mislocalize. Therefore, CASK appears to be a central protein of a macromolecular complex that participates in trafficking and plasma membrane localization of Kir2 channels.
The submucous plexus of the guinea pig intestine is a quasi-two-dimensional mammalian neural network that is particularly amenable to study using multiple site optical recording of transmembrane voltage (MSORTV) [Biol. Bull. 183 (1992) 344; J. Neurosci. 19 (1999) 3073]. For several years the potentiometric dye of choice for monitoring the electrical activity of its individual neurons has been di-8-ANEPPS [Neuron 9 (1992) 393], a naphthylstyryl-pyridinium dye with a propylsulfonate headgroup that provides relatively large fluorescence changes during action potentials and synaptic potentials. Limitations to the use of this dye, however, have been its phototoxicity and its low water solubility which requires the presence of DMSO and Pluronic F-127 in the staining solution. In searching for less toxic and more soluble dyes exhibiting larger fluorescence signals, we first tried the dienylstyryl-pyridinium dye RH795 [J. Neurosci. 14 (1994) 2545] which is highly soluble in water. This dye yielded relatively large signals, but it was internalized quickly by the submucosal neurons resulting in rapid degradation of the signal-to-noise ratio. We decided to synthesize a series of naphthylstyryl-pyridinium dyes (di-n-ANEPPDHQ) having the same chromophore as di-8-ANEPPS and the quaternary ammonium headgroup (DHQ) of RH795 (resulting in two positive charges versus the neutral propylsulfonate-ring nitrogen combination), and we tested the di-methyl (JPW3039), di-ethyl (JPW2081), di-propyl (JPW3031), di-butyl (JPW5029), and di-octyl (JPW5037) analogues, all of them soluble in ethanol. We found that the di-propyl (di-3-ANEPPDHQ) and the di-butyl (di-4-ANEPPDHQ) forms yielded the best combination of signal-to-noise ratio, moderate phototoxicity and absence of dye internalization.
I describe a method for providing cumulative label of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to mouse embryos. Commercially available osmotic pumps, which release their contents at a steady rate, were implanted subcutaneously in the interscapular space of pregnant mice on embryonic day (E) 9.5-12.5. Survival times varied from 4h to 37 days. Tissues (embryonic and neonatal eyes and maternal intestine) were immunochemically labeled for BrdU and examined histologically. The first detectably labeled cells appeared 4-7h post-implantation (hpi) and all cycling cells were labeled for at least 7 days post-implantation (dpi). Retinal development appeared normal. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) stained retinas that had been exposed to BrdU showed no more apoptotic cells than those unexposed. I conclude that the maternally implanted osmotic pump successfully provides cumulative BrdU labeling in the mouse embryo.
An important issue in the neurosciences is a quantitative description of the relation between sensory stimuli presented to an animal and their representations in the nervous system. A standard technique is the construction of a neural tuning curve, that is, a neuron's average firing rate as a function of some parameter characterizing a family of stimuli. It is unavoidable that some of the response data are erroneously attributed to a cell, e.g., during spike sorting. However, the widely used method of statistical analysis based on the sample mean and least-squares approximation for the spike count can perform extremely badly if the noise distribution is not exactly normal, which is almost never the case in applications. Here, we present a method for constructing neural tuning curves that is especially suited for cases of high noise and the presence of outliers. Since it is usually not decidable if an outlier is faulty or not we limit the influence of far outlying points rather than try to identify and discard them. In contrast to traditional methods employing a point-by-point estimation of a tuning curve, we use all measured data from all different stimulus conditions at once in the construction. Given the measured data at only a finite number of stimulus conditions, a robust tuning curve is obtained that approximates the cell's ideal tuning curve optimally in all stimulus conditions with respect to a given distance measure. A measure that assesses the quality of this fitting method with respect to the traditional least-squares fitting method and to a median-based fitting method is introduced. The reliability of inference with respect to the encoding accuracy that can be achieved by a population of neurons is demonstrated in both artificially generated and experimentally recorded data from rat primary visual cortex. While the data shown in this paper are responses to orientation stimuli, the method of tuning curve construction is also viable and maintains its optimality properties for the case in which the stimulus is defined on a finite interval.
The construction and initial psychometric evaluation of an interview assessment of clinically significant impulsivity (Lifetime History of Impulsive Behaviors; LHIB) is presented. Personality-disordered and control subjects participated by completing self-report measures of depression, anxiety and social desirability, along with self-report and laboratory analogue measures of impulsivity, and finally the LHIB. The LHIB demonstrated good to excellent internal consistency and test-retest reliability. Supporting concurrent construct validity, scores on the LHIB correlated with other self-report measures of impulsivity. Diagnostic group differences were obtained and the LHIB evidenced concurrent validity in its ability to classify subjects by scores. No relationship was obtained between the LHIB and laboratory analogue measures. While evidence of discriminant validity was mixed, these data suggest that the LHIB may be a useful instrument for the assessment of impulsive behavior.

Recently various strategies have been developed to exploit in a clinical setting the well established finding that T cells can specifically recognize and destroy tumor cells. Several independent approaches to the targeting of T cells against cancer have been explored, including the use of bispecific antibodies (anti-T cell/anti-tumor cell) to redirect T cells, vaccines to induce tumor-reactive T cells, and adoptive transfer of ex vivo activated, tumor-reactive T cells. In this review, we focus on studies in which high-affinity folate receptors (FRs) on tumor cells have served as targets for redirecting or enhancing the effectiveness of activated T cells. Bispecific antibody conjugates of folate and antibodies to the T cell receptor (TCR) complex can generate tumor-reactive T cell responses. The development of folate/antibody conjugates specific for the T cell co-stimulatory molecule CD28 could yield activated T cells that recognize endogenous peptide-major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens on tumor cells. Finally, we discuss a less investigated area in which high-affinity FRs on macrophages, or other antigen presenting cells (APCs), may provide opportunities in the design of tumor-antigen-specific vaccines.


Task-switching paradigms, which are regularly used to assay 'executive control' processes in humans, almost invariably reveal a decrement in subjects' performance on the first trial following a switch of task. That is, subjects are slower to respond and more error prone on the switch trial, a difference in performance that has been termed the 'switch-cost'. This switch cost has then been taken to reflect the time taken by neural control processes. Previous studies have shown that while performance improves as more time is provided to prepare for the switch, switch costs persist, even over very long intervals. In the present study, however, we find that changing the response regimen (choice reaction time vs go-no-go) has profound effects on the switch cost. A task switching paradigm was used in which subjects randomly switched between two tasks, based on a cue that was presented at varying intervals prior to the presentation of the imperative stimulus. While switch costs were found in all conditions in the choice reaction time blocks, they were completely abolished in the go-no-go blocks when sufficient preparation time was provided (500 or 800 ms). This is important because the only difference between the choice reaction time and go-no-go conditions was the response requirement: these conditions did not differ in the stimuli used, in the tasks performed or in the preparation time provided. These data call into question models of executive control that interpret switch costs as reflecting the time taken by neural processes to switch the system from a readiness to perform one task to a readiness to perform another.
The co-existence of deficits in sustained and spatial attention in patients with acquired damage to the right cerebral hemisphere has led to the proposition that sustained attention could be a marker for left spatial inattention, or neglect. We investigated the possibility that reductions in leftward spatial attentional asymmetries could arise from individual differences in the capacity for sustained attention even within healthy adult populations. We observed that healthy participants who performed poorly on a test of sustained attention had a significantly attenuated left spatial bias, relative to those with good sustained attention capacity, on a free-viewing spatial attention test. Our results provide further support for the notion that sustained attention may exert a modulatory influence on spatial attention.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-2 occurs in different isoforms representing different translation products of a single mRNA. We have previously shown that the high molecular weight FGF-2 isoforms (21, 23 kD) stimulated survival- and neurite-promoting activities and protective effects on cultured embryonic dopaminergic (DA) neurons of the substantia nigra (Neuroscience 100 (2000) 73). In this study the expression of FGF-2 isoforms in the striatum and substantia nigra was analyzed by Western blot in adult intact rats and following complete unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion. In intact rats, all three FGF-2 isoforms (18, 21, 23 kD) are expressed. Neurotoxin-mediated lesion of nigral DA neurons revealed no change of the FGF-2 isoform expression pattern in the nigrostriatal system. Additionally, the FGF receptors 1, 2 and 3 are expressed in these tissues and displayed no alterations after 6-OHDA injection as demonstrated by RT-PCR. The presence of all three FGF-2 isoforms and the FGFR 1-3, together with the previous demonstrated neurotrophic effects of FGF-2 on dopaminergic neurons, suggest a physiological function of the FGF-2 isoforms in the nigrostriatal system.
Increasing evidence has implicated the low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) and the adaptor protein FE65 in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. We have shown previously that LRP mediates beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and affects amyloid beta-protein and APP secretion and APP-c-terminal fragment generation. Furthermore, LRP mediates APP processing through its intracellular domain. Here, we set out to examine whether this interaction is of direct or indirect nature. Specifically, we asked whether adaptor proteins such as FE65 influence the LRP-mediated effect on APP processing by forming a protein complex. In coimmunoprecipitation experiments, we confirmed the postulated APP-FE65 and the LRP-FE65 interaction. However, we also showed an LRP-FE65-APP trimeric complex using pull-down techniques. Because FE65 alters APP processing, we investigated whether this effect is LRP dependent. Indeed, FE65 was only able to increase APP secretion in the presence of LRP. In the absence of LRP, APP secretion was unchanged compared with the LRP knock-out phenotype. Using RNA short interference techniques against FE65, we demonstrated that a reduction in FE65 protein mimics the LRP knock-out phenotype on APP processing. These results clearly demonstrate that FE65 acts as a functional linker between APP and LRP.
At crayfish neuromuscular junctions, cAMP increases transmitter released by action potentials by activating two effectors, hyperpolarization and cyclic nucleotide-activated channels (HCNCs) and a separate target that has been tentatively identified as exchange protein activated by cAMP (Epac). Intense electrical activity in the motor neuron induces a long-term facilitation (LTF) of transmitter release in which hyperpolarization from an electrogenic Na+-K+ exchanger activates HCNCs. The coupling of HCNCs to transmission involves actin. After LTF induction, cAMP further increases transmission in an HCNC-independent manner, activating the second target. This relaxation of the requirement for HCNC activation to enhance release is called temporal synaptic tagging. Tagging lasts at least 1 d but develops only in the 10 min period after electrical activity. The HCNCs are activated by the post-tetanic hyperpolarization occurring during this time. Both synaptic tagging and LTF induction depend on presynaptic Ca2+ accumulation during activity; both are blocked by EGTA-AM, and LTF is also prevented by stimulation in a low-[Ca2+] medium. Actin depolymerizers prevent induction of LTF and tagging, with little effect on HCNCs, whose sensitivity to cAMP and HCNC blockers is unaffected by tagging. Enhancement of actin polymerization can rescue tagging from HCNC block, suggesting that actin acts at a step after HCNC activation. These and other recent results suggest a model in which HCNC activation, followed by a process involving actin polymerization, acts cooperatively with [Ca2+] to induce tagging, after which only Epac activation is required for cAMP to further enhance transmission.
Recognition decisions can be based on familiarity, the sense that an item was encountered previously (item memory), and on recollection, the conscious recovery of contextual information surrounding a previous encounter with the item (e.g., source memory). Recognition with recollection is thought to depend on multiple mechanisms, including prefrontal &quot;control&quot; processes that guide retrieval and recapitulation mechanisms that reactivate posterior neocortical representations that were present at encoding. However, uncertainty remains regarding the precise nature of prefrontal contributions to recollection and the selectivity of recapitulation to veridical recollection. The present event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study sought to examine whether regions showing &quot;old-new&quot; effects support processes sensitive to recollection success or recollection attempt and whether recapitulation of neocortical representations emerge during veridical recollection as well as during false recognition (i.e., false alarms) or whether false recognition resembles familiarity-based responding. Results revealed that multiple left prefrontal cortical regions were engaged during attempts to recollect previous contextual (source) details, regardless of the nature of the to-be-recollected details and of source recollection outcome (successful vs unsuccessful). Recapitulation effects were observed in regions sensitive to the encoding task, suggesting that veridical recollection entails the reactivation of processes or representations present during encoding. Importantly, in contrast to leading models of recognition memory, false alarms also appeared to be based partially on recollection, as revealed through false recapitulation effects. Implications for neural and cognitive models of recognition are considered.
The frontal pursuit area (FPA) in the cerebral cortex is part of the circuit for smooth pursuit eye movements. The present paper asks whether the FPA is upstream, downstream, or at the site of learning in pursuit eye movements. Learning was induced by having monkeys repeatedly pursue targets that moved at one speed for 150 msec before changing speed. Single-cell recording showed no consistent correlate of pursuit learning in the responses of FPA neurons. Some neurons showed changes in firing in the same direction as the learning, others showed changes in the opposite direction, and many showed no changes at all. In contrast, the eye movements evoked by electrical stimulation of the FPA showed clear correlates of learning. Learning effects were observed when microstimulation was delivered during the initiation of pursuit and during fixation of a stationary target. In addition, learning caused changes in the degree to which stimulation of the FPA enhanced the eye velocity evoked by brief perturbations of a stationary target. The magnitude of the change in the stimulation-evoked eye movement in each tracking condition was proportional to the size of the eye movement evoked under that condition before learning. We conclude that learning occurs downstream from the FPA, possibly within the cerebellum, and that learning may be related to mechanisms that also control the gain of visual-motor responses on a rapid time scale.
A 43-year-old woman presented with clinical and electrophysiologic features of stiff person syndrome (SPS), without abdominal or lumbar paraspinal muscle involvement. Investigations revealed metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung with positive anti-Ri antibodies. Her clinical condition improved with diazepam, baclofen, tizanidine, and palliative chemotherapy. Screening for an underlying malignancy and anti-Ri antibodies should be considered in patients with SPS when clinical presentation is atypical.


The activity of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) depends on the association with one of its activators, p35 and p39, which are prominently expressed in the nervous system. Studies on the repertoire of protein substrates for Cdk5 have implicated the involvement of Cdk5 in neuronal migration and synaptic plasticity. Our recent analysis of the sequence of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)3, a key transcription factor, reveals the presence of potential Cdk5 phosphorylation site. We report here that the Cdk5/p35 complex associates with STAT3 and phosphorylates STAT3 on the Ser-727 residue in vitro and in vivo. Intriguingly, whereas the Ser phosphorylation of STAT3 can be detected in embryonic and postnatal brain and muscle of wild-type mice, it is essentially absent from those of Cdk5-deficient embryos. In addition, treatment of cultured myotubes with neuregulin enhances the Ser phosphorylation of STAT3 and transcription of STAT3 target genes, such as c-fos and junB, in a Cdk5-dependent manner. Both the DNA-binding activity of STAT3 and the transcription of specific target genes, such as fibronectin, are reduced in Cdk5-deficient muscle. Taken together, these results reveal a physiological role of Cdk5 in regulating STAT3 phosphorylation and modulating its transcriptional activity.

The microtubule-associated protein tau regulates diverse and essential microtubule functions, from the nucleation and promotion of microtubule polymerization to the regulation of microtubule polarity and dynamics, as well as the spacing and bundling of axonal microtubules. Thermodynamic studies show that tau interacts with microtubules in the low- to mid-nanomolar range, implying moderate binding affinity. At the same time, it is well established that microtubule-bound tau does not undergo exchange with the bulk medium readily, suggesting that the tau-microtubule interaction is essentially irreversible. Given this dilemma, we investigated the mechanism of interaction between tau and microtubules in kinetic detail. Stopped-flow kinetic analysis reveals moderate binding affinity between tau and preassembled microtubules and rapid dissociation/association kinetics. In contrast, when microtubules are generated by copolymerization of tubulin and tau, a distinct population of microtubule-bound tau is observed, the binding of which seems irreversible. We propose that reversible binding occurs between tau and the surface of preassembled microtubules, whereas irreversible binding results when tau is coassembled with tubulin into a tau-microtubule copolymer. Because the latter is expected to be physiologically relevant, its characterization is of central importance.
Apomorphine, a nonselective dopamine receptor agonist, facilitates penile erection and is effective in patients suffering from erectile dysfunction. The specific dopamine receptor subtype(s) responsible for its erectogenic effect is not known. Here we report that the dopamine D(4) receptor plays a role in the regulation of penile function. ABT-724 is a selective dopamine D(4) receptor agonist that activates human dopamine D(4) receptors with an EC(50) of 12.4 nM and 61% efficacy, with no effect on dopamine D(1), D(2), D(3), or D(5) receptors. ABT-724 dose-dependently facilitates penile erection when given s.c. to conscious rats, an effect that is blocked by haloperidol and clozapine but not by domperidone. A proerectile effect is observed after intracerebroventricular but not intrathecal administration, suggesting a supraspinal site of action. s.c. injections of ABT-724 increase intracavernosal pressure in awake freely moving rats. In the presence of sildenafil, a potentiation of the proerectile effect of ABT-724 is observed in conscious rats. The ability of ABT-724 to facilitate penile erection together with the favorable side-effect profile indicates that ABT-724 could be useful for the treatment of erectile dysfunction.
We have recently discovered a splice variant of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) mRNA and designated the variant protein pChAT because of its preferential expression in peripheral neuronal structures. In this study, the presence of pChAT in rat iris was examined by immunohistochemistry and Western blot using a pChAT antiserum, in combination with RT-PCR analysis and ChAT enzyme assay. For comparison, the conventional ChAT (cChAT) was studied in parallel. By pChAT immunohistochemistry, intense labeling was found to occur in nerve fibers of the iris and in neurons of the ciliary and trigeminal ganglia. Denervation studies, analyzed by semiquantitative morphometry, indicated that these iridial pChAT fibers originated about half from the ciliary ganglion and the other half from the trigeminal ganglion. The presence of pChAT protein in the iris and trigeminal ganglion was confirmed by Western blot. The expression of pChAT mRNA in the ciliary and trigeminal ganglia was proved by RT-PCR. Although cChAT protein and mRNA were detected in the ciliary ganglion, neither was detectable in the trigeminal ganglion. The contributions of the ciliary and trigeminal ganglia to the iridial ChAT enzyme activity were verified by the present ChAT assay. Here, we provide evidence that iridial pChAT nerves are composed of postganglionic parasympathetic efferents from the ciliary ganglion and, more interestingly, somatic sensory afferents of the trigeminal ophthalmic nerve.
To demonstrate the age-related changes in the dynamics of the nociceptive discharge of dorsal horn nociceptive neurons, the nonlinear prediction method was used to quantify the degree of deterministic behavior within the interspike interval series of tissue injury-induced firing of spinal nociceptive neurons in anesthetized adult young (3-4 months) and aged (&gt;22 months) rats. Subcutaneous bee venom injection induced long-term discharge of spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in both groups. However, the nociceptive discharge of single WDR neurons in the aged group showed higher determinism when compared with the adult young rats. This result suggests that the dynamics of single nociceptive neurons may not remain constant throughout the life span, and this age-associated change may be an underlying mechanism for various pain manifestations in the elderly population.

Strategies used to enhance liposome-mediated drug delivery in vivo include the enhancement of stability and circulation time in the bloodstream, targeting to specific tissues or cells, and facilitation of intracytoplasmic delivery. pH-sensitive liposomes have been developed to mediate the introduction of highly hydrophilic molecules or macromolecules into the cytoplasm. These liposomes destabilize under acidic conditions found in the endocytotic pathway, and usually contain phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and titratable stabilizing amphiphiles. Formulations without PE have also been developed. Encapsulated compounds are thought to be transported into the cytoplasm through destabilization of or fusion with the endosome membrane. Incorporation of a low mole percentage of poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG)-conjugated lipids into pH-sensitive liposomes confers prolonged circulation times to these liposomes, which are otherwise cleared rapidly. While the incorporation of PEG-lipids reduces the pH-dependent release of encapsulated fluorescent markers in vitro, it does not hinder the cytoplasmic delivery of the markers per cell-associated liposome. This suggests that intracellular delivery is not dictated simply by the destabilization of the liposomes. Antibodies or ligands to cell surface receptors can be coupled to pH-sensitive or sterically stabilized pH-sensitive liposomes for targeting. pH-sensitive liposomes have been used to deliver anticancer drugs, antibiotics, antisense oligonucleotides, ribozymes, plasmids, proteins and peptides to cells in culture or in vivo.
In the present study, the rat sciatic nerve was constricted to varying degrees using only one ligature with a very thin polyethylene sheath placed between nerve and ligature thread. Complete nerve transection was studied for comparison. With a 40-80% constriction of the nerve we observed allodynia to a similar extent as in the so-called Bennett model based on four loose ligatures. We also monitored changes in the expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and the NPY Y1 receptor (Y1R) in the lumbar 4-5 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and dorsal horn and found upregulation of NPY and downregulation of the Y1R in DRG neurons after injury. These results indicate that similar peptide and receptor changes occur in this model as after axotomy and in other nerve injury models, although the immunohistochemical and behavioral changes seem to be dependent on the degree of constriction of the nerve. Thus, it seems relevant to monitor the degree of constriction when evaluating pain and other post-injury events. The possibility that some of the changes in NPY-ergic neurotransmission are related to the generation of allodynia is discussed; as well as the possibility to use this mononeuropathic model based on a single ligature nerve constriction (SLNC) as a complementary approach to other widely used pain models.
Sardinian ethanol-preferring (sP), non-preferring (sNP), and Wistar rats show similar dopaminergic response to vanilla sugar consumption in nucleus accumbens shell (NAcS) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and similarly learn a vanilla sugar-sustained appetitive behavior. In this study we investigated whether in satiated sP, sNP, and Wistar rats vanilla sugar would also elicit a serotonergic response in NAcS and mPFC, and whether in these areas voluntary ethanol consumption would elicit dopaminergic and/or serotoninergic responses. In the NAcS, all rats showed similar serotonin increases in response to the two meals and similar development of rapid habituation. In the mPFC, Wistar and sNP rats showed similar serotonin increases after two vanilla sugar meals, while sP rats, which had low serotonin basal levels, did not show a serotonergic response. When presented with a 10% ethanol solution, Wistar and sP rats rapidly consumed it, while sNP rats did not. In the NAcS, Wistar and sP rats presented dopamine and serotonin increases in response to ethanol. However, while Wistar rats showed habituation in their response, sP rats did not. In the mPFC, ethanol induced similar dopamine increases in Wistar and sP rats; serotonin increases were observed only in Wistar rats. In conclusion, all three lines showed increased serotonin release in response to palatable food, but they profoundly differed in their response to ethanol. In fact, only Wistar and sP rats drank ethanol, Wistar rats showed a monoaminergic response similar to that obtained after palatable food, while sP rats did not develop habituation, suggesting that they perceived ethanol as a more relevant stimulus.
The NR1 gene undergoes induction in neurogenesis mainly via promoter de-repression, and up-regulation during neuronal differentiation by undefined mechanism(s). Here, we show that in the distal region the NR1 promoter has an active NF-kappaB site sharing the consensus with the immunoglobulin (Ig)/human immunodeficiency virus NF-kappaB site. Mutation of this site significantly reduced NR1 promoter up-regulation during neuronal differentiation of P19 cells. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that P19 nuclei constitutively contained p50 and that neuronal differentiation not only increased nuclear p50 but also induced p65 nuclear translocation. Responding to this change was an up-regulation of NF-kappaB-dependent promoter activity. However, inhibition of NF-kappaB nuclear translocation by an IkappaBalpha super-repressor or decoy DNA only moderately inhibited NR1 promoter up-regulation. Interestingly, the NR1 NF-kappaB site strongly interacted with Sp3/Sp1, instead of NF-kappaB factors, in P19 nuclear extracts. This interaction was reduced for Sp3 following neuronal differentiation, accompanied by dynamic expression of Sp factors. Cotransfection of Sp factors (Sp1, 3, or 4) upregulated the NR1 NF-kappaB site dramatically in differentiated neurons, but only moderately in undifferentiated P19 cells. This up-regulation was strong for Sp1 in differentiated cells and for Sp3 in undifferentiated cells. Chromatin-immunoprecipitation assays further demonstrated that Sp1 and Sp3 interacted with the NR1 NF-kappaB site in situ, and Sp3 lost its interaction after neuronal differentiation. We conclude that the NF-kappaB site positively regulates the NR1 promoter during neuronal differentiation via interacting mainly with Sp factors and neuronal differentiation reduces the effect of Sp3 factor on this site.
The effects of (R)- and (S)-optical isomers of 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and of the racemate (R,S)-8-OH-DPAT on serotonin (5-HT) release in the ventral hippocampus of awake rats and on induction of the whole-body hypothermia were studied. Extracellular 5-HT levels were determined by a newly developed high-sensitive HPLC method based on derivatization with benzylamine and fluorescence detection. The basal levels of 5-HT in 20 min microdialysates from rats perfused with Ringer solution or with Ringer solution containing 1 microM citalopram were 6.3 +/- 1.3 fmol/20 microl and 36.1 +/- 4.2 fmol/20 microl (n=20), respectively. The reduction of hippocampal 5-HT levels induced by subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of (R,S)-8-OH-DPAT (0.3 mg/kg) was significantly attenuated by the presence of 5-HT reuptake inhibitor citalopram in Ringer solution only at its peak value at 40 min (maximal reduction to 60% compared to 46% of control values in Ringer-perfused rats), whereas the overall effects were comparable at both experimental conditions. Injection of (R)-8-OH-DPAT (0.3 mg/kg s.c.) caused further reduction of 5-HT levels, to 49% and 41%, respectively, whereas (S)-8-OH-DPAT (0.3 mg/kg s.c.) caused maximal reduction of 5-HT levels only to 74% of controls in both perfusion groups. Similar pattern and time-courses were observed in rats with hypothermia induced by injection of 8-OH-DPAT enantiomers, where (R,S), (R)-forms were about two-times more potent than the (S)-isomer. It is concluded that the acute systemic dose of (R)-, (S)- and (R,S)-8-OH-DPAT enantiomers exerted enantiomer-specific effects on 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated function both at the presynaptic and postsynaptic sites as revealed by monitoring hippocampal 5-HT levels and body temperature.

A series of subtype selective dopamine D(4) receptor ligands from the hetroarylmethylphenylpiperazine class have been discovered that exhibit a remarkable structure-activity relationship (SAR), revealing a substituent effect in which regiosubstitution on the terminal arylpiperazine ring can modulate functional or intrinsic activity. Other structure-dependent efficacy studies in the dopamine D(4) field have suggested a critical interaction of the heteroarylmethyl moiety with specific protein microdomains in controlling intrinsic activity. Our studies indicate that for some binding orientations, the phenylpiperazine moiety also plays a key role in determining efficacy. These data also implicate a kinetic or efficiency term, contained within measured functional affinities for agonists, which support a sequential binding and conformational stabilization model for receptor activation. The structural similarity between partial agonist and antagonist, within this subset of ligands, and lack of bioisosterism for this substituent effect are key phenomena for these hypotheses.
Nonselective inverse agonists at the gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA-A) benzodiazepine binding site have cognition-enhancing effects in animals but are anxiogenic and can precipitate convulsions. Herein, we describe novel GABA-A alpha5 subtype inverse agonists leading to the identification of 16 as an orally active, functionally selective compound that enhances cognition in animals without anxiogenic or convulsant effects. Compounds of this type may be useful in the symptomatic treatment of memory impairment associated with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias.

Chronic cocaine administration reduces G protein signaling efficacy. Here, we report that the expression of AGS3, which binds to GialphaGDP and inhibits GDP dissociation, was upregulated in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) during late withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration. Increased AGS3 was mimicked in the PFC of drug-naive rats by microinjecting a peptide containing the Gialpha binding domain (GPR) of AGS3 fused to the cell permeability domain of HIV-Tat. Infusion of Tat-GPR mimicked the phenotype of chronic cocaine-treated rats by manifesting sensitized locomotor behavior and drug seeking and by increasing glutamate transmission in nucleus accumbens. By preventing cocaine withdrawal-induced AGS3 expression with antisense oligonucleotides, signaling through Gialpha was normalized, and both cocaine-induced relapse to drug seeking and locomotor sensitization were prevented. When antisense oligonucleotide infusion was discontinued, drug seeking and sensitization were restored. It is proposed that AGS3 gates the expression of cocaine-induced plasticity by regulating G protein signaling in the PFC.
Cysteine string protein alpha (CSPalpha)--an abundant synaptic vesicle protein that contains a DNA-J domain characteristic of Hsp40 chaperones--is thought to regulate Ca2+ channels and/or synaptic vesicle exocytosis. We now show that, in young mice, deletion of CSPalpha does not impair survival and causes no significant changes in presynaptic Ca2+ currents or synaptic vesicle exocytosis as measured in the Calyx of Held synapse. At 2-4 weeks of age, however, CSPalpha-deficient mice develop a progressive, fatal sensorimotor disorder. The neuromuscular junctions and Calyx synapses of CSPalpha-deficient mice exhibit increasing neurodegenerative changes, synaptic transmission becomes severely impaired, and the mutant mice die at approximately 2 months of age. Our data suggest that CSPalpha is not essential for the normal operation of Ca2+ channels or exocytosis but acts as a presynaptic chaperone that maintains continued synaptic function, raising the possibility that enhanced CSPalpha function could attenuate neurodegenerative diseases.
Synaptic vesicle endocytosis is believed to require calcium and the GTPase dynamin. We now report a form of rapid endocytosis (RE) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons that, unlike previously described forms of endocytosis, is independent of calcium and dynamin. The RE is tightly coupled to calcium-independent but voltage-dependent secretion (CIVDS). Using FM dye and capacitance measurements, we show that membrane depolarization induces RE in the absence of calcium. Inhibition of dynamin function does not affect RE. The magnitude of RE is proportional to that of preceding CIVDS and stimulation frequency. Inhibitors of protein kinase A (PKA) suppress RE induced by high-frequency depolarization, while PKA activators enhance RE induced by low-frequency depolarization. Biochemical experiments demonstrate that depolarization directly upregulates PKA activity in calcium-free medium. These results reveal a calcium- and dynamin-independent form of endocytosis, which is controlled by neuronal activity and PKA-dependent phosphorylation, in DRG neurons.
The prefrontal cortex mediates many aspects of addiction. In this issue of Neuron, Bowers et al. demonstrate that an activator of G protein signaling (AGS3) is persistently upregulated in the prefrontal cortex after cessation of chronic cocaine treatment. Furthermore, they find that AGS3 is responsible for altered behavior, such as enhanced drug seeking, and altered neurotransmission in cocaine-treated rats, representing a novel therapeutic target.
Vascular endothelium forms a continuous, semipermeable barrier that regulates the transvascular movement of hormones, macromolecules, and other solutes. Here, we describe a novel immediate early gene that is expressed selectively in vascular endothelial cells, verge (vascular early response gene). Verge protein includes an N-terminal region of approximately 70 amino acids with modest homology (approximately 30% identity) to Apolipoprotein L but is otherwise unique. Verge mRNA and protein are induced selectively in the endothelium of adult vasculature by electrical or chemical seizures. Verge expression appears to be responsive to local tissue conditions, because it is induced in the hemisphere ipsilateral to transient focal cerebral ischemia. In contrast to the transient expression in adult, Verge mRNA and protein are constitutively expressed at high levels in the endothelium of developing tissues (particularly heart) in association with angiogenesis. Verge mRNA is induced in cultured endothelial cells by defined growth factors and hypoxia. Verge protein is dramatically increased by cysteine proteinase inhibitors, suggesting rapid turnover, and is localized to focal regions near the periphery of the cells. Endothelial cell lines that stably express Verge form monolayers that show enhanced permeability in response to activation of protein kinase C by phorbol esters. This response is accompanied by reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and the formation of paracellular gaps. These studies suggest that Verge functions as a dynamic regulator of endothelial cell signaling and vascular function.
Voltage-dependent changes in electrical coupling are often attributed to a direct effect on the properties of gap junction channels. Identifiable auditory afferents terminate as mixed (electrical and chemical) synapses on the distal portion of the lateral dendrite of the goldfish Mauthner cells, a pair of large reticulospinal neurons involved in the organization of sensory-evoked escape responses. At these afferents, the amplitude of the coupling potential produced by the retrograde spread of signals from the postsynaptic Mauthner cell is dramatically enhanced by depolarization of the presynaptic terminal. We demonstrate here that this voltage-dependent enhancement of electrical coupling does not represent a property of the junctions themselves but the activation of a subthreshold sodium current present at presynaptic terminals that acts to amplify the synaptic response. We also provide evidence that this amplification operates under physiological conditions, enhancing synaptic communication from the Mauthner cells to the auditory afferents where electrical and geometrical properties of the coupled cells are unfavorable for retrograde transmission. Retrograde electrical communication at these afferents may play an important functional role by promoting cooperativity between afferents and enhancing transmitter release. Thus, the efficacy of an electrical synapse can be dynamically modulated in a voltage-dependent manner by properties of the nonjunctional membrane. Finally, asymmetric amplification of electrical coupling by intrinsic membrane properties, as at the synapses between auditory afferents and the Mauthner cell, may ensure efficient communication between neuronal processes of dissimilar size and shape, promoting neuronal synchronization.
To study the synaptic and spike responses of barrel cortex neurons as a function of cortical layer and stimulus intensity, we recorded intracellularly in vivo from barbiturate anesthetized rats while increasing the velocity-acceleration of the whisker deflection. Granular (Gr; layer 4) cells had the EPSP with the shortest peak and onset latency, whereas supragranular (SGr; layers 2-3) cells had the EPSP with longest duration and slowest rate of rise. Infragranular (Igr; layers 5-6) cells had intermediate values, and thus each layer was unique. The spike response peak of Gr cells was followed by IGr and then by SGr cells. In all cells, depolarization reduced the duration and amplitude of the response, but only in Gr cells did it reveal an early IPSP that cut short the EPSP. This early IPSP was associated with a large decrease in input resistance and an apparent reversal potential below spike threshold; consequently, synaptic integration in Gr cells was limited to the initial 5-7 msec of the response. In contrast, in SGr and IGr cells, results suggest an overlap in time of the EPSP and IPSP, with a small drop in input resistance and an apparent reversal potential above spike threshold, facilitating input integration for up to 20 msec. Decreasing stimulus intensity (velocity-acceleration) reduced the amplitude and increased the peak latency of the response without altering its synaptic composition. We propose that layer 4 circuits are better suited to perform coincidence detection, whereas supra and infragranular circuits are better designed for input integration.
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed on acute brain slices of male rats to investigate the ability of the neurons of the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) to detect fluctuation in extracellular osmolarity and sodium concentration ([Na+]out). Local application of hypotonic and hypertonic artificial CSF hyperpolarized and depolarized the neurons, respectively. Similar responses obtained under synaptic isolation (0.5 microM TTX) highlighted the intrinsic ability of the MnPO neurons to detect changes in extracellular osmolarity and [Na+]out. Manipulating extracellular osmolarity, [Na+]out, and [Cl-]out showed in an independent manner that the MnPO neurons responded to a change in [Na+]out exclusively. The specific Na+ response was voltage insensitive and depended on the driving force for Na+ ions, indicating that a sustained background Na+ permeability controlled the membrane potential of the MnPO neurons. This specific response was not reduced by Gd3+, amiloride, or benzamil, ruling out the participation of mechanosensitive cationic channels, specific epithelial Na+ channels, and Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-gated Na+ channels, respectively. Combination of in situ hybridization, using a riboprobe directed against the atypical Na+ channel (Na(X)), and immunohistochemistry, using an antibody against neuron-specific nuclei protein, revealed that a substantial population of MnPO neurons expressed the Na(X) channel, which was characterized recently as a concentration-sensitive Na+ channel. This study shows that a neuronal population of the MnPO acts as functional Na+ sensors and that the Na(X) channel might represent the molecular basis for the extracellular sodium level sensing in these neurons.
Consolidation of long-term memory (LTM) is a complex process requiring synthesis of new mRNAs and proteins. Many studies have characterized the requirement for de novo mRNA and protein synthesis; however, few studies have comprehensively identified genes regulated during LTM consolidation. We show that consolidation of long-term contextual memory in the hippocampus triggers altered expression of numerous genes encompassing many aspects of neuronal function. Like contextual memory formation, this altered gene expression required NMDA receptor activation and was specific for situations in which the animal formed an association between a physical context and a sensory stimulus. Using a bioinformatics approach, we found that regulatory elements for several transcription factors are over-represented in the upstream region of genes regulated during consolidation of LTM. Using a knock-out mouse, we found that c-rel, one of the transcription factors identified in our bioinformatics study, is necessary for hippocampus-dependent long-term memory formation.
Folding of the brain surface is a general morphological adaptation to maximize surface area in a limited cranial volume. Surface folding is present not only in the neocortex but also in the cerebellar cortex. This folding creates subdivisions of the cortical surface: the sulci, the gyri, and the straight bank region, which is interposed. Is cortical folding only the solution to a surface-volume problem or does it also confer functional differences on the subdivisions that are created by this geometry? Here we have used the innervation of Purkinje cells by climbing fibers as a model system to explore potential functional differences. Purkinje cells are innervated by multiple climbing fibers at birth but undergo an activity-dependent refinement, such that by postnatal day (P) 21, most are contacted by a single climbing fiber. Using whole-cell recording from slices of cerebellar vermis derived from juvenile (P18-25) or adult (P60-83) mice, we found that significantly more Purkinje cells in the sulcus were innervated by multiple climbing fibers than in the gyrus or bank subdivisions; however, the basic properties of climbing fiber-Purkinje cell EPSCs such as kinetics, amplitude, and paired-pulse ratio were similar across cortical subdivisions. To search for a morphological correlate of differential multiple climbing fiber innervation, we labeled climbing fibers and performed reconstructions of immunofluorescent images. These revealed that, unlike the bank-gyrus subdivisions, most of the climbing fibers in the sulcus do not innervate the superficial molecular layer. These findings suggest that the subdivisions of the cerebellar cortex produced by folding may create functionally distinct entities.
Higher order cognition depends on the ability to recall information from memory and hold it in mind to guide future behavior. To specify the neural mechanisms underlying these processes, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare brain activity during the performance of a visual associative memory task and a visual working memory task. Activity within category-selective subregions of inferior temporal cortex reflected the type of information that was actively maintained during both the associative memory and working memory tasks. In addition, activity in the anterior prefrontal cortex and hippocampus was specifically enhanced during associative memory retrieval. These data are consistent with the view that the active maintenance of visual information is supported by activation of object representations in inferior temporal cortex, but that goal-directed associative memory retrieval additionally depends on top-down signals from the anterior prefrontal cortex and medial temporal lobes.
Polarization is a common feature of many types of cells, and we are beginning to understand how cells become polarized. The role of cell polarity in development and tissue morphogenesis, however, is much less well understood. Our previous analysis of the mosaic eyes (moe) mutations revealed that moe is required for retinal lamination and also suggested that zebrafish moe function is required in the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) for the proper localization of adjacent retinal cell divisions at the apical neuroepithelial surface. To understand the function of moe in the RPE, we cloned the moe locus and show that it encodes a novel FERM (for 4.1 protein, ezrin, radixin, moesin) domain-containing protein. Expression of moe in the eye, kidney, and brain reflects phenotypes found in moe(-) mutants, including RPE and retinal lamination defects, edema, and small or absent brain ventricles. We show that moe function is required for tight junction formation in the RPE. We suggest that moe may be a necessary component of the crumbs pathway that regulates apical cell polarity and also may play a role in photoreceptor morphogenesis.
Abl family kinases, which include the mammalian Abl and Arg (Abl-related gene) kinases, regulate neuronal morphogenesis in developing metazoa (for review, see [1]). Activation of Abl kinase activity directs changes in actin-dependent processes such as membrane ruffling, filopodial protrusion, and cell motility. However, the mechanisms by which increased Abl or Arg kinase activity promote cytoskeletal rearrangements are unclear. We provide evidence that the Rho inhibitor p190RhoGAP (GTPase-activating protein) is an Arg substrate in the postnatal mouse brain. We show that p190RhoGAP has reduced phosphotyrosine content in postnatal arg(-/-) mouse brain extracts relative to wild-type extracts. In addition, the adhesion-dependent stimulation of p190RhoGAP phosphorylation observed in wild-type cells is not observed in arg(-/-) fibroblasts and neurons. Arg can phosphorylate p190RhoGAP in vitro and in vivo on tyrosine (Y) 1105. We find that Arg can stimulate p190RhoGAP to inhibit Rho and that Arg-mediated phosphorylation is required for this stimulation. Phosphorylation by Arg also promotes p190RhoGAP's association with p120RasGAP and stimulates p190RhoGAP's ability to induce neuritogenesis in neuroblastoma cells. Our results demonstrate that p190RhoGAP is an Arg substrate in the developing brain and suggest that Arg mediates the adhesion-dependent regulation of neuronal morphogenesis in the postnatal brain by phosphorylating p190RhoGAP.
Most adaptation is thought to occur through the fixation of numerous alleles at many different loci. Consequently, the independent evolution of similar phenotypes is predicted to occur through different genetic mechanisms. The genetic basis of adaptation is still largely unknown, however, and it is unclear whether adaptation to new environments utilizes ubiquitous small-effect polygenic variation or large-effect alleles at a small number of loci. To address this question, we examined the genetic basis of bony armor loss in three freshwater populations of Alaskan threespine stickleback, Gasterosteus aculeatus, that evolved from fully armored anadromous populations in the last 14,000 years. Crosses between complete-armor and low-armor populations revealed that a single Mendelian factor governed the formation of all but the most anterior lateral plates, and another independently segregating factor largely determined pelvic armor. Genetic mapping localized the Mendelian genes to different chromosomal regions, and crosses among these same three widely separated populations showed that both bony plates and pelvic armor failed to fully complement, implicating the same Mendelian armor reduction genes. Thus, rapid and repeated armor loss in Alaskan stickleback populations appears to be occurring through the fixation of large-effect variants in the same genes.
(S)-N-[1-(4-Cyclopropylmethyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-benzo[1,4]oxazin-6-yl)-ethyl]-3-(2-fluoro-phenyl)-acrylamide ((S)-2) was identified as a potent and efficacious KCNQ2 opener. This compound demonstrated significant activity in reducing neuronal hyperexcitability in rat hippocampal slices, and the inhibition mediated by (S)-2 was reversed by the KCNQ blocker linopirdine.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) is a receptor, ion channel complex composed of five polypeptide subunits. There are many different nAChR subtypes constructed from a variety of different subunit combinations. This structural diversity contributes to the varied roles of nAChRs in the peripheral and central nervous system, and this diversity offers an excellent opportunity for chemists who are producing ligands. Subunit specific ligands could have wide and varied effects in the laboratory as experimental tools and in the clinic as therapeutic agents. Because presynaptic nAChRs have been shown to enhance the release of many neurotransmitters, new nicotinic ligands that potentiate nAChR activity would be very useful. Such ligands could enhance the release of various neurotransmitters during degenerative diseases that cause neurotransmitter systems to decrease their output. For example, boosting the release from cholinergic neurons would help patients with Alzheimer's disease, and boosting the release from dopaminergic neurons would help patients with Parkinson's disease.
Our previous study morphologically revealed that the adult goat vomeronasal (VN) system was different from the rodent and opossum one, and at least two types of VN systems exist in mammals. However, it remains unknown whether the developments in both types of VN systems are ontogenetically distinct and when the goat VN system is established. In this study, we morphologically observed the fetal development of the goat accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) and VN neuron. In the fetus, Gi2-expressing VN terminals terminated at glomeruli throughout the AOB, and no immunoreactivities for Go were detected in the nerve terminals reaching into AOB. The layer structure of AOB rapidly developed in the latter half of gestation. In the VN organ (VNO), at the middle stage of gestation, the dendritic processes of VN neuron were exposed in the VN lumen, and scattered and thin microvilli existed on the protrusion of the VN neuron. In the apical part of dendritic processes, no clear vesicle existed. However, the immunohistochemistry of an olfactory marker protein (OMP) revealed that a few VN neurons with OMP exist in VN sensory epithelium (VSE) before birth, although marked immunoreactivities were detected in adult VSE. Fetal VN neurons appeared to be underdeveloped. These results suggest that the goat VN system is ontogenetically distinct from the rodent and opossum VN systems, and is underdeveloped before birth. The goat VN system will develop and mature during the early postnatal period similar to the rodent and opossum VN systems.
Insulin is best known for its action on peripheral insulin target tissues such as the adipocyte, muscle and liver to regulate glucose homeostasis. In the central nervous system (CNS), insulin and the insulin receptor are found in specific brain regions where they show evidence of participation in a variety of region-specific functions through mechanisms that are different from its direct glucose regulation in the periphery. While the insulin/insulin receptor associated with the hypothalamus plays important roles in regulation of the body energy homeostasis, the hippocampus- and cerebral cortex-distributed insulin/insulin receptor has been shown to be involved in brain cognitive functions. Emerging evidence has suggested that insulin signaling plays a role in synaptic plasticity by modulating activities of excitatory and inhibitory receptors such as glutamate and GABA receptors, and by triggering signal transduction cascades leading to alteration of gene expression that is required for long-term memory consolidation. Furthermore, deterioration of insulin receptor signaling appears to be associated with aging-related brain degeneration such as the Alzheimer's dementia and cognitive impairment in aged subjects suffering type 2 diabetes mellitus.
The brain has long been viewed as an insulin-insensitive organ. Following the demonstration of insulin receptors in the brain, this assumption has been challenged, and a whole new field of research has emerged. Insulin appears to play a role in brain physiology, and disturbances of cerebral insulin signalling and glucose homeostasis are implicated in brain pathology. This special issue of the European Journal of Pharmacology provides an overview of research into the involvement of glucose and insulin in the modulation of cognition and synaptic plasticity in health and in disease. In three sections, the effects of glucose and insulin on the brain will be discussed from a physiological perspective, in relation to brain ageing and Alzheimer's disease, and in relation to diabetes mellitus, respectively. These subjects will be covered from various angles, from the level of molecular neurosciences, to the level of applied neuropsychology.
p53 activates transcription through interaction with specific DNA sequences in gene promoters. It also regulates DNA replication, recombination, and repair apparently through interactions with DNA intermediates of these reactions. Biochemical activities relevant for these functions of p53 include binding to the ends and internal segments of single-stranded DNA molecules, catalysis of DNA renaturation, and strand exchange. We report a novel activity of p53, its ability to denature double-stranded DNA molecules aggregated by basic peptides. Stable complexes of coiled single-stranded DNA molecules with basic peptides are formed in this reaction. Thus, complementary to the ability to catalyze DNA renaturation, p53 denatures double-stranded DNA when the latter reaction is thermodynamically favorable. This p53 activity, along with its ability to interact physically with DNA helicases, may be relevant for resolving double-stranded DNA intermediates and inhibition of DNA recombination, which is critical for guarding of the genome.
Dopamine (DA) is the primary inhibitor of prolactin (PRL) secretion. Three populations of neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons (NDNs) designated tuberoinfundibular (TIDA), tuberohypophyseal (THDA) and periventricular hypophyseal DAergic (PHDA) neurons regulate PRL secretion. Given that ovarian steroids modulate both DA release and PRL secretion independently, we characterized the role of steroid hormones in coupling rhythmic NDN activity and PRL secretion. OVX rats under a standard 12:12 L:D cycle (L:D), constant dark (DD), or a 6-h phase-delayed L:D cycle (pdL:D) were treated with Estradiol-17beta (E) or E and Progesterone (E+P). NDN activity, defined by DA:DOPAC ratio in nerve terminals, was determined by HPLC-EC. E or E+P stimulated PRL surges in L:D that persisted under DD. In TIDA neurons, E or E+P treatment reduced the amount of DA released under L:D and DD and advanced the rhythm of DA turnover. E and E+P treatment reduced THDA and PHDA neuron activity under L:D, but did not affect these rhythms under DD. Circadian rhythms of PRL, corticosterone and DA turnover in NDN terminals from steroid treated rats entrained to a pdL:D cycle within 7 days. Therefore, ovarian steroids differentially adjust the timing and magnitude of NDN activity to facilitate coupling of DA release and PRL secretion.
The cannabinoid receptor subtype 1 (CB1R) is a member of the G(i)-protein-coupled receptor family and cannabinoid signaling is largely dependent on the suppression of adenylyl cyclase-catalyzed cAMP production. In cell lines transfected with the CB1R or in native tissue preparations, treatment with cannabinoid agonists reduces both basal and forskolin-stimulated cAMP synthesis. We measured extracellular cAMP concentrations in the striatum of freely moving rats utilizing microdialysis to determine if changes in cAMP concentrations in response to CB1R agonists can be monitored in vivo. Striatal infusion of the CB1R agonist WIN55,212-2 (100 microM or 1 mM), dose-dependently decreased basal and forskolin-stimulated extracellular cAMP. These effects were reversed by co-infusion of the CB1R antagonist SR141716A (30 microM), which alone had no effect up to the highest concentration tested (300 microM). These data indicate that changes in extracellular cAMP concentrations in response to CB1R stimulation can be monitored in vivo allowing the study of cannabinoid signaling in the whole animal.
The local and endogenous nicotinic neuronal transmissions of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra were confirmed electrophysiologically using a slice-patch technique. After identifying dopaminergic neurons based on their electrophysiological characteristics, miniature postsynaptic inward currents were recorded in the presence of atropine (a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist), bicuculline (a GABA receptor antagonist) and L-glutamic acid diethyl ester (GDEE) (a non-selective glutamate receptor antagonist). Under conditions that eliminated muscarinic, GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic transmissions, we found miniature currents that were inhibited by the specific neuronal nicotinic receptor antagonists, dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE) and/or methyllycaconitine (MLA) (selective alpha4beta2 and/or alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists, respectively). Under the same extracellular conditions, local stimulations in the vicinity of a target neuron evoked excitatory postsynaptic inward currents (EPSCs). These EPSCs were elicited in an extracellular Ca(2+) dependent manner and were also blocked by DHbetaE and/or MLA. These results suggest that dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra receive excitatory cholinergic inputs that are mediated via at least two types of postsynaptic nicotinic receptors, namely alpha7 and alpha4beta2 subtypes.
Neurotrophin signaling through the p75 receptor regulates apoptosis within the nervous system both during development and in response to injury. Whereas a number of p75 interacting factors have been identified, how these upstream factors function in a coordinated manner to mediate receptor signaling is still unclear. Here, we report a functional interaction between TRAF6 and the neurotrophin receptor interacting factor (NRIF), two proteins known to associate with the intracellular domain of the p75 neurotrophin receptor. The association between NRIF and TRAF6 was direct and occurred with both endogenous and ectopically expressed proteins. A KRAB repressor domain of NRIF and the carboxyl-terminal, receptor-binding region of TRAF6 were required for the interaction. Co-expression of TRAF6 increased the levels of NRIF protein and induced its nuclear translocation. Reciprocally, NRIF enhanced TRAF6-mediated activation of the c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) by 3-fold, while only modestly increasing the stimulation of NF-kappaB. The expression of both NRIF and TRAF6 was required for reconstituting p75 activation of JNK in HEK293 cells, whereas NRIF mutants lacking the TRAF6 interaction domain were unable to substitute for the full-length protein in facilitating activation of the kinase. These results suggest that NRIF and TRAF6 functionally interact to facilitate neurotrophin signaling through the p75 receptor.
Suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 2 is a negative regulator of growth hormone (GH) signaling that regulates body growth postnatally and neuronal differentiation during development. SOCS2 binds to the GH receptor and inhibits GH signaling, including attenuation of STAT5 activation. Here we describe a new function and mechanism of action for SOCS2. Overexpression of SOCS2 in central nervous system neurons promoted neurite outgrowth, and in PC12 cells, neurite outgrowth was induced under nondifferentiating conditions, leading to inhibition of the neurite-inhibitory GTPase Rho and activation of the neurite-promoting GTPase Rac1. Addition of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors PP3 or AG490 or the Src kinase inhibitor PP2 blocked the SOCS2-induced neurite outgrowth. The overexpressed SOCS2 bound to the EGFR, which was constitutively phosphorylated at Tyr845, the Src binding site. Overexpression of the phosphatase SHP-2 reduced the constitutive EGFR phosphorylation and subsequent neurite outgrowth. SOCS2 expression also resulted in a modest 30% decrease in phosphorylation of STAT5b at Tyr699, which is the primary site on STAT5 phosphorylated by GH; however, total tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT5 was decreased by 75-80% under basal and epidermal growth factor-stimulated conditions. Our findings suggest that SOCS2 regulates EGFR phosphorylation, leading to regulation of neurite outgrowth through a novel pathway that is distinct from GH.
A feature of the rat brain gamma-aminobutyric acid transporter GAT1, and other members of the neurotransmitter transporter family, is its regulated redistribution between intracellular locations and the plasma membrane. Recent studies have focused upon defining the signaling molecules that facilitate this redistribution. Agents that promote direct tyrosine phosphorylation of GAT1 promote a relative increase in surface GAT1 levels, and this results from a slowing of the transporter internalization rate. Agents that act to increase protein kinase C (PKC) activity promote a relative decrease in surface GAT1 levels; whether this effect is caused by direct transporter phosphorylation is unknown. The opposing actions of tyrosine kinase activity and PKC activity raise the possibility that the subcellular distribution of GAT1 is associated with mutually exclusive transporter phosphorylation events. The present experiments show that GAT1 is phosphorylated on serine residues in a PKC-dependent manner, but this state is only revealed when GAT1 tyrosine phosphorylation is eliminated or greatly reduced. The relative levels of serine phosphorylation and tyrosine phosphorylation are negatively correlated. The amount of serine phosphorylation is regulated by agents that affect tyrosine phosphorylation, and vice versa. In addition, the ability of agents that affect tyrosine kinase activity to regulate GAT1 serine phosphorylation requires a change in its tyrosine phosphorylation state. These data support the ideas that GAT1 can exist in either of two mutually exclusive phosphorylation states and that the relative abundance of these states determines in part the relative subcellular distribution of the transporter.
Ankyrin-G polypeptides are required for restriction of voltage-gated sodium channels, L1 cell adhesion molecules, and beta IV spectrin to axon initial segments and are believed to couple the Na/K-ATPase to the spectrin-actin network at the lateral membrane in epithelial cells. We report here that depletion of 190-kDa ankyrin-G in human bronchial epithelial cells by small interfering RNA results in nearly complete loss of lateral plasma membrane in interphase cells, and also blocks de novo lateral membrane biogenesis following mitosis. Loss of the lateral membrane domain is accompanied by an expansion of apical and basal plasma membranes and preservation of apical-basal polarity. Expression of rat 190-kDa ankyrin-G, which is resistant to human small interfering RNA, prevents loss of the lateral membrane following depletion of human 190-kDa ankyrin-G. Human 220-kDa ankyrin-B, a closely related ankyrin isoform, is incapable of preserving the lateral membrane following 190-kDa ankyrin-G depletion. Moreover, analysis of rat 190-kDa ankyrin G/ankyrin B chimeras shows that all three domains of 190-kDa ankyrin-G are required for preservation of the lateral membrane. These results demonstrate that 190-kDa ankyrin-G plays a pleiotropic role in assembly of lateral membranes of bronchial epithelial cells.
Oleanolic acid (OA) and ursolic acid (UA), triterpene acids having numerous pharmacological activities including anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, and hepato-protective effects, were tested for their ability to modulate the activities of several cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes using human liver microsomes. OA competitively inhibited CYP1A2-catalyzed phenacetin O-deethylation and CYP3A4-catalyzed midazolam 1-hydroxylation, the major human drug metabolizing CYPs, with IC50 (Ki) values of 143.5 (74.2) microM and 78.9 (41.0) microM, respectively. UA competitively inhibited CYP2C19-catalyzed S-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylation with an IC50 (Ki) value of 119.7 (80.3) microM. However, other CYPs tested showed no or weak inhibition by both OA and UA. The present study demonstrates that OA and UA have inhibitory effects on CYP isoforms using human liver microsomes. It is thus likely that consumption of herbal medicines containing OA or UA, or administration of OA or UA, can cause drug interactions in humans when used concomitantly with drugs that are metabolized primarily by CYP isoforms. In addition, it appears that the inhibitory effect of OA on CYP1A2 is, in part, related to its anti-inflammatory and anticancer activities.
Instrumental conditioning studies how animals and humans choose actions appropriate to the affective structure of an environment. According to recent reinforcement learning models, two distinct components are involved: a &quot;critic,&quot; which learns to predict future reward, and an &quot;actor,&quot; which maintains information about the rewarding outcomes of actions to enable better ones to be chosen more frequently. We scanned human participants with functional magnetic resonance imaging while they engaged in instrumental conditioning. Our results suggest partly dissociable contributions of the ventral and dorsal striatum, with the former corresponding to the critic and the latter corresponding to the actor.



In search of a novel chemotype of K(ATP) channel openers a series of tricyclic dihydropyridopyrazolones and dihydropyridoisoxazolones was synthesized. It was found that cyclopentanone in the left hand portion of the molecule was 4-fold more potent than cyclohexanone. Introduction of gem-dimethyl groups as well as incorporation of oxygen in the cyclohexanone ring in the left hand portion of the molecule increased the potency 10-fold. In the right hand portion of the molecule, the NH-group of the pyrazolone can be effectively substituted by oxygen increasing the activity 5-fold. Incorporation of a methyl group adjacent to the dihydropyridine (DHP) nitrogen not only significantly boosted activity, but also provided an additional benefit of increased metabolic stability. In vitro tests on the tissue from pig bladder strips provided further confirmation of K(ATP) activity of these compounds.
Sciatic nerve explants cultured either alone or in the presence of peritoneal macrophages were used to study prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) production following traumatic peripheral nerve injury. Although barely detectable at early time points (1-3 h in vitro), the production of PGE(2) and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) by sciatic nerve explants increased significantly after 18 h and remained elevated for up to 96 h. The cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) selective inhibitor, NS-398, inhibited PGE(2) and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) production by injured sciatic nerve in a dose-dependent manner. Consistent with the observed effect of NS-398, peripheral nerve explants, as well as Schwann cells and perineural fibroblasts cultured from neonatal sciatic nerve, each contained COX-2 immunoreactivity after 24 h in vitro. Both Schwann cells and perineural fibroblasts produced significant amounts of PGE(2) and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha); but only in the presence of arachidonic acid. As observed for injured sciatic nerve, the production of PGE(2) and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) by primary Schwann cells and perineural fibroblasts was completely inhibited by NS-398. Compared to macrophages cultured alone, macrophages cultured in the presence of sciatic nerve explants produced large amounts of PGE(2), whereas the level of 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) was unchanged. In contrast, macrophages treated with adult sciatic nerve homogenate did not produce significant amounts of either PGE(2) or 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) during the entire course of treatment. We conclude that injured sciatic nerves produce PGE(2) and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) by a mechanism involving COX-2 activity and that macrophages produce large amounts of PGE(2) in response to soluble factors produced by injured nerve but not during the phagocytosis of peripheral nerve debris.
The inflammatory response in prion diseases is dominated by microglial activation. As macrophages of the central nervous system, the phagocytic capacity of microglia is well recognized, and it is possible that microglia are involved in the removal and processing of amyloid fibrils, thus preventing their harmful effect. We have analyzed the effects of a synthetic peptide of the human prion protein, PrP(106-126), which can form fibrils, and the pathogenic form of prion protein, PrPsc, on phagocytosis in microglia isolated from neonatal rat brain cultures. To some extent, fibrillar PrP(106-126) is internalized and processed. However, both synthetic prion peptide PrP(106-126) in a fibrillar form and pathogenic prion protein PrPsc severely hamper the phagocytic activity as measured by the uptake of beads by microglia. At a concentration that does not induce microglial death, PrP(106-126) reduced the number of beads internalized and altered their cytoplasmic distribution. This effect was not due to decreased binding of beads to the cell surface, nor restricted to specific classes of receptors. Although the PrP(106-126) did not prevent F-actin and Rac1 accumulation at sites of particle engulfment, it appeared to interfere with a later step of the internalization process.
A T8993G point mutation in the mtDNA results in a Leu156Arg substitution in the MTATP6 subunit of the mitochondrial F1F0-ATPase. The T8993G mutation causes impaired oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) in two mitochondrial disorders, NARP (neuropathy, ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa) and MILS (maternally inherited Leigh's syndrome). It has been reported, in some studies, that the T8993G mutation results in loss of assembled F1F0-ATPase. Others reported that the mutation causes impairment of proton flow through F0. In addition, it was shown that fibroblasts from NARP subjects have a tendency to undergo apoptotic cell death, perhaps as a result of increased free radical production. Here, we show that the T8993G mutation inhibits oxidative phosphorylation and results in enhanced free radical production. We suggest that free radical-mediated inhibition of OXPHOS contributes to the loss of ATP synthesis. Importantly, we show that antioxidants restore respiration and partially rescue ATP synthesis in cells harboring the T8993G mutation. Our results indicate that free radicals might play an important role in the pathogenesis of NARP/MILS and that this can be prevented by antioxidants. The effectiveness of antioxidant agents in cultured NARP/MILS cells suggests that they might have a potential beneficial role in the treatment of patients with NARP.
The synthetic opioid peptide analog Dmt-D-Arg-Phe-Lys-NH(2) ([Dmt(1)]DALDA; [Dmt= 2',6'-dimethyltyrosine) is a highly potent and selective mu opioid-receptor agonist. A very sensitive and robust capillary liquid chromatography/nanospray ion-trap (IT) mass spectrometry method has been developed to quantify [Dmt(1)]DALDA in ovine plasma, using deuterated [Dmt(1)]DALDA as the internal standard. The standard MS/MS spectra of d(0)- and d(5)-[Dmt(1)]DALDA were obtained, and the collision energy was experimentally optimized to 25%. The product ion [ M + 2H-NH(3)](2+) (m/z 312.2) was used to identify and to quantify the synthetic opioid peptide analog in ovine plasma samples. The MS/MS detection sensitivity for [Dmt(1)]DALDA was 625 amol. A calibration curve was constructed, and quantitative analysis was performed on a series of ovine plasma samples.
A patient with the typical features of neuroacanthocytosis is reported. Chorea, tics, personality changes and caudate atrophy on cranial MRI resulted in an erroneous diagnosis of Huntington's disease elsewhere. Attention to other features viz., absence of ocular motility disturbances, amyotrophy, areflexia, EMG evidence of axonopathy, raised serum creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) levels and the typical erythrocytic acanthocytosis enabled us to establish the correct diagnosis. The typical features of the disease as seen in the patient are discussed. In view of the implications for genetic counseling, careful clinical and laboratory evaluation is always warranted to exclude neuroacanthocytosis in all suspected cases of Huntington's disease.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is characterized by progressive weakness and wasting of facial, shoulder-girdle and upper arm muscles. Despite of the characteristic clinical features, the diagnosis of FSHD is sometimes difficult because clinical symptoms are extremely variable including facial sparing type, limb-girdle type, and distal myopathy type. Most of the FSHD patients have a deletion in the subtelomeric region of chromosome 4q35 (FSHMD1A), however the linkage analysis in some families suggested genetic heterogeneity. In the present study, we identified 40 patients without a deletion in the 4q35 region (non-4q35del) among 200 Japanese patients who were clinically suspected to have FHSD. All non-4q35del patients had shoulder-girdle weakness and 75% also had facial weakness. Eight patients showed clinical features that were indistinguishable from FSHD, but two of them had Becker muscular dystrophy. FSHD is clinically, and most likely genetically, as well, variable. Other forms of muscular dystrophy can also mimic FSHD.
Several studies have demonstrated abnormal MRI findings in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP), especially hypertrophy and abnormal enhancement of spinal nerve roots, but there have been few reports on ultrasonographic findings of spinal nerve roots in CIDP. To determine whether ultrasonography (US) enables detection of hypertrophy of the cervical nerve roots, how frequently hypertrophy occurs in CIDP, and whether US findings correlate with any clinical and laboratory features, US of cervical nerve roots was performed using a 7.5-MHz linear-array transducer in 13 CIDP patients and 35 control subjects. A coronal oblique plane with a transducer placed on the lateral side of the neck was used to visualize the cervical nerve roots just after their point of exit from the cervical foramina, and their diameters were measured. US demonstrated hypertrophy of the cervical nerve roots in 9 (69%) of the 13 CIDP patients as compared with findings in control subjects. The degree of hypertrophy was significantly associated with the level of CSF protein (chi2=5.8, p&lt;0.05, logistic simple regression analysis) but not with other clinical features. US is considered to be a useful method for evaluating cervical nerve root hypertrophy, which is frequently seen in patients with CIDP, particularly in patients with elevated level of CSF protein.
Mitotic activity persists in various regions of the adult mammal CNS. While evidences of neurogenesis appeared, many studies focused on the features of the adult stem cells from germinative areas such as the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles, the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, the cortex, the fourth ventricle and the central canal of the spinal cord. In the present paper, we review the potentialities of the adult germinative areas in terms of proliferation, migration and differentiation in non pathological situation and in response to different type of CNS injury. Adult endogenous stem cells are activated in response to various injuries but their capacities to migrate and to undergo either neurogenesis or gliogenesis differ according to the lesion-type and the germinative zone from which they arise. Different works demonstrated that epigenic factors such as growth factors can enhance the repair potential of the adult stem cells. Reactivation and mobilization of endogenous stem cells as well as demonstration of their long-term survival and functionality appear to be interesting strategies to investigate in order to promote endogenous repair of the adult CNS.
Carbon monoxide (CO) is a biologically active product of haem metabolism that contributes to the normal physiology of the gastrointestinal tract. In this article, we review recent data showing that CO is an integral regulator of gastrointestinal motility and an important factor in the response to gastrointestinal injury. CO is generated by haem oxygenase-2 (HO-2), which is constitutively expressed in many inhibitory neurones of the vertebrate enteric nervous system. The membrane potential gradients along and across the muscle layers of the gastrointestinal tract require the generation of CO by haem oxygenase-2. The presence of CO is also necessary for normal inhibitory neurotransmission in circular smooth muscle and appears to permit nitric oxide-mediated inhibitory neurotransmission. Genetic deletion of the haem oxygenase-2 gene in mice slows gut transit. The other major CO synthetic enzyme, haem oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is induced under conditions of stress or injury. Recent studies have demonstrated that up-regulation of haem oxygenase-1 protects the gut from several types of gastrointestinal injury, suggesting that CO or induction of HO-1 may find therapeutic use in gastrointestinal diseases and injuries. Furthermore, it is anticipated that the understanding of CO-mediated signalling in the gastrointestinal tract will inform studies in other tissues that express haem oxygenases.
It has been claimed that transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the human motor cortex can produce a sense of movement of the contralateral hand, even when the hand is paralysed. The sense of movement was equated with a 'corollary discharge', a nulling mechanism originally posited for maintaining constancy of the visual field during eye movements. Our experiments were designed to test whether the sensation that accompanies TMS-evoked finger movements is generated centrally or whether it arises as a result of sensory feedback. Matched twitches of the left and right fingers were elicited either by bilateral electrical stimulation of forearm extensor muscles, or by a combination of TMS of left motor cortex (eliciting twitches of the right forefinger), and electrical stimulation of the left forearm muscles (eliciting twitches of the left forefinger). The time interval between stimuli activating left and right twitches was varied randomly (range +/- 90 ms) from trial to trial. Subjects reported whether they sensed that the left or the right movement occurred first, or if they could detect no difference. The left and right movements evoked by bilateral electrical stimulation of muscles were sensed as near simultaneous when there was zero delay between them. When TMS was applied in conjunction with unilateral muscle stimulation, the TMS-evoked movement was felt, on average, 20 ms after the movement evoked by muscle stimulation. Similar results were obtained when the skin under the cathodal electrodes was anaesthetized. Since the TMS-evoked movements were felt later rather than earlier than the electrically evoked movements, the results do not support the idea that the sensation of movement was elicited centrally by TMS. Rather, they favour sensory feedback as the source of the sense of movement. The earlier perception of electrically evoked versus TMS-evoked movements was probably due to earlier sensory responses in the periphery rather than a suppression of the excitability of somatosensory cortex.
The time course of Mg(2+) block and unblock of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) determines the extent they are activated by depolarization. Here, we directly measure the rate of NMDAR channel opening in response to depolarizations at different times after brief (1 ms) and sustained (4.6 s) applications of glutamate to nucleated patches from neocortical pyramidal neurons. The kinetics of Mg(2+) unblock were found to be non-instantaneous and complex, consisting of a prominent fast component (time constant approximately 100 micros) and slower components (time constants 4 and approximately 300 ms), the relative amplitudes of which depended on the timing of the depolarizing pulse. Fitting a kinetic model to these data indicated that Mg(2+) not only blocks the NMDAR channel, but reduces both the open probability and affinity for glutamate, while enhancing desensitization. These effects slow the rate of NMDAR channel opening in response to depolarization in a time-dependent manner such that the slower components of Mg(2+) unblock are enhanced during depolarizations at later times after glutamate application. One physiological consequence of this is that brief depolarizations occurring earlier in time after glutamate application are better able to open NMDAR channels. This finding has important implications for spike-timing-dependent synaptic plasticity (STDP), where the precise (millisecond) timing of action potentials relative to synaptic inputs determines the magnitude and sign of changes in synaptic strength. Indeed, we find that STDP timing curves of NMDAR channel activation elicited by realistic dendritic action potential waveforms are narrower than expected assuming instantaneous Mg(2+) unblock, indicating that slow Mg(2+) unblock of NMDAR channels makes the STDP timing window more precise.
The molecular basis of hearing is less well understood than many other senses. However, recent studies in Drosophila have provided some important steps towards a molecular understanding of hearing. In this report, we summarize these findings and their implications on the relationship between hearing and touch. In Drosophila, hearing is accomplished by Johnston's Organ, a chordotonal organ containing over 150 scolopidia within the second antennal segment. We will discuss anatomical features of the antenna and how they contribute to the function of this flagellar auditory receptor. The effects of several mutants, identified through mutagenesis screens or as homologues of vertebrate auditory genes, will be summarized. Based on evidence gathered from these studies, we propose a speculative model for how the chordotonal organ might function.
The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that platelet serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) content is correlated with measures of aggression in healthy human subjects. Platelet 5-HT content (ng/mg protein) was measured in personality-disordered (PD) and normal control (NC) subjects. Aggression was assessed with the Life History of Aggression (LHA), the Buss-Durkee Hostility Inventory (BDHI), and the Motor Aggression and Research Criteria for Intermittent Explosive Disorder (IED-IR); impulsivity was assessed with the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire II (EPQII) and the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-11). LHA Aggression, but not impulsivity, scores showed significant inverse correlations with platelet 5-HT content in all subjects or in PD subjects alone. The findings in PD subjects remained significant after co-varying for race. PD subjects with IED-IR had lower platelet 5-HT content compared with PD subjects who did not have IED-IR, although this finding only approached significance after controlling for race. This study demonstrates an association between reduced platelet 5-HT content and aggression in PD subjects. Similar to other studies of platelet 5-HT markers, these data suggest that platelet 5-HT content may also reflect central 5-HT alterations and may be used as a biological marker in appropriate patient samples.
This study investigates the effect of a selective NK(1) receptor antagonist TAK-637 on enteric mechanisms involved in regulation of epithelial secretion in the colon. Mucosal sheets isolated from guinea-pig colon were placed in modified Ussing chambers and the net active transport of electrolytes was measured as short-circuit current (Isc). GR-73632, a selective NK(1) receptor agonist, induced an increase in basal Isc, which was inhibited by TAK-637 (IC(50) of 21 nM). The increase in Isc induced by GR-73632 was significantly attenuated by tetrodotoxin (TTX, 1 microM), indicating that TAK-637 inhibits neuronal NK(1) receptors. Moreover, TAK-637 reduced the TTX-resistant component of the response to GR-73632 suggesting that NK(1) receptors expressed by epithelial cells are inhibited by TAK-637. In separate experiments, TAK-637 partially inhibited the submaximal Isc induced by electrical field stimulation (EFS, 0.5 ms, 15 Hz) of enteric nerves or by activation of primary afferent fibers using capsaicin (50 microM). TAK-637 had no significant effect on the basal Isc or on responses induced by neurokinin A (NKA), senktide, or forskolin. The results imply that inhibition of peripheral NK(1) receptors may reduce autonomic epithelial secretion in response to activation of autonomic secretomotor pathways, while having no significant effect on basal epithelial transport.
Axonal degeneration is the major cause of permanent neurological disability in individuals with inherited diseases of myelin. Axonal and neuronal changes that precede axonal degeneration, however, are not well characterized. We show here that dysmyelinated lower motor neurons retract and regenerate dysfunctional presynaptic terminals, leading to severe neurological disability before axonal degeneration. In addition, dysmyelination led to a decreased synaptic quantal content, an indicator of synaptic dysfunction. The amplitude and rise time of miniature endplate potentials were also increased, but these changes were primarily consistent with an increase in the passive membrane properties of the transgenic muscle fibers. Maintenance of synaptic connections should be considered as a therapeutic target for slowing progression of neurological disability in primary diseases of myelin.
Spatial learning impairment in aged rats is associated with changes in hippocampal connectivity and plasticity. Several studies have explored the age-related deficit in spatial information processing by recording the location-specific activity of hippocampal neurons (place cells). However, these studies have generated disparate characterizations of place cells in aged rats as unstable (Barnes et al., 1997), resistant to change (Tanila et al., 1997b; Oler and Markus, 2000; Wilson et al., 2003), or delayed in using external cues (Rosenzweig et al., 2003). To reconcile these findings, we recorded place cells from aged and young rats as they repeatedly explored both a highly familiar environment and an initially novel environment, and we repeatedly tested whether the place fields formed in the novel environment were anchored by external cues. Initially, spatial representations in aged rats were abnormally maintained between the familiar and novel environments. Then, new representations were formed but were also delayed in becoming anchored to the external landmarks. Finally, even when the new spatial representations became bound to the landmarks, they were multi-stable across repetitive exposures to the formerly novel environment. These observations help to reconcile previously divergent characterizations of spatial representation in aged rats and suggest a model of cognitive aging and hippocampal function.
In the developing dentate gyrus, afferent fiber projections terminate in distinct laminas. This relies on an accurately regulated spatiotemporal network of guidance molecules. Here, we have analyzed the functional role of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored repulsive guidance molecule RGMa. In situ hybridization in embryonic and postnatal brain showed expression of RGMa in the cornu ammonis and hilus of the hippocampus. In the dentate gyrus, RGM immunostaining was confined to the inner molecular layer, whereas the outer molecular layers targeted by entorhinal fibers remained free. To test the repulsive capacity of RGMa, different setups were used: the stripe and explant outgrowth assays with recombinant RGMa, and entorhino-hippocampal cocultures incubated either with a neutralizing RGMa antibody (Ab) or with the GPI anchor-digesting drug phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C. Entorhinal axons were clearly repelled by RGMa in the stripe and outgrowth assays. After disrupting the RGMa function, the specific laminar termination pattern in entorhino-hippocampal cocultures was lost, and entorhinal axons entered inappropriate hippocampal areas. Our data indicate an important role of RGMa for the layer-specific termination of the perforant pathway as a repulsive signal that compels entorhinal fibers to stay in their correct target zone.
Myelin-reactive T-cells are activated by traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) in rodents and humans. Despite the historical association of these cells with experimental and clinical neuropathology, recent data suggest a neuroprotective role for myelin-reactive T-cells. Because of the biological and therapeutic implications of these findings, we attempted to reproduce the original neuroprotective vaccine protocols in a model of rat SCI. Specifically, MBP-reactive T-cell function was enhanced in SCI rats via passive or active immunization. Locomotor function was assessed using a standardized locomotor rating scale (Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan scale) and was correlated with myelin and axon sparing. The functional and anatomical integrity of the rubrospinal pathway also was analyzed using the inclined plane test and anatomical tract tracing. MBP-immunized rats exhibited varying degrees of functional impairment, exacerbated lesion pathology, greater rubrospinal neuron loss, increased intraspinal T-cell accumulation, and enhanced macrophage activation relative to SCI control groups. These data are consistent with the conventional view of myelin-reactive T-cells as pathological effector cells.
Alcohol intoxication alters coordination and motor skills, and this is responsible for a significant number of traffic accident-related deaths around the world. Although the precise mechanism of action of ethanol (EtOH) is presently unknown, studies suggest that it acts, in part, by interfering with normal cerebellar functioning. An important component of cerebellar circuits is the granule cell. The excitability of these abundantly expressed neurons is controlled by the Golgi cell, a subtype of GABAergic interneuron. Granule cells receive GABAergic input in the form of phasic and tonic currents that are mediated by synaptic and extrasynaptic receptors, respectively. Using the acute cerebellar slice preparation and patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques, we found that ethanol induces a parallel increase in both the frequency of spontaneous IPSCs and the magnitude of the tonic current. EtOH (50 mm) did not produce this effect when spontaneous action potentials were blocked with tetrodotoxin. Recordings in the loose-patch cell-attached configuration demonstrated that ethanol increases the frequency of spontaneous action potentials in Golgi cells. Taken together, these findings indicate that ethanol enhances GABAergic inhibition of granule cells via a presynaptic mechanism that involves an increase in action potential-dependent GABA release from Golgi cells. This effect is likely to have an impact on the flow of information through the cerebellar cortex and may contribute to the mechanism by which acute ingestion of alcoholic beverages induces motor impairment.
The authors studied whether olfactory dysfunction is present in parkin disease using the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT). The mean UPSIT score in parkin patients was 27.3 (95% CI 24.4 to 30.2). This did not differ from the normal group mean of 29.4 (95% CI 28.0 to 30.7; p = 0.22) but was higher than the Parkinson disease group (mean 14.3; 95% CI 12.2 to 19.5; p &lt; 0.0001) and the parkin-negative group (mean 17.1; 95% CI 14.8 to 16.3; p &lt; 0.0001) values. Parkin disease may be a distinct and separate entity from Parkinson disease.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCM) are CNS vascular anomalies associated with seizures, headaches, and hemorrhagic strokes. The CCM1 gene was screened in 35 sporadic cases with either single or multiple CCM. It was found that 29% of the individuals with multiple CCM have a CCM1 mutation, whereas cases with only one malformation have none. Sporadic cases with multiple malformations warrant the same approach as individuals who have a familial history of CCM.
Antiplatelet drugs (APD) are widely used in the prevention of ischemic cardio- and cerebrovascular diseases. The authors studied the frequency of stroke occurring after APD discontinuation, the cause of discontinuation, and the delay between APD disruption and stroke. Only 4.49% of strokes were related to a recent APD discontinuation, but all cases occurred between 6 and 10 days after drug discontinuation (p &lt; 0.0001). This temporal pattern has biologic plausibility because the inhibited platelets circulate in the blood for about 10 days.


Inflammatory responses contribute to secondary tissue damage following spinal cord injury (SCI). A potent anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid, methylprednisolone (MP), is the only currently accepted therapy for acute SCI but its efficacy has been questioned. To search for additional anti-inflammatory compounds, we combined microarray analysis with an explanted spinal cord slice culture injury model. We compared gene expression profiles after treatment with MP, acetaminophen, indomethacin, NS398, and combined cytokine inhibitors (IL-1ra and soluble TNFR). Multiple gene filtering methods and statistical clustering analyses were applied to the multi-dimensional data set and results were compared. Our analysis showed a consistent and unique gene expression profile associated with NS398, the selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, in which the overall effect of these upregulated genes could be interpreted as neuroprotective. In vivo testing demonstrated that NS398 reduced lesion volumes, unlike MP or acetaminophen, consistent with a predicted physiological effect in spinal cord. Combining explanted spinal cultures, microarrays, and flexible clustering algorithms allows us to accelerate selection of compounds for in vivo testing.

The neural control of renal function is exerted by the central nervous system via sympathetic innervation of the kidneys. To determine the extent to which the control of the two kidneys is provided by the same brain neurons, the central circuitry involved in the innervation of both kidneys was characterized in individual rats by dual viral transneuronal tracing using isogenic recombinant strains (PRV-152 and BaBlu) of pseudorabies virus. Prior to dual tracing, the neuroinvasive properties of PRV-152 and BaBlu were characterized by conducting parametric studies, using the two kidneys as an anatomical model, and comparing the pattern of infection with that obtained following injection of the parental strain, PRV-Bartha, into the left kidney. Once the optimal concentrations of virus required to obtain equivalent infection were established, PRV-152 and BaBlu were injected into the left and right kidney, respectively, in the same rats. Immunocytochemical localization of viral reporter proteins at different postinoculation times allowed us to determine the sequence of infection in the brain, as well as to quantify dual- and single-labeled neurons in each infected area. Neurons that influence autonomic outflow to one or both kidneys coexist in all brain areas involved in the control of the sympathetic outflow to the kidneys at every hierarchical level of the circuit. The proportions of dual-infected neurons with respect to the number of total infected neurons varied across regions, but they were maintained at different survival times. The pattern of infection suggests that the activity of each kidney is controlled independently by organ-specific neurons, whereas the functional coordination of the two kidneys results from neurons that collaterize to modulate the sympathetic outflow to both organs. The advantages of using an anatomical symmetrical system, such as the two kidneys, as an experimental approach to characterize PRV recombinants in general are also discussed.
The posterior division of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis has three major nuclei: principal, interfascicular, and transverse, which receive topographically ordered inputs from the medial amygdalar nucleus. The overall pattern of axonal projections from each nucleus was determined in male rats with the Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin method. Together, these nuclei project topographically back to the medial amygdalar nucleus, to the adjacent lateral septal nucleus, to the nucleus accumbens and substantia innominata, to hypothalamic parts of the behavior control column, and to the hypothalamic periventricular region, which controls patterned neuroendocrine and autonomic responses. The principal nucleus preferentially innervates septal and hypothalamic regions that control reproductive behavior and visceromotor responses, confirming a similar analysis by Gu et al. (J Comp Neurol [2003] 460:542-562). In contrast, the interfascicular and transverse nuclei differentially innervate septal and hypothalamic regions that control defensive as well as reproductive behaviors. In addition, the transverse nucleus projects significantly to midbrain parts of the behavior control column concerned with foraging/exploratory behavior. All three posterior division nuclei also project to thalamocortical feedback loops (by means of the nucleus reuniens and paraventricular nucleus). These structural data may be interpreted to suggest that the bed nuclei posterior division forms part (pallidal) of a corticostriatopallidal system involved in controlling two major classes of social (defensive and reproductive) behavior.


A systematic sample of 2800 articles published between 1970 and 2000 in 14 major biomedical journals was analysed to assess the implementation of the 'Three Rs' (replacement, reduction and refinement) in biomedical research. During this period the total number of articles published annually by the journals more than doubled, but the proportion of studies using animals decreased by 30 per cent. There was a significant increase, from 21 per cent to 35 per cent, in the proportion of animal studies which made use of untreated euthanased animals as donors of biological materials, a gradual decrease in the number of chronic studies on animals, and a 50 per cent decrease in the average number of animals used per published paper. There was an improvement in the reporting of the specification of the animals' husbandry, conditions of care and environment. Parameters of importance for the evaluation of the scientific quality of the research and the welfare of the animals were generally poorly reported, but the proportion of papers with adequate information on most of the parameters analysed increased between 1970 and 2000.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF(alpha)) is a potent modulator of autonomic reflex mechanisms that control the stomach. Evidence suggests that TNF(alpha) action directly on vago-vagal reflex control circuits causes the autonomic misregulation of digestion manifested as gastrointestinal stasis, nausea, and emesis associated with illness. Neurophysiological studies indicated that TNF(alpha) may have effects on vagal afferents in the solitary nucleus, as well as neurons of the solitary nucleus (NST) and dorsal motor nucleus (DMN) of the vagus. The aim of this study was to determine the location of the TNFR1 receptor (p55) in the medulla using immunocytochemical methods. We devised a technique for localizing the p55 receptor using heat-induced antigen recovery in fixed tissue sections. This protocol allowed us to demonstrate that dense p55-immunoreactivity (p55-ir) is constitutively present on central (but not peripheral) vagal afferents in the solitary tract (ST) and nucleus; p55-ir is also present on afferents entering the spinal trigeminal nucleus. Unilateral supra-nodose vagotomy eliminated p55-ir from ipsilateral central vagal afferents. Virtually all neurons in the brainstem appeared to express p55-ir at a low level, i.e., just above background. However, vagotomy caused a dramatic up-regulation of p55-ir in vagal motor neurons. This increase in p55-ir in axotomized neurons may play a pivotal role in the connection between the occurrence of the injury and the initiation of apoptotic processes resulting in elimination of damaged neurons.
Female, but not male, whiptail lizards will respond to exogenous estrogen with an increase in estrogen receptor alpha (ER alpha) mRNA in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH). The current study tested whether differences in long-term testosterone exposure may be responsible for this sex difference. In the first experiment, female whiptails were gonadectomized and implanted for 6 weeks with either a Silastic capsule containing testosterone or an empty capsule after which the implant was removed. In a second experiment, male whiptail lizards were castrated for 1 week or for 6 weeks. In both experiments animals were then injected with either estradiol benzoate or steroid suspension vehicle and the brains collected 24 h later. Brain mRNA expression was assayed using in situ hybridization. Chronic testosterone treatment reduced estrogen-induced ER alpha mRNA levels (number of grains per cell) in the VMH in females. In contrast, there were no significant effects of time after castration or estrogen treatment on induction of ER alpha mRNA in the VMH in males. The abundance of estrogen-induced ER alpha mRNA in the VMH, therefore, appears to be responsive to testosterone environment in the female but not in the male, suggesting a difference in this species between the sexes in the mechanism of steroid receptor regulation.
The hippocampal mossy fiber long-term potentiation (LTP) is an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-independent form of long-lasting synaptic plasticity characteristic of the zinc-enriched mossy fiber synapses. Its expression is generally considered to have a presynaptic locus and to be mediated by a persistent increase of evoked transmitter release. Because the release process is calcium-dependent, the observed increase in synaptic efficacy could be due to a persistent modification of presynaptic calcium mechanisms, triggered by the large calcium influx associated with long-term potentiation induction. Alternatively, it might be caused by an enhancement in the sensitivity to calcium of some components of the synaptic vesicle release system, following the large intraterminal calcium accumulation. We investigated the first hypothesis by measuring presynaptic Fura-2 calcium signals associated with electrically induced mossy fiber long-term potentiation. We have observed that like residual calcium, single presynaptic calcium changes are not enhanced during the maintenance phase of mossy fiber long-term potentiation. This result supports the idea that this form of long-term potentiation may be mediated by persistent changes of some process occurring after calcium entry. It has been established that voltage-dependent calcium channels are inhibited by zinc and that endogenous zinc is released in a calcium-dependent way following intense mossy fiber activation. Because there is evidence that at these synapses zinc is also released following single electrical stimulation, we investigated the effect of endogenous zinc on single presynaptic calcium signals and on field potentials associated with mossy fiber LTP. We have observed that this form of LTP could be induced in the presence of the permeant heavy metal chelator N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine (TPEN) and that application of this chelator, during LTP, caused an enhancement of the presynaptic calcium signals without affecting synaptic transmission. This enhancement is consistent with the idea that mossy fiber zinc, released following individual stimuli, inhibits presynaptic calcium mechanisms.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether GABA(B) receptor activation blocks acute amphetamine-induced behavioral activity, dopamine release, and neuropeptide mRNA expression in the striatum. Systemic administration of R-(+)-baclofen (1.25 mg/kg, i.p.) did not alter total distance traveled or vertical rearing induced by amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.). At 2.5 mg/kg, baclofen did not alter spontaneous motor activity or total distance traveled, but completely blocked vertical rearing induced by amphetamine. At 5.0 mg/kg, baclofen completely blocked both total distance traveled and vertical rearing induced by amphetamine. Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that baclofen (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased the ability of amphetamine to increase preprodynorphin (PPD), preprotachykinin (PPT), preproenkephalin (PPE), and secretogranin II (SGII) mRNA levels in the striatum without altering the basal levels of these signals. Baclofen also blocked the amphetamine-induced rise in SGII mRNA in the core and shell of the nucleus accumbens and cingulate cortex. In a separate experiment, systemic baclofen (2.5 mg/kg) decreased the amphetamine-induced increase in dialysate dopamine levels in the striatum. These results suggest that reduced striatal dopamine release contributes to the ability of GABA(B) receptor activation to decrease acute amphetamine-induced behavioral activity and striatal neuropeptide gene expression.
The second messenger calcium plays an essential role in the T cell receptor-mediated signal transduction pathways leading to transcription of the interleukin-2 gene. A key mechanism of calcium signaling has been shown to be mediated by calcineurin and NFAT. We report herein that the transcription factor myocyte enhancer factor (MEF)-2 is another calcium signal transducer involved in the regulation of the interleukin (IL)-2 promoter. A MEF2-binding site was identified in proximity to the TATA box of the IL-2 promoter. This site was shown to be bound by MEF2 in both resting and activated T cells. Overexpression of MEF2 enhanced, while overexpression of a dominant negative form of MEF2 or the MEF2-specific transcriptional corepressors Cabin1 and histone deacetylase 4 inhibited, the T cell receptor-dependent activation of an IL-2 reporter gene. Down-regulation of MEF2 by RNA interference in primary human T cells led to the inhibition of endogenous IL-2 transcription. These results suggest that MEF2 is required for the transcriptional activation of IL-2 and likely other cytokine genes in response to calcium signaling and may serve as a novel target for development of immunosuppressants.
Presenilin (PS) is the presumptive catalytic component of the intramembrane aspartyl protease gamma-secretase complex. Recently a family of presenilin homologs was identified. One member of this family, signal peptide peptidase (SPP), has been shown to be a protease, which supports the hypothesis that PS and presenilin homologs are related intramembrane-cleaving aspartyl proteases. SPP has been reported as a glycoprotein of approximately 45 kDa. Our initial characterization of SPP isolated from human brain and cell lines demonstrated that SPP is primarily present as an SDS-stable approximately 95-kDa protein on Western blots. Upon heating or treatment of this approximately 95-kDa SPP band with acid, a approximately 45-kDa band could be resolved. Co-purification of two different epitope-tagged forms of SPP from a stably transfected cell line expressing both tagged versions demonstrated that the approximately 95-kDa band is a homodimer of SPP. Pulse-chase metabolic labeling studies demonstrated that the SPP homodimer assembles rapidly and is metabolically stable. In a glycerol velocity gradient, SPP sedimented from approximately 100-200 kDa. Significantly the SPP homodimer was specifically labeled by an active site-directed photoaffinity probe (III-63) for PS, indicating that the active sites of SPP and PS/gamma-secretase are similar and providing strong evidence that the homodimer is functionally active. Collectively these data suggest that SPP exists in vivo as a functional dimer.
Extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) is a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) that mediates intracellular signal transduction in response to a variety of stimuli. ERK is involved in cell proliferation and differentiation and in neuronal plasticity, including long-term potentiation, learning, and memory. Here, we present recently accumulating data about the roles of MAPK pathways in mediating the neuronal plasticity that contributes to pain hypersensitivity. The phosphorylation of ERK in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and dorsal horn neurons occurs in response to noxious stimulation of the peripheral tissue or electrical stimulation to the peripheral nerve, i.e., activity-dependent activation of ERK in nociceptive neurons. In addition, the activation of ERK occurs in these nociceptive neurons after peripheral inflammation and axotomy and contributes to persistent inflammatory and neuropathic pain, via transcriptional regulation of key gene products. On the other hand, peripheral inflammation and axotomy also induces p38 MAPK activation in DRG neurons. Taken together, these findings indicate that activation of MAPK in nociceptive neurons may participate in generating pain hypersensitivity through transcription-dependent and -independent means. Thus, inhibition of MAPK signaling in the primary afferents, as well as in the spinal cord, may provide a fruitful strategy for the development of novel analgesics.
The fatty acid synthase inhibitor C75 reduces feeding rapidly and for several days. We investigated brain sites potentially involved in actions of i.p. C75 in mice by examining c-Fos. At 3 h C75 increased numbers of c-Fos-immunoreactive cells in hindbrain feeding-related nuclei, and in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), lateral aspects of the arcuate nucleus (ARC), and in the central amygdala. At 24 h C75 prevented fasting-induced c-Fos expression in the medial ARC and three of its targets: lateral magnocellular PVN, lateral hypothalamus, and dorsomedial hypothalamus. C75, but not fasting, increased c-Fos in parvocellular PVN. This pattern of results suggests a shift from hindbrain-initiated short-term actions to activation of hypothalamic mechanisms that could mediate the long-term anorectic responses to C75.
Increasing evidence suggests that zinc modulates synaptic transmission in the olfactory bulb and other brain regions. We investigated the sensitivity of AMPA receptors on the bulb's two primary neuronal populations to several concentrations of zinc. Zinc (30-1000 microM) was coapplied to mitral/tufted cells and interneurons during AMPA-evoked currents, and current responses (potentiation, inhibition, no effect) were analyzed. Both neuronal populations expressed zinc-sensitive and zinc-insensitive AMPA receptors. However, the frequency and magnitude of zinc's effects varied with cell type. In addition, zinc did not always have biphasic effects at AMPA receptors (potentiation at low concentrations; inhibition at high concentrations), as reported in other brain regions. Zinc's diverse effects suggest that zinc may alter odor information processing by differential modulation of excitatory circuits.
Mutations in the gigaxonin gene cause giant axonal neuropathy. The amino-terminus of gigaxonin contains a BTB domain but no binding partners for this domain have so far been identified. Here, we demonstrate that the gigaxonin BTB domain forms homodimers. Other BTB-bearing proteins have also been shown to dimerise via their BTB domains with the dimers then capable of interacting with other ligands. Thus, the gigaxonin BTB domain may function in a similar manner. We also demonstrate that gigaxonin is expressed in a wide variety of neuronal cell types where a significant proportion exists in cell bodies. Confocal microscope studies of gigaxonin-transfected COS-7 cells and cultured neurones revealed that a proportion of gigaxonin localises to the Golgi and endoplasmic reticulum.
We generated the small interference RNAs to specifically silence the expression of neural salient serine/arginine rich protein 1 (NSSR1) and showed that the inhibition of NSSR1 expression in mouse embryonic carcinoma cells (P19) reduces neuronal differentiation. By contrast, its over-expression promotes the differentiation. Neither inhibition nor over-expression shows distinct effect on cell proliferation. The over-expression increases the inclusion of NCAM L1 exon2 while the inhibition reduces the inclusion. The splicing of kinase insert free isoform of TrkC (TrkC-K1) is increased by the over-expression. The results demonstrate that NSSR1 promotes neuronal differentiation and the splicing of NCAML1 exon2 and TrkC-K1.
Fyn tyrosine kinase is involved in the tyrosine-phosphorylation of Disabled-1 in the Reelin signaling pathway, and absence of Fyn is expected to result in a reeler-like phenotype. Thus, this study investigated neocortical development in Fyn-deficient mice. Bromodeoxyuridine labeling revealed the under-migration of later-generated neurons despite the normal placement of earlier-generated neurons. Calbindin- and alpha-calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II-immunohistochemistry showed that layer II-III neurons were aberrantly stratified, but the neurons in the deeper layers showed little evidence of abnormality. Fyn was intensely expressed in the leading process of migratory cortical neurons generated in the later stage. These findings strongly suggest that Fyn is required for the migration of later-generated neurons, but that it is dispensable for the Reelin-dependent inside-out layer formation.
Galanin peptide in primary sensory neurons may confer analgesia following injury. Its presence in regenerative axon sprouts where pain may be initiated has not been examined. We examined very early outgrowth of peptidergic axon sprouts after sciatic nerve crush in mice with experimental streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Diabetic mice had a retarded wave of outgrowing galanin axons, but those expressing calcitonin gene-related peptide grew normally. Diabetic mice also developed early, then persistent excessive autotomy behaviour, an index of pain behaviour in complete nerve lesions. Diabetes is associated with variations in the early outgrowth of peptide-containing axons. A relative delay in galanin axon outgrowth could contribute to heightened neuropathic pain in diabetes.
Infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 can lead to neurological complications that range from mild cognitive and motor impairment to HIV-associated dementia (HAD). The mechanism of brain injury and dementia remains poorly understood. Interestingly, post mortem brain specimen from HAD patients and transgenic mice expressing the viral envelope protein gp120 present with similar neuropathological signs. The cytokine erythropoietin (EPO) is clinically used to treat anemia but has also been found to prevent neuronal death due to inflammation or excitotoxicity. Here we show that EPO protects cerebrocortical neurons against apoptosis induced by HIV-1/gp120.
Animals can predict the time of occurrence of a forthcoming event relative to a preceding stimulus, i.e. the interval time between those two, given previous learning experience with the temporal contingency between them. Accumulating evidence suggests that a particular pattern of neural activity observed during tasks involving fixed temporal intervals might carry interval time information: the activity of some cortical and subcortical neurons ramps up slowly and linearly during the interval, like a temporal integrator, and peaks around the time at which the event is due to occur. The slope of this climbing activity, and hence the peak time, adjusts to the length of a temporal interval during repetitive experience with it. Various neural mechanisms for producing climbing activity with variable slopes, representing the length of learned intervals, are discussed.



Axon guidance requires signal transduction of extracellular cues through the plasma membrane for directional motility. Here we present evidence that cholesterol- and sphingolipid-enriched membrane microdomains (lipid rafts) mediate specific guidance responses of nerve growth cones. Disruption of lipid rafts by various approaches targeting cholesterol or gangliosides selectively abolished growth cone attraction and repulsion in BDNF and netrin-1 gradients, respectively, without affecting glutamate-induced attraction. Interestingly, local raft disruption on one side of the growth cone in bath BDNF or netrin-1 produced opposite turning responses to that induced by the gradients. Raft manipulation also blocked Semaphorin 3A-induced growth cone repulsion, inhibition, and collapse. Finally, guidance responses appeared to involve raft-dependent activation of p42/p44 MAPK and ligand-induced receptor recruitment to lipid rafts. Together with the observation of asymmetric receptor-raft associations at the growth cone in guidance gradients, our findings indicate that localized signaling through membrane rafts plays a role in mediating guidance actions of extracellular cues on developing axons.
Mutations in presenilins are the major cause of familial Alzheimer's disease, but the pathogenic mechanism by which presenilin mutations cause memory loss and neurodegeneration remains unclear. Here we demonstrate that conditional double knockout mice lacking both presenilins in the postnatal forebrain exhibit impairments in hippocampal memory and synaptic plasticity. These deficits are associated with specific reductions in NMDA receptor-mediated responses and synaptic levels of NMDA receptors and alphaCaMKII. Furthermore, loss of presenilins causes reduced expression of CBP and CREB/CBP target genes, such as c-fos and BDNF. With increasing age, mutant mice develop striking neurodegeneration of the cerebral cortex and worsening impairments of memory and synaptic function. Neurodegeneration is accompanied by increased levels of the Cdk5 activator p25 and hyperphosphorylated tau. These results define essential roles and molecular targets of presenilins in synaptic plasticity, learning and memory, and neuronal survival in the adult cerebral cortex.
Lipid rafts are thought to serve as plasma membrane platforms for localized trafficking and signaling. Recent findings reported by Guirland et al. in this issue of Neuron and by Gmez-Moutn in a recent issue of JCB support a direct role of lipid microdomains in organizing spatial signaling during axon guidance and cell chemotaxis by concentrating the gradient-sensing machinery at the leading edge.
Exogenous erythropoietin (EPO) is a potent neurotrophic factor in vivo, protective against neuronal death in animal models of brain ischemia and human stroke. To date, reports on the distribution of EPO receptor in brain suggest that it is expressed mostly on capillaries. This receptor pattern suggests an indirect effect of EPO on neurons. In these studies, we show that EPO receptor is abundantly expressed on adult dopaminergic neurons, suggesting a direct effect of EPO on neurons. Furthermore, we show that EPO mediates the classic neurotrophic effects of proliferation, differentiation and maintenance in a dopaminergic cell line. The biology of therapeutically administered EPO in brain is a function of its receptor distribution, and the neuronal expression of EPO receptor on adult CNS neurons is consistent with EPO's potent neurotrophic function in vivo.
Noxious stimulation at one site on the body can inhibit noxious stimulation at distal body sites. This has been extensively demonstrated for somatic stimuli, but less so for visceral stimuli. In the present study we present a model for visceral inflammatory stimuli inhibiting somatic thermal sensitivity in awake rats. Colonic inflammation induced by mustard oil increases the hindpaw and forepaw withdrawal latency from a noxious radiant heat source by 35-50% compared to baseline responses. The duration of the effect is dose-dependent. The withdrawal latency in control rats (mineral oil in colon, mustard oil on skin) was not affected. Rotarod performance was not affected by 5% mustard oil indicating that colonic inflammation did not produce a general malaise or decrease in motor performance. These data suggest that visceral inflammation in the rat decreases somatic sensitivity similar to that reported by patients with colonic hypersensitivity from irritable bowel syndrome or inflammatory bowel diseases.
The effect of cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonists and antagonists on penile erection was studied in male rats when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. The CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716A [N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxyamide] (0.5-5 microg) induced penile erection in a dose-dependent manner. The minimal effective dose was 1 microg, while the maximal response was found with 5 microg of the compound. In contrast, the CB1 receptor agonists WIN 55,212-2 [4,5-dihydro-2-methyl-4(4-morpholinylmethyl)-1-(1-naphthalenyl-carbonyl)-6H-pyrrolo[3,2,1-I,j]quinolin-6-one] (0.5-5 microg) and CP 55,940 [1alpha,2beta-(R)-5alpha]-5-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)-2-[5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxy-propyl)cyclohexyl]phenol (0.5-5 microg) were ineffective at all the doses tested. Nevertheless, both compounds reduced the enhancing effect of SR 141716A on penile erection when given into the paraventricular nucleus at the above doses before SR 141716A. The pro-erectile effect of SR 141716A was also reduced by the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizolcipine (MK-801) (0.2 microg) and by the NO synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-l-arginine methylester (L-NAME) (20 microg) but not by the dopamine receptor antagonist cis-flupenthixol (10 microg) or the oxytocin receptor antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)2-Orn8-vasotocin (0.1 microg), when given into the paraventricular nucleus. In spite of its inability to prevent the pro-erectile effect of SR 141716A when given in the paraventricular nucleus, d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)2-Orn8-vasotocin) (1 microg) reduced almost completely SR 141716A-induced penile erection when given into the lateral ventricles. The present results show that cannabinoid CB1 receptors present in the paraventricular nucleus may influence erectile function and sexual activity by modulating paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons mediating erectile function.
A number of responses to light, including circadian entrainment and pupillary constriction, are preserved in mammals that lack rod and cone photoreceptors. Recent studies have demonstrated that a subset of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are intrinsically photosensitive, and that these RGCs project to regions of the brain associated with the regulation of the circadian clock and pupil constriction. The photopigment gene(s) that mediate these effects of irradiance remain unidentified, although melanopsin (Opn4) has emerged as a strong candidate. For example, Opn4 is expressed within intrinsically photosensitive RGCs, and Opn4 knock-out mice show attenuated circadian and pupillary responses to light. In this study we provide the first clear evidence that Opn4 expression is not confined to these photosensitive RGCs, but is also expressed in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), a tissue with no known photosensensory role. We can preclude retinal contamination of RPE extracts as levels of Opn4 expression were higher in the RPE than in the retina, and the expression of rod opsin and Thy1 (a marker of the RGC layer) were barely detectable in RPE extracts. Our results raise questions about the presumed function of melanopsin, and highlight the need for biochemical studies on this protein.
Human and rat Kv10.1a and b cDNAs encode silent K+ channel pore-forming subunits that modify the electrophysiological properties of Kv2.1. These alternatively spliced variants arise by the usage of an alternative site of splicing in exon 1 producing an 11-amino acid insertion in the linker between the first and second transmembrane domains in Kv10.1b. In human, the Kv10s mRNA were detected by Northern blot in brain kidney lung and pancreas. In brain, they were expressed in cortex, hippocampus, caudate, putamen, amygdala and weakly in substantia nigra. In rat, Kv10.1 products were detected in brain and weakly in testes. In situ hybridization in rat brain shows that Kv10.1 mRNAs are expressed in cortex, olfactory cortical structures, basal ganglia/striatal structures, hippocampus and in many nuclei of the amygdala complex. The CA3 and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus present a gradient that show a progression from high level of expression in the caudo-ventro-medial area to a weak level in the dorso-rostral area. The CA1 and CA2 areas had low levels throughout the hippocampus. Several small nuclei were also labeled in the thalamus, hypothalamus, pons, midbrain, and medulla oblongata. Co-injection of Kv2.1 and Kv10.1a or b mRNAs in Xenopus oocytes produced smaller currents that in the Kv2.1 injected oocytes and a moderate reduction of the inactivation rate without any appreciable change in recovery from inactivation or voltage dependence of activation or inactivation. At higher concentration, Kv10.1a also reduces the activation rate and a more important reduction in the inactivation rate. The gene that encodes for Kv10.1 mRNAs maps to chromosome 2p22.1 in human, 6q12 in rat and 17E4 in mouse, locations consistent with the known systeny for human, rat and mouse chromosomes.
It is believed that odor transduction in the mammalian main olfactory system only involves the cAMP-signaling pathway. Here, we report on odor responsiveness in mice with a disrupted cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channel subunit A2. Several odorants, including putative pheromones, can be detected and discriminated by these mice behaviorally. These odors elicit responses in the olfactory epithelium, main olfactory bulb, and olfactory (piriform) cortex of CNGA2 knock-out mice. In addition, responses to odors detected by CNGA2 knock-out mice are relatively insensitive to inhibitors of the cAMP pathway. These results provide strong evidence that cAMP-independent pathways in the main olfactory system of mammals participate in detecting a subset of odors.
The Na(+)-K(+) pump current (I(p)) and the h-current (I(h)) flowing through hyperpolarization-activated channels (h-channels) participate in generating the resting potential. These two currents are thought to be produced independently. We show here bidirectional interactions between Na(+)-K(+) pumps and h-channels in mesencephalic trigeminal neurons. Activation of I(h) leads to the generation of two types of ouabain-sensitive I(p) with temporal profiles similar to those of instantaneous and slow components of I(h), presumably reflecting Na(+) transients in a restricted cellular space. Moreover, the I(p) activated by instantaneous I(h) can facilitate the subsequent activation of slow I(h). Such counteractive and cooperative interactions were also disclosed by replacing extracellular Na(+) with Li(+), which is permeant through h-channels but does not stimulate the Na(+)-K(+) pump as strongly as Na(+) ions. These observations indicate that the interactions are bidirectional and mediated by Na(+) ions. Also after substitution of extracellular Na(+) with Li(+), the tail I(h) was reduced markedly despite an enhancement of I(h) itself, attributable to a negative shift of the reversal potential for I(h) presumably caused by intracellular accumulation of Li(+) ions. This suggests the presence of a microdomain where the interactions can take place. Thus, the bidirectional interactions between Na(+)-K(+) pumps and h-channels are likely to be mediated by Na(+) microdomain. Consistent with these findings, hyperpolarization-activated and cyclic nucleotide-modulated subunits (HCN1/2) and the Na(+)-K(+) pumpalpha3 isoform were colocalized in plasma membrane of mesencephalic trigeminal neurons having numerous spines.
Calcium-calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) has a long history of involvement in synaptic plasticity, yet little focus has been given to potassium channels as CaMKII targets despite their importance in repolarizing EPSPs and action potentials and regulating neuronal membrane excitability. We now show that Kv4.2 acts as a substrate for CaMKII in vitro and have identified CaMKII phosphorylation sites as Ser438 and Ser459. To test whether CaMKII phosphorylation of Kv4.2 affects channel biophysics, we expressed wild-type or mutant Kv4.2 and the K(+) channel interacting protein, KChIP3, with or without a constitutively active form of CaMKII in Xenopus oocytes and measured the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation in each of these conditions. CaMKII phosphorylation had no effect on channel biophysical properties. However, we found that levels of Kv4.2 protein are increased with CaMKII phosphorylation in transfected COS cells, an effect attributable to direct channel phosphorylation based on site-directed mutagenesis studies. We also obtained corroborating physiological data showing increased surface A-type channel expression as revealed by increases in peak K(+) current amplitudes with CaMKII phosphorylation. Furthermore, endogenous A-currents in hippocampal pyramidal neurons were increased in amplitude after introduction of constitutively active CaMKII, which results in a decrease in neuronal excitability in response to current injections. Thus CaMKII can directly modulate neuronal excitability by increasing cell-surface expression of A-type K(+) channels.
Recent studies of long-term synaptic plasticity and long-term memory have demonstrated that the same functional endpoint, such as long-term potentiation, can be induced through distinct signaling pathways engaged by different patterns of stimulation. A critical question raised by these studies is whether different induction pathways either converge onto a common molecular mechanism or engage different molecular cascades for the maintenance of long-term plasticity. We directly examined this issue in the context of memory for sensitization in the marine mollusk Aplysia. In this system, training with a single tail shock normally induces short-term memory (&lt;30 min) for sensitization of tail-elicited siphon withdrawal, whereas repeated spaced shocks induce both intermediate-term memory (ITM) (&gt;90 min) and long-term memory (&gt;24 hr). We now show that a single tail shock can also induce ITM that is expressed selectively at the trained site (site-specific ITM). Although phenotypically similar to the form of ITM induced by repeated trials, the mechanisms by which site-specific ITM is induced and maintained are distinct. Unlike repeated-trial ITM, site-specific ITM requires neither protein synthesis nor PKA activity for induction or maintenance. Rather, the induction of site-specific ITM requires calpain-dependent proteolysis of activated PKC, yielding a persistently active PKC catalytic fragment (PKM) that also serves to maintain the memory in the intermediateterm temporal domain. Thus, two unique forms of ITM that have different induction requirements also use distinct molecular mechanisms for their maintenance.
Multiple lines of evidence implicate beta-amyloid (Abeta) in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the mechanisms whereby Abeta is involved remain unclear. Addition of Abeta to the extracellular space can be neurotoxic. Intraneuronal Abeta42 accumulation is also associated with neurodegeneration. We reported previously that in Tg2576 amyloid precursor protein mutant transgenic mice, brain Abeta42 localized by immunoelectron microscopy to, and accumulated with aging in, the outer membranes of multivesicular bodies, especially in neuronal processes and synaptic compartments. We now demonstrate that primary neurons from Tg2576 mice recapitulate the in vivo localization and accumulation of Abeta42 with time in culture. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Abeta42 aggregates into oligomers within endosomal vesicles and along microtubules of neuronal processes, both in Tg2576 neurons with time in culture and in Tg2576 and human AD brain. These Abeta42 oligomer accumulations are associated with pathological alterations within processes and synaptic compartments in Tg2576 mouse and human AD brains.
In the central visual pathway of binocular animals, the property of directional selectivity (DS) is first exhibited in striate cortex. In this study, we sought to determine the neural circuitry underlying the transformation from non-DS neurons to DS cortical cells. In a well established model, DS receptive fields (RFs) are derived from the sum of two non-DS inputs with 90 degrees (quadrature) spatiotemporal phase differences. We explored possible input sources for this model, which include non-DS simple cells and lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) neurons, by examination of spatiotemporal RFs of single cells and of pairs of cells. We find that distributions of non-DS simple RFs do not match the temporal predictions of the quadrature model because of a lack of long-latency responses. The long-latency inputs could potentially arise from lagged LGN afferents. However, analysis of cell pairs indicates that DS cells receive cortical input from non-DS simple cells for both short- and long-latency components, with temporal phase differences typically &lt;90 degrees. Furthermore, the distribution of minimum phase differences needed to generate DS cells overlaps that exhibited by non-DS simple cells. Considered together, these results are consistent with a linear model whereby DS simple cells are formed from simple-cell inputs, with temporal phase differences often less than quadrature.
Many neurons, including pyramidal cells of the cortex, express a slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) that regulates their firing. Although initial findings suggested that the current underlying the sAHP could be carried through SK(Ca) channels, recent work has uncovered anomalies that are not congruent with this idea. Here, we used overexpression and dominant-negative strategies to assess the involvement of SK(Ca) channels in mediating the current underlying the sAHP in pyramidal cells of the cerebral cortex. Pyramidal cells of layer V exhibit robust AHP currents composed of two kinetically and pharmacologically distinguishable currents known as the medium AHP current (I(mAHP)) and the slow AHP current (I(sAHP)). I(mAHP) is blocked by the SK(Ca) channel blockers apamin and bicuculline, whereas I(sAHP) is resistant to these agents but is inhibited by activation of muscarinic receptors. To test for a role for SK(Ca) channels, we overexpressed K(Ca)2.1 (SK1) and K(Ca)2.2 (SK2), the predominant SK(Ca) subunits expressed in the cortex, in pyramidal cells of cultured brain slices. Overexpression of K(Ca)2.1 and K(Ca)2.2 resulted in a fourfold to fivefold increase in the amplitude of I(mAHP) but had no detectable effect on I(sAHP). As an additional test, we examined I(sAHP) in a transgenic mouse expressing a truncated SK(Ca) subunit (SK3-1B) capable of acting as a dominant negative for the entire family of SK(Ca)-IK(Ca) channels. Expression of SK3-1B profoundly inhibited I(mAHP) but again had no discernable effect on I(sAHP). These results are inconsistent with the proposal that SK(Ca) channels mediate I(sAHP) in pyramidal cells and indicate that a different potassium channel mediates this current.
We investigated the mechanisms that contribute to spontaneous regular bursting in adult Purkinje neurons in acutely prepared cerebellar slices. Bursts consisted of 3-20 spikes and showed a stereotypic waveform. Each burst developed with an increase in firing rate and was terminated by a more rapid increase in firing rate and a decrease in spike height. Whole-cell current-clamp recordings showed that each burst ended with a rapid depolarization followed by a hyperpolarization. Dual dendritic and somatic extracellular recordings revealed that each burst was terminated by a dendritic calcium spike. The contributions of T- and P/Q-type calcium current, large (BK) and small (SK) conductance calcium-activated potassium currents, and hyperpolarization-activated (I(H)) current to bursting were investigated with specific channel blockers. None of the currents, except for P/Q, were required to sustain spontaneous bursting or the stereotypic burst waveform. T-type calcium, BK, and SK channels contributed to interspike and interburst intervals. The effect of T-type calcium channel block was more pronounced after BK channel block and vice versa, indicating that these two currents interact to regulate burst firing. Block of I(H) current had no effect on bursting. Partial block of P/Q-type calcium channels concurrently eliminated dendritic calcium spikes and caused a switch from regular bursting to tonic firing or irregular bursting. Dendritic calcium spikes persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin, indicating that their initiation did not require somatic sodium spikes. Our results demonstrate an important role for dendritic conductances in burst firing in intact Purkinje neurons.
The amygdala is involved in the associative processes for both appetitive and aversive emotions, and its function is modulated by stress hormones. The neuropeptide corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF) is released during stress and has been linked to many stress-related behavioral, autonomic, and endocrine responses. In the present study, nonanxiety-inducing doses of a potent CRF type 1 and 2 receptor agonist, urocortin (Ucn), was infused locally into the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of rats. After 5 daily injections of Ucn, the animals developed anxiety-like responses in behavioral tests. Intravenous administration of the anxiogenic agent sodium lactate elicited robust increases in blood pressure, respiratory rate, and heart rate. Furthermore, in the absence of any additional Ucn treatment, these behavioral and autonomic responses persisted for &gt;30 d. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from BLA neurons of these hyper-reactive animals revealed a pronounced reduction in both spontaneous and stimulation-evoked IPSPs, leading to a hyperexcitability of the BLA network. This Ucn-induced plasticity appears to be dependent on NMDA receptor and subsequent calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) activation, because it is blocked by pretreatment with NMDA receptor antagonists and by coadministration of CaMKII inhibitors. Our results show for the first time a stress peptide-induced behavioral syndrome that can be correlated with cellular mechanisms of neural plasticity, a novel mechanism that may explain the etiological role of stress in several chronic psychiatric and medical disorders.

This article deals with a new branch of research in psychiatry focusing upon schizophrenia in the first hand. Methods of investigating psychoacoustic aberrations in this disease have been developed during the last twenty years at our laboratory; Unit of Clinical psychoacoustics, Division of Psychiatry, Dept of Clinical Neuroscience, Lund University (www.psykiatr.lu.se/psykoaclab). Schizophrenic persons show dysfunctions at the psychophysiological level as displayed by many psychoacoustic mechanisms such as streaming, restoration and contralateral induction of sounds. These dysfunctions may influence general cognitive and perceptual processes and partly explain clinically observed symptoms of the disease. Further investigations on the efforts to elucidate normal functioning of the psychoacoustic processes by functional magnetic resonance imaging, auditory brainstem response and via animal models are described. One immediate aim of all the studies is to be able to demonstrate objective measurements of the schizophrenic aberrations using psychoacoustic tests. This would help supporting the diagnosis, setting early diagnosis or guide therapeutic decisions.
Visual recognition memory is subserved by a distributed set of neural circuits, which include structures of the temporal lobe. Conflicting experimental results regarding the role of the hippocampus in nonspatial forms of such memories have been attributed to species, task, and lesion discrepancies. We have overcome obstacles that have prevented a direct evaluation of the role of the hippocampus in this type of memory by developing for rats a nonspatial, picture-based, trial-unique, delayed matching-to-sample task that is a procedural analogue of standard visual recognition memory tasks used in primates. With this task, we demonstrate that rats have a visual memory profile, which is analogous to that in primates and depends on the function of perirhinal cortex. We also find that selective lesions of hippocampus impair delay-dependent visual memory with a profile different from that produced by damage to the perirhinal cortex. These data demonstrate that rats have a visual recognition memory system fundamentally similar to primates that depends on the function of the hippocampus.
The expression of the neuropeptide galanin is markedly up-regulated in many areas of the central and peripheral nervous system after injury. We have recently demonstrated that peripheral sensory neurons depend on galanin for neurite extension after injury, mediated by activation of the second galanin receptor subtype (GALR2). We therefore hypothesized that galanin might also act in a similar manner in the CNS, reducing cell death in hippocampal models of excitotoxicity. Here we report that galanin acts an endogenous neuroprotective factor to the hippocampus in a number of in vivo and in vitro models of injury. Kainate-induced hippocampal cell death was greater in both the CA1 and CA3 regions of galanin knockout animals than in WT controls. Similarly, exposure to glutamate or staurosporine induced significantly more neuronal cell death in galanin knockout organotypic and dispersed primary hippocampal cultures than in WT controls. Conversely, less cell death was observed in the hippocampus of galanin overexpressing transgenic animals after kainate injection and in organotypic cultures after exposure to staurosporine. Further, exogenous galanin or the previously described high-affinity GALR2 agonist, both reduced cell death when coadministered with glutamate or staurosporine in WT cultures. These results demonstrate that galanin acts an endogenous neuroprotective factor to the hippocampus and imply that a galanin agonist might have therapeutic uses in some forms of brain injury.
Anopheles gambiae is a highly anthropophilic mosquito responsible for the majority of malaria transmission in Africa. The biting and host preference behavior of this disease vector is largely influenced by its sense of smell, which is presumably facilitated by G protein-coupled receptor signaling [Takken, W. &amp; Knols, B. (1999) Annu. Rev. Entomol. 44, 131-157]. Because of the importance of host preference to the mosquitoes' ability to transmit disease, we have initiated studies intended to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying olfaction in An. gambiae. In the course of these studies, we have identified a number of genes potentially involved in signal transduction, including a family of candidate odorant receptors. One of these receptors, encoded by GPRor7 (hereafter referred to as AgOr7), is remarkably similar to an odorant receptor that is expressed broadly in olfactory tissues and has been identified in Drosophila melanogaster and other insects [Krieger, J., Klink, O., Mohl, C., Raming, K. &amp; Breer, H. (2003) J. Comp. Physiol. A 189, 519-526; Vosshall, L. B., Amrein, H., Morozov, P. S., Rzhetsky, A. &amp; Axel, R. (1999) Cell 96, 725-736]. We have observed AgOr7 expression in olfactory and gustatory tissues in adult An. gambiae and during several stages of the mosquitoes' development. Within the female adult peripheral chemosensory system, antiserum against the AgOR7 polypeptide labels most sensilla of the antenna and maxillary palp as well as a subset of proboscis sensilla. Furthermore, AgOR7 antiserum labeling is observed within the larval antenna and maxillary palpus. These results are consistent with a role for AgOr7 in both olfaction and gustation in An. gambiae and raise the possibility that AgOr7 orthologs may also be of general importance to both modalities of chemosensation in other insects.
A series of tricyclic pyridones has been evaluated as benzodiazepine site ligands with functional selectivity for the alpha(3) over the alpha(1) containing subtype of the human GABA(A) receptor ion channel. This investigation led to the identification of a high affinity, functionally selective, orally bioavailable benzodiazepine site ligand that demonstrated activity in rodent anxiolysis models and reduced sedation relative to diazepam.

We examined the influence of prenatal stress on 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, 5 mg/kg p.o.) pharmacokinetics in adolescent female SD rats (30 days). Our results indicate that the metabolic rate of MDMA was higher in the prenatal stress group than in the control group. Moreover, MDMA-induced motor alterations were increased in prenatally stressed rats. These findings provide evidence that (i) prenatal stress increases sensitivity to MDMA, (ii) these effects are already detectable at the adolescent stage and (iii) early differences in metabolism may play a role in the behavioural changes associated with this drug of abuse.
Neural precursor cells from adults have exceptional proliferative and differentiative capability in vitro yet respond minimally to in vivo brain injury due to constraining mechanisms that are poorly defined. We assessed whether cell cycle inhibitors that restrict stem cell populations in other tissues may participate in limiting neural stem cell reactivity in vivo. The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p21cip1/waf1 (p21), maintains hematopoietic stem cell quiescence, and we evaluated its role in the regenerative response of neural tissue after ischemic injury using the mice deficient in p21. Although steady-state conditions revealed no increase in primitive cell proliferation in p21-null mice, a significantly larger fraction of quiescent neural precursors was activated in the hippocampus and subventricular zone after brain ischemia. The hippocampal precursors migrated and differentiated into a higher number of neurons after injury. Therefore, p21 is an intrinsic suppressor to neural regeneration after brain injury and may serve as a common molecular regulator restricting proliferation among stem cell pools from distinct tissue types.
Extreme over-reliance on the impaired forelimb following unilateral lesions of the forelimb representation area of the rat sensorimotor cortex (FL-SMC) leads to exaggeration of injury when overuse is begun during the first week, but not later periods, after injury. Behavioral impairment is partially worsened by the additional tissue loss. In the present study, we show that complete disuse of the impaired forelimb during the first post-operative week renders surviving tissue vulnerable to later overuse of the same limb, in effect extending the window of vulnerability in which use-dependent exaggeration of brain injury can occur. Behavioral recovery is disrupted by complete disuse, but the degree of impairment is variable depending on the nature of the behavioral test employed. Our results uphold the idea that mild rehabilitative training early after injury is beneficial, while either extreme overuse or complete disuse may disrupt functional recovery.
In a previous study on anxiety-related behaviours of the genetically and behaviourally distant inbred mouse strains C57BL/6 and BALB/c using the Elevated plus-maze (EPM) and Open-field (OF) apparatuses, we identified a number of variables, the factorial scores of which were grouped by principal component analysis (PCA) into factors specifically describing each inbred strain. We have now studied the effect of C57BL/6 and BALB/c haploid sets of genes on this behaviour by comparing EPM and OF variables of C57BL/6 and BALB/c versus C57BL/6 x BALB/c F1 hybrids (B6CBF1) and chimeric C57BL/6 x BALB/c (CHIM) mice. CHIM mice were made by embryo aggregation and the chimerism degree of their brain was inferred from coat black/white distribution. Discriminant analysis of EPM and OF factorial scores of C57BL/6, BALB/c and CHIM mice showed that CHIM mice with an exceeding (&gt; or =80%) C57BL/6 or BALB/c coat component had behaviours similar to those of the predominant strain, whereas CHIM mice with intermediate chimerism differed from both inbred strains. Additional MANOVA analysis showed that the anxiety behaviour of CHIM mice with intermediate chimerism was similar to that of B6CBF1 mice as for factors not describing the inbred strains, including a motor activity mostly limited to protected areas, with attempts to approach the anxiogenic areas while processing/storing the external information. We conclude that the balanced presence of both C57BL/6 and BALB/c genetic backgrounds, either when carried by the same cell or by different cells, gives rise to a novel stress coping strategy described by factors different from those of the inbred strains.
Recent studies have shown that the activation of NMDA receptors can induce rapid changes in dendritic morphology and synaptic recruitment of AMPA receptors in dendritic spines. Here, we analyze the time course of NMDA receptor-induced changes in dendrite morphology and recruitment of AMPA receptors to synapses in cultured neurons. Activation of NMDA receptors causes a rapid transient increase in the size of preexisting spines and then the gradual formation of new dendritic protrusions and spines. NMDA receptor activation also induced GFP-tagged AMPA receptors to cluster in dendrites and to be inserted into the surface of dendritic spines. These results indicate that NMDA receptor activation induces several phases of dendritic plasticity, initial expansion of dendritic spines, followed by the de novo formation of spines and AMPA receptor dendritic clustering and surface expression on spines. Each of these forms of plasticity may have significant effects on the efficacy of synaptic transmission.
Genetic calcium probes offer tremendous potential in the fields of neuroscience, cell biology, and pharmaceutical screening. Previously, ratiometric and non-ratiometric indicators of cellular calcium dynamics have been described that consist of mutants of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) as fluorophores and calmodulin as calcium-binding moiety in several configurations. However, these calmodulin-based types of probes have a series of deficiencies, such as reduced dynamic ranges, when expressed within transgenic organisms and lack of calcium sensitivity in certain targetings. We developed novel types of calcium probes based on troponin C variants from skeletal and cardiac muscle. These indicators have ratio changes up to 140%, K(d)s ranging from 470 nm to 29 microm, and improved subcellular targeting properties. We targeted the indicators to the plasma membrane of HEK293 cells and primary hippocampal neurons. Upon long lasting depolarization, submembrane calcium levels in hippocampal neurons were found to be in equilibrium with bulk cytosolic calcium levels, suggesting no standing gradient persists from the membrane toward the cytosol. We expect that such novel indicators using specialized calcium sensing proteins will be minimally interacting with the cellular biochemical machinery.
Serine 171 in the GABA(A) receptor gamma2 subunit is highly conserved in the ligand-gated ion channel superfamily. In this paper, we report that mutating serine 171 within gamma2 to glycine or cysteine prevents the interaction of gamma2 with alpha2 and beta1 when these subunits are co-expressed in human embryo kidney 293 cells, resulting in intracellular retention of gamma2. Structure analysis based on a three-dimensional homology model of gamma2 (Ernst, M., Brauchart, D., Boresch, S., and Sieghart, W. (2003) Neuroscience 119, 933-943) reveals that serine 171 may play a critical role in the formation and stabilization of an exposed turn structure that is part of the subunit interaction site. Mutation of serine 171 in the gamma2 subunit could therefore result in alteration of the structure of the subunit interaction site, preventing correct subunit assembly.
Eph receptors and their cognate ligands ephrins are important players in axon guidance and neural patterning during development of the nervous system. Much of our knowledge about the signal transduction pathways triggered by Eph receptors has been related to the modulation of actin cytoskeleton, which is fundamental in mediating the cellular responses in growth cone navigation, cell adhesion, and cell migration. In contrast, little was known about whether long term activation of Eph receptor would regulate gene expression. Here we report a novel signaling pathway of EphA4, which involves activation of the tyrosine kinase Jak2 and the transcriptional activator Stat3. Transfection of COS7 cells with EphA4, but not the kinase-dead mutant, induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Jak2, Stat1, and Stat3. Treatment of cultured C2C12 myotubes with ephrin-A1 also induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3, which was abolished by the Jak2 inhibitor AG490. Moreover, Jak2 was co-immunoprecipitated with EphA4 in muscle, and both proteins were concentrated at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) of adult muscle. By using microarray analysis, we have identified acetylcholinesterase, the critical enzyme that hydrolyzed the neurotransmitter acetylcholine at the NMJ, as a downstream target gene of the Jak/Stat pathway in muscle. More importantly, ephrin-A1 increased the expression of acetylcholinesterase protein in C2C12 myotubes, which was abolished by AG490. In contrast, ephrin-A1 reduced the expression of fibronectin mRNA in C2C12 myotubes independently of Jak2. Finally, the expression level of acetylcholinesterase in limb muscle of EphA4 null mice was significantly reduced compared with the wild-type control. Taken together, these results have identified Jak/Stat proteins as the novel downstream targets of EphA4 signaling. In addition, the present study provides the first demonstration of a potential function of Eph receptors and Jak/Stat proteins at the NMJ.
The modifier of cell adhesion protein (MOCA), or Dock3, initially identified as presenilin-binding protein (PBP), belongs to the Dock180 family of proteins and is localized specifically in neurons. Here we demonstrate that MOCA binds to Rac1 and enhances its activity, which leads to the activation of c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) and causes changes in cell morphology. Farnesylated MOCA, which is localized in the plasma membrane, enhances the activation of Rac1 and JNK more markedly than wild-type MOCA, and cells expressing farnesylated MOCA show flattened morphology similar to those expressing a constitutive active mutant of Rac1, Rac1Q61L. On poly-d-lysine-coated dishes, endogenous MOCA is concentrated on the leading edge of broad membrane protrusions (lamellipodia) where actin filaments are co-localized. MOCA is also concentrated with actin on the growth cone in primary cultures of cortical neurons. These observations suggest that MOCA may induce cytoskeletal reorganization and changes in cell adhesion by regulating the activity of Rac1.
In adult mammals, the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin acts on the brain to reduce food intake by regulating the activity of neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH). Here, we report that neural projection pathways from the ARH are permanently disrupted in leptin-deficient (Lepob/Lepob) mice and leptin treatment in adulthood does not reverse these neuroanatomical defects. However, treatment of Lepob/Lepob neonates with exogenous leptin rescues the development of ARH projections, and leptin promotes neurite outgrowth from ARH neurons in vitro. These results suggest that leptin plays a neurotrophic role during the development of the hypothalamus and that this activity is restricted to a neonatal critical period that precedes leptin's acute regulation of food intake in adults.

This research is an attempt to gain a comprehensive insight into alexithymia in schizophrenia. Previous studies offered clinically-descriptive and phenomenologically oriented suggestions regarding alexithymia putative contribution in shaping schizophrenic psychopathology. However, the factorial structure of the scales used to assess alexithymia had never been applied to a schizophrenic sample as a preliminary step to interpret results, thus assuming the purported dimensions of the alexithymia construct (i.e. difficulties identifying feelings, difficulties describing feelings, and externally oriented thinking) to be transnosographically stable. In order to explore the psychopathologic meaning and interrelations with other schizophrenic symptoms, we evaluated 76 chronic schizophrenic outpatients using the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale, standardized measures of positive, negative, disorganized and depressive symptoms, social and physical anhedonia scales, and the Bonn Scale for the Assessment of Basic Symptoms. The principal component analysis ofTAS-20 items revealed a 4-factor structure with multiple correlations with psychotic, disorganized, depressive, anhedonic dimensions and basic symptoms. The data suggest that alexithymia in schizophrenia is more heterogeneous than was previously recognized, and has several components, some of which are more state-related, and others of which are more like trait features. Those components are specifically correlated with both overt and subjective dimensions of schizophrenic psychopathology.

In the congenital bilateral perisylvian syndrome, pseudobulbar symptoms, cognitive deficits and cortical malformations in the perisylvian region are typical features. We report two initially magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) negative patients from our epilepsy surgery program that shared the same seizure and ictal SPECT characteristics suggesting seizure onset localized in the perisylvian region. In one patient, reevaluation revealed perisylvian cortical malformation on MRI while in the other patient MRI was normal. In these patients, subtraction ictal SPECT coregistered with MRI (SISCOM) proved useful together with clinical data in diagnosing the patients with mild forms of perisylvian syndrome.


Astroglia are important in immunocompetence and response to injury within the CNS. Activated astroglia respond, in part, by expressing inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS) and subsequent catalytic production of nitric oxide. Results from a previous study in our laboratory, in the human A172 astroglial cell line, revealed that induction of iNOS activity by tumor necrosis factor-alpha + interferon-gamma + interleukin-1 beta was inhibited by 24-h exposure to a high ethanol concentration (200 mM), but enhanced by 50 mM ethanol. In the work reported in this article, we tested the working hypothesis that ethanol acts transcriptionally to modulate cytokine-induced expression of the iNOS gene, NOS2A, in human astroglia. Ethanol, 50 or 200 mM, did not directly alter in vitro catalytic activity of the iNOS enzyme, indicating that ethanol does not affect the enzyme directly. Likewise, ethanol exposure after a 12-h cytokine-stimulation period had no effect on in vivo iNOS activity. However, when cells were simultaneously exposed to ethanol and cytokines for 12 h, in vivo iNOS activity was altered. That ethanol must be present during cytokine stimulation to influence iNOS activity is consistent with a transcriptional mechanism of action. In addition, steady-state expression of iNOS protein and NOS2A mRNA levels were modulated in a biphasic manner by ethanol similar to that noted previously for iNOS activity. These findings strongly support the suggestion that ethanol modulates cytokine-induced iNOS expression in A172 cells at a pretranslational site. These findings should be instrumental in the identification of the critical ethanol-sensitive elements involved in the regulation of NOS2A in human astroglia.
Alcoholic cardiomyopathy is characterized by cardiomegaly, disruptions of myofibrillary architecture, reduced myocardial contractility, decreased ejection fraction, and enhanced risk of stroke and hypertension. Although several mechanisms have been postulated for alcoholic cardiomyopathy, including oxidative damage, accumulation of triglycerides, altered fatty acid extraction, decreased myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity, and impaired protein synthesis, neither the mechanism nor the ultimate toxin has been unveiled. Primary candidates acting as specific toxins of myocardial tissue are ethanol; its first and major metabolic product, acetaldehyde; and fatty acid ethyl esters. Acetaldehyde has been demonstrated to impair directly cardiac contractile function, disrupt cardiac excitation-contractile coupling, and contribute to oxidative damage and lipid peroxidation. Acetaldehyde-elicited cardiac dysfunction may be mediated through cytochrome P450 oxidase, xanthine oxidase, and the stress-signaling cascade. Unfortunately, the most direct approach that can be used to examine toxicity is hampered by the fact that direct intake of acetaldehyde is highly toxic and unsuitable for long-term study. To overcome this obstacle, transgenic mice have been used to alter artificially ethanol/acetaldehyde metabolism, resulting in elevated acetaldehyde concentrations after ethanol ingestion. In this review, we summarize results obtained with the use of transgenic animal models to elucidate the role of acetaldehyde in the mechanism of action in alcoholic cardiomyopathy.

According to the &quot;amyloid hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease,&quot; beta-amyloid is the primary driving force in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. Despite the development of many transgenic mouse lines developing abundant beta-amyloid-containing plaques in the brain, the actual link between amyloid plaques and neuron loss has not been clearly established, as reports on neuron loss in these models have remained controversial. We investigated transgenic mice expressing human mutant amyloid precursor protein APP751 (KM670/671NL and V717I) and human mutant presenilin-1 (PS-1 M146L). Stereologic and image analyses revealed substantial age-related neuron loss in the hippocampal pyramidal cell layer of APP/PS-1 double-transgenic mice. The loss of neurons was observed at sites of Abeta aggregation and surrounding astrocytes but, most importantly, was also clearly observed in areas of the parenchyma distant from plaques. These findings point to the potential involvement of more than one mechanism in hippocampal neuron loss in this APP/PS-1 double-transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

We report that administration of paroxetine, a widely prescribed antidepressant drug that acts by inhibiting reuptake of the neurotransmitter serotonin, suppresses the neurodegenerative process and increases the survival of huntingtin mutant mice, an animal model of Huntington's disease (HD). Paroxetine attenuated motor dysfunction and body weight loss and improved glucose metabolism in the HD mice. Paroxetine was beneficial when treatment was initiated before or after the onset of motor dysfunction, suggesting a potential for such antidepressant drugs in the treatment of presymptomatic and symptomatic HD patients.
The study describes the clinical and pathological findings in 12 patients with relapsing and remitting multiple sclerosis, who died during or shortly after the onset of a relapse. Pathological changes not previously associated with the formation of new symptomatic lesions were observed in seven cases, namely, extensive oligodendrocyte apoptosis and microglial activation in myelinated tissue containing few or no lymphocytes or myelin phagocytes. No current laboratory model of multiple sclerosis, in particular, experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, is known with these features, which raises the possibility of some novel process underlying new lesion formation in multiple sclerosis.
The roof of the parapharyngeal space (PPS) is poorly defined. Although it is generally described as having prestyloid and poststyloid compartments, we believe that these terms are imprecise. Therefore, we define its boundaries, partition, and compartments. We completed macroanatomical and microanatomical dissections in 10 specimens from 5 human cadaver heads; bone measurements in 50 dry skulls; and axial and coronal cross-sectional studies in 2 cadaveric specimens. The PPS roof is bordered laterally by the medial pterygoid fascia and medially by the pharyngobasilar fascia. The tensor veli palatini fascia (TVPF) partitions this roof into an anterolateral compartment containing fat and part of the deep lobe of the parotid gland, and a posteromedial compartment containing the cartilaginous part of the eustachian tube, internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and cranial nerves IX through XII. The anteroposterior length measures 32 mm (range, 26.1 to 36.9 mm), and the mediolateral width measures 16.3 mm (range, 12.1 to 21.3 mm). The PPS roof has 3 important bony landmarks (ie, scaphoid fossa, styloid process, sphenoid spine); 3 important fasciae (ie, medial pterygoid fascia, TVPF, pharyngobasilar fascia); and 2 compartments, which are anterolateral and posteromedial to the TVPF. We believe that this is the first report to specifically focus on the roof of the PPS.

Structure-activity relationships of homopiperazine-containing alkoxybiaryl nitriles employing various D-amino acid moieties and their N-furanoyl analogues were undertaken. This led to A-320436, a potent and selective non-imidazole H(3)-receptor antagonist possessing balanced affinity for both rat and human H(3)-receptors. This compound was shown to demonstrate in vitro and in vivo functional antagonism and is non-neurotoxic at doses (i.p.) up to 163 mg/kg in a general observation test.



Cholinergic agonists produce spinal antinociception via mechanisms involving an increased release of intraspinal acetylcholine. The cholinergic receptor system interacts with several other receptor types, such as alpha2-adrenergic receptors. To fully understand these interactions, the effects of various receptor ligands on the cholinergic system must be investigated in detail. This study was initiated to investigate the effects of the alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonists clonidine and rilmenidine and the alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonists yohimbine and efaroxan on spinal cholinergic receptors in the rat. Spinal microdialysis was used to measure in vivo changes of acetylcholine after administration of the ligands, with or without nicotinic receptor blockade. In addition, in vitro binding properties of the ligands on muscarinic and nicotinic receptors were investigated. It was found that clonidine and rilmenidine increased, while yohimbine decreased spinal acetylcholine release. Efaroxan affected acetylcholine release differently depending on concentration. Nicotinic receptor blockade attenuated the effect of all ligands. All ligands showed poor binding affinity for muscarinic receptors. On the other hand, all ligands possessed affinity for nicotinic receptors. Clonidine and yohimbine binding was best fit to a one site binding curve and rilmenidine and efaroxan to a two site binding curve. The present study demonstrates that the tested alpha2-adrenergic receptor ligands affect intraspinal acetylcholine release in the rat evoked by nicotinic receptor mechanisms in vivo, and that they possess binding affinity to nicotinic receptors in vitro. The binding of alpha2-adrenergic receptor ligands to nicotinic receptors might affect the intraspinal release of acetylcholine.
The acoustic startle reflex (ASR) is potentiated during negative emotion, but attenuated during positive emotional experience. The modulation of the ASR by fear depends critically on the amygdala. The authors investigated ASR modulation to fearful, disgusting, pleasant, and neutral stimuli in 12 patients with unilateral damage to the anteromedial temporal lobe including the amygdala (6 left, 6 right), 1 patient with bilateral temporal lobe damage including the amygdala, and 12 comparison participants. Both groups with unilateral damage, as well as the subject with bilateral damage, showed a complete lack of ASR potentiation to both fear and disgust stimuli. The findings suggest that potentiation of the ASR by disgust and fear depends on the integrity of the anteromedial temporal lobe.
The authors investigated lateralization of spatial learning within the avian hippocampal formation (HF). In Experiment 1, homing pigeons (Columba livia) with unilateral lesions of the right or left HF were trained to locate a goal in a square room containing local landmarks and global room cues. All groups learned the task. During probe trials, when landmarks were rotated or removed, intact pigeons and left HF-lesioned pigeons relied exclusively on global room cues to locate the food goal. Pigeons with right HF lesions were the only group to demonstrably use the landmarks. The results suggest that the right HF is preferentially involved in the representation of global environmental space, whereas only the left HF may be sensitive to local landmarks for navigation.
In rat selectively bred for different amygdala kindling rates (Fast vs. Slow), comorbid differences in learning were detected. Here, performance was tested in a delayed alternation task before, during, and after kindling. Although similar reference memory was evident, Fast rats showed working memory deficits with increasing delays between information and choice trials. Further, seizures shortly before learning disrupted both reference and working memory in Fast, but not Slow, rats. Weeks after kindling, progressive delays further disrupted Fast rats, but only longer delays disrupted Slow rats. Clearly relevant to individual differences in human epilepsy, a temporal lobe, seizure-prone genetic background in rats provides poorer original learning and easier disruption of new learning by recent and past seizures than a seizure-resistant background.
Pervasive developmental disorders such as autism are characterized by deficits in social interaction and communication. Disturbed development of limbic structures such as the amygdala might underlie these deficits. The authors examined the effects of amygdala lesions on Postnatal Day 7 and juvenile isolation (2 weeks of individual housing during Weeks 4 and 5 of life) on rat locomotor and social activity later in life. Before puberty, but more pronounced after puberty, lesioned rats displayed enhanced locomotor activity. Adult social behavior was selectively disturbed by the lesion and the isolation procedure. In particular, the combination of neonatal lesions and juvenile isolation severely disrupted social interaction. These results suggest that a combination of neonatal amygdala damage and juvenile isolation may serve as an animal model of certain psychopathological neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism.
Sniffing, a behavior that enhances detection and localization of odorants, is typically assumed to require behavioral arousal. In an effort to determine whether sniffing and arousal are dissociable, dimethyl disulfide (DMDS) was presented to 8-day-old rats while respiration and behavioral state were monitored. Pups sniffed in response to the highest concentrations of DMDS, exhibiting a lower olfactory threshold when awake. Surprisingly, sniffing occurred even while pups remained asleep. Sniffing was mediated by the olfactory system, as evidenced by the abolition of sniffing when the lateral olfactory tracts, were cut and the retention of rapid arousal in response to a trigeminal stimulant, acetic acid. Finally, sleeping pups presented with acetic acid awakened without sniffing. Thus, although olfactory threshold increases during sleep, sleeping does not preclude sniffing.
Synaptophysin (Syp) was the first synaptic vesicle (SV) protein to be cloned. Since its discovery in 1985, it has been used by us and by many laboratories around the world as an invaluable marker to study the distribution of synapses in the brain and to uncover the basic features of the life cycle of SVs. Although single gene ablation of Syp does not lead to an overt phenotype, a large body of experimental data both in vitro and in vivo indicate that Syp (alone or in association with homologous proteins) is involved in multiple, important aspects of SV exo-endocytosis, including regulation of SNARE assembly into the fusion core complex, formation of the fusion pore initiating neurotransmitter release, activation of SV endocytosis and SV biogenesis. In this article, we summarise the main results of the studies on Syp carried out by our and other laboratories, and explain why we believe that Syp plays a major role in SV trafficking.

Three-dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA) was employed for perioperative evaluation of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) as an alternative to conventional angiography. A total of 62 carotid arteries were examined before and after CEA, 26 with an early 3D-CT system and 36 with multidetector helical CT allowing sophisticated reconstruction by a personal workstation. In addition to patients who had undergone conventional angiography at other institutes, 10 subjects underwent CEA on the basis of 3D-CTA findings alone. The findings provided detailed information with an excellent view of carotid stenoses. Volume rendering images comprehensively visualized lesions and surrounding structures as well as calcifications, which were also well depicted by maximum intensity projection images. Evaluation of the cerebral circulation is one problem that still requires solution, although cerebral vessels were delineated by 3D-CTA. One patient experienced transient hemiparesis, but no significant permanent deficit. We conclude that 3D-CTA is a safe and accurate modality that is a practical alternative to conventional perioperative angiography.

The irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a gastrointestinal motility disorder affecting millions of patients. IBS symptoms include diarrhea, constipation and pain. The etiology of IBS is due partly to changes in the function of nerves supplying the gastrointestinal tract, immune system activation and to psychological factors. P2X receptors are multimeric ATP-gated cation channels expressed by neuronal and non-neuronal cells. Sensory nerve endings in the gastrointestinal tract express P2X receptors. ATP released from gastrointestinal cells activates P2X receptors on sensory nerve endings to stimulate motor reflexes and to transmit nociceptive signals. Antagonists acting at P2X receptors on sensory nerves could attenuate abdominal pain in IBS patients. Primary afferent neurons intrinsic to the gut, and enteric motor- and interneurons express P2X receptors. These neurons participate in motor reflexes. Agonists acting at enteric P2X receptors may enhance gastrointestinal propulsion and secretion, and these drugs could be useful for treating constipation-predominant IBS. Antagonists acting at enteric P2X receptors would decrease propulsion and secretion and they might be useful for treating diarrhea-predominant IBS. Current knowledge of P2X receptor distribution and function in the gut of laboratory animals provides a rational basis for further exploration of the therapeutic potential for drugs acting at P2X receptors in IBS patients. However, more information about P2X receptor distribution and function in the human gastrointestinal tract is needed. Data on the distribution and function of P2X receptors on gastrointestinal immune cells would also provide insights into the therapeutic potential of P2X receptor agents in IBS.
This article summarizes the ongoing challenges in irritable bowel syndrome and the exciting opportunities for development of novel therapies for this common, enigmatic condition. The challenges include insufficient understanding of mechanisms, lack of specificity of symptoms, differentiation from other conditions, and lack of availability of noninvasive tests to identify dysfunctions. However, significant opportunities are reflected by the advances in clinical trial design and, particularly, clinically relevant end points for such trials, and the increasing understanding of basic neuroenteric science. The latter has delivered two new medications to the practice (alosetron and tegaserod), and other candidate therapies (other serotonergic, tachykininergic, opioid, cannabinoid modulators) are being carefully appraised as potential drugs for the future.
The striatum has been widely implicated in cognition, but a precise understanding of its role remains elusive. Here we present converging evidence for the role of the striatum in feedback-based learning. In a prior functional imaging study, healthy controls showed striatal activity during a feedback-based learning task, which was decreased when the same task was learned without feedback. In the present study, we show that individuals with striatal dysfunction due to Parkinson's disease are impaired on the feedback-based task, but not on a non-feedback version of the same task. Parkinson's patients and controls also used different learning strategies depending on feedback structure. This study provides direct behavioural evidence from humans that cortico-striatal systems are necessary for feedback-based learning on a cognitive task. These findings also link between learning impairments in Parkinson's disease and the physiological and computational evidence for the role of midbrain dopaminergic systems in feedback processing.
The ability of humans to predict and explain other people's behaviour by attributing to them independent mental states, such as desires and beliefs, is considered to be due to our ability to construct a 'Theory of Mind'. Recently, several neuroimaging studies have implicated the medial frontal lobes as playing a critical role in a dedicated 'mentalizing' or 'Theory of Mind' network in human brains. Here, we report a patient, G.T., who suffered an exceptionally rare form of stroke-bilateral anterior cerebral artery infarction, without rupture or the complications associated with anterior communicating artery aneurysms. Detailed high-resolution neuroanatomical investigations revealed extensive damage to the medial frontal lobes bilaterally, including regions identified to be critical for 'Theory of Mind' by functional neuroimaging of healthy human subjects. For the first time in such a patient, we carried out a thorough assessment of her cognitive profile including, critically, an experimental investigation of her performance on a range of tests of 'Theory of Mind'. G.T. had a dysexecutive syndrome characterized by impairments in planning and memory, as well as a tendency to confabulate. Importantly, however, she did not have any significant impairment on tasks probing her ability to construct a 'Theory of Mind', demonstrating that the extensive medial frontal regions destroyed by her stroke are not necessary for this function. These findings have important implications for the functional anatomy of 'Theory of Mind', as well as our understanding of medial frontal function. Possible reasons for the discrepancies between our results and neuroimaging studies are discussed. We conclude that our findings urge caution against using functional imaging as the sole method of establishing cognitive neuroanatomy.
The aim of our study was to assess abnormalities in 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A (5-HT1A) receptor density in patients suffering from refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Experimental data in animals show that 5-HT1A receptors are predominantly located in limbic areas, and that serotonin, via these receptors, mediates an antiepileptic and anticonvulsant effect. In TLE patients, we quantified 5-HT1A receptor density in epileptogenic and non-epileptogenic areas, as defined by intracranial recordings with stereo-electroencephalography (SEEG). Nine TLE patients and 53 control subjects were studied by PET using a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist ([18F]MPPF). Anatomical regions of interest (ROIs) were drawn on patient and control MRIs co-registered with PET. PET data were quantified using a simplified model to assess binding potential (BP) values in each ROI, with cerebellum as reference. For each patient, a normalized percentage BP change was calculated as the relative variation of BP in each ROI compared with the corresponding ROI in control subjects. In patients, ROIs explored by SEEG were categorized according to their degree of epileptic activity (ictal onset, ictal spreading, interictal spikes, no epileptic activity) and according to their lesional aspect and volume (lesional with volume loss, lesional without volume loss, non-lesional). Compared with control values, the binding to 5-HT1A receptors in TLE patients was decreased in the epileptogenic temporal lobe. BP decrease was significantly greater in: (i) regions involved in the seizure onset than regions where only interictal paroxysms or no epileptic activity was recorded; and (ii) regions where the discharge propagated than regions where only interictal paroxysms or no epileptic activity was recorded. BP decrease was shown to be significantly influenced by the existence of a lesion on MRI. However, in the group of ROIs with normal quantitative and qualitative MRI aspect, BP decrease remained strongly correlated to the degree of epileptic activity. This study shows that in vivo availability of 5-HT1A receptors is decreased in epileptic patients compared with normal subjects. This decrease is highly correlated to the degree of epileptogenicity of cortical areas explored by intracerebral recordings, and does not reflect only pathological changes or neuronal loss in the epileptic focus.
Semantic dementia is a focal clinical syndrome, resulting from degeneration of the temporal lobes and characterized by progressive loss of conceptual knowledge about the world. Because of the highly circumscribed nature of the disorder it is a natural model for improving understanding of how semantic information is cerebrally represented. There is currently a lack of consensus. One view proposes the existence of modality specific meaning systems, in which visual and verbal information are stored separately. An opposing view assumes that information is represented by a unitary, amodal semantic system. The present study explores these alternatives in an examination of famous face and name knowledge in 15 patients with semantic dementia. The study of face recognition in patients with an established semantic disorder also permits an examination of the relationship between semantic dementia and the focal clinical syndrome of progressive prosopagnosia. The semantic dementia patients were profoundly impaired on both face and name identification and familiarity judgement tasks compared with amnesic patients with Alzheimer's disease and healthy controls. However, whereas the two reference groups performed better for names than faces, the semantic group showed the opposite pattern. This overall profile masked individual differences: semantic dementia patients with predominant left temporal lobe atrophy showed better recognition of names than faces, whereas patients with right temporal predominance showed the reverse pattern. Relative superiority for names or faces was mirrored by corresponding superiority for words or pictures on a standard semantic test. We interpret the findings as inconsistent with a unitary, amodal model of semantic memory. However, the data are not wholly compatible with a strict multiple system account. The data favour a model of semantic memory comprising a single interconnected network, with dedicated brain regions representing modality specific information. The data emphasize the importance of the anterior, inferolateral parts of the left temporal lobe for the representation of names and the corresponding parts of the right temporal lobe for faces. Dissociations between face and name knowledge provide a challenge for existing models of face processing. Moreover, they lead us to argue that the focal syndrome of progressive prosopagnosia is one of the clinical presentations of semantic dementia and not a separate clinical entity.
The frontal lobes are widely implicated in logical reasoning. Recent neuroimaging studies suggest that frontal lobe involvement in reasoning is asymmetric (L&gt;R) and increases with the presence of familiar, meaningful content in the reasoning situation. However, neuroimaging data can only provide sufficiency criteria. To determine the necessity of prefrontal involvement in logical reasoning, we tested 19 patients with focal frontal lobe lesions and 19 age- and education-matched normal controls on the Wason Card Selection Task, while manipulating social knowledge. Patients and controls performed equivalently on the arbitrary rule condition. Normal controls showed the expected improvement in the social knowledge conditions, but frontal lobe patients failed to show this facilitation in performance. Furthermore, left hemisphere patients were more affected than right hemisphere patients, suggesting that frontal lobe involvement in reasoning is asymmetric (L&gt;R) and necessary for reasoning about social situations.
Although the basal ganglia play an important role in self-generated movement, their involvement in externally paced voluntary movement is less clear. We recorded local field potentials (LFPs) from the region of the subthalamic nuclei of eight patients with Parkinson's disease during the performance of a warned reaction time task in which an imperative cue instructed the subject to move or not to move. In 'go' trials, LFP activity in the beta frequency band ( approximately 20 Hz) decreased prior to movement, with an onset latency that strongly correlated with mean reaction time across patients. This was followed by a late post-movement increase in beta power. In contrast, in 'nogo' trials the beta power drop following imperative signals was prematurely terminated compared with go trials and reversed into an early beta power increase. These differences were manifest as power increases when go trials were subtracted from nogo trials. In six patients these relative beta power increases in nogo-go difference trials were of shorter latency than the respective reaction time. The findings suggest that, firstly, the subthalamic nucleus is involved in the preparation of externally paced voluntary movements in humans and, secondly, the degree of synchronization of subthalamic nucleus activity in the beta band may be an important determinant of whether motor programming and movement initiation is favoured or suppressed.
Suitable normative information on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is not currently available, though it is clear that there is great individual variability in performance on this assessment tool. Given that the task is presumed to measure the emotion-based learning systems that are thought to form the biological basis of 'intuition,' there is some reason to think that education (especially tertiary education) might explicitly de-emphasise the role of emotion-based learning in decision-making. This suggests the paradoxical finding that better-educated participants should show poorer performance on the IGT. We recruited 30 participants (all female, all aged 18-25) to participate in a 'real money' version of the IGT. There was no significant difference in performance in blocks 1-3 of the task (trials 1-60). However, there was a substantial effect of education on the final two blocks (trials 61-100), such that the less-well-educated participants produced twice as much of an improvement over baseline as did their university-educated colleagues. A range of possible explanations for this remarkable finding are discussed. The most likely appears to be that tertiary education specifically discourages the use of emotion-based learning systems in decision-making. These findings bear on the extent to which education has a role to play in our reliance on cognition and emotion in decision-making, including the likely role of education in the generation and maintenance of false beliefs.

Though it has long been known on the basis of clinical associations and serendipitous observation that speech rate is related to mood and psychomotor baseline, it is less known that speech rate is also related to libido and to immune function. We make the case for a bipolar phenomenon of &quot;psychic tonus,&quot; encompassing all these dimensions. The elated, agitated, libidinal, immunofacilitated, and talkative pole is an &quot;approach&quot; disposition primarily activated by the normal left hemisphere-especially, though not exclusively, its frontal lobe. The dejected, lethargic, delibidinized, immunosuppressed, and mute pole is an &quot;avoidance&quot; disposition primarily activated by the normal right hemisphere-especially, though not exclusively, its frontal lobe. In support of this proposed model, we present new evidence, via meta-analysis of previously published single lesion case reports, of a highly significant association between right hemisphere lesions and non-aphasic hyperlalia, and between left hemisphere lesions and non-aphasic mutism.
The effect of two linguistic factors in Broca's and Wernicke's aphasia was examined using Dutch and English subjects. Three tasks were used to test (1). the comprehension and (2). the construction of sentences, where verbs (in Dutch) and verb arguments (in Dutch and English) are in canonical versus non-canonical position; (3). the production of finite versus infinitive verbs. Proportions of errors as well as types of errors made by each aphasic group are similar on the sentence comprehension and sentence anagram tasks. On the verb production task the performance pattern is, again, the same, but the error types are different. The discussion focuses on how the similarities and differences across languages and across aphasia types may be interpreted with respect to the underlying deficit in Broca's and Wernicke's aphasia.
Positron emission tomography was used to investigate whether the motor-iconic basis of certain forms in American Sign Language (ASL) partially alters the neural systems engaged during lexical retrieval. Most ASL nouns denoting tools and ASL verbs referring to tool-based actions are produced with a handshape representing the human hand holding a tool and with an iconic movement depicting canonical tool use, whereas the visual iconicity of animal signs is more idiosyncratic and inconsistent across signs. We investigated whether the motor-iconic relation between a sign and its referent alters the neural substrate for lexical retrieval in ASL. Ten deaf native ASL signers viewed photographs of tools/utensils or of actions performed with or without an implement and were asked to overtly produce the ASL sign for each object or action. The control task required subjects to judge the orientation of unknown faces. Compared to the control task, naming tools engaged left inferior and middle frontal gyri, bilateral parietal lobe, and posterior inferotemporal cortex. Naming actions performed with or without a tool engaged left inferior frontal gyrus, bilateral parietal lobe, and posterior middle temporal gyrus at the temporo-occipital junction (area MT). When motor-iconic verbs were compared with non-iconic verbs, no differences in neural activation were found. Overall, the results indicate that even when the form of a sign is indistinguishable from a pantomimic gesture, the neural systems underlying its production mirror those engaged when hearing speakers name tools or tool-based actions with speech.
A number of studies reported that developmental dyslexics are impaired in speech perception, especially for speech signals consisting of rapid auditory transitions. These studies mostly made use of a categorical-perception task with synthetic-speech samples. In this study, we show that deficits in the perception of synthetic speech do not generalise to the perception of more naturally sounding speech, even if the same experimental paradigm is used. This contrasts with the assumption that dyslexics are impaired in the perception of rapid auditory transitions.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is characterized by synthesis of oligoclonal immunoglobulins and the presence of B-cell clonal expansions in the central nervous system (CNS). Because ectopic lymphoid tissue generated at sites of chronic inflammation is thought to be important in sustaining immunopathological processes, we have investigated whether structures resembling lymphoid follicles could be identified in the CNS of MS patients. Sections from post-mortem MS brains and spinal cords were screened using immunohistochemistry for the presence of CD20+ B-cells, CD3+ T-cells, CD138+ plasma cells and CD21+, CD35+ follicular dendritic cells, and for the expression of lymphoid chemokines (CXCL 13, CCL21) and peripheral node addressin (PNAd). Lymphoid follicle-like structures containing B-cells, T-cells and plasma cells, and a network of follicular dendritic cells producing CXCL13 were observed in the cerebral meninges of 2 out of 3 patients with secondary progressive MS, but not in relapsing remitting and primary progressive MS. We also show that proliferating B-cells are present in intrameningeal follicles, a finding which is suggestive of germinal center formation. No follicle-like structures were detected in parenchymal lesions. The formation of ectopic lymphoid follicies in the meninges of patients with MS could represent a critical step in maintaining humoral autoimmunity and in disease exacerbation.
The present paper describes the completion of the bidirectional selective breeding of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB)-sensitive (GHB-S) and GHB-resistant (GHB-R) rats, which display opposite sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic effect of 1 g/kg GHB. Completion of the selective breeding process was achieved by the F10, when 100% of rats of each line fulfilled the selection criterion. GHB-S and GHB-R rats may constitute a valuable tool for investigations on GHB physiology and pharmacology.
Recent electrophysiological studies have shown that the human electroencephalographic mu rhythm is suppressed during the observation of actions performed by other persons, an effect that may be functionally related to the behaviour of so-called &quot;mirror neurons&quot; observed in area F5 of nonhuman primates. Because mirror neuron activity has been reported to be functionally specific to object-oriented actions, the present study was designed to determine if the human mu rhythm also exhibits this property. EEG measurements were obtained from 12 normal subjects while they observed either a precision grip of a manipulandum or an empty grip using the same hand position. Our results showed that the magnitude of the mu rhythm was significantly lower for the object grip condition than for the empty grip condition. These data support the notion that the human mu rhythm indexes a brain system that is functionally comparable to the monkey mirror neuron system. We propose that nonobject-directed actions may result in representational schemas that are either different or less salient than motorically equivalent actions that are directed toward objects.

In the nose, the capacity to detect and react to volatile chemicals is mediated by two separate but interrelated sensory pathways, the olfactory and trigeminal systems. Because most chemosensory stimulants, at sufficient concentration, produce both olfactory and trigeminal sensations (i.e., stinging, burning or pungent), it is relevant to seek how these anatomically distinct systems could interact. This study was designed to evaluate by psychophysical measurements the modifications of the olfactory sensitivity of 20 subjects to phenyl ethyl alcohol (PEA) and butanol (BUT), after trigeminal stimulation with allyl isothiocyanate (AIC). Thresholds obtained in two separate sessions, one with and the other without previous trigeminal stimulation, were compared using a two-alternative forced-choice procedure, with a classical ascending concentrations method. The results showed that, whatever the odorant (PEA or BUT), AIC trigeminal activation produced a decrease in the olfactory thresholds, corresponding to an increase in olfactory sensitivity. These data confirm that in physiological conditions the trigeminal system modulates the activity of olfactory receptor cells but do not exclude the possibility of a central modulation of olfactory information by trigeminal stimuli. These findings are discussed in terms of methodological and physiological conditions.
Although changes in the soleus H-reflex (an electrical analog of the tendon jerk) with age have been examined in a number of studies, some controversy remains. Also, the effect of age on inhibitory reflexes has received little attention. The purpose of this paper was to examine some excitatory and inhibitory reflexes systematically in healthy human subjects having a wide range of ages. We confirmed that both the maximum H-reflex (Hmax) and the maximum M-wave (Mmax) (from direct stimulation of motor axons) decrease gradually with age. The decrease in Hmax was larger so the Hmax/Mmax ratio decreased dramatically with age. Interestingly, the modulation of the H-reflex during walking was essentially the same at all ages, suggesting that the pathways that modulate the H-reflex amplitude during walking are relatively well preserved during the aging process. We showed for the first time that the short-latency, reciprocal inhibitory pathways from the common peroneal nerve to soleus muscle and from the tibial nerve to the tibialis anterior muscle also decreased with age, when measured as a depression of ongoing voluntary activity. These results suggest that there may be a general decrease in excitability of spinal pathways with age. Thus, the use of age-matched controls is particularly important in assessing abnormalities resulting from disorders that occur primarily in the elderly.
Constraint-induced movement therapy (CIMT), which involves restraint of the nonimpaired arm coupled with physiotherapy for the impaired arm, lessens impairment and disability in stroke patients. Surprisingly, immediate ipsilateral forelimb immobilization exacerbates brain injury in rats. We tested whether immediate ipsilateral restraint for 7 days aggravates injury after a devascularization lesion in rats. Furthermore, we hypothesized that ipsilateral restraint aggravates injury by causing hyperthermia. In experiment 1, each rat received two lesions, one in the motor cortex and one in the visual cortex. Ipsilateral restraint increased only the motor cortex lesion. In additional rats, no differences in core temperature occurred after ipsilateral or contralateral restraint. Thus, ipsilateral restraint does not aggravate injury by a systemic side effect. In experiment 2, we hypothesized that ipsilateral restraint causes hyperthermia in the region surrounding the initial cortical lesion. Brain temperature, measured via telemetry, was significantly higher (approximately 1 degrees C for 24 h) with ipsilateral restraint. A third experiment similarly found that ipsilateral restraint aggravates injury and causes local cortical hyperthermia and that contralateral restraint with externally induced mild hyperthermia aggravates injury. In conclusion, immediate ipsilateral restraint aggravates injury apparently by localized events that include hyperthermia. Caution must be exercised in applying early CIMT to humans, as hyperthermia is detrimental.
The popularity of caffeine as a psychoactive drug is due to its stimulant properties, which depend on its ability to reduce adenosine transmission in the brain. Adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptors are expressed in the basal ganglia, a group of structures involved in various aspects of motor control. Caffeine acts as an antagonist to both types of receptors. Increasing evidence indicates that the psychomotor stimulant effect of caffeine is generated by affecting a particular group of projection neurons located in the striatum, the main receiving area of the basal ganglia. These cells express high levels of adenosine A(2A) receptors, which are involved in various intracellular processes, including the expression of immediate early genes and regulation of the dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated 32-kDa phosphoprotein DARPP-32. The present review focuses on the effects of caffeine on striatal signal transduction and on their involvement in caffeine-mediated motor stimulation.
1. The serotonin1A (5-HT1A) receptors are members of a superfamily of seven transmembrane domain receptors that couple to G-proteins. They appear to be involved in various behavioral and cognitive functions. 2. We report here, for the first time, the solubilization of 5-HT1A receptors stably expressed in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells using the zwitterionic detergent CHAPS in presence of NaCl followed by polyethylene glycol (PEG) precipitation. We show by ligand-binding assay that the 5-HT1A receptor solubilized this way is functionally active. We have optimized the efficiency of solubilization with respect to total protein and NaCl concentration. 3. Our results show that careful control of salt and protein concentration is crucial in optimal solubilization of membrane receptors heterologously expressed in cells in culture. The effective solubilization of important neurotransmitter receptors such as 5-HT1A receptors which are present in very low amounts in the native tissue may represent an important step in characterizing membrane receptors expressed in mammalian cells in culture.
1. This study aims (1) to determine whether secretin is synthesized centrally, specifically by the HPA axis and (2) to discuss, on the basis of the findings in this and previous studies, secretin's possible neuroregulatory role in autism. 2. An immunocytochemical technique with single-cell resolution was performed in 12 age/weight-matched male rats pretreated with stereotaxic microinjection of colchicine (0.6 microg/kg) or vehicle into the lateral ventricle. Following 2-day survival, rats were anesthetized and perfused for immunocytochemistry. Brain segments were blocked and alternate frozen 30-microm sections incubated in rabbit antibodies against secretin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, glucagon, or pituitary-adenylate-cyclase-activating peptide. Adjacent sections were processed for Nissl stain. Preadsorption studies were performed with members of the secretin peptide family to demonstrate primary antibody specificity. 3. Specificity of secretin immunoreactivity (ir) was verified by clear-cut preadsorption control data and relatively high concentrations and distinct topographic localization of secretin ir to paraventricular/supraoptic and intercalated hypothalamic nuclei. Secretin levels were upregulated by colchicine, an exemplar of homeostatic stressors, as compared with low constitutive expression in untreated rats. 4. This study provides the first direct immunocytochemical demonstration of secretinergic immunoreactivity in the forebrain and offers evidence that the hypothalamus, like the gut, is capable of synthesizing secretin. Secretin's dual expression by gut and brain secretin cells, as well as its overlapping central distribution with other stress-adaptation neurohormones, especially oxytocin, indicates that it is stress-sensitive. A neuroregulatory relationship between the peripheral and central stress response systems is suggested, as is a dual role for secretin in conditioning both of those stress-adaptation systems. Colchicine-induced upregulation of secretin indicates that secretin may be synthesized on demand in response to stress, a possible mechanism of action that may underlie secretin's role in autism.
Multisensory object-recognition processes were investigated by examining the combined influence of visual and auditory inputs upon object identification--in this case, pictures and vocalizations of animals. Behaviorally, subjects were significantly faster and more accurate at identifying targets when the picture and vocalization were matched (i.e. from the same animal), than when the target was represented in only one sensory modality. This behavioral enhancement was accompanied by a modulation of the evoked potential in the latency range and general topographic region of the visual evoked N1 component, which is associated with early feature processing in the ventral visual stream. High-density topographic mapping and dipole modeling of this multisensory effect were consistent with generators in lateral occipito-temporal cortices, suggesting that auditory inputs were modulating processing in regions of the lateral occipital cortices. Both the timing and scalp topography of this modulation suggests that there are multisensory effects during what is considered to be a relatively early stage of visual object-recognition processes, and that this modulation occurs in regions of the visual system that have traditionally been held to be unisensory processing areas. Multisensory inputs also modulated the visual 'selection-negativity', an attention dependent component of the evoked potential this is usually evoked when subjects selectively attend to a particular feature of a visual stimulus.
It is controversial whether the effects of aging on various cognitive functions have the same common cause or several different causes. To investigate this issue, we scanned younger and older adults with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while performing three different tasks: working memory, visual attention and episodic retrieval. There were three main results. First, in all three tasks, older adults showed weaker occipital activity and stronger prefrontal and parietal activity than younger adults. The occipital reduction is consistent with the view that sensory processing decline is a common cause in cognitive aging, and the prefrontal increase may reflect functional compensation. Secondly, older adults showed more bilateral patterns of prefrontal activity than younger adults during working memory and visual attention tasks. These findings are consistent with the Hemispheric Asymmetry Reduction in Older Adults (HAROLD) model. Finally, compared to younger adults, older adults showed weaker hippocampal formation activity in all three tasks but stronger parahippocampal activity in the episodic retrieval task. The former finding suggests that age-related hippocampal deficits may have a global effect in cognition, and the latter is consistent with an age-related increase in familiarity-based recognition. Taken together, the results indicate that both common and specific factors play an important role in cognitive aging.
Frontotemporal dementia is an underdiagnosed illness with predominant behavioral and executive manifestations. Historically, diagnosis has been based on a combination of clinical history, neuropsychological testing, and brain imaging. No effective treatment currently exists for this disorder. A case is presented using quantitative EEG with methylphenidate challenge correlated with SPECT. The patient underwent neuropsychological testing, a SPECT brain study, and a quantitative EEG, which was repeated after methylphenidate administration. SPECT was significant for hypoperfusion to the bilateral frontotemporal regions, with left-sided hypoperfusion greater than homologous right as demonstrated by LORETA analysis. QEEG correlated with SPECT, and demonstrated profound left greater than right bi-frontotemporal slowing, which normalized partially after methylphenidate administration. The patient has remained on methylphenidate as an outpatient, and has had significant behavioral improvement. Quantitative EEG may provide both diagnostic and therapeutic data with regard to frontotemporal dementia. Further studies of methylphenidate in this population are needed to confirm these data.





Reboxetine is the first commercially available norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor developed specifically as a first line therapy for major depressive disorder. In vitro and in vivo pharmacological studies indicated that reboxetine methanesulphonate has high affinity and selectivity for the human norepinephrine transporter over the serotonin and dopamine transporters. Pharmacological specificity is further demonstrated by the absence of affinity for 45 transmitter receptors and CNS targets. Pharmacokinetic studies demonstrated that reboxetine is suitable for twice daily administration (8-10 mg/day) and that it exhibits minimal drug-drug interactions. The starting dose of reboxetine should be reduced in the elderly, in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, or in patients receiving potent CYP3A inhibitors. A total of 20 phase II/III clinical studies comprising placebo-controlled, active comparator-controlled and open-label uncontrolled studies in both short-term and long-term treatment of major depression have been conducted. In the treatment of major depression, reboxetine was superior to placebo in 5 of 12 short- or long-term placebo-controlled studies and was comparable in efficacy to active comparators in 3 out of 3 active-controlled studies. Unlike conventional tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), reboxetine had only minimal sedative and cardiovascular liabilities, probably due to increased pharmacological specificity of reboxetine as compared with TCAs. Unlike serotonin reuptake inhibitors, this selective and specific norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor demonstrated a distinct side-effect profile with diminishing sexual dysfunction and GI side effects. The availability of this agent has afforded patients suffering from major depressive disorder a new class of agents to combat the debilitating consequence of this psychiatric disease. The demonstrated pharmacological specificity of this compound has provided the psychopharmacology community with a tool to elucidate the role of norepinephrine in brain functions. Testing this agent in different animal models has enabled the exploration of the role of modulation of norepinephrine tone in the therapy of CNS disorders beyond depression.
Techniques such as positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography allow for the imaging of neurotransmitter receptors and transporters in the brain. These tools have been used to investigate serotonergic, dopaminergic, and opioidergic function in healthy subjects as well as in patients with major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, and other mood disorders. Pharmacologic challenges, such as amphetamine challenge, and physiologic stressors, such as pain challenge, have been used to further examine the function of these neurotransmitter systems. Neuroimaging of patient populations before and after medication treatment may be useful to understand changes in neurotransmission that accompany disease remission. As new radiotracers with higher selectivity for the various receptors and transporters are developed, imaging techniques may provide new insights into the pathophysiology of mood disorders, leading to improved diagnosis and treatment.
Neuroimaging studies with positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging have begun to describe the functional neuroanatomy of human emotion. Taken separately, specific studies vary in task dimensions and in type(s) of emotion studied, and are limited by statistical power and sensitivity. By examining findings across studies in a meta-analysis, we sought to determine if common or segregated patterns of activations exist in different emotions and across various emotional tasks. We surveyed over 55 positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging activation studies, which investigated emotion in healthy subjects. This paper will review observations in several regions of interest in limbic (eg, amygdala, anterior cingulate cortex) and paralimbic (eg, medial prefrontal cortex, insula) brain regions in emotional responding.
One of the core issues in psycholinguistic research concerns the relationship between word category information and verb-argument structure (e.g. transitivity) information of verbs in the process of sentence parsing. In two experiments (visual versus auditory presentation) using event-related brain potentials (ERPs), we addressed this question by presenting sentences in which the critical word simultaneously realized both a word category and a transitivity violation. ERPs for sentences with both types of violation clustered with the patterns for sentences with a word category violation only, but were different from the patterns elicited by argument structure violations in isolation, since only the latter elicited an N400 ERP component. The finding that an argument structure violation evoked an N400 only if the phrase structure of the respective sentence was correct suggests that a successful integration of the word category information of a verb functionally precedes the application of its argument structure information.

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) used to be considered impermeable to polypeptides. However, this view has evolved rapidly over the past two decades. Not only do polypeptides have the potential to serve as carriers for selective therapeutic agents, but they themselves may directly cross the BBB after delivery into the bloodstream to become potential treatments for a variety of CNS disorders, including neurodegeneration, autoimmune diseases, stroke, depression, and obesity. The interactions of polypeptides with the BBB can take many forms, such as simple diffusion, saturable transport, or facilitation of entry of another peptide or protein. In some instances, interactions in the blood compartment (outside the BBB) or within the endothelial cells (at the BBB level) can significantly impede the passage of polypeptides across the BBB. We shall review the different aspects of interactions between peptides/proteins and the BBB that affect their delivery as potential drugs in their natural form, and discuss recent advances in the cell biology of polypeptide transport across the BBB. Better understanding of the BBB will provide insight and direction for future research in the treatment of CNS disorders.

Cell death and dysfunction following traumatic brain injury (TBI) consists of a primary phase, which causes immediate consequences to cells by direct mechanical disruption of the brain, and a secondary phase which consists of delayed events initiated at the time of insult. One of the major culprits that contributes to delayed neuronal damage and death after a traumatic insult is the calcium ion. The original calcium hypothesis suggests that a large, sustained influx of calcium into cells initiates cell death signalling cascades. While much of this original tenant remains true, recent findings suggest that the role of calcium in traumatic neuronal injury may be more complex. For example, a sustained level of intracellular free calcium is not necessarily lethal, but the specific route of calcium entry may couple calcium directly to cell death pathways. Other sources of calcium, such as intracellular calcium stores, can also cause cell damage. In addition, calcium-mediated signal transduction pathways have been found to be altered following injury. These alterations are sustained for several hours and may contribute to dysfunction in neurons that do not necessarily die after a traumatic episode. This review provides an overview of experimental evidence that has led to our current understanding of the role of calcium in neuronal death and dysfunction after TBI. While the focus is on alterations in neuronal calcium homeostasis following mechanical injury, these findings may have implications for other pathological states of the brain, such as ischaemia and neurodegenerative disease.

Accumulative empirical evidence has been reviewed in support of the notion that the production and perception of action as well as the interpretation of others' actions are functionally connected, and indeed, rely on common distributed neural systems in the premotor and parietal cortices. We suggest that these neural systems sustain shared representations between self and other that are crucial in social interactions. The inferior parietal cortex plays a special role in the sense of agency, which is a fundamental aspect to navigate within this neural network. The role of other brain areas that implement and regulate these shared representations remains to be specified.
Social cognitive neuroscience is an emerging discipline that seeks to explain the psychological and neural bases of socioemotional experience and behavior. Although research in some areas is already well developed (e.g. perception of nonverbal social cues) investigation in other areas has only just begun (e.g. social interaction). Current studies are elucidating; the role of the amygdala in a variety of evaluative and social judgment processes, the role of medial prefrontal cortex in mental state attribution, how frontally mediated controlled processes can regulate perception and experience, and the way in which these and other systems are recruited during social interaction. Future progress will depend upon the development of programmatic lines of research that integrate contemporary social cognitive research with cognitive neuroscience theory and methodology.
Neurophysiologists have shown repeatedly that neural activity in different brain structures can be correlated with specific perceptual and cognitive functions, but the causal efficacy of the observed activity has generally been a matter of conjecture. By contrast, electrical microstimulation, which allows the experimenter to manipulate the activity of small groups of neurons with spatial and temporal precision, can now be used to demonstrate causal links between neural activity and specific cognitive functions. Here, we review this growing literature, including applications to the study of attention, visual and somatosensory perception, 'read-out' mechanisms for interpreting sensory maps, and contextual effects on perception. We also discuss potential applications of microstimulation to studies of higher cognitive functions such as decision-making and subjective experience.

Stenosis of the vertebral artery (VA) in either its extra- or intracranial portions is an important cause of posterior circulation stroke. Diagnosis of VA stenosis by noninvasive imaging techniques is improving and new endovascular and medical treatments are now available. However, the natural history of VA stenotic lesions is not known and its optimum management is unclear. Symptomatic VA stenosis should be initially treated with established antiplatelet agents. There is no proven indication for anticoagulation in cases of VA stenosis. Case series have shown that angioplasty and stenting for proximal extracranial VA stenosis have a low perioperative complication rate and are effective in restoring luminal diameter. Evidence from randomized trials on its long-term efficacy versus medical therapy is not available. Regarding current evidence where symptoms are refractory to antiplatelet treatment, or where recurrent stroke risk is considered increased due to either an incomplete circle of Willis or an anomalous VA circulation, it can be considered in centers with experience of the procedure. Randomized trials comparing stenting with medical therapy are required. Surgery may be a viable alternative to angioplasty and stenting, but only in a few specialist centers. Evidence from randomized controlled trials of medical and other interventions for VA stenosis are required.
Functional dyspepsia is a common chronic condition. It can have a major impact on quality of life and remains a large burden on healthcare resources. Its underlying mechanisms are not fully understood and therapies are mainly empirical. In this review, we summarize the best evidence on available therapeutic interventions in functional dyspepsia. Helicobacter pylori eradication, for those infected, is likely a safe and cost-effective strategy but benefits only a minority. Antisecretory agents such as proton-pump inhibitors and histamine-2 receptor antagonists have shown some benefit and are recommended as the first-line option in the absence of H. pylori infection. There is a lack of strong evidence of benefit from prokinetic agents, and cisapride, the most studied agent, is largely unavailable. Antidepressants need to be adequately tested in functional dyspepsia, but both psychotherapy and hypnotherapy interventions have shown promising results. Herbal therapies need further study in these patients. 5-Hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT(3)) and 5-HT(4) receptor antagonists, and cholecystokinin type A and neurokinin receptor antagonists remain promising emerging therapies.
The neural crest gives rise to glial cells in the peripheral nervous system. Among the peripheral glia, Schwann cells form the myelin often wrapping the peripheral axons. Compared to other crest-derived cell lineages such as neurons, the analysis of fate determination and subsequent differentiation of Schwann cells is not well advanced, partly due to the lack of early markers of this phenotype. In this study, we have identified a gene, uniquely expressed in avian embryo Schwann cell precursors, which encodes a novel secreted factor, designated Seraf (Schwann cell-specific EGF-like repeat autocrine factor). Expression of Seraf and P0 delineates the earliest phase of Schwann cell differentiation. Seraf binds to neural crest cells and Schwann cells, and affects the distribution of Schwann cells, when introduced to chicken embryos during neural crest migration. Our results suggest an autocrine function of Seraf and provide a significant step to understand the developmental processes of Schwann cell lineage.
The sensory epithelium of the mammalian cochlea, the organ of Corti, is comprised of ordered rows of cells, including inner and outer hair cells. Recent results suggest that physical changes in the overall size and shape of the cochlear duct, including possible convergence and extension, could play a role in the development of this pattern. To examine this hypothesis, changes in cell size and distribution were determined for different regions of the cochlea duct during embryonic development. In addition, changes in the spatial distribution of sensory precursor cells were determined at different developmental time points based on expression of p27kip1. Unique changes in luminal surface area, cell density, and number of cell contacts were observed for each region of the duct. Moreover, the spatial distribution of p27kip1-positive cells changed from short and broad early in development, to long and narrow. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that convergence and extension plays a role in cellular patterning within the organ of Corti.
Adult rats exhibit a decrease in consummatory responses following repeated presentations of a taste (habituation) and an increase in consummatory responses if they experience an upward shift in the magnitude or intensity of a gustatory stimulus (e.g., sucrose or saccharin). These responses do not represent a direct sensorimotor reaction to a gustatory cue, but rather reflect a change in responding based on the memory of a previous taste. Here, we sought to determine if fetal rats could (like adults) adjust their orofacial motor responses based on a memory of recent gustatory experience. Embryonic Day 18 (E18) or Day 19 (E19) rat fetuses received oral lavage with either 0.15 or 0.30% saccharin (SAC). Subsequently, observations of orofacial movements (mouthing and licking) following oral lavage with 0.30% SAC were made 50 min later, 24 hr later, or on postnatal Day 3 (P3). Thus, some animals were in a &quot;shifted&quot; condition in which they first experienced a relatively low concentration of SAC and then a higher one while control rats (&quot;nonshifted&quot;) received 0.30% SAC during both taste exposures. Fetuses exhibited evidence of both habituation (with repeated presentation of the 0.30% SAC) and positive contrast effects (PCEs) (following an upward shift in SAC concentration) when retested 50 min after their first exposure to SAC on E19. However, these animals did not exhibit PCEs 24 hr later or 5 days later (on P3). Contrast effects were not observed when the initial SAC exposure was on E18, and habituation responses were variable depending on the time interval between the taste presentations to these animals. Rats with a 5- to 6-day latency between the two taste presentations showed neither PCEs nor habituation. Our data indicate that PCEs and habituation effects emerge at different ages, and their demonstration is dependent upon the latency between the taste presentations.
Patterns of lower autonomic nervous system (ANS) and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity have been found in children with oppositional defiant disorder (ODD). The aim of the present study was to investigate whether children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) differ from ODD children with (OD/AD) or without comorbid ADHD in ANS and HPA axis activity under baseline and stressful conditions. The effects of stress on cortisol, heart rate (HR), and skin conductance level (SCL) were studied in 95 children (26 normal control [NC] children and 69 child psychiatric patients referred for externalizing behavior problems [15 ODD, 31 OD/AD, and 23 ADHD]). No baseline differences were found in cortisol between the four groups. However, the ODD and OD/AD groups showed a significantly weaker cortisol response to stress compared to the ADHD and NC groups; the ADHD group had a similar cortisol response as the NC group. Within the ODD group this pattern of low cortisol responsivity was most clearly present in the more severely affected inpatients. With respect to HR, the ODD group had a significantly lower HR during baseline and stressful conditions. The higher HR levels in the OD/AD and ADHD groups were likely to be caused by methylphenidate. The externalizing groups had significantly lower SCL levels, and no differences were found between these groups. It was concluded that differences in cortisol responsivity during stress exposure are important in distinguishing within a group of children with externalizing behavior between those with ODD and ADHD.
Inner ear sensory organs and VIIIth cranial ganglion neurons of the auditory/vestibular pathway derive from an ectodermal placode that invaginates to form an otocyst. We show that in the mouse otocyst epithelium, Tbx1 suppresses neurogenin 1-mediated neural fate determination and is required for induction or proper patterning of gene expression related to sensory organ morphogenesis (Otx1 and Bmp4, respectively). Tbx1 loss-of-function causes dysregulation of neural competence in otocyst regions linked to the formation of either mechanosensory or structural sensory organ epithelia. Subsequently, VIIIth ganglion rudiment form is duplicated posteriorly, while the inner ear is hypoplastic and shows neither a vestibular apparatus nor a coiled cochlear duct. We propose that Tbx1 acts in the manner of a selector gene to control neural and sensory organ fate specification in the otocyst.
Wnt signaling through the canonical beta-catenin pathway plays essential roles in development and disease. Low-density-lipoprotein receptor-related proteins 5 and 6 (Lrp5 and Lrp6) in vertebrates, and their Drosophila ortholog Arrow, are single-span transmembrane proteins that are indispensable for Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, and are likely to act as Wnt co-receptors. This review highlights recent progress and unresolved issues in understanding the function and regulation of Arrow/Lrp5/Lrp6 in Wnt signaling. We discuss Arrow/Lrp5/Lrp6 interactions with Wnt and the Frizzled family of Wnt receptors, and with the intracellular beta-catenin degradation apparatus. We also discuss the regulation of Lrp5/Lrp6 by other extracellular ligands, and LRP5 mutations associated with familial osteoporosis and other disorders.
Strategy, Management and Health PolicyEnabling Technology, Genomics, ProteomicsPreclinical ResearchPreclinical Development Toxicology, Formulation Drug Delivery, PharmacokineticsClinical Development Phases I-III Regulatory, Quality, ManufacturingPostmarketing Phase IVReplacement of the ribose moiety of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) with a carbocyclic ring constrained in either the Northern (N) or Southern (S) conformation produces agonists with widely differing activities at P2Y receptors (Kim et al. [2002] J Med Chem 45:208-218). We have used whole cell patch clamp recording to investigate the agonist activity of these two methanocarba analogs of ATP at four different P2X receptors (P2X(1), P2X(2), P2X(3), and P2X(2/3)). On dorsal root ganglion neurons, (N) methanocarba-ATP ((1'S,2'R,3'S,4'R,5'S)-4-(6-amino-9H-purin-9-yl)-1-[triphosphoryloxymethyl] bicyclo[ 3.1.0]hexane-2,3-diol; MRS 2340) activated rapidly-desensitizing (P2X(3)) and slowly-desensitizing (P2X(2/3)) receptors with a similar potency to ATP. In contrast, (S) methanocarba-ATP (()-5-(6-amino-9H-purin-9-yl)-1-[triphosphoryloxymethyl] bicycle [3.1.0]hexane-2,3-diol MRS 2312) was devoid of agonist activity. On nodose ganglion neurones, that express mainly P2X(2/3) receptors, ATP evoked a slowly desensitizing inward current with an EC(50) value of 26 M. MRS 2340 was an effective agonist, but less potent than ATP, while MRS 2312 at concentrations up to 100 M produced a barely detectable response. On mammalian cell lines expressing recombinant hP2X(1) and hP2X(2) receptors, MRS 2340 evoked inward currents similar in amplitude to those produced by the same concentration of ATP or ,-mATP. In contrast, MRS 2312 failed to give a detectable response. Although the conformation of the ribose affects agonist activity at P2Y receptors, there is a strong requirement for the (N) conformation for the activation of these P2X receptors. Furthermore, the region of the agonist binding site that accommodates the ribose moiety appears to be highly conserved among different P2X receptors. Drug Dev Res 61:227-232, 2004.
The neurovascular bundle anatomy in the upper arm displays changing relationships of nerve and vascular structures along short segments. Fibrous tissues segregate these elements into enclosed compartments allowing for specific patterns of injury. We report a patient with a iatrogenic brachial artery injury in this region who featured combined median and MAC neuropathies, which were consistent with complete axonotmesis on neurophysiological assessment. Increased intracompartmental pressure may have led to nerve injury either thorough an ischemic mechanism or to focal compression. Recognition of this unusual pattern of nerve damage is important, since injury can be accurately localized to the midportion of the neurovascular compartment in the upper arm.

Axons of the adult central nervous system have very limited ability to regenerate after injury. This inability may be, at least partly, attributable to myelin-derived proteins, such as myelin-associated glycoprotein, Nogo and oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein. Recent evidence suggests that these proteins inhibit neurite outgrowth by activation of Rho through the neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR)/Nogo receptor complex. Despite rapidly growing knowledge on these signals at the molecular level, it remained to be determined whether Rho is activated after injury to the central nervous system. To assess this question, we establish a new method to visualize endogenous Rho activity in situ. After treatment of cerebellar granular neurons with the Nogo peptide in vitro, Rho is spatially activated and colocalizes with p75(NTR). Following spinal cord injury in vivo, massive activation of Rho is observed in the injured neurites. Spatial regulation of Rho activity may be necessary for axonal regulation by the inhibitory cues.

The effect of testosterone on brain excitability is unclear. The excitatory aspect of testosterone's action in the brain may be due to its conversion to estrogen via aromatase. We report herein a 61-year-old man with temporal lobe epilepsy and sexual dysfunction due to low testosterone levels. Use of an aromatase inhibitor, letrozole, normalized his testosterone level and improved his sexual functioning. Letrozole, in addition to standard antiseizure medication, was also associated with improved seizure control. This was sustained and, further, was associated with seizure exacerbation after withdrawing letrozole, and subsequent seizure improvement after restarting it. During the course of treatment, his serum testosterone level increased, sex hormone-binding globulin decreased (SHBG), luteinizing hormone (LH), and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels increased, while serum estradiol levels remained undetectable. Letrozole may, therefore, have produced a central alteration in the testosterone/estrogen ratio, thereby impairing estrogen-mediated feedback control of the pituitary, resulting in the observed increase in circulating LH and FSH levels. This experience suggests that aromatase inhibitors should be further investigated as a beneficial treatment modality for male patients with epilepsy.
A comparative study of the expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 2/3 (mGluR2/3) was done in the hippocampus of rats and mice after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (APISE), and of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. At 1 day APISE, there was a marked increase in mGluR2/3 immunoreactivity in the stratum lacunosum moleculare (SLM) of CA1 area and in the middle one-third of the molecular layer (MM) of the dentate gyrus. Immuno-electron microscopic study showed degenerating mGluR2/3 positive axons in the SLM of CA1 area at 1 day APISE. From 7 days, mGluR2/3 immunopositive product decreased, and by 31 days APISE, it almost disappeared in two-thirds of the SLM near CA2. In the mouse model at 2 months APISE, mGluR2/3 immunopositive product in two-thirds of the SLM near the stratum radiatum disappeared, and so did in the whole SLM of CA1 area in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Neuropharmacological study by intravenous injection of mGluR2/3 agonist 2R,4R-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate [(2R,4R)-APDC] at different doses at 1h during pilocarpine induced status epilepticus showed that (2R,4R)-APDC could not stop seizures and neuronal death in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. The present study, therefore, suggests that the reduction of mGluR2/3 immunopositive product in the SLM of CA1 is a consequence of neuronal loss in either the entorhinal cortex or CA1 area of the hippocampus, and at the dosage range from 12.5 to 600 mg/kg, (2R,4R)-APDC may not be effective in the prevention of seizures or neuronal death in the hilus of the dentate gyrus.


DNA microarray profiling of CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells from non-treated relapsing and remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) patients determined that the cytoplasmic binding partner of fragile X protein (CYFIP2, also called PIR121) was increased significantly compared to healthy controls. Western analysis confirmed that CYFIP2 protein was increased approximately fourfold in CD4(+) cells from MS compared to inflammatory bowel disorder (IBD) patients or healthy controls. Because CYFIP2 acts as part of a tetrameric complex that regulates WAVE1 activation we hypothesized that high levels of CYFIP2 facilitate T cell adhesion, which is elevated in MS patients. Several findings indicated that increased levels of CYFIP2 facilitated adhesion. First, adenoviral-mediated overexpression of CYFIP2 in Jurkat cells increased fibronectin-mediated adhesion. Secondly, CYFIP2 knock-down experiments using antisense oligodeoxynucleotides reduced fibronectin-mediated binding in Jurkat and CD4(+) cells. Thirdly, inhibition of Rac-1, a physical partner with CYFIP2 and regulator of WAVE1 activity, reduced fibronectin-mediated adhesion in Jurkat and CD4(+) cells. Finally, inhibition of Rac-1 or reduction of CYFIP2 protein decreased fibronectin-mediated adhesion in CD4(+) cells from MS patients to levels similar to controls. These studies suggest that overabundance of CYFIP2 protein facilitates increased adhesion properties of T cells from MS patients.
The use of instrumental examinations in headache patients varies widely. In order to evaluate their usefulness, the most common instrumental procedures were evaluated, on the basis of evidence from the literature, by an EFNS Task Force (TF) on neurophysiological tests and imaging procedures in non-acute headache patients. The conclusions of the TF regarding each technique are expressed in the following guidelines for clinical use. 1 Interictal electroencephalography (EEG) is not routinely indicated in the diagnostic evaluation of headache patients. Interictal EEG is, however, indicated if the clinical history suggests a possible diagnosis of epilepsy (differential diagnosis). Ictal EEG could be useful in certain patients suffering from hemiplegic and basilar migraine. 2 Recording of evoked potentials is not recommended for the diagnosis of headache disorders. 3 There is no evidence to justify the recommendation of autonomic tests for the routine clinical examination of headache patients. 4 Manual palpation of pericranial muscles, with standardized palpation pressure, can be recommended for subdividing patient groups but not for diagnosis. Pressure algometry and electromyography (EMG) cannot be recommended as clinical diagnostic tests. 5 In adult and paediatric patients with migraine, with no recent change in attack pattern, no history of seizures, and no other focal neurological signs or symptoms, the routine use of neuroimaging is not warranted. In patients with atypical headache patterns, a history of seizures and/or focal neurological signs or symptoms, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be indicated. 6 If attacks can be fully accounted for by the standard headache classification [International Headache Society (IHS)], a positron emission tomography (PET) or single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) and scan will generally be of no further diagnostic value. 7 Nuclear medicine examinations of the cerebral circulation and metabolism can be carried out in subgroups of headache patients for diagnosis and evaluation of complications, when patients experience unusually severe attacks, or when the quality or severity of attacks has changed. 8 Transcranial Doppler examination is not helpful in headache diagnosis. Although many of the examinations described are of little or no value in the clinical setting, most of the tools have a vast potential for further exploring the pathophysiology of headaches and the effects of pharmacological treatment.
The epileptogenic-prone (FAST) and epileptogenic-resistant (SLOW) rat strains have become a valuable tool for investigating the neurochemical and neurophysiological basis of epilepsy. This study examined the two strains with respect to their neocortical movement representations and cortical layer III pyramidal cell dendritic morphology in both control and potentiated conditions. FAST and SLOW rats received high-frequency stimulation of the corpus callosum in order to induce long-term polysynaptic potentiation of the transcallosal pathway to the sensorimotor neocortex. Baseline-evoked potentials of this pathway were recorded in the left hemisphere before stimulation, and following 5, 10, 15 and 20 days of high-frequency stimulation. All rats then underwent high-resolution intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) in order to assess functional movement representations of the left caudal forelimb area of the sensorimotor cortex. Immediately following ICMS, the brains were stained with the Golgi-Cox method, and the length, branching and spine density of frontal and occipital neocortical layer III pyramidal neurons were measured. We observed that high-frequency stimulation induced similar increases in polysynaptic potentiation in both rat strains; however, only the FAST strain showed an increase (doubling) in the size of their motor maps. We also observed decreases in dendritic length and branching in the FAST rats, and the opposite profile in the SLOW rats. The potentiated FAST rats also showed an increase in spine density. Our results suggest that differences in susceptibility to epileptogenesis may result in a differential response to stimulation-induced plasticity.
Circadian rhythms in mammals depend on the properties of cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The retino-recipient core of the mouse SCN is characterized by vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) neurons. Expression within the SCN of VPAC2, a VIP receptor, is required for circadian rhythmicity. Using transgenic mice with beta-galactosidase as a marker for VPAC2, we have phenotyped VPAC2-expressing cells within the SCN and investigated expression of the VPAC2 marker at sites previously shown to receive VIP-containing SCN efferents. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry demonstrated identical distributions for VPAC2 mRNA and beta-galactosidase and coexpression of the two signals in the SCN. Double-label confocal immunofluorescence identified beta-galactosidase in 32% of the VIP and 31% of the calretinin neurons in the SCN core. Of the arginine-vasopressin neurons that characterize the SCN shell, 45% expressed beta-galactosidase. In contrast, this marker was not apparent in astrocytes within the SCN core or shell. Cell bodies containing beta-galactosidase were detected at sites reportedly receiving VIP-containing SCN efferents, including the subparaventricular zone and lateral septum and the anteroventral periventricular, preoptic suprachiasmatic, medial preoptic and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei. The detection of a marker for VPAC2 expression in the SCN in almost one-third of the VIP and calretinin core neurons and nearly half of the arginine-vasopressin shell neurons and also in cell bodies at sites receiving VIP-immunoreactive projections from the SCN indicates that VPAC2 may contribute to autoregulation and/or coupling within the SCN core and to the control of the SCN shell and sites distal to this nucleus.
The aim of the study was to compare the localization of the nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP pathway in hippocampus of mice and rats using cGMP- and soluble guanylyl cyclase (GC) immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization of the cGMP-hydrolysing phosphodiesterase types 2, 5 and 9. In vitro incubation of hippocampus slices in the absence of a guanylyl cyclase stimulator or a phosphodiesterase inhibitor resulted in cGMP-positive astrocytes mainly in the CA1 area in mouse slices. In contrast, no cGMP immunoreactivity was observed under these conditions in the rat hippocampus. Treatment with an NO synthase inhibitor or inhibitors of soluble or particulate GC did not abolish cGMP immunoreactivity in astrocytes. Incubation with the NO donors sodium nitroprusside or diethylamino NONOate, or with the NO-independent activators of soluble GC, YC-1 and BAY 41-2272, in combination with phosphodiesterase inhibitors, resulted in an increase in cGMP immunoreactivity in numerous astrocytes throughout the mouse hippocampus. In contrast, under these conditions cGMP immunoreactivity was primarily observed in varicose fibers in rat hippocampus. Comparison of the cellular localization of the beta1 subunit of soluble GC and the mRNAs of PDE2, PDE5 and PDE9 revealed that in both species the beta1 subunit was observed in pyramidal and granule cells, which also expressed the mRNAs of the three phosphodiesterase families. Although the beta1 subunit was observed in astrocytes, none of the phosphodiesterases were detected in these cells. We conclude that, although the expression profiles of the soluble GC beta1 subunit and cGMP-hydrolysing phosphodiesterase mRNAs were identical, the cellular patterns of cGMP immunoreactivity differ between rat and mouse hippocampus.
The hypothalamus is jointly innervated by hindbrain and hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY) cell bodies. While the specific roles of these distinct sources of innervation are not known, NPY neurotransmission within the hypothalamus appears to contribute to glucoregulatory feeding. Here we examine the involvement of hindbrain NPY neurons in glucoregulation using in situ hybridization to assess their responsiveness to glucoprivation. The hindbrain NPY innervation of the hypothalamus is derived from cell bodies that coexpress norepinephrine or epinephrine. Therefore, we quantified NPY mRNA hybridization signal in hindbrain catecholamine cell groups 90 min after subcutaneous administration of the glycolytic inhibitor 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2DG, 250 mg/kg) to male rats. Catecholamine cell groups A1, A1/C1 and C2 (that provide the major NPY innervation of the hypothalamus) showed a basal level of NPY mRNA hybridization signal that was dramatically increased by 2DG. In C1 and C3, where basal NPY mRNA expression was close to or below our detection threshold, the hybridization signal was also significantly increased by 2DG. In cell groups A2, A5, A6 and A7, neither basal nor 2DG-stimulated NPY mRNA expression was detected. Hypothalamic microinjection of the retrogradely transported catecholamine immunotoxin saporin conjugated to anti-dopamine-beta-hydroxylase destroyed hindbrain catecholamine/NPY neurons and abolished basal and 2DG-stimulated increases in NPY expression in hindbrain cell groups. The responsiveness of hindbrain NPY neurons to glucose deficit suggests that these neurons participate in glucoprivic feeding or other glucoregulatory responses.
Recently we have shown that growth hormone (GH) inhibits neuronal differentiation and that this process is blocked by suppressor of cytokine signalling-2 (SOCS2). Here we examine several cortical and subcortical neuronal populations in GH hyper-responsive SOCS2 null (-/-) mice and GH non-responsive GH receptor null (GHR-/-) mice. While SOCS2-/- mice showed a 30% decrease in density of NeuN positive neurons in cortex compared to wildtype, GHR-/- mice showed a 25% increase even though brain size was decreased. Interneuron sub-populations were variably affected, with a slight decrease in cortical parvalbumin expressing interneurons in SOCS2-/- mice and an increase in cortical calbindin and calretinin and striatal cholinergic neuron density in GHR-/- mice. Analysis of glial cell numbers in cresyl violet or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) stained sections of cortex showed that the neuron : glia ratio was increased in GHR-/- mice and decreased in SOCS2-/- mice. The astrocytes in GHR-/- mice appeared smaller, while they were larger in SOCS2-/- mice. Neuronal soma size also varied in the different genotypes, with smaller striatal cholinergic neurons in GHR-/- mice. While the size of layer 5 pyramidal neurons was not significantly different from wildtype, SOCS2-/- neurons were larger than GHR-/- neurons. In addition, primary dendritic length was similar in all genotypes but dendritic branching of pyramidal neurons in the cortex appeared sparser in GHR-/- and SOCS2-/- mice. These results suggest that GH, possibly regulated by SOCS2, has multiple effects on central nervous system (CNS) development and maturation, regulating the number and size of multiple neuronal and glial cell types.
The entorhinal cortex plays a key role in processing memory information in the brain; superficial layers relay information to, and deep layers receive information from, the hippocampus. The cellular mechanisms of memory are thought to include a number that produce long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) of synaptic strength. Our work presents evidence that LTP and LTD occur simultaneously at memory-relevant synapses. We report here that low frequency stimulation generates NMDA receptor-dependent LTD in Wistar rat superficial (layers II and III), and LTP in the deep entorhinal cortex layers (layers V and VI). LTP in deep layers is masked by simultaneously occurring voltage-gated calcium channel-dependent LTD. Our data support a novel mechanism for the sliding-threshold (BCM) model of synaptic plasticity: The sliding thresholds for induction of LTP and LTD in entorhinal cortex deep layers will be driven by the relative activation state of NMDA receptors and voltage-gated calcium channels. The co-expression of LTD and LTP at presynaptic sites in the entorhinal cortex deep layers reveals an intriguing mechanism for differential processing of synaptic information, which may underlie the vast dynamic capacity for information storage by this cortical structure.
Histamine H(3) receptors (H3Rs) were first characterized as autoreceptors modulating histamine release and synthesis via negative feedback. Acute H3R stimulation or blockade with selective agonists and antagonists suggests a role for H3R in anxiety and cognition. However, little is known about the long-term effects of H3R blockade on brain function. In the current study, mice lacking H3 receptors (H3R(-/-)) were used to investigate the role of H3R-mediated signalling in anxiety and cognition. H3R(-/-) mice showed enhanced spatial learning and memory in the Barnes maze. In addition, H3R(-/-) mice showed reduced measures of anxiety in the elevated plus and zero mazes involving exploratory behaviour and avoidable anxiety-provoking stimuli, but enhanced acoustic startle responses involving unavoidable anxiety-provoking stimuli. These behavioural alterations were associated with higher arginine vasopressin levels in the central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala. These findings support a role for H3Rs in mediating histamine effects on spatial learning and memory and measures of anxiety.
In addition to the well-established functional description of the glycine receptor (GlyR) in the spinal cord, GlyR expression has recently been found in higher brain regions, such as the striatum or hippocampus. In this study we have investigated the electrophysiological response of glycine in the rat entorhinal cortex slice. In all recorded cells we found significant current responses to glycine with an EC(50) value of about 100 micro m. Most importantly, we detected a cross-inhibition of glycine responses by GABA but not vice versa. These findings are in line with recent published data of cross-talks between GABA(A)R and GlyR but indicate a novel type of cross-inhibition of these receptors in the entorhinal cortex.
A number of studies in rodents and monkeys report a distinction between the contributions of the hippocampus and perirhinal cortex to memory, such that the hippocampus is crucial for spatial memory whereas the perirhinal cortex has a pivotal role in perception and memory for visual objects. To determine if there is such a distinction in humans, we conducted a functional magnetic resonance imaging study to compare the medial temporal lobe responses to changes in object identity and spatial configurations of objects. We found evidence for the predicted distinction between hippocampal and perirhinal cortical activations, although part of the hippocampus was also activated by identification of novel objects. Additionally, an anterior-posterior activation gradient emerged inside the hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex. The anterior hippocampus, perirhinal cortex and anterior parahippocampal cortex are involved in perception of contextually novel objects, whereas the posterior hippocampus and posterior parahippocampal cortex are involved in processing of novel arrangements of familiar objects. These results demonstrate that there is a functional dissociation between processing of novel object identities and new spatial locations of objects among the subregions of medial temporal lobe structures in humans also.
Voluntary running in mice and forced treadmill running in rats have been shown to increase the amount of proliferating cells in the hippocampus. Little is known as yet about the mechanisms involved in these processes. It is well known that the endogenous opioid system is affected during running and other forms of physical exercise. In this study, we evaluated the involvement of the endogenous opioids in the regulation of hippocampal proliferation in non-running and voluntary running rats. Nine days of wheel running was compared with non-running in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), a rat strain known to run voluntarily. On the last 2 days of the experimental period all rats received two daily injections of the opioid receptor antagonists naltrexone or naltrindole together with injections of bromodeoxyuridine to label dividing cells. Brain sections from the running rats showed approximately a five-fold increase in newly generated cells in the hippocampus, and this increase was partly reduced by naltrexone but not by naltrindole. By contrast, both naltrexone and naltrindole increased hippocampal proliferation in non-running rats. In non-running rats the administration of naltrexone decreased corticosterone levels and adrenal gland weights, whereas no significant effects on these parameters could be detected for naltrindole. However, adrenal gland weights were increased in naltrexone- but not in naltrindole-administered running rats. In addition, in voluntary running rats there was a three-fold increase in the hippocampal levels of Met-enkephalin-Arg-Phe compared with non-runners, indicating an increase in opioid activity in the hippocampus during running. These data suggest an involvement of endogenous opioids in the regulation of hippocampal proliferation in non-running rats, probably through hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis modulation. During voluntary running in SHR naltrexone altered hippocampal proliferation via as yet unknown mechanisms.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus (SCN) are the site of the master circadian clock in mammals. The SCN clock is mainly entrained by the light-dark cycle. Light information is conveyed from the retina to the SCN through direct, retinohypothalamic fibres. The SCN also receive other projections, like cholinergic fibres from basal forebrain. To test whether cholinergic afferents are involved in photic resetting, lesions of cholinergic projections were performed in rats with intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections or intra-SCN microinjections of 192 IgG-saporin. When injected in the SCN, this immunotoxin destroys the cholinergic projections and retinohypothalamic afferents that express p75 low-affinity nerve growth factor (p75(NGF)) receptors. The extent of lesions in the basal forebrain and SCN was assessed by acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, p75(NGF) receptor, choline acetyl-transferase, calbindin-D28K and VIP immunocytochemistry. The intra-SCN treatment reduced light-induced phase advances by 30%, and induced a complete loss of forebrain and retinal afferents expressing p75(NGF) receptors within the SCN and a decrease of forebrain cholinergic neurons, most likely those projecting to the SCN. The i.c.v. treatment reduced light-induced phase advances by 40%, increased phase delays and led to extensive damage of forebrain p75(NGF)-expressing neurons, while sparing half of the fibres expressing p75(NGF) receptors (retinal afferents?) in the SCN. Because the integrity of forebrain p75(NGF)-expressing neurons appears to be critical in mediating the effects on light-induced phase advances, we therefore suggest that anterior cholinergic projections expressing p75(NGF) receptors modulate the sensitivity of the SCN clock to the phase advancing effects of light.
The precise outgrowth and arborization of dendrites is crucial for their function as integrators of signals relayed from axons and, hence, the functioning of the brain. Proper dendritic differentiation is particularly resonant for Purkinje cells as the intrinsic activity of this cell-type is governed by functionally distinct regions of its dendritic tree. Activity-dependent mechanisms, driven by electrical signaling and trophic factors, account for the most active period of dendritogenesis. An as yet unexplored trophic modulator of Purkinje cell dendritic development is corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and family member, urocortin, both of which are localized in climbing fibers. Here, we use rat organotypic cerebellar slice cultures to investigate the roles of CRF and urocortin on Purkinje cell dendritic development. Intermittent exposure (12 h per day for 10 days in vitro) of CRF and urocortin induced significantly more dendritic outgrowth (45% and 70%, respectively) and elongation (25% and 15%, respectively) compared with untreated cells. Conversely, constant exposure to CRF and urocortin significantly inhibited dendritic outgrowth. The trophic effects of CRF and urocortin are mediated by the protein kinase A and mitogen-activating protein kinase pathways. The study shows unequivocally that CRF and urocortin are potent regulators of dendritic development. However, their stimulatory or inhibitory effects are dependent upon the degree of expression of these peptides. Furthermore, the effects of CRF and urocortin on neuronal differentiation and re-modeling may provide a cellular basis for pathologies such as major depression, which show perturbations in the expression of these stress peptides.
Our ability to additively combine two learned internal models was investigated by studying the forces people generate when lifting objects with a precision grip. Subjects were required to alternately lift two objects of identical physical appearance but differing weight. Grip force scaling prior to lift-off was used to estimate the output of the internal model associated with each object. Appropriate internal models were formed when alternately lifting two objects of different weight. The objects were then combined by stacking them one upon the other, and the combined object was lifted. Results show that subjects can additively combine internal models of object dynamics but the sum is biased by a default estimate of the object's weight.
Pain originating in the bile duct is common and many patients who have suffered from it report that it is one of the most intense forms of pain that they have experienced. Many uncertainties remain about the mechanisms underlying pain originating in the bile duct. For example, the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons that give rise to the sensory innervation of the common bile duct (CBD) have not been identified and examined in any species. The goal of the present study was to determine the number, distribution, and size of DRG neurons that innervate the CBD in rats. Injections of WGA-HRP or CTB-HRP were restricted to the lumen of the bile duct. Injections of WGA-HRP labeled a mean number of about 500 DRG neurons bilaterally throughout all thoracic and upper lumbar levels. Injections of CTB-HRP labeled smaller numbers of DRG neurons. Application of colchicine onto the surface of the CBD reduced the number of cells labeled following injections of WGA-HRP into the lumen of the CBD by roughly 86%, suggesting that tracer had not spread in large amounts out of the CBD and labeled afferent fibers in other tissues. Approximately 85% of the neurons labeled with WGA-HRP had cell bodies that were classified as small; the remainder were medium in size. Injections of CTB-HRP labeled cell bodies of varying sizes, including a few large diameter cell bodies. These results indicate that a large number of primarily small DRG cells, located bilaterally at many segmental levels, provide a rich innervation of the common bile duct.
We investigated the effects of whole body tilt and lifting the arm against gravity on perceptual estimates of the Gravity-Referenced Eye Level (GREL), which corresponds to the subjective earth-referenced horizon. The results showed that the perceived GREL was influenced by body tilt, that is, lowered with forward tilt and elevated with backward tilt of the body. GREL estimates obtained by arm movements without vision were more biased by whole-body tilt than purely visual estimates. Strikingly, visual GREL estimates became more dependent on whole-body tilt when the indication of level was obtained by arm lifting. These findings indicate that active motor involvement and/or the addition of kinesthetic information increases the body tilt-induced bias when making GREL judgements. The introduction of motor/kinaesthetic cues may induce a switch from a semi-geocentric to a more egocentric frame of reference. This result challenges the assumption that combining non-conflicting multiple sensory inputs and/or using intermodal information provided during action should improve perceptual performance.
The muscle activation patterns in anterior and posterior leg muscles were investigated with two types of perturbations to standing balance. Subjects stood with each foot on adjacent force platforms and performed arm flexion movements to shoulder height. Nine subjects performed ten repetitions unilaterally and bilaterally at 100, 75, 50, 25, and 12.5% of maximal acceleration as measured by an accelerometer placed on the dominant hand. Four subjects also performed the fastest movements while leaning forwards and backwards. The area and latency of the EMG activity from the quadriceps (QUAD), hamstrings (BF), soleus (SOL), and tibialis anterior (TA) were measured bilaterally, along with the excursions of the center of pressure (COP) during each movement. In both unilateral and bilateral tasks, subjects showed a scaling of EMG area and COP excursion with the acceleration of the arm movement. Prior to movement onset, significant scaling of EMG area with movement speed occurred in both unilateral and bilateral tasks in most muscles. Following movement onset, EMG areas scaled significantly to movement speed in only the anterior musculature, with the exception of the left BF. The latency of BF was consistent for the four fastest movements. Only the slowest movements resulted in a significant rightward shift of the BF EMG latency. During the unilateral task, the ipsilateral hamstrings were activated significantly earlier than in the bilateral task and the contralateral hamstrings were activated significantly later. It was also observed that subjects utilized one of two different strategies to maintain balance. Five individuals displayed simultaneous anterior/posterior muscle activation while the other four displayed a reciprocal pattern of activation. Regardless of the initial standing position (leaning forwards or backwards), subjects used the same simultaneous or reciprocal activation strategy. The results indicate that muscle activation patterns change with different tasks, but remain the same during variations of the same task.
This review summarizes the Ernst H. Brny Prize Lecture given at the meeting of the International Society of Eye Research in Geneva 2002. In the paper the path from the author's early studies on neurogenic inflammation in the eye to the search for a suitable prostaglandin analogue for glaucoma treatment, and the development of latanoprost are described. In particular the solution to the nociceptive and hyperemic side-effects of naturally occurring prostaglandins in the eye, the mechanism of action of FP prostanoid receptor agonists as well as the selection of dose for glaucoma treatment are discussed. In addition, pharmacokinetical aspects of latanoprost, and the melanogenic side-effect of prostaglandins in the iris are addressed. The paper is primarily focused on studies performed by the author and complete reference to other previous, or contemporary studies is therefore not always given as the purpose is not to present a comprehensive review article.
Cytokines appear to be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Their modulation by treatment has been investigated only in a few studies. The aim of our study was to evaluate the effect of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEI) on Interleukin-4 (IL-4) production in AD patients. IL-4 levels were measured by ELISA on peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures in the presence or absence of Concanavalin A or Phytohaemagglutinin. Linear regression analysis shows that patients who have been treated, have higher levels of IL-4 independently from age, gender and comorbidity. The increased production of IL-4 in AChEI treated patients might represent an additional mechanism through which AChEI act on AD progression.
The XI Congress of the International Headache Society (IHC) provided useful feedback for a wide range of disciplines for all scientists involved in basic and applied research concerning headaches. The major topics of the Congress included comorbidity, paediatric headache, phenotypic markers, genetics, migraine therapy, trigeminal neuralgia and paroxysmal facial pain with autonomic signs. The most recent advances were presented and discussed and all efforts were made to transfer these new understandings of pathogenesis, clinical features and treatments, to clinical practice, in an attempt to gain a better understanding of patient problems and requests. The Presidential Symposium, which anticipated the scientific sessions, provided the most updated knowledge regarding neuroimaging, neurophysiological and potential clinical implications of the activation of brainstem structures as well as the dependency of cortical events on this activation during migraine attacks. The results of the strenuous work carried out from autumn 1999 to 2003 of an International Committee of headache experts, presided by J. Olesen, reached its peak with the presentation of the new International Headache Classification ICHD-II. There are many relevant changes in the new classification, even though the basic structure and the most important criteria, such as those for migraine without aura and tension-type headache, have been maintained. Several new entities have been added including chronic migraine for patients having migraine &gt;or= 15 days/month. New rules separate primary and secondary headaches and a new chapter now presents headaches attributed to psychiatric disorders. Headaches due to disturbance of homeostasis has been brought together in a new chapter and the diagnostic criteria for secondary headaches are now more systematically constructed. All these changes will hopefully promote research, especially for the novel entities reported in the appendix, which have not been sufficiently validated or for which sufficient evidence still has not been published.
Ischaemic preconditioning (IPC), also known as ischaemic tolerance (IT), is a phenomenon whereby tissue is exposed to a brief, sublethal period of ischaemia, which activates endogenous protective mechanisms, thereby reducing cellular injury that may be caused by subsequent lethal ischaemic events. The first description of this phenomenon was in the heart, which was reported by Murry and co-workers in 1986. Subsequent studies demonstrated IPC in lung, kidney and liver tissue, whereas more recent studies have concentrated on the brain. The cellular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of IPC remain largely unknown. This phenomenon, which has been demonstrated by using various injury paradigms in both cultured neurons and animal brain tissue, may be utilised to identify and characterise therapeutic targets for small-molecule, antibody, or protein intervention. This review will examine the experimental evidence demonstrating the phenomenon termed IPC in models of cerebral ischaemia, the cellular mechanisms that may be involved and the therapeutic implications of these findings.

Chemokines are small cytokines that function in immune responses, wound healing, and pathological conditions such as chronic inflammation and tumorigenesis. This multifunctionality has been attributed primarily to ligand interaction with multiple or dimerized receptors. However, multifunctionality could also result from interactions of the receptors with small peptides produced by processing of the chemokines. Chemokine peptides are functional in vivo, but it is not yet known whether they can interact with and activate their receptors. The work presented here examines the interactions between the two forms of human interleukin 8 (hIL-8), and its N- and C-peptides, with the chemokine receptors hCXCR1 and hCXCR2. We used a Tet-on retroviral system to introduce CXCR1 into mouse NIH 3T3 cells (that lack endogenous CXCR1) and monitored activation of this receptor by the ligands by using quantitative Ca2+ imaging and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation. We found that the N and C termini of the chemokine can stimulate the respective CXCR1 to induce intracellular Ca2+ release and MAPK activation independent of the other regions of the molecules. Furthermore, we showed that these peptides can also stimulate chemotaxis of several cell types, including primary human microvascular endothelial cells, and that this function is specific and mediated by hCXCR1 and/or hCXCR2. These findings advance understanding of the multifunctionality exhibited by chemokines, reveal a new mode of functional regulation, and may serve as the basis for therapeutic targeting.
Neuronal loss via apoptosis is a key element in numerous neurodegenerative diseases. To avoid accumulation of apoptotic material, the remains of apoptotic cells should be degraded. It was suggested that microglial cells are phagocytosing and degrading apoptotic material. There is only limited information available concerning the fate of the remains of apoptotic neurons. In this study, we investigated the ability of microglial cells to take up and degrade neuronal apoptotic material. We isolated primary microglial cells and used apoptotic bodies of apoptotic neuron-like PC12 cells as a substrate. The apoptotic material was taken up and degraded within the microglial cells. The uptake is clearly activation dependent. We were able to demonstrate that the CD36 scavenger receptor is involved in the uptake of the apoptotic material via competition studies, antibody blockage, and use of a CD36 mutant rat strain. Blockage of other uptake mechanisms was also able to inhibit the uptake to some extent. Furthermore, we were able to demonstrate the role of the microglial lysosomal and proteasomal pathways in the degradation of proteins originating from apoptotic bodies.
We investigated the dopaminergic (DA) neuronal degeneration in animals subjected to systemic treatment of rotenone via subcutaneous delivery. Behavioral observations revealed a hypokinetic period in rats sacrificed at 3 and 5 days, and dystonic episodes in animals sacrificed at 8 days. Less than 20% of the total number of animals given rotenone depicted brain lesions after 8 days of treatment, as demonstrated by a significant loss of DA fibers in the striatum, but not of DA nigral neurons. Tyrosine hydroxylase-negative striatal territories were characterized by post-synaptic toxicity as demonstrated by a decreased number of interneurons labeled for choline acetyltransferase, NADPH-diaphorase, parvalbumin, and projection neurons labeled for calbindin and nerve growth factor inducible-B (NGFI-B). Post-synaptic neurodegeneration was demonstrated further by abundant striatal staining for Fluoro-Jade. Decrease in the nuclear orphan receptor Nurr1 expression was the only significant change observed at the level of the substantia nigra. Autopsy reports confirmed that animals suffered from severe digestion problems. These data suggest that hypokinesia observed between 3 and 5 days is the result of general health problems rather than a specific motor deficit associated to Parkinson's disease (PD) symptoms. Overall, the effects of rotenone toxicity are widespread, and subcutaneous administration of this toxin does not provide the neuropathological and behavioral basis for a relevant and reliable PD model.
Ataxia-telangiectasia is caused by mutations in the ATM gene, the protein product of which is essential for effective response to double-stranded DNA breaks. Loss of ATM function explains most aspects of the disease, but not the cerebellar neurodegeneration characteristic of the disease. Mice lacking ATM provide an excellent model of the human disorder. In addition to deficient response to DNA damage, these mice exhibit oxidative stress, which we hypothesized is the cause of cerebellar dysfunction. We show that treatment with a catalytic antioxidant corrects the neurobehavioral deficit in these mice.
Conflicting data on cognitive defects in migraine could be explained by differences in the clinical variables of the populations studied. We investigated 21 patients with migraine with aura and 24 with migraine without aura, diagnosed according to the International Headache Society criteria. The patients were submitted to a comprehensive battery of neuropsychological tests and grouped according to attack frequency and side of pain. Attack frequency was not associated with significant differences in any of the tasks, while location of pain was found to be significantly related to poorer performance on both the immediate and delayed recall of Rey Complex Figure in migraineurs both with and without aura, and a significant relationship between side of pain and number of clusters in the second trial of California Verbal Learning Test was found only in migraine with aura patients. The finding of worse performances in patients with right-sided pain seems to support a right hemisphere dysfunction hypothesis.
The zebra finch syrinx (sound production organ) is a sexually dimorphic component of the song system. Only male zebra finches sing, and in parallel, the overall mass and size of fibers in the two largest syrinx muscles are greater in males than females. Despite these obvious sexual dimorphisms, little is known about the role of steroid hormones in the maintenance of the structure and/or function of the syrinx. In this report, we used in situ hybridization to assess the expression of androgen receptor (AR), estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha), and aromatase (AROM) mRNAs in the syrinx of adult male and female zebra finches. Increased AR mRNA expression was noted in males compared to females in two regions, over the ventralis muscle and in a band of connective tissue neighboring cartilage (perichondria). In contrast, we did not detect specific ERalpha or AROM mRNA expression within the syrinx. However, substantial ERalpha mRNA was present in oviduct, and aromatase mRNA was expressed at high levels in ovary. In parallel, an assay for AROM detected activity in ovary, but not in syrinx tissue from males or females. Taken together, these data suggest that the adult syrinx is sensitive to androgens; that sex differences in function and morphology of the syrinx may in part be due to increased expression of AR in males compared to females. In contrast, estrogen receptor alpha and AROM appear to have limited roles.
The voltage-gated potassium channels Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 are widely expressed in the brain, including areas implicated in the control of motor activity and in areas thought to regulate arousal states. Although Kv3.1 and Kv3.3-single mutants show some physiological changes, previous studies revealed relatively subtle behavioral alterations suggesting that Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 channel subunits may be encoded by a pair of redundant genes. In agreement with this hypothesis, Kv3.1/Kv3.3-deficient mice display a 'strong' mutant phenotype that includes motor dysfunction (ataxia, myoclonus, tremor) and hyperactivity when exposed to a novel environment. In this paper we report that Kv3.1/Kv3.3-deficient mice are also constitutively hyperactive. Compared to wildtype mice, double mutants display 'restlessness' that is particularly prominent during the light period, when mice are normally at rest, characterized by more than a doubling of ambulatory and stereotypic activity, and accompanied by a 40% sleep reduction. When we reinvestigated both single mutants, we observed constitutive increases of ambulatory and stereotypic activity in conjunction with sleep loss in Kv3.1-single mutants but not in Kv3.3-single mutants. These findings indicate that the absence of Kv3.1-channel subunits is primarily responsible for the increased motor drive and the reduction in sleep time.
Pericytes in the central nervous system (CNS) are hypothesized to be involved in important circulatory functions, including local blood flow regulation, angiogenesis, immune reaction, and regulation of blood-brain barrier. Despite these putative functions, functional correlates of pericytes in vivo are scarce. We have labeled CNS pericytes using the dextran-conjugated fluorescent calcium indicator Calcium Green I and imaged them in somatosensory cortex of the mouse in vivo. Intracellular calcium concentration in pericytes showed spontaneous surges lasting for several seconds. Furthermore, population bursts of neuronal activity were associated with increased Ca(2+) signal in a portion of the pericytes. Selective in vivo labeling of pericytes with functional markers may help reveal their physiological function in neuronal activity-associated regulation of local cerebral blood flow.

Changes in the temporal properties of the speech signal provide important cues for phoneme identification. An impairment or inability to detect such changes may adversely affect one's ability to understand spoken speech. The difference in meaning between the Finnish words tuli (fire) and tuuli (wind), for example, lies in the difference between the duration of the vowel /u/. Detecting changes in the temporal properties of the speech signal, therefore, is critical for distinguishing between phonemes and identifying words. In the current study, we tested whether detection of changes in speech sounds, in native Finnish speakers, would vary as a function of the position within the word that the informational changes occurred (beginning, middle, or end) by evaluating how length contrasts in segments of three-syllable Finnish pseudo-words and their acoustic correlates were discriminated. We recorded a combination of cortical components of event-related brain potentials (MMN, N2b, P3b) along with behavioral measures of the perception of the same sounds. It was found that speech sounds were not processed differently than non-speech sounds in the early stages of auditory processing indexed by MMN. Differences occurred only in later stages associated with controlled processes. The effects of position and attention on speech and non-speech stimuli are discussed.
High-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK(Ca)) channels from isolated adult guinea-pig outer hair cells were studied in inside-out membrane patches. They had a 300 pS unitary conductance and were inhibited by tetraethyl ammonium (1 mM), iberiotoxin (33 nM) and charybdotoxin (50 nM). In symmetrical 144 mM KCl their K(+) permeability (P(K)) was 5.4 x 10(-13) cm(3)/s; this was reduced to around 4.5 x 10(-13) cm(3)/s with 160 mM Na(+) in place of K(+) on either internal or external membrane surface. BK(Ca) channels from trypsin-isolated hair cells had a high open probability, that depended on both membrane voltage (16 mV/e-fold change) and the concentration of calcium ions at their intracellular surface ([Ca(2+)](i)). The Hill coefficient was 3-4. About 50% of BK(Ca) channels from mechanically isolated outer hair cells had similar characteristics; the remainder had the same high conductance but a low open probability. Trypsin (&lt;0.5 mg/ml) applied to the intracellular face of these 'inactive' channels markedly increased their open probability. It is possible that exposure to trypsin during cell isolation removes an inactivating beta subunit. This would account for the absence of 'inactive' BK(Ca) channels in trypsin-isolated cells.
We have developed a method for quantifying the number, spacing, and distribution of stereocilia on the apical surface of hair cells using spatial autocorrelation analysis and statistics for directional data. Here, we illustrate the method using idealized hair bundles, and we apply it to scanning micrographs of turtle hair cells from the utricle and posterior canal, and to freeze-fracture preparations of bullfrog saccule. The analysis suggests three common features of stereociliary bundles. First, bundle geometries form a continuum from 'loose' to 'tight' rather than two distinct groups. Second, interciliary spacing along the three hexagon axes is not equal; spacing is usually widest along the hexagon axis closest to the bundle's axis of bilateral symmetry (the presumptive excitatory axis). Third, spacing between stereocilia changes with distance from the kinocilium. All three features will influence predictions of the tip link tensions that accompany bundle deflection.
Coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) is routinely used to restore blood flow to diseased cardiac muscle due to coronary artery disease. The patency of conventional grafts decreases with time, which is due to thrombosis and formation of neointima. A primary cause of graft failure is the mechanical damage inflicted to the graft during harvesting, including removal of surrounding tissue accompanied by high pressure saline distension to overcome vasospasm (both causing considerable mechanical trauma). The aim of this study was to compare the ultrastructural features of human saphenous vein (SV) grafts harvested conventionally and grafts prepared using an atraumatic 'no-touch' harvesting technique introduced by Souza (1996). The results of this study showed a better preservation of the lumenal endothelium and medial vascular smooth muscle (SM) in 'no-touch' versus conventional grafts. A 'fast' (within 30 min) response of SM cells to conventional harvesting was noted where features of both SM cell division and apoptosis were observed. It is concluded that the 'preserved' nature of the 'no-touch' aortocoronary SV grafts renders them less susceptible to thrombotic and atherosclerotic factors than grafts harvested conventionally. These features are suggested to contribute to the improved early patency rate described using the no-touch technique of SV harvesting.
The importance of the autopsy in neurodegenerative disease is often not appreciated. Yet clinical diagnosis of neurodegenerative disease is relatively inaccurate, many neurodegenerative diseases are inherited or are associated with specific genetic risk factors, and several non-transmissible neurodegenerative diseases may be confused clinically with prion diseases. In all these cases, the autopsy is the only practical way in which brain tissue can be obtained for diagnosis. The pathologist should ensure that consent by the next-of-kin to post mortem examination is based on clear information as to the nature, scope and limitations of the autopsy, and that any constraints on retaining brain and other tissues are documented. The autopsy should be preceded by a careful review of the clinical notes and ante mortem studies, and consideration of the possible and likely pathological processes. This may suggest the need to retain fixed or frozen samples of cerebrospinal fluid, skeletal muscle, peripheral nerve and other tissues in addition to brain and spinal cord. Ideally, the brain should be fixed intact for 2-3 weeks before it is sliced and blocks are taken. If the period of fixation is limited to a few days only, it is best to slice the brain whilst it is fresh and to allow the diagnostically relevant slices to fix flat; after about 3 days the fixed slices can be sliced further, examined macroscopically and sampled. Even if consent is limited to the retention of only a few tissue samples for histology, a reasonably confident diagnosis can still usually be made, provided that the sampling is careful and systematic. The selection of blocks or brain and spinal cord for histology should be based on internationally accepted guidelines for the pathological diagnosis of different types of neurodegenerative disease, where such guidelines are available. Illustrations are provided to indicate which regions of the brain are critical to establishing a diagnosis in the main categories of neurodegenerative disease. When difficulties arise in the pathological diagnosis of neurodegenerative disease, inadequate post mortem sampling or rapid processing of poorly fixed brain tissue is usually to blame.
Three experiments were conducted to test whether testicular hormones secreted during puberty masculinize and defeminize the expression of adult reproductive behavior. Experiment 1 tested the hypothesis that gonadal hormones during puberty masculinize behavioral responses to testosterone (T) in adulthood. Male hamsters were castrated either before puberty (noTduringP) or after puberty (TduringP). All males were implanted with a 2.5-mg T pellet 6 weeks following castration and tested once for masculine reproductive behavior 7 days after the onset of T replacement. TduringP males displayed significantly more mounts, intromissions, and ejaculations than noTduringP males. Experiment 2 tested the hypothesis that gonadal hormones during puberty defeminize behavioral responses to estrogen (EB) and progesterone (P). Eight weeks following castration, noTduringP and TduringP males were primed with EB and P and tested for lordosis behavior with a stud male. Behavioral responses of males were compared to that of ovariectomized (OVX) and hormone primed females. NoTduringP males and OVX females displayed significantly shorter lordosis latencies than TduringP males. Experiment 3 investigated whether prolonged T treatment or sexual experience could reverse the deficits in masculine behavior caused by the absence of T during puberty. Extending the T treatment from 7 to 17 days did not ameliorate the deficits in masculine behavior caused by absence of T during puberty. Similarly, when the level of sexual experience was increased from one to three tests, the deficits in masculine behavior persisted. These studies demonstrate that gonadal hormones during puberty further masculinize and defeminize neural circuits and behavioral responsiveness to steroid hormones in adulthood.
Social stress is frequently used as a model for studying the neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying stress-induced behavioral inhibition, depression, and fear conditioning. It has previously been shown that social subordination may result in increased glucocorticoid release and changes in brain signaling systems. However, it is still an open question which neuroendocrine and behavioral differences are causes, and which are consequences of social status. Using juvenile rainbow trout of similar size and with no apparent differences in social history, we demonstrate that the ability to win fights for social dominance can be predicted from the duration of a behavioral response to stress, in this case appetite inhibition after transfer to a new environment. Moreover, stress responsiveness in terms of confinement-induced changes in plasma cortisol was negatively correlated to aggressive behavior. Fish that exhibited lower cortisol responses to a standardized confinement test were markedly more aggressive when being placed in a dominant social position later in the study. These findings support the view that distinct behavioral-physiological stress coping styles are present in teleost fish, and these coping characteristics influence both social rank and levels of aggression.
Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we investigated processes involved in switching between two ongoing tasks, thought to be paradigmatic of executive control processes. Subjects were considerably slower and less accurate when switching between two tasks than when repeatedly carrying out one task, so-called &quot;switch costs.&quot; Switch costs, however, generally occur only when more than one task is associated with each stimulus type. This has led to the surmise that switch costs may be due largely to ongoing interference from previously learned stimulus-response (S-R) associations, which are no longer relevant for the task at hand. We used a paradigm that specifically assessed this hypothesis and investigated three stages. In Stage 1, a single task was carried out with each stimulus type; in Stage 2, a second novel task was introduced for each stimulus type; and in Stage 3, subjects reverted to carrying out solely the original tasks (as in Stage 1). In Stage 1, only one task was associated with each stimulus type, whereas two tasks were associated with each stimulus type in Stages 2 and 3. We compared images obtained during Stage 3 to those obtained during Stage 1 and show that during Stage 3, there was robust activation in the network of areas associated with the Stage 2 tasks, even though these tasks were no longer relevant. Our data strongly suggest that switch costs may derive largely from continued activation of areas associated with carrying out the now-irrelevant task(s). We posit that a large component of executive control processes involves resolution of competition between potentially relevant tasks. Our data also revealed widespread activation of a frontoparietal network of areas, and we discuss how this network might be involved in mediating this competition.
The sense of smell has been traditionally assumed to be different from other sensory modalities in that odors are encoded perceptually, without a semantic component. Recent findings of improved odor memory upon encoding with verbal cues question this view. Furthermore, familiar odors are easier to remember and discriminate than are unfamiliar ones, and odor familiarity is reported to predict odor naming. To investigate whether familiar odors are processed by different cerebral structures than those that process unfamiliar odors, (15)O H(2)O-positron emission tomography (PET) measurements of cerebral blood flow were carried out in 14 healthy men. The task was passive, birhinal, smelling of familiar odors (FAM), unfamiliar odors (uFAM), and odorless air (AIR). Significant activations (P &lt; 0.05) were calculated using the contrasts FAM-AIR, uFAM-AIR, and FAM-uFAM, and deactivations running these contrasts in the opposite direction. In relation to AIR, both FAM and uFAM activated amygdala, piriform cortex, and parts of anterior cingulate cortex. FAM activated, in addition, left frontal cortex (Brodmann's areas 44,45,47), left parietal cortex incorporating precuneus, and right parahippocampus. Clusters covering parahippocampus and precuneus were observed also in FAM-uFAM. The activation of left frontal cortex and right parahippocampus was positively correlated with familiarity ratings. Smelling of familiar but not unfamiliar odorants seems to engage cerebral circuits mediating memory and language functions, in addition to the engagement of olfactory cortex. Already the most elemental form of odor processing, passive perception thus seems to engage semantic circuits. This is achieved by the ability of odorants to immediately elicit associations and judgments of odor characteristics.
The genetic epidemiology of late-onset idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) and 'parkin-proven' parkinsonism (AR-JP) are limited. The clinical phenotype, prognosis and treatments are similar although PD is prevalent while AR-JP is rare. Molecular genetic and functional analysis suggests the E3 ubiquitin protein ligase activity of parkin, and the ubiquitin-proteosomal pathway, is central to disease pathogenesis. Herein, we compare and contrast PD and AR-JP and discuss the implications of recent data about parkin's genomic organization, regulation and function.
An intracellular protein, dystrophin, plays an important role in keeping muscle fibers intact by binding at its N-terminal end to the subsarcolemmal cytoskeletal actin network and via its C-terminal end to the transmembraneous protein beta-dystroglycan. Duchenne muscular dystrophy is caused by the loss of dystrophin, which can result from the loss of this binding. The N-terminal part of the latter binding site of dystrophin has been well documented using overlay assay and X-ray diffraction assays. However, the binding site at the C-terminal region of dystrophin has not been examined in detail. In the present work, we report a detailed analysis of the C-terminal binding domain as follows. (1). The full binding activity corresponding to the effective binding in vivo is expressed by the dystrophin fragment spanning amino acids 3026-3345 containing the ZZ domain at the C-terminus. Determination of this binding range is important not only for understanding of the mechanism of dystrophy, but also useful for the design of truncated dystrophin constructs for gene therapy. (2). The ZZ domain binds to EF1 domain in the dystrophin fragment to reinforce the binding activity. (3). The cysteine 3340 in the ZZ domain is essential for the binding of dystrophin to beta-dystroglycan. A reported case of DMD due to missense mutation C3340Y may be caused by inability to fix dystrophin beneath the cell membrane. (4). The binding mode of utrophin is different from that of dystrophin. The difference is conspicuous concerning the cysteine residues present in the ZZ domain.
Risk for late onset Alzheimer disease (LOAD) and plasma amyloid beta levels (Abeta42; encoded by APP), an intermediate phenotype for LOAD, show linkage to chromosome 10q. Several strong candidate genes (VR22, PLAU, IDE) lie within the 1-lod support interval for linkage. Others have independently identified haplotypes in the chromosome 10q region harboring IDE that show highly significant association with intermediate AD phenotypes and with risk for AD. To pursue these associations, we analyzed the same haplotypes for association with plasma Abeta42 in 24 extended LOAD families and for association with LOAD in two independent case-control series. One series (MCR, 188 age-matched case-control pairs) did not show association (p=0.64) with the six haplotypes in the 276-kb region spanning three genes (IDE, KNSL1, and HHEX) previously shown to associate with LOAD. The other series (MCJ, 109 age-matched case-control pairs) showed significant (p=0.003) association with these haplotypes. In the MCJ series, the H4 (odds ratio [OR]=5.1, p=0.003) and H2(H7) haplotypes (OR=0.60, p=0.04) had the same effects previously reported. In this series, the H8 haplotype (OR=2.7, p=0.098) also had an effect similar as in one previous case control series but not in others. In the extended families, the H8 haplotype was associated with significantly elevated plasma Abeta42 (p=0.02). In addition, the H5(H10) haplotype, which is associated with reduced risk for AD in the other study is associated with reduced plasma Abeta42 (p=0.007) in our family series. These results provide strong evidence for pathogenic variant(s) in the 276-kb region harboring IDE that influence intermediate AD phenotypes and risk for AD.
Long-term alcohol exposure leads to the development of alcohol dependence, which is possibly induced by changes in specific neurotransmitter functions. Accumulating evidence suggests that the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type of ionotropic glutamate receptor is a particularly important site of action for ethanol. Ethanol potently and selectively inhibits NMDA receptors (NMDARs) and prolonged ethanol exposure produces a compensatory 'upregulation' of NMDAR functions. These changes are believed to underlie the development of ethanol tolerance and dependence as well as acute and delayed signs of withdrawal. Therefore, negative modulators of NMDARs may be useful agents for the pharmacotherapy of alcoholism. NMDAR antagonists attenuate not only the physical symptoms but also some affective and motivational components of alcohol withdrawal. Encouraging experimental results have been obtained with novel uncompetitive (memantine and neramexane (Merz &amp; Co GmbH/Forest Laboratories Inc)), glycine site and NR2B subunit-selective NMDA antagonists (SSNAs). Recently emerged NR2B SSNAs (CP-101606 (Pfizer Inc), Co-101244 (Pfizer Inc/Purdue Neuroscience Corp/Senju Pharmaceutical Co Ltd), CI-1041 (Purdue Neuroscience Corp/Pfizer Inc) and indole-2-carboxamide derivatives) have demonstrated excellent in vitro potency against withdrawal-induced cytotoxicity. Although in vivo data are few, according to their in vitro efficacy and good tolerability, novel NMDA antagonists, especially the NR2B-selective antagonists, may offer a preferable alternative to the presently available pharmacotherapies for treating alcoholism.
Drug abuse is a global problem of considerable concern to health. One such health concern stems from the fact that many drugs of abuse have immunosuppressive actions and consequently have the potential to increase susceptibility to infectious disease. This article is focused on the impact of the amphetamine derivative, methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; 'Ecstasy') on immunity. Research conducted over the last 5 years, in both laboratory animals and humans, has demonstrated that MDMA has immunosuppressive actions. Specifically, MDMA suppresses neutrophil phagocytosis, suppresses production of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin (IL)-1beta, and increases production of the endogenous immunosuppressive cytokine (IL-10), thereby promoting an immunosuppressive cytokine phenotype. MDMA also suppresses circulating lymphocyte numbers, with CD4+ T cells being particularly affected, and alters T-cell function as indicated by reduced mitogen-stimulated T-cell proliferation, and a skewing of T-cell cytokine production in a T helper 2 (Th2) direction. For the most part, the aforementioned effects of MDMA are not the result of a direct action of the drug on immune cells, but rather caused by the release of endogenous immunomodulatory substances. Consequently, the physiological mechanisms that are thought to underlie the immunosuppressive effects of MDMA will be discussed. As many of the physiological changes elicited by MDMA closely resemble those induced by acute stress, it is suggested that exposure to MDMA could be regarded as a 'chemical stressor' on the immune system. Finally, the potential of MDMA-induced immunosuppression to translate into significant health risks for abusers of the drug will be discussed.

Every 30 years or so, there is an increase of approximately 10-20 points in the population IQ; this appears to be a universal finding. Known as the Flynn effect, it is regarded as a largely artefactual situation because there is no evidence for a true transgenerational increase in intelligence. The Flynn effect makes problematic, the use of IQ tests to compare individuals across generations and the use of IQ tests, the norms of which were obtained in previous decades. The Flynn effect is important to India because IQ test results have many legal and financial implications. Regrettably, most tests that have been standardized for use in India have norms that are decidedly outdated. Restandardization of important IQ tests is urgently required.
This study attempted to differentiate suicide attempters from completers based on their psycho-socio-demographic profile. Suicide attempters admitted to Govt. Medical College, Kozhikode during the period of 1st January to 31st December 2001 were evaluated using a specially designed proforma and for the same period, data of completers were collected using retrospective chart review. The parametric and non-parametric variables between these two groups were compared using appropriate statistics. Both attempters and completers in male gender were in the age of forties and females were in thirties. There was over representation of young females, married and housewives among the victims. In male and female victims, hanging was the commonest method followed by poisoning in males and self-immolation in females. Poisoning was the commonest mode in male attempters and drug over dose in females. Many of the differences in the psycho-socio-demographic profile of suicide attempters and completers reported from western countries could not be replicated in the present study. However comparison of our findings with studies from India and other developing countries shows many similarities.
An extensive body of data demonstrates that diverse groups of mycotoxins can alter the structure and function of the nervous system in a variety of ways with notable human health consequences. Myconeurotoxicity refers to any adverse effects of exposure to mycotoxins or byproducts of primary and secondary mold metabolism, including volatile organic compounds (VOCs) on the structural or functional integrity of the developing or adult nervous system. Neuromycotoxic effects may involve a spectrum of biochemical, morphological, behavioral, and physiological abnormalities whose onset can vary from immediate to delayed action, following exposure to a mycotoxin, and whose duration may be transient or persistent and result in disability, while some may have life-threatening consequences. Myconeurotoxicity may result from effects of the mycotoxins acting directly on the elements of the nervous system or acting on other biological systems, which then adversely affect the nervous system. This paper reviews the application, effectiveness, and limitations of the electrophysiological diagnosis of myconeurotoxic effects of chronic environmental exposure to mycotoxins. The systemic targets of mycotoxic effects were reviewed for greater understanding as to why different neurophysiological test techniques have different levels of outcomes. Thus, nerve conduction velocity, sensory, motor, and evoked potentials, electroencephalographic techniques were evaluated using previously published papers and our clinical experience. Although, neuromycotoxic disorders can be established using clinical electrophysiological diagnosis, there is always the possibility of false positive and false negative results in some patients, which may be due to a multi-factorial etiopathogenesis of neuromycotoxicity. Detection of nervous system toxicity and other measures of toxicity could be achieved using a combination of these neurodiagnostic techniques.
Research in neural response telemetry (NRT) with the Cochlear 'Nucleus' CI24M Implant began a few years ago, using the first NRT software version (2.04). It has been demonstrated that NRT offers possibilities for fitting the implant speech processor. NRT sessions, however, remain lengthy for the patients, especially for children, and NRT research is seeking to reduce session time. The new version of the NRT software (3.0) allows implant stimulation up to 400 Hz, whereas the previous version stimulated only up to 80 Hz. The time gained is very significant. The goal of the present study was to observe and assess the modifications in NRT produced by these higher stimulus frequencies. Growth functions were measured in six adult patients for electrodes 5-10-15-20 at frequencies of 20, 80, 150, 250 and 365 Hz to determine NRT thresholds (NRT-T). Subjective detection thresholds (T) were also measured for the same electrodes and frequencies. The results showed that the number of valid responses, like the quality and amplitude of the NRT response, quickly decreased at these higher rates. Consequently, the number of measurement points used for the growth function decreased with frequency. Moreover, when frequency increased, the T value decreased while NRT-T increased: the gap between the two thresholds increased with frequency in a linear manner common to all patients. The growth function slopes did not change significantly with frequency.
Neurotrophins have been known to play a pivotal role in axonal guidance. Recent research has implicated the role of extracelluar matrix molecules in co-ordinating axonal movement. In this study, we examined the influence of neurotrophins (nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3)) and extracellular matrix molecules (laminin, fibronectin, and poly-l-lysin) on sensory neurite outgrowth in thoracic dorsal root ganglia (DRG) dissected from rats at embryonic day 13. Adjacent DRG were embedded in a collagen gel matrix and supplemented with NGF or NT-3. Under NT-3 conditions, DRG axons extended towards each other and intermingled, while neurites from NGF-treated DRG demonstrated a strong repellent effect, resulting in turning responses and growth cone collapse. This effect was not observed on a collagen culture surface. Interestingly, the composition of the extracellular matrix strongly influenced the observed repellent effect. Sensory neurites from NGF-stimulated DRG again demonstrated a repellent effect when plated on a laminin surface, but showed intermingling behavior when plated on poly-l-lysin or fibronectin. This observation suggests that a factor secreted by NGF-treated DRG axons interacts with laminin, enabling repulsion. This factor and its interaction with the extracellular matrix play an important role in the mechanism of sensory axonal pathfinding.
This article tries to explain, in the light of some neuroscientific and psychoanalytical considerations, the repetitive pattern of panic attacks. Freud considered the panic attack as an 'actual neurosis' not involving any conflictual process. Recent neuroscientific findings indicate that psychosomatic reactions, set off by a danger situation, depend on the primitive circuit of fear (including the amygdala) characterised by its speed, but lack accurate responses and may also be activated by harmless stimuli perceived erroneously as dangerous. The traumatic terror is stored in implicit memory and may be set off by a conditioned stimulus linked to a previous danger situation. In the panic attack, the traumatic event is created by the imagination and this construction (a micro-delusion), built in loneliness and anxiety, has the same power as the real trauma. A mutual psychosomatic short-circuit between body and psyche, in which terror reinforces the somatic reactions and the psychic construction, is established. Therefore, it is important to highlight these constructions in order to analyse and transform them. In the second part of the article the author reviews the main psychoanalytical theories about panic attacks, stressing how, in his opinion, panic attack is a consequence of the breakdown of the defence organisation at various levels and may appear during periods of life crisis. Two patients suffering from a deficit of personal identity are presented. The various organisations and the different levels (biological, neuroscientific, associative, traumatic) of the panic attack determine different kinds of therapeutic approaches (pharmacological, cognitive and psychoanalytical). While the psychopharmacological treatment is aimed at reducing the neurovegetative reaction and the cognitive method is attempting to correct the associative and perceptive processes of fear signals, psychoanalytical therapy represents both a specific means to free patients from panic attacks as well as an indispensable route for their emotional growth.
Recognition potential (RP) is an electrical brain response that has proved its usefulness for studying semantic processing of isolated words, and appears when subjects view meaningful stimuli embedded in a stream of background images at a high rate of presentation: the rapid stream stimulation paradigm (RSS). The present technical study is aimed at testing the validity of this procedure in the study of words within sentences. For this purpose, we varied word and background probability of appearance, the number of background stimuli preceding each word, and stimulus onset asynchrony. Probability did not have significant effects on RP, but it was found that a minimum number of two background stimuli preceding each word and a high rate (250 ms) of presentation are preferable for enhancing RP amplitude. The RSS paradigm would therefore improve the visibility-and, hence, refine the analysis-of a component that can nevertheless be obtained with more standard paradigms, such as rapid serial visual presentation, devoid of interspersed background stimuli.
Spigelian hernias, which represent &lt;2% of all hernias of the vellum abdominis (abdominal wall) anterior, can be a diagnostic challenge for clinicians. Noninvasive imaging techniques, including ultrasonography (US) and computerized axial tomography (CAT), substantially complement clinical inferences based on interrogation and physical examination. Successful definitive care mandates comprehension of the regional, topographical, and visceral anatomy in axial, coronal, and transverse planes. Reported herein is the successful use of a bilayered prosthetic patch, advantageous because of its unimodular and biplanar configuration, to perform a tensionless herniorrhaphy.
Although most members of the Pavlovian Society properly focus their efforts on empirical research, the scholarly, critical conceptual contributions of some individuals are also relevant to progress in psychology and behavioral neuroscience. This paper discusses the contributions of the late George Windholz (often in collaboration with Peter Lamal) as: (a) a historian of Pavlov's life and work; (b) an analyst of priority issues in psychology as a science; (c) a refuter of myths perpetrated by psychology texts. These contributions provide an example of the scholarly form of the motto &quot;observation and observation,&quot; where the data used to test hypotheses comprise original documents (often in languages other than English) examined by the historian's critical eye.
A large body of evidence indicates that the cerebellum is essential for the acquisition, retention, and expression of the standard delay conditioned eyeblink response and that the basic memory trace appears to be established in the anterior interpositus nucleus (IP). Adaptive timing of the conditioned response (CR) is a prominent feature of classical conditioning-the CR peaks at the time of onset of the unconditioned stimulus (US) over a wide range of CS-US interstimulus intervals (ISI). A key issue is whether this timing is established by the cerebellar circuitry or prior to the cerebellum. In this study timing of conditioned eyeblink responses established via electrical stimulation of the interpositus nucleus as a conditioned stimulus (CS) was analyzed prior to and following modification of the CS-US interval in well-trained rabbits. Consistent with previous results, learning under these conditions is very rapid and robust. The CR peak eyeblink latencies are initially timed to the US onset and adjust accordingly to lengthening or shortening of the CS-US interval, just as with peripheral CSs. The acquisition of conditioned eyeblink responses by direct electrical stimulation of the IP as a CS thus retains temporal flexibility following shifts in the CS-US delay, as found in standard classical eyeblink conditioning procedures.

Oxidative stress has been implicated as a common pathogenetic mechanism in neurodegenerative disorders. Central nervous system is particularly exposed to free radical injury, given its high metal content, which can catalyze the formation of oxygen free radicals, and the relatively low content of antioxidant defenses. Indeed, several studies show markers of oxidative damage - lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation, DNA oxidation and glycoxidation markers - in brain areas affected by neurodegenerative disorders. Oxidative stress damage is intimately linked to glutamate neurotoxicity - known as &quot;excitotoxicity&quot;. An excessive concentration of extracellular glutamate over-activates ionotropic glutamate receptors, resulting in intracellular calcium overload and a cascade of events leading to neural cell death. In this study we reviewed pathogenetic mechanisms that link oxidative stress and excitotoxicity in three neurodegenerative disorders (Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson's disease) and described peripheral markers of these mechanisms, that may be analyzed in patients as possible diagnostic and therapeutic tools.
&quot;Use your words!&quot; is a phrase admonishing preschoolers to divert their action-proneness to thought and language. Freud's injunction against acting out had a similar aim, placing control over drives in the domain of &quot;inner language.&quot; The twenty-first-century psychoanalyst continues to employ models that depend on mentalization viewed from two angles-neural inhibition and social discourse. Psychoanalysts bolster their position by borrowing from the basic scientific work in each area. The recent focus on enactments, intersubjectivity, and social constructivism is reconsidered from an historical vantage point, as is the work that seeks to reconcile recent findings in neuroimaging and cognitive neuroscience. Freud's vision included a holistic hope that a comprehensive science of human beings might be achieved by understanding derived from biological inquiry and the artifacts of social and cultural narratives. The author's experience in both domains is recounted, and a new reconciliation of disparate approaches is offered in linguistic complementarity.
This brief review examines some of the methods used to infer central control strategies from surface electromyogram (EMG) recordings. Among the many uses of the surface EMG in studying the neural control of movement, the review critically evaluates only some of the applications. The focus is on the relations between global features of the surface EMG and the underlying physiological processes. Because direct measurements of motor unit activation are not available and many factors can influence the signal, these relations are frequently misinterpreted. These errors are compounded by the counterintuitive effects that some system parameters can have on the EMG signal. The phenomenon of crosstalk is used as an example of these problems. The review describes the limitations of techniques used to infer the level of muscle activation, the type of motor unit recruited, the upper limit of motor unit recruitment, the average discharge rate, and the degree of synchronization between motor units. Although the global surface EMG is a useful measure of muscle activation and assessment, there are limits to the information that can be extracted from this signal.
The history of the investigation of the sensorimotor control of movement is outlined from its inception at the beginning of the 19th century. Particular emphasis is placed on the opening up of new possibilities by the development of new techniques, from chronophotography to magnetic brain stimulation, all of which have exploited developments in technology. Extrapolating from history, future advance in physiological understanding can be guaranteed to require seizing the new tools provided by the physical sciences and refining these to our particular need. The ever-present danger is that these are then deployed with triumphal optimism rather than critical doubt and earlier methods either jettisoned prematurely or used incautiously. The new techniques have enabled experimentation to become ever less intrusive, permitting a progressive shift from animal to human work, thereby offering the prospect of an increasing clinical reward.
A historical review is given of the development of microneurography and its application for studies of sympathetic nerve activity in humans.
Difficulties in the cognitive processing of emotions--including difficulties identifying and describing feelings--are assumed to be an integral part of autism. We studied such difficulties via self-report in 27 high-functioning adults with autistic spectrum disorders, their biological relatives (n = 49), and normal adult controls (n = 35), using the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale and the Beck Depression Inventory. The individuals with autism spectrum disorders were significantly more impaired in their emotion processing and were more depressed than those in the control and relative groups.
Two experiments were designed to investigate possible abnormal face processing strategies in children with autistic spectrum disorders. A group of 11 children with autism was compared to two groups of normally developing children matched on verbal mental age and on chronological age. In the first experiment, participants had to recognize faces on the basis of identity, emotion, gaze direction, gender, and lip reading. All aspects of face processing, except for identity matching, were deficient in the autistic population compared with controls. In the second study, children had to match faces on either high-(i.e., local facial features) or low-spatial frequency information (i.e., global configuration of faces). Contrary to the control subjects, children with autism showed better performance when using high rather than low spatial frequency, confirming face-processing peculiarities in this population.
The extracellular microenvironment of the brain contains numerous biological redox agents, including ascorbate, glutathione, cysteine and homocysteine. During ischemia/reperfusion, aging or neurological disease, extracellular levels of reductants can increase dramatically owing to dysregulated homeostasis. The extracellular concentrations of transition metals such as copper and iron are also substantially elevated during aging and in some neurodegenerative disorders. Increases in the extracellular redox capacity can potentially generate neurotoxic free radicals from reduction of Cu(II) or Fe(III), resulting in neuronal cell death. To investigate this in vitro, the effects of extracellular reductants (ascorbate, glutathione, cysteine, homocysteine or methionine) on primary cortical neurons was examined. All redox agents except methionine induced widespread neuronal oxidative stress and subsequent cell death at concentrations occurring in normal conditions or during neurological insults. This neurotoxicity was totally dependent on trace Cu (&gt;or=0.4 microM) already present in the culture medium and did not require addition of exogenous Cu. Toxicity involved generation of Cu(I) and H(2)O(2), while other trace metals did not induce toxicity. Surprisingly, administration of Fe(II) or Fe(III) (&gt;or=2.5 microM) completely abrogated reductant-mediated neurotoxicity. The potent protective activity of Fe correlated with Fe inhibiting reductant-mediated Cu(I) and H(2)O(2) generation in cell-free assays and reduced cellular Cu uptake by neurons. This demonstrates a novel role for Fe in blocking Cu-mediated neurotoxicity in a high reducing environment. A possible pathogenic consequence for these phenomena was demonstrated by abrogation of Fe neuroprotection after pre-exposure of cultures to the Alzheimer's amyloid beta peptide (Abeta). The loss of Fe neuroprotection against reductant toxicity was greater after treatment with human Abeta1-42 than with human Abeta1-40 or rodent Abeta1-42, consistent with the central role of Abeta1-42 in Alzheimer's disease. These findings have important implications for trace biometal interactions and free radical-mediated damage during neurodegenerative illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease and old-age dementia.
The molecular biology of circadian rhythms has been extensively studied in mice, and the widespread expression of canonical circadian clock genes in peripheral organs is well established in this species. In contrast, much less information about the peripheral expression of haPer1, haPer2, and haBmal1 is available in Syrian hamsters despite the fact that this species is widely used for studies of circadian organization and photoperiodic responses. Furthermore, examination of oscillating expression of these genes in mouse testis has generated discrepant results, and little is known about gonadal expression of haPer1 and haBmal1 or their environmental control. To address these questions, the authors examined the pattern of haPer1 and haBmal1 in heart, kidney, liver, muscle, spleen, and testis of hamsters exposed to DD. In most organs, Northern blots suggested the existence of single transcripts of each of these messenger RNAs (mRNAs). haPer1 peaked in late subjective day and haBmal1 during the late subjective night. Closer inspection of SCN and muscle haPer1, however, revealed the existence of two major transcripts of similar size, as well as minor transcripts that varied in the 3'-untranslated region. In hamster testis, two haPer1 transcripts were found, both of which are truncated relative to the corresponding mouse transcript and both of which contain a sequence homologous to intron 18 of mPer1. Neither testis transcript contains a nuclear localization signal, and haPer1 transcripts lacked the putative C-terminal CRY1-binding domain. Furthermore, the testis deviated from the general pattern in that haPer1 and haBmal1 both peaked in the subjective night. In situ hybridization revealed that haPer1, but not haBmal1, showed a heterogeneous distribution among seminiferous tubules. Hamster testis also expresses 2 haPer2 transcripts, but no circadian variation is evident. In a second experiment, long-term exposure to DD sufficient to induce gonadal regression was found to eliminate circadian oscillations of both testicular haPer1 transcripts. In contrast, gonadal regression was accompanied by a more robust rhythm of haBmal1.

The ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) contributes to the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases, and it is also a major determinant of synaptic protein degradation and activity. Recent studies in rodents and in the fruit fly Drosophila have shown that the activity of the UPS is involved in axonal degeneration. Increased knowledge of the UPS in synaptic and axonal reactions may provide novel drug targets for treatments of neuronal injuries and neurodegenerative disorders.
A new mouse line has been produced in which the sixth Ig domain of the L1 cell adhesion molecule has been deleted. Despite the rather large deletion, L1 expression is preserved at normal levels. In vitro experiments showed that L1-L1 homophilic binding was lost, along with L1-alpha5beta1 integrin binding. However, L1-neurocan and L1-neuropilin binding were preserved and sema3a responses were intact. Surprisingly, many of the axon guidance defects present in the L1 knockout mice, such as abnormal corticospinal tract and corpus callosum, were not observed. Nonetheless, when backcrossed on the C57BL/6 strain, a severe hydrocephalus was observed and after several generations, became an embryonic lethal. These results imply that L1 binding to L1, TAG-1, or F3, and L1-alpha5beta1 integrin binding are not essential for normal development of a variety of axon pathways, and suggest that L1-L1 homophilic binding is important in the production of X-linked hydrocephalus.
We have used control-homozygous weaver mutant, and -heterozygous weaver mutant mice in order to explore the basic molecular mechanism of neurodegeneration and the neuroprotective potential of coenzyme Q(10). Homozygous weaver mutant mice exhibited progressive neurodegeneration in the hippocampus, striatum, and cerebellum, and a reduction in the striatal levels of dopamine and coenzyme Qs (Q(9) and Q(10)) without any significant changes in norepinephrine and serotonin. Mitochondrial complex-1 was down regulated; whereas nuclear factor-kappa B was up regulated in homozygous weaver mutant mice. Rotenone inhibited complex-1, enhanced nuclear factor-kappa B, and caused apoptosis in human dopaminergic (SK-N-SH) neurons; whereas nuclear factor-kappa B antibody suppressed rotenone-induced apoptosis, suggesting that enhancing coenzyme Q(10) synthesis and suppressing the induction of NF-kappa B, may provide neuroprotection.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) play an integral role in the modulation of several physiological functions but can also be potentially destructive if produced in excessive amounts. Protein cysteinyl thiols appear especially sensitive to ROS/RNS attack. Experimental evidence started to accumulate recently, documenting that S-glutathionylation occurs in a number of physiologically relevant situations, where it can produce discrete modulatory effects on protein function. The increasing evidence of functional changes resulting from this modification, and the growing number of proteins shown to be S-glutathionylated both in vitro and in vivo support this contention, and confirm this as an attractive area of research. S-glutathionylated proteins are now actively investigated with reference to problems of biological interest and as possible biomarkers of human diseases associated with oxidative/nitrosative stress.
Endogenous direct-current electric fields (dcEFs) occur in vivo in the form of epithelial transcellular potentials or neuronal field potentials, and a variety of cells respond to dcEFs in vitro by directional movement. This is termed galvanotaxis. The passive influx of Ca(2+) on the anodal side should increase the local intracellular Ca(2+) concentration, whereas passive efflux and/or intracellular redistribution decrease the local intracellular Ca(2+) concentration on the cathodal side. These changes could give rise to 'push-pull' effects, causing net movement of cells towards the cathode. However, such effects would be complicated in cells that possess voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels and/or intracellular Ca(2+) stores. Moreover, voltage-gated Na(+) channels, protein kinases, growth factors, surface charge and electrophoresis of proteins have been found to be involved in galvanotaxis. Galvanotactic mechanisms might operate in both the short term (seconds to minutes) and the long term (minutes to hours), and recent work has shown that they might be involved in metastatic disease. The galvanotactic responses of strongly metastatic prostate and breast cancer cells are much more prominent, and the cells move in the opposite direction compared with corresponding weakly metastatic cells. This could have important implications for the metastatic process and has clinical implications. Galvanotaxis could thus play a significant role in both cellular physiology and pathophysiology.
GnRH receptors (GnRH-Rs) mediate direct antiproliferative effects on hormone-dependent cancer cells. GnRH-Rs can be grouped according to ligand specificity (for GnRH-I and -II), and there is evidence that type II GnRH ligands and/or receptors can inhibit proliferation. Type I GnRH-Rs (e.g. human and sheep) lack the C-terminal tails found in other G protein-coupled receptors including type II GnRH-Rs (e.g. Xenopus; XGnRH-R). This underlies the remarkable resistance of type I GnRH-Rs to desensitization and may be important for chronic effects on proliferation. To test this, we have compared the antiproliferative effects of GnRH-Rs expressed in MCF7 breast cancer cells using recombinant adenovirus (Ad). Endogenous GnRH-Rs were not detected, but infection with Ad-expressing sheep GnRH-Rs (sGnRH-R) facilitated proliferation inhibition by Buserelin, and maximum inhibition required only 10,000-20,000 sGnRH-Rs. XGnRH-Rs were much less efficient at inhibiting proliferation and were internalized faster than sGnRH-Rs. Thus, the type II GnRH-R is less efficient at inhibiting proliferation, presumably because it is rapidly desensitized and/or internalized. Moreover, comparisons of human GnRH-R, sGnRH-R, and XGnRH-R, as well as chimeric receptors (type I GnRH-Rs with C-terminal tails from XGnRH-Rs), revealed that C-terminal tail addition increases receptor expression and thereby increases the efficiency with which the vector facilitates the antiproliferative effect.
Semantic verbal fluency tasks are commonly used in neuropsychological assessment. Investigations of the influence of level of literacy have not yielded consistent results in the literature. This prompted us to investigate the ecological relevance of task specifics, in particular, the choice of semantic criteria used. Two groups of literate and illiterate subjects were compared on two verbal fluency tasks using different semantic criteria. The performance on a food criterion (supermarket fluency task), considered more ecologically relevant for the two literacy groups, and an animal criterion (animal fluency task) were compared. The data were analysed using both quantitative and qualitative measures. The quantitative analysis indicated that the two literacy groups performed equally well on the supermarket fluency task. In contrast, results differed significantly during the animal fluency task. The qualitative analyses indicated differences between groups related to the strategies used, especially with respect to the animal fluency task. The overall results suggest that there is not a substantial difference between literate and illiterate subjects related to the fundamental workings of semantic memory. However, there is indication that the content of semantic memory reflects differences in shared cultural background--in other words, formal education--, as indicated by the significant interaction between level of literacy and semantic criterion.
Tuberculosis of the atlantoaxial spine is a rare condition that is often overlooked and remains a diagnostic dilemma. We report the rare case of a 56-year-old woman with cervical myelopathy secondary to a lytic lesion of C1-C2 complex with a histological diagnosis of tuberculosis.
The authors describe a rare case of primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma presenting as bilateral cerebellopontine angle lesions. Imaging showed bilateral cerebellopontine angle lesions and also a small mass in right lateral ventricle and anterior third ventricle region. The right cerebellopontine angle mass was surgically excised and radio- and chemotherapy given for the remaining lesions. This is the second case reported in the world literature. The case is discussed and the literature is reviewed.
Arachnoid cysts are developmental lesions which are usually asymptomatic or may present with a variety of clinical features. Subdural hygroma is an extremely unusual complication associated with arachnoid cysts. A case of subdural hygroma that developed after the rupture of an asymptomatic middle cranial fossa cyst, following minor head injury is reported.




How objects are represented and processed in the brain is a central topic in cognitive neuroscience. Previous studies have shown that knowledge of objects is represented in a feature-based distributed neural system primarily involving occipital and temporal cortical regions. Research with nonhuman primates suggest that these features are structured in a hierarchical system with posterior neurons in the inferior temporal cortex representing simple features and anterior neurons in the perirhinal cortex representing complex conjunctions of features (Bussey &amp; Saksida, 2002; Murray &amp; Bussey, 1999). On this account, the perirhinal cortex plays a crucial role in object identification by integrating information from different sensory systems into more complex polymodal feature conjunctions. We tested the implications of these claims for human object processing in an event-related fMRI study in which we presented colored pictures of common objects for 19 subjects to name at two levels of specificity - basic and domain. We reasoned that domain-level naming requires access to a coarser-grained representation of objects, thus involving only posterior regions of the inferior temporal cortex. In contrast, basic-level naming requires finer-grained discrimination to differentiate between similar objects, and thus should involve anterior temporal regions, including the perirhinal cortex. We found that object processing always activated the fusiform gyrus bilaterally, irrespective of the task, whereas the perirhinal cortex was only activated when the task required finer-grained discriminations. These results suggest that the same kind of hierarchical structure, which has been proposed for object processing in the monkey temporal cortex, functions in the human.
The obese gene product, leptin, plays a central role in food intake and energy metabolism. The physiological roles of leptin in human bodily function have been broadened over the past decade since leptin was first discovered in 1994. Evidence has suggested that leptin plays a specific role in the intricate cascade of cardiovascular events, in addition to its well-established metabolic effects. Leptin, a hormone linking adiposity and central nervous circuits to reduce appetite and enhance energy expenditure, has been shown to increase overall sympathetic nerve activity, facilitate glucose utilization and improve insulin sensitivity. In addition, leptin is capable of regulating cardiac and vascular contractility through a local nitric oxide-dependent mechanism. However, elevated plasma leptin levels or hyperleptinemia, have been demonstrated to correlate with hyperphagia, insulin resistance and other markers of the metabolic syndrome including obesity, hyperlipidemia and hypertension, independent of total adiposity. Elevated plasma leptin levels may be an independent risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease. Although mechanisms leading to hyperleptinemia have not been well described, factors such as increased food intake and insulin resistance have been shown to rapidly enhance plasma leptin levels and subsequently tissue leptin resistance. These findings have prompted the speculation that leptin in the physiological range may serve as a physiological regulator of cardiovascular function whereas elevated plasma leptin levels may act as a pathophysiological trigger and/or marker for cardiovascular diseases due to tissue leptin resistance.
Two experiments investigated whether the representations used for animal, produce, and object recognition code spatial relations in a similar manner. Experiment 1 tested the effects of planar rotation on the recognition of animals and nonanimal objects. Response times for recognizing animals followed an inverted U-shaped function, whereas those for basic-level object recognition followed an M-shaped function (with a dip at 1800). Experiment 2 tested for laterality effects in the recognition of animals, produce, and objects. A right-hemisphere advantage was found for recognizing animals, whereas no hemispheric advantages were found for recognizing produce or objects. These results suggest that the recognition of animals with nonunique structural descriptions is mediated using coordinate spatial relations, whereas most forms of basic-level object recognition are mediated using categorical spatial relations.

Zinc is an essential element in mammalian development. However, little is known about concentrations of zinc in specific regions/organs in the embryo. We have employed selenite autometallography (AMG) and TSQ histofluoroscence to detect histochemically reactive (chelatable) zinc in whole midsagittal embryos and sections from neonatal mice. Chelatable zinc exhibited a broad distribution, being particularly localized to rapidly proliferating tissues, such as skin and gastrointestinal epithelium. Zinc was also observed in various types of tissues such as bone and liver. In the perinatal central nervous system, zinc was present almost exclusively in choroid plexus. The two methods used demonstrated generally similar distributions with some exceptions, e.g., in liver and blood. The ubiquity of zinc in the embryo, particularly in rapidly proliferating tissues, suggests a widespread role in fetal physiology.
The purpose of this study was to compare cuticular hydrocarbon profiles of slave-making Polyergus rufescens ants reared alone or with their Formica rufibarbis slaves. Chemical analyses showed that due to the close contacts occurring when the Formica were tending the Polyergus, the synthesis of the cuticular hydrocarbons carried by the slaves was enhanced in the slave-makers. The postpharyngeal hydrocarbon levels increased during the first 15 days of life, whether or not the Polyergus were exposed to Formica. Our findings suggest that Polyergus is able to secrete all components of their cuticular hydrocarbon blend and that none are acquired through contact with Formica. In addition to presenting our experimental evidence, several hypotheses are proposed to explain the synthesis and regulation of hydrocarbon blends borne when these two species cohabitate within a single colony.
The effects of long-term carnitine supplementation on age-related changes in tissue carnitine levels and in lipid metabolism were investigated. The total carnitine levels in heart, skeletal muscle, cerebral cortex, and hippocampus were approximately 20% less in aged rats (22 months old) than in young rats (6 months old). On the contrary, plasma carnitine levels were not affected by aging. Supplementation of acetyl-l-carnitine (ALCAR; 100 mg/kg body weight/day for 3 months) significantly increased tissue carnitine levels in aged rats but had little effect on tissue carnitine levels in young rats. Plasma lipoprotein analyses revealed that triacylglycerol levels in VLDL and cholesterol levels in LDL and in HDL were all significantly higher in aged rats than in young rats. ALCAR treatment decreased all lipoprotein fractions and consequently the levels of triacylglycerol and cholesterol. The reduction in plasma cholesterol contents in ALCAR-treated aged rats was attributable mainly to a decrease of cholesteryl esters rather than to a decrease of free cholesterol. Another remarkable effect of ALCAR was that it decreased the cholesterol content and cholesterol-phospholipid ratio in the brain tissues of aged rats. These results indicate that chronic ALCAR supplementation reverses the age-associated changes in lipid metabolism.
Abstract. In previous work we described a &quot;P--&gt;A mechanism&quot; that transduces occupancy of the pump ( P) by ouabain into changes in phosphorylation, stimulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and endocytosis of cell-cell- and cell-substrate-attaching molecules ( A), thereby causing a release of the cell from the monolayer. In the present work we try to understand the mechanism of this effect; whether, in order to trigger the P--&gt;A mechanism, ouabain should block the pumping activity of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase as pump, or whether it would suffice that the drug occupies this enzyme as a receptor. We assay a series of drugs known to act on the pump, such as ouabain, digoxin, digitoxin, palytoxin, oligomycin, strophanthidin, neothyoside-A, proscillaridin-A, etc. We gauge their ability to block the pump by measuring the K(+) content in the cells, and their ability to detach the cells from the monolayer by determining the amount of protein remaining in the culturing well. None of the drugs tested was able to cause detachment without stopping the pump. Ouabain also enhances phosphorylation, yet pump inhibition and signal transduction do not seem to be intimately associated in a causal chain, but to occur simultaneously. To investigate the response of the site of cell attachment, we analyze the position of beta-catenin by fluorescence confocal microscopy, and find that this adherent junction-associated molecule is sent to the nucleus, where it is known to act as a transcriptional cofactor.
An effective mechanism for interfering with prolactin signalling would provide a powerful tool for clarifying the importance of prolactin in breast cancer, as well as for investigating functions of prolactin in other tissues. Based on our previous identification of a dominant-negative mutation in the growth hormone receptor that causes familial short stature, we investigated the potential for using a similar truncated mutant of the prolactin receptor (PRLR1-242). Like the mutant growth hormone receptor, PRLR1-242 exerts an exceptionally powerful dominant-negative effect. A probable explanation for the strong dominant-negative activity of this class of mutation is that, lacking internalisation motifs, the truncated mutants accumulate at the cell surface and form non-functional heterodimers with wild-type receptors. In accordance with evidence for heterodimer formation between the two receptors, PRLR1-242 also blocks signalling by the growth hormone receptor. When expressed from an adenoviral vector, PRLR1-242 inhibits activation of STAT5 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 5) by prolactin in T47-D breast cancer cells, and blocks the ability of prolactin to induce proliferation in these cells. Thus PRLR1-242 provides an effective means of blocking the responsiveness of target tissues to human prolactin.
This review describes the advances in our understanding of the role of G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) localisation in membrane microdomains known as lipid rafts and caveolae. The growing interest in these specialised regions is due to the recognition that they are involved in the regulation of a number of cell functions, including the fine-tuning of various signalling molecules. As a number of GPCRs have been found to be enriched in lipid rafts and/or caveolae by means of different experimental approaches, we first discuss the pitfalls and uncertainties related to the use of these different procedures. We then analyse the addressing signals that drive and/or stabilise GPCRs in lipid rafts and caveolae, and explore the role of rafts/caveolae in regulating GPCR trafficking, particularly in receptor exo- and endocytosis. Finally, we review the growing evidence that lipid rafts and caveolae participate in the regulation of GPCR signalling by affecting both signalling selectivity and coupling efficacy.
Transcription factor AP-2beta has been suggested to influence brain monoaminergic systems by regulating target genes. In order to explore a possible functional role, AP-2beta genotype was analysed in relation to striatal dopamine D2 receptor density determined in vivo by positron emission tomography in human subjects (n = 52). The AP-2beta genotype was also analysed in relation to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of homovanillic acid (HVA), 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-phenylglycol (MHPG) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in healthy human subjects (n = 90). There was no association between the AP-2beta genotype and measures of dopamine receptor density, or CSF 5-HIAA concentrations. However, AP-2beta genotype was associated with CSF-levels of HVA (in women) and MHPG. These data may suggest a functional involvement of AP-2beta in the dopaminergic system, but should be interpreted with caution until replicated.
Behavioral functions are carried out by localized circuits in the brain. Although this modular principle is clearly established, the boundaries of modules, and sometimes even their existence, are still debated. Zebrafish might offer distinct advantages in localizing behaviors to discrete brain regions because of the ability to visualize, record from, and lesion precisely identified populations of neurons in the brain. In addition, genetic screens in zebrafish enable the isolation of mutations that disrupt neural pathways and/or behaviors, as an alternative lesioning technique with complementary strengths to laser ablations. For example, the Mauthner cell, a large identified neuron in the hindbrain, has been postulated to be both necessary and sufficient for the execution of escapes. We discuss in this review how experiments, using laser ablations, calcium imaging, and mutants have eroded this notion. Even in a simple behavior, such as escape, many parallel pathways appear to be involved with no single one being absolutely necessary. Lesion studies and the analysis of behavioral mutants are now also beginning to elucidate the functional architecture of the zebrafish visual system. Although still in an embryonic stage, the neuroanatomy of behaviors in zebrafish has a bright future.
Patterned visual activity, acting via NMDA receptors, refines developing retinotectal maps by shaping individual retinal arbors. Because NMDA receptors are postsynaptic but the retinal arbors are presynaptic, there must be retrograde signals generated downstream of Ca(++) entry through NMDA receptors that direct the presynaptic retinal terminals to stabilize and grow or to withdraw. This review defines criteria for retrograde synaptic messengers, and then applies them to the leading candidates: nitric oxide (NO), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and arachidonic acid (AA). NO is not likely to be a general mechanism, as it operates only in selected projections of warm blooded vertebrates to speed up synaptic refinement, but is not essential. BDNF is a neurotrophin with strong growth promoting properties and complex interactions with activity both in its release and receptor signaling, but may modulate rather than mediate the retrograde signaling. AA promotes growth and stabilization of synaptic terminals by tapping into a pre-existing axonal growth-promoting pathway that is utilized by L1, NCAM, N-cadherin, and FGF and acts via PKC, GAP43, and F-actin stabilization, and it shares some overlap with BDNF pathways. The actions of both are consistent with recent demonstrations that activity-driven stabilization includes directed growth of new synaptic contacts. Certain nondiffusible factors (synapse-specific CAMs, ephrins, neurexin/neuroligin, and matrix molecules) may also play a role in activity-driven synapse stabilization. Interactions between these pathways are discussed.
One of the most intriguing problems in developmental neurobiology is that of how growing axons find the correct way to their proper target cells. Often axonal connections are organized in topographic maps, where neighboring cells of the projecting area are connected to neighboring cells in the target area, thus allowing a faithful transfer of positionally stored information from one area to another. The retinotectal projection is the classical model system for studying topographic projections.

Opioid receptors are the therapeutic targets of narcotic analgesics. All three types of opioid receptors (mu, delta and kappa) are prototypical G(i)-coupled receptors with common signaling characteristics in their regulation of intracellular events. Nevertheless, numerous signaling processes are differentially regulated by the three receptors. We have recently demonstrated that stimulation of delta-opioid receptor can up-regulate the activity of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) in a pertussis toxin-sensitive manner (Kam et al. 2003; J. Neurochem. 84, 503-513). The present study revealed that the mu-opioid receptor could stimulate JNK in both SH-SY5Y cells and transfected COS-7 cells. The mechanism by which the mu-opioid receptor stimulated JNK was delineated with the use of specific inhibitors and dominant-negative mutants of signaling intermediates. Activation of JNK by the mu-opioid receptor was mediated through G beta gamma, Src kinase, son-of-sevenless (Sos), Rac and Cdc42. Interestingly, unlike the delta-opioid receptors, the mu-opioid receptor required phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) to activate JNK. The mu-opioid receptor-induced JNK activation was effectively inhibited by wortmannin or the coexpression of a dominant negative mutant of PI3K gamma. Like the delta-opioid receptor, activation of JNK by the kappa-opioid receptor occurred in a PI3K-independent manner. These studies revealed that the mu-opioid receptor utilize a distinct mechanism to regulate JNK.
Intracellular activation and trafficking of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (ERK) play a significant role in cell cycle progression, contributing to developmental brain activities. Additionally, mitochondria participate in cell signalling through energy-linked functions, redox metabolism and activation of pro- or anti-apoptotic proteins. The purpose of the present study was to analyze the presence of ERK1/2 in mitochondria during rat brain development. Immunoblotting, immune electron microscopy and activity assays demonstrated that ERK1/2 are present in fully active brain mitochondria at the outer membrane/intermembrane space fraction. Besides, it was observed that ERK1/2 translocation to brain mitochondria follows a developmental pattern which is maximal between E19-P2 stages and afterwards declines at P3, just before maximal translocation to nucleus, and up to adulthood. Most of mitochondrial ERK1/2 were active; upstream phospho-MAPK/ERK kinases (MEK1/2) were also detected in the brain organelles. Mitochondrial phospho-ERK1/2 increased at 1 microm hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) concentration, but it decreased at higher 50-100 microm H(2)O(2), almost disappearing after the organelles were maximally stimulated to produce H(2)O(2) with antimycin. Our results suggest that developmental mitochondrial activation of ERK1/2 cascade contributes to its nuclear translocation effects, providing information about mitochondrial energetic and redox status to the proliferating/differentiating nuclear pathways.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress has increasingly come into focus as a factor contributing to neuronal injury. Although caspase-dependent mechanisms have been implicated in ER stress, the signaling pathways involved remain unclear. In this study, we examined the role of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway that is highly conserved in many systems for balancing cell survival and death. Prolonged treatment of the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y with thapsigargin, an inducer of ER stress, increased cell death over 24-48 h, as measured by LDH release. Caspases were involved; increased levels of active caspase-3 and cleaved caspase substrate PARP were detected, and treatment with Z-VAD-FMK reduced thapsigargin-induced cytotoxicity. In contrast, inhibition of calpain was not protective, although calpain was activated following thapsigargin treatment. An early and transient phosphorylation of ERK1/2 occurred after thapsigargin-induced ER stress, and targeting this pathway with the MEK inhibitors U0126 or PD98059 significantly reduced cell death. Similar cytoprotection was obtained against brefeldin A, another ER stress agent. However, protection against ER stress via ERK inhibition was not accompanied by amelioration of caspase-3 activation, PARP cleavage, or DNA laddering. These data indicate that ERK may contribute to non-caspase-dependent pathways of injury after ER stress.
Hypoxic preconditioning (HP) 24 h before hypoxic-ischemic (HI) injury confers significant neuroprotection in neonatal rat brain. Recent studies have shown that the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) intracellular signaling pathways play a role in the induction of tolerance to ischemic injury in heart and brain. To study the role of MAPK (ERK1/2, JNK, p38MAPK) and PI3K/Akt/GSK3beta signaling pathways in hypoxia-induced ischemic tolerance, we examined the brains of newborn rats at different time points after exposure to sublethal hypoxia (8% O(2) for 3 h). Immunoblot analysis showed that HP had no effect on the levels of phosphorylated Akt, GSK3beta, JNK and p38MAPK. In contrast, significantly increased levels of phosphorylated ERK1/2 were observed 0.5 h after HP. Double immunofluorescence staining showed that hypoxia-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation was found mainly in microvessels throughout the brain and in astrocytes in white matter tracts. Inhibition of hypoxia-induced ERK1/2 pathway with intracerebral administration of U0126 significantly attenuated the neuroprotection afforded by HP against HI injury. These findings suggest that activation of ERK1/2 signaling may contribute to hypoxia-induced tolerance in neonatal rat brain in part by preserving vascular and white matter integrity after HI.
Glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCP II) inhibition has previously been shown to be protective against long-term neuropathy in diabetic animals. In the current study, we have determined that the GCP II inhibitor 2-(phosphonomethyl) pentanedioic acid (2-PMPA) is protective against glucose-induced programmed cell death (PCD) and neurite degeneration in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in a cell culture model of diabetic neuropathy. In this model, inhibition of caspase activation is mediated through the group II metabotropic glutamate receptor, mGluR3. 2-PMPA neuroprotection is completely reversed by the mGluR3 antagonist (S)-alpha-ethylglutamic acid (EGLU). In contrast, group I and III mGluR inhibitors have no effect on 2-PMPA neuroprotection. Furthermore, we show that two mGluR3 agonists, the direct agonist (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2, 4-dicarboxylate (APDC) and N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG) provide protection to neurons exposed to high glucose conditions, consistent with the concept that 2-PMPA neuroprotection is mediated by increased NAAG activity. Inhibition of GCP II or mGluR3 may represent a novel mechanism to treat neuronal degeneration under high-glucose conditions.
Abstract Neurotensin is a tridecapeptide neurotransmitter known to be involved in psychiatric disorders, various physiological processes and several different neurobiological mechanisms, including modulation of accumbal dopamine release. Two neurotensin extracellular binding sites, namely NT1- and NT2-receptor (NT1R and NT2R), have been cloned from the rat brain. These receptors are distinguishable by their different in vitro pharmacological properties but the available pharmacological tools have weak in vivo potency and specificity. The use of genetically engineered knock-out mice has provided a powerful alternative to the classical pharmacological approach to investigate their respective roles. In this study, using in vivo differential pulse amperometry, we show that, in wild-type mice, neurotensin application into the ventral tegmental area dose-dependently evokes dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens. This neurotensin-mediated efflux is dramatically decreased in mice lacking NT1R while it is unaffected in NT2R-deleted mice. This finding indicates that a large part of the dopamine efflux evoked by neurotensin in the nucleus accumbens of wild-type mice is mediated via NT1R present in the ventral tegmental area.
Arginine vasopressin modulates pairbond formation in the monogamous prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster). Our laboratory has investigated the genetic and neural mechanisms by which vasopressin and its V1a receptor (V1aR) regulate social attachment between mates. Non-monogamous vole species show strikingly different distribution patterns of brain V1aR expression compared to monogamous species, and these patterns are thought to arise from species differences in the respective promoter sequences of the V1aR gene. Individual differences in prairie vole V1aR patterns may also reflect individual differences in promoter sequences. Pharmacological and genetic manipulation of the specific brain regions that express V1aR in the 'monogamous pattern' allows multilevel examination of the neural circuits that underlie pairbond formation in monogamous species. For example, V1aR are expressed in brain regions involved in reward circuitry in monogamous vole species and have been implicated in pairbonding. V1aR are also highly expressed in regions implicated in the olfactory processing of sociosexual behaviour. We hypothesize that both circuits of reward and olfactory memory underlie the cognitive mechanisms that control pairbonding. When used in conjuction, genetic and cellular analyses of a complex social behaviour can provide a coherent framework with which to examine the role of the vasopressin system in species evolution and neural control of behaviour.

Recent reports have contained conflicting results on the relationship between antecedent Haemophilus influenzae infection and Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). To investigate the prevalence of H. influenzae infection in GBS patients in a British population, we carried out a retrospective study with 62 consecutive GBS patients and 63 normal controls of similar age and sex. Whole bacteria of both encapsulated and nonencapsulated strains of H. influenzae were employed as antigens in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for anti-H. influenzae IgG, IgM and IgA antibodies. Elevated antibodies of two or three classes were found in one GBS patient and none in the normal controls. Six GBS patients had IgG antibodies against nonencapsulated H. influenzae compared with only one in the normal control group (p=0.06). Western blot for IgG antibody showed that all the sera with IgG antibodies recognized the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of both strains of H. influenzae. Antiganglioside GM1 antibody was not associated with anti-H. influenzae antibody in our study. Absorption with encapsulated or nonencapsulated H. influenzae, Campylobacter jejuni and Escherichia coli before testing on Western blot showed that only nonencapsulated H. influenzae absorbed the anti-LPS antibodies. In conclusion, there is a possible but rare association of GBS with nonencapsulated H. influenzae in the UK.
Seasonal changes in day length enhance or suppress immune function in individuals of several mammalian species. Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) are long-day breeders that adjust reproductive physiology and behavior, body mass, and immune function following exposure to short photoperiods. Photoperiods of intermediate-duration, encountered in nature by juvenile hamsters born in early-spring and by those born in mid-summer, trigger gonadal development in the former cohort and inhibit the onset of puberty in the latter. Divergent reproductive responses to the same intermediate photoperiod depend on a photoperiod history, communicated during gestation. These experiments assessed whether photoperiod history during gestation likewise impacts immunological responses to intermediate photoperiods. Male hamsters were gestated in long photoperiods and remained in long photoperiods postnatally, or were transferred to an intermediate-duration or a short-duration photoperiod; other males were gestated in short days and transferred to an intermediate-duration photoperiod at birth. Long days stimulated, and short days inhibited, somatic and reproductive development; intermediate day lengths either accelerated or inhibited somatic and reproductive development, depending on whether hamsters were gestated in short days or long days, respectively. By contrast, photoperiod during gestation did not affect most immune endpoints. The data suggest that photoperiodic mechanisms that enhance and suppress several aspects of immunity in young-adult hamsters are not responsive to prenatally communicated photoperiod history information.
This review deals with two syndromes, oscillopsia and visual vertigo. Oscillopsia is the illusion of oscillation of the visual surroundings. For diagnosis purposes one should ask, when does the oscillopsia occur? If oscillopsia is only present during head (or whole body) movements, the likely underlying cause is a bilateral defect in the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR). The more common causes are post meningitic vestibular damage, gentamicin ototoxicity or bilateral idiopathic vestibular failure. When oscillopsia develops after specific head positions, it is usually due to a positional nystagmus, usually the result of brainstem-cerebellar disease. When the oscillopsia is largely unrelated to head movements, one should ask, is it fairly constant or is it in attacks (paroxysmal)? If the oscillopsia is constant it is usually due to the presence of a clinically observable nystagmus; the most common is downbeat nystagmus but the most visually disabling is pendular nystagmus. If the oscillopsia comes in brief attacks it is usually due to a paroxysmal nystagmus as observed in irritative VIII nerve and brainstem lesions. However, the most common cause of paroxysmal oscillopsia is a non organic condition called voluntary nystagmus. Treatment of oscillopsia is often pharmacological but disappointing; the best chance of success is carbamazepine for paroxysmal disorders secondary to structural vestibular nerve/nuclear lesions.Visual vertigo should not be confused with oscillopsia. It can be defined as dizziness provoked by visual environments with large size (full field) repetitive or moving visual patterns. Patients with visual vertigo report discomfort in supermarkets and when viewing movement of large visual objects, eg crowds, traffic, clouds or foliage. Visual vertigo is present in many patients with a history of a peripheral vestibular disorder, particularly those who are visually dependent (ie subjects who use vision preferentially for postural and space orientation control). Patients with visual vertigo benefit from the addition to their standard vestibular rehabilitation of optic flow (optokinetic) stimuli and exercises involving visuo-vestibular conflict.



The sequencing of the complete genome for many organisms, including man, has opened the door to the systematic understanding of how complex structures such as the brain integrate and function, not only in health but also in disease. This blueprint, however, means that the piecemeal analysis regimes of the past are being rapidly superseded by new methods that analyse not just tens of genes or proteins at any one time, but thousands, if not the entire repertoire of a cell population or tissue under investigation. Using the most appropriate method of analysis to maximise the available data therefore becomes vital if a complete picture is to be obtained of how a system or individual cell is affected by a treatment or disease. This review examines what methods are currently available for the large scale analysis of gene and protein expression, and what are their limitations.
In many networks of oscillatory neurons, synaptic interactions can promote the entrainment of units into phase-coupled groups. The detection of synchrony in experimental data, especially if the data consist of single-trial runs, can be problematic when, for example, phase entrainment is of short duration, buried in noise, or masked by amplitude fluctuations that are uncorrelated among the oscillating units. In the present study, we tackle the problem of detecting neural interactions from pairs of oscillatory signals in a narrow frequency band. To avoid the interference of amplitude fluctuations in the detection of synchrony, we extract a phase variable from the data and utilize statistical indices to measure phase locking. We use three different phase-locking indices based on coherence, entropy, and mutual information between the phase variables. Phase-locking indices are calculated over time using sliding analysis windows. By varying the duration of the analysis windows, we were able to inspect the data at different levels of temporal resolution and statistical reliability. The statistical significance of high index values was evaluated using four different surrogate data methods. We determined phase-locking indices using alternative methods for generating surrogate data and found that results are sensitive to the particular method selected. Surrogate methods that preserve the temporal structure of the individual phase time series decrease substantially the number of false positives when tested on a pair of independent signals.
We have used the technique of functional MRI to address the question of whether there are brain areas that are specifically engaged when subjects view paintings that they consider to be beautiful, regardless of the category of painting (that is whether it is a portrait, a landscape, a still life, or an abstract composition). Prior to scanning, each subject viewed a large number of paintings and classified them into beautiful, neutral, or ugly. They then viewed the same paintings in the scanner. The results show that the perception of different categories of paintings are associated with distinct and specialized visual areas of the brain, that the orbito-frontal cortex is differentially engaged during the perception of beautiful and ugly stimuli, regardless of the category of painting, and that the perception of stimuli as beautiful or ugly mobilizes the motor cortex differentially.
The developmental decrease in rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep in man occurs between birth and after puberty. We hypothesize that if this decrease in REM sleep does not occur, lifelong increases in REM sleep drive may ensue. Such disorders are characterized by hypervigilance and sensory-gating deficits, such as are present in postpubertal onset disorders like schizophrenia, panic attacks (a form of anxiety disorder), and depression. The decrease in REM sleep in the rat occurs between 10 and 30 days of age. We studied changes in size and physiological properties of pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) cells involved in the control of arousal, i.e., waking and REM sleep. During the largest decrease in REM sleep (12-21 days), cholinergic PPN neurons doubled in cell area, the hypertrophy peaking at 15-16 days, then decreasing in area by 20-21 days. Noncholinergic PPN cells did not change in area during this period. We confirmed the presence of two populations of PPN neurons based on action potential (AP) duration, with the proportion of short-AP-duration cells increasing and long AP duration decreasing between 12 and 21 days. Most cholinergic and noncholinergic cells had short AP durations. Afterhyperpolarization (AHP) duration became segregated into long and short AHP duration after 15 days. Cells with short AP duration also had short AHP duration. The proportion of PPN cells with Ih current increased gradually, peaking at 15 days, then decreased by 21 days. These changes in morphological and physiological properties are discussed in relation to the developmental decrease in REM sleep.
Different mechanisms have been proposed concerning how disparity-tuned neurons might be connected to produce the signals for depth perception. Here we present neurophysiological evidence providing insight on this issue. We have recorded simultaneously from pairs of disparity-tuned neurons in the cat's striate cortex. The purpose was to determine the relationships between disparity tuning and functional connectivity revealed through neural cross-correlograms. Monosynaptic connections tend to be stronger between pairs of cells with similar disparity tuning. Pairs of complex cells tend to have either similar tuning or nearly opposite tuning with an absence of quadrature relations. Pairs with at least one simple cell do have some nearly quadrature relationships when they are recorded from the same electrode. Coarse-to-fine connections (i.e., the presynaptic cell has lower disparity frequency and larger disparity range) tend to be stronger but less frequent than those of a fine-to-coarse nature. Our results are consistent with a system that produces weighted averaging across cells that are tuned to similar disparities but different disparity scales to reduce false matches.
To solve the stereo correspondence problem (i.e., find the matching features of a visual scene in both eyes), it is advantageous to combine information across spatial scales. The details of how this is accomplished are not clear. Psychophysical studies and mathematical models have suggested various types of interactions across spatial scale, including coarse to fine, fine to coarse, averaging, and population coding. In this study, we investigate dynamic changes in disparity tuning of simple and complex cells in the cat's striate cortex over a short time span. We find that disparity frequency increases and disparity ranges decrease while optimal disparity remains constant, and this conforms to a coarse-to-fine mechanism. We explore the origin of this mechanism by examining the frequency and size dynamics exhibited by binocular simple cells and neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). The results suggest a strong role for a feed-forward mechanism, which could originate in the retina. However, we find that the dynamic changes seen in the disparity range of simple cells cannot be predicted from their left and right eye monocular receptive field (RF) size changes. This discrepancy suggests the possibility of a dynamic nonlinearity or disparity specific feedback that alters tuning or a combination of both mechanisms.
Haptic perception of shape is based on kinesthetic and tactile information synthesized across space and time. We studied this process by having subjects move along the edges of multisided shapes and then remember and reproduce the shapes. With eyes closed, subjects moved a robot manipulandum whose force field was programmed to simulate a quadrilateral boundary in a horizontal plane. When subjects then reproduced the quadrilateral using the same manipulandum, with eyes still closed but now with the force field set to zero, they made consistent errors, overestimating the lengths of short segments and underestimating long ones, as well as overestimating acute angles and underestimating obtuse ones. Consequently their reproductions were more regular than the shapes they had experienced. When subjects felt the same quadrilaterals with the same manipulandum but drew them on a vertical screen with visual feedback, they made similar errors, indicating that their distortions reflected mainly perceptual rather than motor processes. In a third experiment, subjects explored the 3 sides of an open shape in a fixed order. The results revealed a temporal pattern of interactions, where the lengths and angles of previously explored segments influenced the drawing of later segments. In all tasks, our subjects were as accurate as subjects in earlier studies who haptically explored only single lines or angles, suggesting that the mental processes that synthesize haptic data from multiple segments into complete shapes do not introduce any net error.


The purpose of this study was to extend a previous evaluation of neuroscience nursing research to an assessment of the research published during the 1990s--the Decade of the Brain. The evaluation was conducted to assess the focus of neuroscience nursing research and to identify research strategies and scientific methods. The Journal of Neuroscience Nursing, Nursing Research, Research in Nursing &amp; Health, and Western Journal of Nursing Research were canvassed. An assessment form developed by the authors was used to evaluate selected articles published between January 1989 and December 2000. The number of neuroscience research studies published in nursing journals increased substantially during the 1990s. The studies focused more on individuals with neurological disorders and less on neurological trauma. The findings demonstrated major changes in subspecialty area, care orientation, and nature of study variables from that observed in the previous evaluation in which acute care and physiological variables were most representative of the pre-1989 studies. As noted in the previous evaluation, the trend toward theory-then-research studies continued and the scientific methods grew more complex.
Astrocytes can modulate synaptic transmission by releasing glutamate in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Although the internal Ca(2+) stores have been implicated as the predominant source of Ca(2+) necessary for this glutamate release, the contribution of different classes of these stores is still not well defined. To address this issue, we cultured purified solitary cortical astrocytes and monitored changes in their internal Ca(2+) levels and glutamate release into the extracellular space. Ca(2+) levels were monitored by using the Ca(2+) indicator fluo-3 and quantitative fluorescence microscopy. Glutamate release was monitored by an L-glutamate dehydrogenase-linked detection system. Astrocytes were mechanically stimulated with a glass pipette, which reliably caused an increase in internal Ca(2+) levels and glutamate release into the extracellular space. Although we find that the presence of extracellular Cd(2+), a Ca(2+) channel blocker, significantly reduces mechanically induced glutamate release from astrocytes, we confirm that internal Ca(2+) stores are the predominant source of Ca(2+) necessary for this glutamate release. To test the involvement of different classes of internal Ca(2+) stores, we used a pharmacological approach. We found that diphenylboric acid 2-aminoethyl ester, a cell-permeable inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptor antagonist, greatly reduced mechanically induced glutamate release. Additionally, the preincubation of astrocytes with caffeine or ryanodine also reduced glutamate release. Taken together, our data are consistent with dual IP(3)- and caffeine/ryanodine-sensitive Ca(2+) stores functioning in the control of glutamate release from astrocytes.
Nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT3) promote the function and/or survival of basal forebrain (BF) cholinergic neurons in vivo and in culture. The neurotrophin source is commonly thought to be targets of cholinergic neurons and the possibility that local glial sources support cholinergic neurons has not been well examined. These sources, however, may be critical to BF neurons before or even after they reach their targets. We investigated neurotrophin expression in BF astrocytes and its regulation by neural signals. Solution hybridization and immunocytochemical assays revealed that NGF, BDNF, and NT(3) mRNA and proteins were expressed in cultured BF astrocytes. To investigate roles of neuronal signals in neurotrophin regulation, effects of K(+), glutamate, and the cholinergic agonist carbachol were examined. These stimuli affected neurotrophin expression differentially. KCl increased BDNF mRNA but did not alter NGF or NT(3) mRNA. The effect was blocked by nifedipine, suggesting that it was mediated by L-type voltage-dependent calcium currents. Carbachol also increased BDNF mRNA levels without changing NGF or NT(3). Effects were blocked by the muscarinic antagonist, atropine. In contrast, glutamate increased both NGF and BDNF mRNA. NT(3) mRNA again was unaffected. The metabotropic agonist trans-(1S,3R)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid (trans-ACPD) reproduced glutamate effects, whereas kainate or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) plus glycine did not. Lack of antagonism by ionotropic antagonists and blockade of glutamate effects by metabotropic antagonists confirmed metabotropic mediation. We suggest that BF astrocytes are local sources of neurotrophins for BF cholinergic neurons during development and are regulated differentially by specific neuronal signals. Critical neuronal-glial interactions may underlie basal forebrain function.
Oligodendrocyte precursors (OPCs) initially arise in the motor neuron domain of the ventral ventricular zone of the developing spinal cord. After dispersal throughout gray and white matter, OPCs differentiate in a characteristic ventral to dorsal sequence. The spatial localization of OPC induction is in part a result of both positive local sonic hedgehog signaling and dorsally derived inhibitory cues. One component of dorsal inhibitory signals seems to be members of the transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) superfamily such as the bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs). We show that during the initial appearance and subsequent maturation of OPCs, BMP4 was expressed specifically in the dorsal midline and its expression was correlated spatially and temporally with phospho-Smad 1+, BMP4-responsive cells. Implantation of sonic hedgehog (Shh)-coated beads adjacent to dorsal spinal cord in Xenopus embryos induced ectopic dorsal OPCs whereas BMP4-coated beads inhibited OPC appearance. More importantly, blocking endogenous dorsal BMP4 with anti-BMP4-coated beads locally induced ectopic OPCs. Similar results were obtained using soluble ligands on slice preparations of rodent spinal cord in vitro. In dissociated cell cultures of embryonic rat spinal cord, Shh and BMP4 had antagonistic effects on OPC development and the sensitivity of oligodendrocyte lineage cells to BMP4 increased with maturation. These data suggest that BMP4 contributes to the pattern of spinal cord oligodendrogenesis by regulating both induction and maturation of spinal cord OPCs.
Bone morphogenetic proteins, members of the TGFbeta superfamily have been implicated in a variety of roles in the developing and mature nervous system. These divergent functions are a reflection of the closely defined spatial and temporal expression of BMPs in the CNS, and the potential interactions of the BMP signaling pathway with the STAT and MAP kinase pathways. In this review we discuss the roles of BMPs in early patterning of the CNS, determination of neural cell fate, and regulation of oligodendrocyte maturation during CNS development. Additional functions for members of the TGFbeta superfamily in CNS injury responses are emerging suggesting these molecules represent useful targets for manipulating neural responses to CNS insults.


Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) have recently been shown to have a remarkable ability to repair spinal cord injury. These cells were originally selected for transplant-mediated repair as their inherent behavior in the olfactory system is to support continual regeneration of olfactory receptor neurons throughout life. What is unique about this system is that olfactory receptor neurons, from the PNS are able to extend primary axons from the olfactory mucosa into the central nervous system (CNS) tissue of the olfactory bulb and synapse with second order neurons. This is one of the rare instances of axons crossing from the peripheral neurons system (PNS) into the CNS in the adult animal. In this paper the basic biology of these cells is described, making comparison with another promising candidate for transplant-mediated repair, the Schwann cell. The growth factor requirement for OECs is summarized detailing the influence of these factors on their antigenic and morphological characteristics. Evidence that OECs have distinct glial cell properties is provided with emphasis on their unique ability to interact with astrocytes. A brief background is given of the data obtained using OECs in transplantation studies and the resulting pros and cons discussed with emphasis on limitations of functional recovery.
The brain represents a privileged organ with respect to selenium (Se) supply and retention. It contains high amounts of this essential trace element, which is efficiently retained even in conditions of Se deficiency. Accordingly, no severe neurological phenotype has been reported for animals exposed to Se-depleted diets. They are, however, more susceptible to neuropathological challenges. Recently, gene disruption experiments supported a pivotal role for different selenoproteins in brain function. Using these and other transgenic models, longstanding questions concerning the preferential supply of Se to the brain and the hierarchy among the different selenoproteins are readdressed. Given that genes for at least 25 selenoproteins have been identified in the human genome, and most of these are expressed in the brain, their specific roles for normal brain function and neurological diseases remain to be elucidated.



The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of estrogen and progesterone treatment on 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin)-1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor-mediated disruption of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle. The age-at-onset of schizophrenia is later in women than men, and it has been suggested that women may be protected from schizophrenia by the sex steroid hormone estrogen. 5-HT(1A) receptors have been implicated in the development of schizophrenia and the action of antipsychotics. PPI is a model of sensorimotor gating that is deficient in schizophrenia and other illnesses. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomized (OVX) or sham-operated. Some OVX rats received silastic implants filled with a low dose of estrogen (E20), a high dose of estrogen (E100), progesterone (P), or both the E20- and P-filled (E/P) silastic implants. Two weeks later, the rats were randomly treated with saline, or 0.02 or 0.5 mg/kg of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT). Treatment with 8-OH-DPAT resulted in a dose-dependent increase in startle amplitude in all rat groups. PPI was significantly reduced after injection of 0.5 mg/kg 8-OH-DPAT in sham-operated rats, untreated OVX rats, E20-treated OVX rats, and P-treated OVX rats. In contrast, in E100- and E/P-treated OVX rats, PPI was not significantly reduced by 0.5 mg/kg 8-OH-DPAT. These data suggest that treatment with a high dose of estrogen, or with a combination of estrogen and progesterone, prevents 8-OH-DPAT-induced disruption of PPI. Thus, these hormones could be protective against sensorimotor gating deficits, at least those induced by 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation, and may therefore be beneficial against some symptoms of schizophrenia.
The 2-phenylaminopyrimidine derivative imatinib-mesylate, a powerful protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitor that targets abl, c-kit, and the platelet-derived growth factor receptors, is rapidly gaining a relevant role in the treatment of several types of neoplasms. Because first generation PTK inhibitors affect the activity of a large number of voltage-dependent ion channels, the present study explored the possibility that imatinib-mesylate could interfere with the activity of T-type channels, a class of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels that take part in the chain of events elicited by PTK activation. The effect of the drug on T-type channel activity was examined using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique with Ba2+ (10 mM) as the permeant ion in human embryonic kidney-293 cells, stably expressing the rat Ca(V)3.3 channels. Imatinib-mesylate concentrations, ranging from 30 to 300 microM, reversibly decreased Ca(V)3.3 current amplitude with an IC(50) value of 56.9 microM. By contrast, when imatinib-mesylate (500 microM) was intracellularly dialyzed with the pipette solution, no reduction in Ba2+ current density was observed. The 2-phenylaminopyrimidine derivative modified neither the voltage dependence of activation nor the steady-state inactivation of Ca(V)3.3 channels. The decrease in extracellular Ba2+ concentration from 10 to 2 mM and the substitution of Ca2+ for Ba2+ increased the extent of 30 microM imatinib-mesylate-induced percentage of channel blockade from 25.9 +/- 2.4 to 36.3 +/- 0.9% in 2 mM Ba2+ and 44.2 +/- 2.3% in 2 mM Ca2+. In conclusion, imatinib-mesylate blocked the cloned Ca(V)3.3 channels by a PTK-independent mechanism. Specifically, the drug did not affect the activation or the inactivation of the channel but interfered with the ion permeation process.
The retinal ischemic-reperfusion stress (130 mm Hg, 45 min) caused neuronal damage throughout all cell layers and reduced the thickness of retinal layer by 30% at 7 days after the stress of mouse retina. The intravitreous injection of 100 pmol of nefiracetam, a cognition-enhancer, completely prevented the damage when it was given 30 min before and 3 h after the stress. Partial prevention was observed when it was given 24 h after the stress, or low dose (10 pmol) nefiracetam was given 30 min before the stress. However, aniracetam had no effect. In the retinal cell line N18-RE-105, the ischemic-reperfusion stress by 2 h culture under the serum-free condition with low oxygen (less of 0.4% O(2)) and low glucose (1 mM) caused necrosis or apoptosis in the low-density (0.5 x 10(4) cell/cm(2))or high-density (5 x 10(4) cell/cm(2)) culture, respectively. The necrosis showed membrane disruption, loss of electron density, and mitochondrial swelling, whereas apoptosis showed nuclear fragmentation and condensation in transmission electron microscopical analyses and in experiments using specific cell death markers. Nefiracetam inhibited both necrosis and apoptosis, whereas brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) inhibited only apoptosis. The cell-protective actions of nefiracetam were abolished by nifedipine and omega-conotoxin GVIA, L-type and N-type calcium channel blocker, but not by PD98059 or wortmannin, extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 or phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor, respectively, whereas those of BDNF were abolished by PD98059 and wortmannin, but not by nifedipine and omega-conotoxin GVIA. All these findings suggest that nefiracetam inhibit necrosis and apoptosis occurred in the ischemic/hypoxic neuronal injury through an increase in Ca(2+) influx.
It is well known that the analgesic potency of morphine is reduced in neuropathic pain. In this study, we demonstrate that the decreased effectiveness of systemic morphine in neuropathic pain might be caused by the loss of morphine analgesia at the periphery. When given s.c. or i.t., the dose-response curves for morphine analgesia in Hargreaves thermal test were shifted rightward in partial sciatic nerve-injured mice compared with control sham-operated mice. The dose-response curves for i.c.v. morphine analgesia, however, were unchanged in nerve-injured mice, indicating no decrease in morphine potency at the supraspinal level. On the other hand, the dose-dependent analgesia produced by intraplantar (i.pl.) morphine in sham-operated mice almost completely disappeared in nerve-injured mice. With the more sensitive algogenic-induced nociceptive flexion test, significant reduction in the analgesic potency of systemic morphine was observed for bradykinin (BK) nociception in nerve-injured mice, and the analgesic effect of i.pl. morphine against BK nociception in sham-operated mice disappeared in nerve-injured mice. In immunohistochemical experiments, we found that, under normal state, mu-opioid receptors (MOPs) were mainly expressed in small-diameter unmyelinated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and colocalized with bradykinin B2 receptors. When we examined MOP expression in the DRG of nerve-injured mice, we observed a drastic decrease in MOP expression. Altogether, these data suggest that the lower potency of systemic morphine in neuropathic pain could be at least partly caused by the decreased MOP expression in DRG and subsequent loss of peripheral morphine analgesia in such a condition.
We investigated the dendritic relationship between starburst amacrine cells (SAs) and morphologically and physiologically characterized ON and ON-OFF direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs) in the rabbit retina. ON and ON-OFF DSGCs were found to exhibit tight dendritic cofasciculation with the SA plexus, visualized by immunolabelling of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). The degree of cofasciculation of both types of DSGC dendrites and SA plexus was found to be significant, unlike the relationship between non-DS cells and the SA plexus, which was close to chance distribution. No difference in the degree of cofasciculation in different regions of the DS dendritic field was observed. Individual SAs intracellularly injected both on the 'preferred' and 'null' side of the DSGCs showed the same degree of cofasciculation with the DSGCs. Therefore, the computation of motion direction is unlikely to result from apparent asymmetry in geometric proximity between SAs and DSGCs. Highly selective synaptic connections between SAs and DSGCs are necessary.
We characterized the electrophysiological properties of vibrissa motoneurones (vMNs) in rat. Intracellular recordings of vMNs in brainstem slices from animals aged P4 to P5 and P9 to P11, i.e. newborn animals, showed that the subthreshold membrane impedance has the form of passive decay. In particular, the impedance follows the 1/ radical f signature for long dendrites beyond a cut-off frequency of f(c)= 8 Hz. In contrast, the impedance has the form of a resonant filter in vMNs from slices prepared from animals aged P17 to P23, i.e. young animals. The resonance has a peak near 4 Hz and an amplitude of 1.2 times that at low frequencies (f approximately 0.1Hz). The low frequency onset of the resonance is shown to depend on a hyperpolarization-activated depolarizing current, I(h). This current functions as a high-pass filter. The high frequency cut-off of the resonance results from passive decay in long dendrites, similar to the case with newborn animals but with f(c)= 20Hz. In addition to a resonance in subthreshold properties, an enhanced resonance in spiking is observed in young as opposed to newborn animals. The transition from solely passive decay in vMNs from newborn animals to resonance in young animals coincides with the onset of whisking. Further, the width of the resonance encompasses the 4-15Hz range of exploratory whisking. Nonetheless, it remains to be shown if there is a causal relation between the regulation of currents in vMNs and the onset of whisking. In particular, we further observed that the membrane impedance of hypoglossal motoneurones from both newborn and young animals exhibits a subthreshold resonance that also peaks near 4Hz. The amplitude of this resonance increases from 1.1 to 1.4 times that at low frequencies in newborn versus young animals. We conjecture that resonance properties in vibrissa, hypoglossal, and potentially other motoneurones, may serve to transiently and purposely synchronize different orofacial behaviours.
Hyperphosphorylation of cytoskeletal proteins seen in Alzheimer's disease is most probably the result of an imbalanced regulation in protein kinases and protein phosphatases (PP) in the affected neurons. Previous studies have revealed that PP-2A and PP-1 play important roles in the pathogenesis. Employing human neuroblastoma cells, we found that 10 nM calyculin A (CA), a selective inhibitor of PP-2A and PP-1, significantly increased phosphorylation and accumulation of neurofilament (NF) in the cells. Levels of NF-M (middle chain) and NF-L (light chain) mRNA decreased after CA treatment. Additionally, CA led to a decreased cell viability determined by MTT and crystal violet assay. Melatonin efficiently protects the cell from CA-induced alterations in NF hyperphosphorylation and accumulation, suppressed NF gene expression as well as decreased cell viability. It is concluded that inhibition of PP-2A/PP-1 by CA induces abnormalities in NF metabolism and cell survival, and melatonin efficiently arrests the lesions.

Two of the most widely used programs for the control of behavioral experiments are Med Associates' MedState Notation and Coulbourn Instruments' Graphic State 2. The two systems vary considerably in their approach to programming and data recording, with Graphic State 2 using a point-and-click interface that appeals to non-programmers while MedState Notation requires the typing of programming code. Graphic State 2 provides many data analysis routines, while MedState Notation allows the user to embed simple data analysis within the behavioral protocol. Graphic State 2 is simpler to use, but MedState Notation is more versatile.

The Northeast Under/graduate Organization for Neuroscience (N.E.U.R.O.N.) was established in 1996 to provide a forum for undergraduate and graduate students and faculty in neuroscience to interact with each other. N.E.U.R.O.N. organizes a yearly one-day conference in the Northeast. While scientific meetings exist that serve the purpose of enhancing undergraduate research or neuroscience research, N.E.U.R.O.N. is unique in that it is a small, local conference, aimed specifically at undergraduates looking to pursue careers in neuroscience. During the conference, participants attend workshops, poster sessions, and a keynote address that provide them with information about current topics in neuroscience. Trainees gain valuable experience presenting scientific research in poster sessions and make connections with colleagues.
It is often difficult for instructors teaching laboratory courses in behavioral neuroscience to find appropriate experiments that can ethically examine biological parameters in human participants. In most instances, the default experiments that allow students to act as both experimenter and subject tend to be electrophysiological in nature (e.g., EEG, GSR, etc.). We report here the use of an experiment module that utilizes an easily-obtained enzyme immunoassay (EIA) kit to measure human salivary cortisol. Cortisol is a hormone of the adrenal cortex that can be used as a peripheral indicator of hypothalamic neural activity. Plasma (and salivary) cortisol levels rise due to circadian influences as well as perturbations in the organism's environment (i.e., stressors). The involvement of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in the pathophysiology of depression makes this an appealing module to students in behavioral neuroscience laboratories. Measurement of salivary cortisol takes advantage of a simple, painless, non-invasive sampling procedure. The assay can be performed successfully by anyone with access to a plate reader, a shaker or rotary mixer, and a few commonly used pipettors. A single plate assay can be completed in two to three hours. Students in our behavioral neuroscience laboratory class have utilized this kit successfully to examine the circadian cortisol rhythm as well as the effect of stress/relaxation on cortisol levels.



Acquisitions with the spiral-in/out technique result in two separate image timeseries obtained during the spiral-in and spiral-out trajectory. In uniform brain regions the two components have comparable signal and BOLD contrast and can be averaged, but in regions compromised by susceptibility effects where both signal and noise can differ in the two images other combination methods may be more effective. Here, several weighting schemes are compared for signal and activation contrast recovery in whole brain and prefrontal cortex using verbal working memory (seven subjects) and breathholding tasks (six subjects) scanned at 3 T. It was found that a statistically weighted combination based on activation maps derived separately from the spiral-in and spiral-out images provides activation volumes with increases of 33-59% over second-choice signal-weighted combination and 100-200% increases over spiral-out acquisition alone, and that simple averaging is inferior to signal-weighted combination.




Protein targeting is essential for domain specialization in polarized cells. In photoreceptors, three distinct membrane domains exist in the outer segment: plasma membrane, disk lamella, and disk rim. Peripherin/retinal degeneration slow (rds) and rom-1 are photoreceptor-specific members of the transmembrane 4 superfamily of transmembrane proteins, which participate in disk morphogenesis and localize to rod outer segment (ROS) disk rims. We examined the role of their C termini in targeting by generating transgenic Xenopus laevis expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins. A GFP fusion containing residues 317-336 of peripherin/rds localized uniformly to disk membranes. A longer fusion (residues 307-346) also localized to the ROS but exhibited higher affinity for disk rims than disk lamella. In contrast, the rom-1 C terminus did not promote ROS localization. The GFP-peripherin/rds fusion proteins did not immunoprecipitate with peripherin/rds or rom-1, suggesting this region does not form intermolecular interactions and is not involved in subunit assembly. Presence of GFP-peripherin/rds fusions correlated with disrupted incisures, disordered ROS tips, and membrane whorls. These abnormalities may reflect competition of the fusion proteins for other proteins that interact with peripherin/rds. This work describes novel roles for the C terminus of peripherin/rds in targeting and maintaining ROS structure and its potential involvement in inherited retinal degenerations.
Developing neurons encounter a panoply of extracellular signals as they differentiate. A major goal is to identify these extrinsic cues and define the mechanisms by which neurons simultaneously integrate stimulation by multiple factors yet initiate one specific biological response. Factors that are known to exert potent activities in the developing nervous system include the NGF family of neurotrophic factors, ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP). Here we demonstrate that PACAP promotes the differentiation of nascent dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in that it increases both the number of neural-marker-positive cells and axonogenesis without affecting the proliferation of neural progenitor cells. This response is mediated through the PAC1 receptor and requires MAP kinase activation. Moreover, we find that, in the absence of exogenously added PACAP, blockade of the PAC1 receptor inhibits neuronal differentiation. These data coupled with our finding that both PACAP and the PAC1 receptor are expressed during the peak period of neuronal differentiation in the DRG suggest that PACAP functions in vivo to promote the differentiation of nascent sensory neurons. Interestingly, we also demonstrate that the neurotrophic factors NT-3 and CNTF completely block the PACAP-induced neuronal differentiation. This points to the intricate integration of cellular signals by nascent neurons and, to our knowledge, is the first evidence for neurotrophic factor abrogation of a pathway regulated by G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs).
The receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase (RPTP) PTPmu mediates distinct cellular responses in nasal and temporal retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons. PTPmu is permissive for nasal RGC neurite outgrowth and inhibitory to temporal RGCs. In addition, PTPmu causes preferential temporal growth cone collapse. Previous studies demonstrated that PTPmu associates with the scaffolding protein RACK1 and the protein kinase C-delta (PKCdelta) isoform in chick retina and that PKCdelta activity is required for PTPmu-mediated RGC outgrowth. Using in vitro stripe and collapse assays, we find that PKCdelta activity is required for both inhibitory and permissive responses of RGCs to PTPmu, with higher levels of PKCdelta activation associated with temporal growth cone collapse and repulsion. A potential mechanism for differential PKCdelta activation is due to the gradient of PTPmu expression in the retina. PTPmu is expressed in a high temporal, low nasal step gradient in the retina. In support of this, overexpression of exogenous PTPmu in nasal neurites results in a phenotypic switch from permissive to repulsive in response to PTPmu. Together, these results suggest that the differential expression of PTPmu within the retina is instructive for RGC guidance and that the magnitude of PKCdelta activation in response to PTPmu signaling results in the distinct cellular behaviors of nasal and temporal RGCs.
Both neuronal activity and neurotrophin signaling play critical roles in normal CNS development. This study examined whether spontaneous retinal activity (SRA) also governs the axonal transport of endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein within the developing chick visual system. In previous work, we have found that during the normal period of SRA, retinal BDNF protein levels decrease by about 50% while BDNF mRNA levels remain elevated. Here, we show that the blockade of SRA with tetrodotoxin (TTX), or the blockade of axonal transport with colchicine, both reversed the normal mismatch between retinal BDNF mRNA and protein. The axonal transport of retinal-derived BDNF in segments of the optic nerve as well as tectal-derived BDNF protein transported in segments of the optic tract were both significantly reduced after very brief periods of activity blockade. These results suggest that normal SRA plays a role in regulating the axonal transport of endogenous BDNF protein.
In the central nervous system (CNS), apoptosis plays an important role during development and is a primary pathogenic mechanism in several adult neurodegenerative diseases. A main feature of apoptotic cell death is the efficient and fast removal of dying cells by macrophages and nonprofessional phagocytes, without eliciting inflammation in the surrounding tissue. Apoptotic cells undergo several membrane changes, including the externalization of so-called &quot;eat me&quot; signals whose cognate receptors are present on professional phagocytes. Among these signals, the aminophospholipid phosphatidylserine (PS) appears to have a crucial and unique role in preventing the classical pro-inflammatory activation of macrophages, thus ensuring the silent and safe removal of apoptotic cells. Although extensively studied in the peripheral organs, the process of recognition and removal of apoptotic cells in the brain has only recently begun to be unraveled. Here, we summarize the evidence suggesting that upon interaction with PS-expressing apoptotic neurons, microglia may no longer promote the inflammatory cascade, but rather facilitate the elimination of damaged neurons through antiinflammatory and neuroprotective functions. We propose that the anti-inflammatory microglial phenotype induced through the activation of the specific PS receptor (PtdSerR), expressed by resting and activated microglial cells, could be relevant to the final outcome of neurodegenerative diseases, in which apoptosis seems to play a crucial role.
For more than a century dendritic spines have been a source of fascination and speculation. The long-held belief that these anatomical structures are involved in learning and memory are addressed. Specifically, two lines of evidence that support this claim are reviewed. In the first, we review evidence that experimental manipulations that affect dendritic spine number in the hippocampus also affect learning processes of various sorts. In the second, we review evidence that learning itself affects the presence of dendritic spines in the hippocampus. Based on these observations, we propose that the presence of spines enhances synaptic efficacy and thereby the excitability of the network involved in the learning process. With this scheme, learning is not dependent on changes in spine density but rather changes in the presence of dendritic spines provide anatomical support for the processing of novel information used in memory formation.
The ability to modify mice genetically has been one of the major breakthroughs in modern medical science affecting every discipline including psychiatry. It is hoped that the application of such technologies will result in the identification of novel targets for the treatment of diseases such as depression and to gain a better understanding of the molecular pathophysiological mechanisms that are regulated by current clinically effective antidepressant medications. The advent of these tools has resulted in the need to adopt, refine and develop mouse-specific models for analyses of depression-like behavior or behavioral patterns modulated by antidepressants. In this review, we will focus on the utility of current models (eg forced swim test, tail suspension test, olfactory bulbectomy, learned helplessness, chronic mild stress, drug-withdrawal-induced anhedonia) and research strategies aimed at investigating novel targets relevant to depression in the mouse. We will focus on key questions that are considered relevant for examining the utility of such models. Further, we describe other avenues of research that may give clues as to whether indeed a genetically modified animal has alterations relevant to clinical depression. We suggest that it is prudent and most appropriate to use convergent tests that draw on different antidepressant-related endophenotypes, and complimentary physiological analyses in order to provide a program of information concerning whether a given phenotype is functionally relevant to depression-related pathology.
Coeliac disease has been associated with a variety of neurological conditions, most frequently cerebellar ataxia and peripheral neuropathy. To date, chorea has not been associated with coeliac disease. We present the case histories of 4 individuals with coeliac disease and chorea (4 women, average age of onset of chorea 61 years). Unexpectedly, most of these patients showed a notable improvement in their motor symptoms after the introduction of a gluten-free diet.
Frequent assessment of the symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) is important in both clinical and experimental settings, especially when motor fluctuations are present. Patient diaries are increasingly used in studies, allowing patients to stay in their home environments. However, traditional paper diaries may not reflect reality because of a lack in compliance or retrospective data entries. This study presents a comparison between paper diaries and a new method, real-time data capture with a hand-held computer (electronic diary). Twenty patients with PD diagnosed at least 5 years previously were randomly assigned to use either a paper diary or an electronic diary on 8 days during 1 month. Questions were answered every 2 hours over a 12-hour period on each day. Median compliance was 88% with the electronic diary and 98% with the paper diary, although strict compliance to the scheduled times by patients using the paper diary was 78%. Neither age nor earlier experience with computers affected the patient's ability to use the electronic diary. Electronic diaries can be used for self-assessment of PD symptoms. The real-time feature provides fast access to clean data with knowledge of true compliance.
The compound sensory nerve action potential (SNAP) is the result of phase summation and cancellation of single fiber potentials (SFAPs) with amplitudes that depend on fiber diameter, and the amplitude and shape of the SNAP is determined by the distribution of fiber diameters. Conduction velocities at different conduction distances are determined by summation of SFAPs of varying fiber diameters, and differ in this respect, also, from the compound muscle action potential (CMAP) for which conduction velocities are determined by the very fastest fibers in the nerve. The effect and extent of temporal dispersion over increasing conduction distance is greater for the SNAP than CMAP, and demonstration of conduction block is therefore difficult. In addition, the effect of temporal dispersion on amplitude and shape is strongly dependent on the number of conducting fibers and their distribution, and, with fiber loss or increased conduction velocity variability changes of the SNAP may be smaller than expected from normal nerve. The biophysical characteristics of sensory and motor fibers differ, and this may to some extent determine divergent pathophysiological changes in sensory and motor fibers in different polyneuropathies. In this review, different factors that characterize sensory fibers and set the SNAP apart from the CMAP are discussed to emphasize the supplementary and complementary information that can be obtained from sensory conduction studies. Sensory conduction studies require particular effort and attention to theory and practical detail that may be time consuming.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative condition in which motoneurons of the spinal cord and motor cortex die, resulting in progressive paralysis. This condition has no cure and results in eventual death, usually within 1-5 years of diagnosis. Although the specific etiology of ALS is unknown, 20% of familial cases of the disease carry mutations in the gene encoding Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1). Transgenic mice overexpressing human mutant SOD1 have a phenotype and pathology that are very similar to that seen in human ALS patients. Here we show that treatment with arimoclomol, a coinducer of heat shock proteins (HSPs), significantly delays disease progression in mice expressing a SOD1 mutant in which glycine is substituted with alanine at position 93 (SOD1(G93A)). Arimoclomol-treated SOD1(G93A) mice show marked improvement in hind limb muscle function and motoneuron survival in the later stages of the disease, resulting in a 22% increase in lifespan. Pharmacological activation of the heat shock response may therefore be a successful therapeutic approach to treating ALS, and possibly other neurodegenerative diseases.
Noxious stimuli have motivational power and can support associative learning, but the neural circuitry mediating such avoidance learning is poorly understood. The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is implicated in the affective response to noxious stimuli and the motivational properties of conditioned stimuli that predict noxious stimulation. Using conditioned place aversion (CPA) in rats, we found that excitatory amino acid microinjection into the ACC during conditioning produces avoidance learning in the absence of a peripheral noxious stimulus. Furthermore, microinjection of an excitatory amino acid antagonist into the ACC during conditioning blocked learning elicited by a noxious stimulus. ACC lesions made after conditioning did not impair expression of CPA. Thus, ACC neuronal activity is necessary and sufficient for noxious stimuli to produce an aversive teaching signal. Our results support the idea that a shared ACC pathway mediates both pain-induced negative affect and a nociceptor-driven aversive teaching signal.
Theoretical and experimental studies on the computation of neural networks suggest that neural computation results from a dynamic interplay of excitatory and inhibitory (E/I) synaptic inputs. Precisely how E/I synapses are organized structurally and functionally to facilitate meaningful interaction remains elusive. Here we show that E/I synapses are regulated across dendritic trees to maintain a constant ratio of inputs in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. This structural arrangement is accompanied by an E/I functional balance maintained by a 'push-pull' feedback regulatory mechanism that is capable of adjusting E/I efficacies in a coordinated fashion. We also found that during activity, inhibitory synapses can determine the impact of adjacent excitatory synapses only if they are colocalized on the same dendritic branch and are activated simultaneously. These fundamental relationships among E/I synapses provide organizational principles relevant to deciphering the structural and functional basis for neural computation within dendritic branches.



We compared tissue and plasma pharmacokinetics of 14C-sucrose in subcutaneous RG-2 rat gliomas after administration by 3 routes, intravenous bolus (i.v.-B; 50 microCi over 30 s), continuous i.v. infusion (i.v.-C, 50 microCi at a constant rate), and convection-enhanced delivery (CED, 5 microCi infused at a rate of 0.5 microl/min), and for 3 experimental durations, 0.5, 2, and 4 h. Plasma, tumor, and other tissue samples were obtained to measure tissue radioactivity. Plasma radioactivity in the CED group increased exponentially and lagged only slightly behind the IV-C group. After 90 min, plasma values were similar in all. Mean tumor radioactivity was 100 to 500 times higher in the CED group at each time point than in the i.v.-B and i.v.-C groups. Tumor radioactivity was homogeneous in the i.v. groups at 0.5 h and inhomogeneous at 1 and 2 h. In CED, radioactivity distribution was inhomogeneous at all 3 time points; highest concentrations were in tissue around tumor and in necrosis, while viable tumor contained the lowest and sometimes negligible amounts of isotope. Systemic tissue radioactivity values were similar in all groups. Efflux of 14C-sucrose from tumors was evaluated in intracerebral tumors (at 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 h) and subcutaneous tumors (at 0 to 0.5 h). Less than 5% of 14C activity remained in intracerebral tumors at each time point. The efflux half-time from the subcutaneous tumors was 7.3 +/- 0.7 min. These results indicate rapid efflux of drug from brain tumor and marked heterogeneity of drug distribution within tumor after CED administration, both of which may be potentially limiting factors in drug delivery by this method.
To discriminate Alzheimer's disease (AD) from healthy controls, the thinnest medial temporal lobe (tMTL) width on 3D-MRI was measured according to a newly developed method at the inter-collicular sulcus (ICS) level with scans aligned to the long axis of the hippocampus in 22 mild, 27 moderate probable AD patients and 41 healthy controls. For comparison, MTL width replicating the technique of Jobst et al. (jMTL) as well as hippocampal and parahippocampal volumes, were also measured. Using logistic regression taking into account age, sex, and education, tMTL width classified mild AD from controls with a sensitivity of 86%, specificity of 95% and accuracy of 92%. Similar values were obtained for moderate or total AD group versus controls. By comparison, jMTL width was only useful in distinguishing moderate AD from controls, and volumetric measures were equally sensitive in classifying mild and moderate AD in our sample. This quick, reliable, and standardized measurement of tMTL can be helpful in differentiating even mild AD from controls with reasonable accuracy.
There is substantial evidence that creatine administration exerts neuroprotective effects both in vitro and in vivo. The precise mechanisms for these neuroprotective effects however are as yet unclear. We investigated whether creatine administration could exert neuroprotective effects in mice deficient in ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase (UbMi-CK). UbMi-CK-deficient mice showed increased sensitivity to 1-methyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced dopamine depletion and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) stained neurons. Isolated mitochondria from these mice showed no alterations in calcium retention, oxygen utilization, membrane potential, or swelling in response to a calcium challenge. Creatine administration significantly increased brain concentrations of both creatine and PCr in the UbMi-CK knockout mice. Creatine administration to the UbMi-CK-deficient mice exerted significant neuroprotective effects against MPTP toxicity that were comparable in magnitude to those seen in wild-type mice. These results suggest that the neuroprotective effects of creatine are not mediated by an effect on UbMi-CK to inhibit the mitochondrial permeability transition, and are more likely to be mediated by maintenance of appropriate ATP/ADP and PCr/Cr levels.
Recent studies in vivo have shown that cells of the cerebellum, and particularly Purkinje neurons (PNs), are susceptible to damage following traumatic brain injury (TBI). To investigate more closely the effects of TBI at the cellular level, we subjected cerebellar cell cultures to injury using an in vitro model of stretch-induced mechanical trauma and found increased cell damage and neuronal loss with increasing levels of injury and time post-injury. The release of neuron-specific enolase and S-100 beta were also elevated after injury. Compared to our previous findings in hippocampal cells, S-100 beta levels were much higher in cerebellar cultures after injury, suggesting that cells from different brain regions show variable responses to mechanical trauma. Lastly, the addition of exogenous S-100 beta to uninjured cerebellar cells caused no overt change in cell viability or overall neuronal number; there were, however, fewer calbindin-positive PNs, similar to findings after stretch injury.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, increased levels of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), cell cycle markers, and p38 MAP kinase (MAPK) can be detected in neuronal cells. Besides mediating COX-2 expression, p38 MAPK is suggested to mediate cell cycle progression through phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma protein (pRb). In this study, we show that neuronal immunoreactivity for phosphorylated p38 MAPK does not correlate with COX-2 or phosphorylated pRb (ppRb) in control and AD temporal cortex. Immunoreactivity for activated p38 MAPK co-localizes with AT8 immunoreactivity and increases with the occurrence of neurofibrillary tangles and plaques. On the other hand, COX-2 immunoreactivity co-localizes and correlates with ppRb immunoreactivity in pyramidal neurons. COX-2 and ppRb do not co-localize with AT8 and decrease with increasing pathology. These results suggest that p38 MAPK does not mediate COX-2 expression and pRb inactivation, which are involved in cellular changes in pyramidal neurons early in AD pathogenesis.

Kainate receptors are ionotropic glutamate receptors located postsynaptically, mediating frequency-dependent transmission, and presynaptically, modulating transmitter release. In contrast to the excitatory postsynaptic kainate receptors, presynaptic kainate receptor can also be inhibitory and their effects may involve a metabotropic action. Arachidonic acid (AA) modulates most ionotropic receptors, in particular postsynaptic kainate receptor-mediated currents. To further explore differences between pre- and postsynaptic kainate receptors, we tested if presynaptic kainate receptors are affected by AA. Kainate (0.3-3 microM) and the kainate receptor agonist, domoate (60-300 nM), inhibited by 19-54% the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) slope in rat CA1 hippocampus, and increased by 12-32% paired-pulse facilitation (PPF). AA (10 microM) attenuated by 37-72% and by 62-66% the domoate (60-300 nM)-induced fEPSP inhibition and paired-pulse facilitation increase, respectively. This inhibition by AA was unaffected by cyclo- and lipo-oxygenase inhibitors, indomethacin (20 microM) and nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA, 50 microM) or by the free radical scavenger, N-acetyl-L-cysteine (0.5 mM). The K+ (20 mM)-evoked release of [3H]glutamate from superfused hippocampal synaptosomes was inhibited by 18-39% by domoate (1-10 microM), an effect attenuated by 35-63% by AA (10 microM). Finally, the KD (40-55 nM) of the kainate receptor agonist [3H]-(2S,4R)-4-methylglutamate ([3H]MGA) (0.3-120 nM) binding to hippocampal synaptosomal membranes was increased by 151-329% by AA (1-10 microM). These results indicate that AA directly inhibits presynaptic kainate receptor controlling glutamate release in the CA1 area of the rat hippocampus.
The function of a cholinergic-specific ganglioside, Chol-1alpha, was investigated. The release of acetylcholine from synaptosomes was inhibited by anti-Chol-1alpha monoclonal antibody but not by monoclonal antibodies against other brain gangliosides tested. Chol-1alpha ganglioside stimulated the high-affinity choline uptake by synaptosomes and consequently enhanced acetylcholine synthesis, resulting in an increased release of acetylcholine from synaptosomes. The memory and learning abilities of rats given anti-Chol-1alpha antibody were remarkably suppressed. These in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that Chol-1alpha ganglioside plays a pivotal role in cholinergic synaptic transmission and participates in cognitive function.
Regeneration of goldfish optic nerve axons is accompanied by a major increase in axonally transported proteoglycans (21). To identify specific proteoglycans increased during regeneration, we have used proteoglycan preparations from regenerating goldfish optic tracts to produce monoclonal antibodies. Western blot analysis shows a 28-kD antigen reacting with our 1G4/G5 antibody is present in optic tract 21 days after nerve crush, but absent in nonregenerating tract. Treatment with chondroitinase AC removes IG4/G5 immunostaining of the 28-kD molecule. An anti-CS antibody further confirmed this molecule as a chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan. A slightly smaller core protein following chondroitinase AC treatment indicates a low level of glycosylation. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of its core protein is not similar to any known proteoglycans. The CSPG sediments through 1.4 M sucrose, indicative of an extracellular matrix localization. It is expressed during the outgrowth of regenerating axons. Cut nerve and retinal explant studies demonstrate that the 1G4/G5 CSPG is not axonal, suggesting a glial localization.
We investigated the effects of the selective NK(3) tachykinin receptor antagonist, SB-235375, on noxious signalling from gut and skin and on intestinal motility in anaesthetized rats. We also measured penetrance into brain and spinal cord. Nociceptive responses in reaction to colorectal distension and skin pinch were assessed by recording the electromyogram (EMG) from the external oblique muscle (a visceromotor response). Motility was measured by recording intraluminal pressure waves during changes in baseline pressure in the jejunum. Colorectal compliance was assessed by measuring luminal pressure change during isovolumic distension. SB-235375 (20 mg kg(-1), by i.v. bolus) reduced the EMG response to colorectal distension by over 90%. The reduction was slow at onset, peaked at about 60 min, and lasted for over 2 h. Responses to noxious skin pinch were unchanged. Amplitudes of propulsive waves in the jejunum were slightly reduced, but their frequency of occurrence was unchanged. SB-235375 decreased colorectal compliance by 5-10%. There was undetectable penetration of i.v. SB-235375 into brain or spinal cord. We conclude that SB-235375 acts peripherally to substantially reduce nociceptive signalling from colorectum without affecting noxious signalling from skin and with little effect on intestinal motility.
Otilonium bromide (OB) is used as an intestinal antispasmodic. The mechanism of action of OB is not completely understood. As Ca(2+) entry into intestinal smooth muscle is required to trigger contractile activity, our hypothesis was that OB blocked Ca(2+) entry through L-type Ca(2+) channels. Our aim was to determine the effects of OB on Ca(2+), Na(+) and K(+) ion channels in human jejunal circular smooth muscle cells and on L-type Ca(2+) channels expressed heterologously in HEK293 cells. Whole cell currents were recorded using standard patch clamp techniques. Otilonium bromide (0.09-9 micromol L(-1)) was used as this reproduced clinical intracellular concentrations. In human circular smooth muscle cells, OB inhibited L-type Ca(2+) current by 25% at 0.9 micromol L(-1) and 90% at 9 micromol L(-1). Otilonium bromide had no effect on Na(+) or K(+) currents. In HEK293 cells, 1 micromol L(-1) OB significantly inhibited the expressed L-type Ca(2+) channels. Truncation of the alpha(1C) subunit C and N termini did not block the inhibitory effects of OB. Otilonium bromide inhibited Ca(2+) entry through L-type Ca(2+) at concentrations similar to intestinal tissue levels. This effect may underlie the observed muscle relaxant effects of the drug.
Sensorimotor disorders of the stomach, small intestine and colon have a limited repertoire of clinical manifestations, and there is the potential for more than one mechanism to lead to symptoms. In many recent clinical trial programs of novel agents in neurogastroenterology, the emphasis has been primarily on symptom assessment of broad groups of patients identified by the Rome criteria. Drugs of potential value have fallen by the wayside with this approach. We propose the current paradigm is partly to blame; physiological testing should provide the basis for identifying more homogeneous populations and therapeutic targets within functional bowel disease, and this applies to the upper and lower gut. Here we summarize the evidence that certain biomarkers can, in a limited fashion, be used to predict the success of an experimental medicine in common disorders of gastrointestinal function, including the irritable bowel syndrome and functional dyspepsia. Although the current evidence is limited and is most convincingly demonstrated with examples of transit measurements (for loperamide, alosetron, tegaserod and piboserod), we perceive this paradigm that studies using validated and responsive biomarkers have an important role to play in drug development.
In all mammalian species examined to date, there is a 10 mV or more gradient in resting membrane potential across the wall of the gastric antrum, small intestine and colon, and an even larger gradient along the long axis of the stomach. These voltage gradients, which may be considered biological rheostats, are central to the ability of circular smooth muscle to vary the strength of contraction from weak to propulsive and occluding. In this short review, we consider recent data that support the hypothesis that carbon monoxide generated in interstitial cells of Cajal is a hyperpolarizing factor for circular smooth muscle and the root of the essential voltage gradients.
There are many cell surface receptors expressed by neurones in the enteric nervous system (ENS). Ligand-gated ion channels are an important class of receptors expressed by enteric neurones. This review will focus on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and P2X receptors for ATP, as these receptors contribute to fast synaptic transmission in identified pathways in the ENS. There are multiple subunit proteins that compose nAChRs and P2X receptors in the nervous system. Functional and pharmacological studies indicate that the predominant class of nAChR mediating fast synaptic transmission in enteric neurones is composed of alpha3 and beta4 subunits. P2X receptors mediating fast synaptic excitation are predominately P2X2 homomeric receptors.
The modulation of repetition effects by the lag between first and second presentations of a visual object during a speeded semantic judgment task was examined using both scalp event-related potentials (ERPs) and event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (efMRI). Four levels of lag were used within a single session, from zero to one, to tens of intervening stimuli, and which allowed partial separation of the effects of interference from the effects of time. Reaction times (RTs) showed that the magnitude of repetition priming decreased as lag increased. The ERP data showed two distinct effects of repetition, one between 150 and 300 ms post stimulus and another between 400 and 600 ms. The magnitude of both effects, particularly the earlier one, decreased as lag increased. The fMRI data showed a decrease in the haemodynamic response associated with repetition in several inferior occipitotemporal regions, the magnitude of which also typically decreased as lag increased. In general, and contrary to expectations, lag appeared to have mainly quantitative effects on the three types of dependent variable: there was little evidence for qualitative differences in the neural correlates of repetition effects at different lags.
Estimates of hemodynamic response functions (HRF) are often integral parts of event-related fMRI analyses. Although HRFs vary across individuals and brain regions, few studies have investigated how variations affect the results of statistical analyses using the general linear model (GLM). In this study, we empirically estimated HRFs from primary motor and visual cortices and frontal and supplementary eye fields (SEF) in 20 subjects. We observed more variability across subjects than regions and correlated variation of time-to-peak values across several pairs of regions. Simulations examined the effects of observed variability on statistical results and ways different experimental designs and statistical models can limit these effects. Widely spaced and rapid event-related experimental designs with two sampling rates were tested. Statistical models compared an empirically derived HRF to a canonical HRF and included the first derivative of the HRF in the GLM. Small differences between the estimated and true HRFs did not cause false negatives, but larger differences within an observed range of variation, such as a 2.5-s time-to-onset misestimate, led to false negatives. Although small errors minimally affected detection of activity, time-to-onset misestimates as small as 1 s influenced model parameter estimation and therefore random effects analyses across subjects. Experiment and analysis design methods such as decreasing the sampling rate or including the HRF's temporal derivative in the GLM improved results, but did not eliminate errors caused by HRF misestimates. These results highlight the benefits of determining the best possible HRF estimate and potential negative consequences of assuming HRF consistency across subjects or brain regions.
High-resolution postmortem neuroimaging of the brain can play a role in research programs by providing archival and reslicable images of brain specimens before permanent sectioning. These images can supplement evidence attained from both traditional neuropathological observations and in vivo neuroimaging. Differential brain tissue conspicuity, detectable with MRI, is determined by the density and mobility of water protons. Water content is about 70% in white matter, 80% in gray matter, and 99% in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). To the extent that brain tissue contrast is determined by the number and microenvironment of water protons, timing parameters of MR image acquisition can interrogate this environment. Because the chemical environment of protons is different in living from dead tissue, optimal temporal imaging parameters, for example, for spin-echo imaging, commonly used for in vivo clinical and research study are different from those best for postmortem imaging. Here, we present a series of observations to identify relaxation times and optimal parameters for high-resolution structural imaging of formalin-fixed postmortem brain tissue using commercially available clinical scanners and protocols. Examples of high-resolution images and results from attempts at diffusion imaging are presented.
Using synthetic aperture magnetometry (SAM) analyses of magnetoencephalographic (MEG) data, we investigated the variation in cortical response magnitude and frequency as a function of stimulus temporal frequency. In two separate experiments, a reversing checkerboard stimulus was used in the right or left lower visual field at frequencies from 0 to 21 Hz. Average temporal frequency tuning curves were constructed for regions-of-interest located within medial visual cortex and V5/MT. In medial visual cortex, it was found that both the frequency and magnitude of the steady-state response varied as a function of the stimulus frequency, with multiple harmonics of the stimulus frequency being found in the response. The maximum fundamental response was found at a stimulus frequency of 8 Hz, whilst the maximum broadband response occurred at 4 Hz. In contrast, the magnitude and frequency content of the evoked onset response showed no dependency on stimulus frequency. Whilst medial visual cortex showed a power increase during stimulation, extra-striate areas such as V5/MT exhibited a bilateral event-related desynchronisation (ERD). The frequency content of this ERD did not depend on the stimulus frequency but was a broadband power reduction across the 5-20 Hz frequency range. The magnitude of this ERD within V5/MT was strongly low-pass tuned for stimulus frequency, and showed only a moderate preference for stimuli in the contralateral visual field.
In this study, we tested the hypotheses that (1) the acquisition of sequential information is related to the integrity of dopaminergic input to the caudate nucleus; and (2) the integrity of dopaminergic input to the caudate nucleus correlates significantly with brain activation during sequence acquisition. Twelve early stage Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and six age-matched healthy volunteers were scanned using a dual tracer PET imaging design. All subjects were scanned with [(18)F]fluoropropyl-betaCIT (FPCIT) to measure striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) binding and with [(15)O]water to assess activation during a sequence learning task where movements were made to a repeating sequence of eight targets. Caudate and putamen DAT binding in the PD cohort was reduced by 15% and 43%, respectively. In PD, caudate DAT binding correlated with target acquisition (R = 0.57, P &lt; 0.05), while putamen DAT binding did not correlate with performance. In volunteers, caudate DAT binding correlated with learning-related activation (P &lt; 0.05, corrected for multiple comparisons) in the left dorsolateral and ventral prefrontal cortices, the anterior cingulate and premotor regions, and the right cerebellum. A significant correlation with caudate DAT binding was additionally detected in the right anteromedial thalamus, extending into the rostral midbrain. By contrast, in the PD cohort, most of these regional relationships were lost: Only ventral and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activation correlated with caudate dopaminergic tone. Our findings suggest that sequence learning is normally associated with tight coupling between dopaminergic input to the caudate and thalamo-cortical functional activity. Despite minimal reductions in nigro-caudate input, PD patients demonstrate a loss of this coupling early in the disease.
There is debate in cognitive neuroscience whether conscious versus unconscious processing represents a categorical or a quantitative distinction. The purpose of the study was to explore this matter using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We first established objective thresholds of the critical temporal parameters for overt and covert presentations of fear and disgust. Next we applied these stimulus parameters in an fMRI experiment to determine whether non-consciously perceived (covert) facial expressions of fear and disgust show the same double dissociation (amygdala response to fear, insula to disgust) observed with consciously perceived (overt) stimuli. A backward masking paradigm was used. In the psychophysics experiment, the following parameters were established: 30-ms target duration for the covert condition, and 170-ms target duration for the overt condition. Results of the block-design fMRI study indicated substantial differences underlying the perception of fearful and disgusted facial expressions, with significant effects of both emotion and target duration. Findings for the overt condition (170 ms) confirm previous evidence of amygdala activation to fearful faces, and insula activation to disgusted faces, and a double dissociation between these two emotions. In the covert condition (30 ms), the amygdala was not activated to fear, nor was the insula activated to disgust. Overall, findings demonstrate significant differences between the neural responses to fear and to disgust, and between the covert presentations of these two emotions. These results therefore suggest distinct neural correlates of conscious and unconscious emotion perception.
A key objective in neuroscience is to improve our understanding of the relationship between brain function and structure. We investigated this in the posterior visual pathways of healthy volunteers by applying functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) with tractography. The optic radiations were segmented using the Probabilistic Index of Connectivity (PICo) tractography algorithm and extracted at several thresholds of connection confidence. The mean fractional anisotropy (FA) of the estimated tracts was found to correlate significantly with fMRI measures of visual cortex activity (induced by a photic stimulation paradigm). The results support the hypothesis that the visual cortical fMRI response is constrained by the external anatomical connections of the subserving optic radiations.
Awareness of the muscular forces we produce during voluntary movement must be distinguished from awareness of motor outcome itself. Indeed, there is no univocal relationship between produced muscle force and movement outcome because of external forces. In the present study, we performed a functional magnetic resonance imaging study to investigate the neural bases underlying the awareness we can have of the muscular forces we put into our voluntary movements. In reference conditions, subjects made rhythmical hand movements and knew they had to reproduce, in a subsequent condition in which the resistance to the movement was increased, either their muscular forces or their kinematics. The idea behind this (well established) reproduction paradigm is that, after an explicit verbal instruction, subjects can only reproduce what they are aware off. The main contrast, that is, between the condition during which the subjects had to gain awareness of their muscular forces and that during which they had to gain awareness of their kinematics (conditions in which the actual motor output was similar), shows that gaining awareness about muscular forces exerted during movement execution makes much higher demands on many brain structures, in particular posterior insula, primary sensorimotor areas and associative somatosensory areas. This indicates the important role of somesthetic information processing in awareness of produced muscular force. Therefore, the often-heard presumption that muscle force sense might be based on the outgoing motor command is not confirmed by the present results.
In this paper, the Bayesian Theory is used to formulate the Inverse Problem (IP) of the EEG/MEG. This formulation offers a comparison framework for the wide range of inverse methods available and allows us to address the problem of model uncertainty that arises when dealing with different solutions for a single data. In this case, each model is defined by the set of assumptions of the inverse method used, as well as by the functional dependence between the data and the Primary Current Density (PCD) inside the brain. The key point is that the Bayesian Theory not only provides for posterior estimates of the parameters of interest (the PCD) for a given model, but also gives the possibility of finding posterior expected utilities unconditional on the models assumed. In the present work, this is achieved by considering a third level of inference that has been systematically omitted by previous Bayesian formulations of the IP. This level is known as Bayesian model averaging (BMA). The new approach is illustrated in the case of considering different anatomical constraints for solving the IP of the EEG in the frequency domain. This methodology allows us to address two of the main problems that affect linear inverse solutions (LIS): (a) the existence of ghost sources and (b) the tendency to underestimate deep activity. Both simulated and real experimental data are used to demonstrate the capabilities of the BMA approach, and some of the results are compared with the solutions obtained using the popular low-resolution electromagnetic tomography (LORETA) and its anatomically constraint version (cLORETA).

The role of hyperhomocysteinemia as independent risk factor for stroke needs to be confirmed. The aims of our study were to assess (i) the association between risk of stroke and increasing values of plasma homocysteine and (ii) the interaction between mild hyperhomocysteinemia and conventional vascular risk factors. We studied 161 consecutive patients with first-ever ischemic stroke classified using TOAST criteria and 152 neurologically healthy controls. Homocysteine was measured using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Homocysteinemia was elevated in all stroke subtypes: 13.0+/-2.5 micromol/l in patients with cardioembolic disease, 13.9+/-5.4 micromol/l in those with small vessel diseases, 15.5+/-6.8 micromol/l in cases of undetermined stroke, and 17.8+/-13.5 micromol/l in patients with large vessel disease. Mean homocysteinemia was 8.10 micromol/l (SD=2.5) in controls. The logistic regression analysis showed that important independent risk factors for ischemic stroke were hypertension (p&lt;0.0001; OR= 3.205; 95% CI, 1.788-5.742), hyperhomocysteinemia (p&lt;0.0001; OR=1.425; 95% CI, 1.300-1562) and hyperlipidemia (p=0.018; OR=2.243; 95% CI, 1.147-4.385). Hyperhomocyst(e)inemia is an independent risk factor for all stroke subtypes and should be routinely measured and treated in stroke patients.
A genetic component is associated with the development of many forms of epilepsy. Recently, mutations in the GABAA receptor have been linked to several inherited epilepsies. One of these mutations is a non-conservative change of alanine to aspartate in the third transmembrane domain of the alpha1 subunit. To determine the functional consequences of this alteration, mutated alpha subunits were transiently transfected along with wild-type beta3 and gamma2L subunits into HEK-293T cells. The mutated alpha1(A294D) subunit reduced GABA sensitivity of the receptor, increased the deactivation rate and slowed desensitization. The mutation caused a reduction in channel open time but no change in single channel conductance. Studies with additional mutants, altering the charge and/or size of the side-chain, indicated that both size and hydrophobicity of the residue at this location influence channel gating. The effects on GABA sensitivity, deactivation rate and channel open time are consistent with a reduced efficacy of channel gating, and would be expected to decrease GABAergic neurotransmission. The alpha1 subtype is the most widely expressed of the alpha subunits, with expression increasing throughout development. Therefore, production of the mutated subunit could cause global hyperexcitability throughout the brain, leading to generalized seizures with juvenile onset.
Previous research has demonstrated that mGlu2/3 agonists can decrease many behavioral signs and the activation of locus coeruleus (LC) neurons observed during morphine withdrawal. However, it is not known if mGlu2/3 receptors are activated during morphine withdrawal by endogenous glutamate. Therefore, we investigated the effect of a novel metabotropic glutamate 2, 3 (mGlu2/3) receptor antagonist (LY341495) on naltrexone-precipitated behavioral signs of morphine withdrawal and withdrawal-induced activation of LC neurons. Three levels of severity of morphine withdrawal (mild, moderate, and strong) were operationally defined by varying the exposure to morphine. Pretreatment with LY341495 (1 mg/kg, s.c.) had no affect on behavioral signs at the mild level of withdrawal, but significantly increased behavioral signs at the moderate level of withdrawal. At the strong level of withdrawal, 3 and 10 mg/kg, but not 1 mg/kg, LY341495 significantly increased the behavioral signs of withdrawal. In in vivo recordings from anesthetized rats, pretreatment with 1 mg/kg LY341495 did not affect the morphine-withdrawal-induced activation of LC neurons at the mild level of withdrawal. At the moderate level of withdrawal, 1 and 10 mg/kg LY341495 did not affect morphine-withdrawal-induced activation of LC neurons. At the strong level of withdrawal, both 1 and 10 mg/kg LY341495 significantly increased morphine-withdrawal-induced activation of LC neurons. These results indicate that endogenous activation of mGlu2/3 receptors during morphine withdrawal acts to reduce the severity of morphine withdrawal and demonstrates that mGlu2/3 receptors are activated under a physiologically relevant, pathological condition.
The authors tested functional hemispheric asymmetry through word dichotic listening and lateralized lexical decision tasks in tinnitus patients and controls stimulated by a continuous tinnitus-like noise to test the influence of a tinnitus-like external stimulation. A classic right-ear advantage was shown in the auditory task for all but right-ear tinnitus patients, who performed as equally badly when the stimuli were presented to the right and left ears. Concerning the visual task, all participants demonstrated the expected right visual field advantage for word stimuli. Moreover, those who submitted to external stimulation demonstrated normal asymmetric patterns. These data suggest a specific effect of tinnitus on central processing and provide evidence for a functional reorganization induced by this auditory phantom perception.
Impaired facial expression recognition has been associated with features of major depression, which could underlie some of the difficulties in social interactions in these patients. Patients with major depressive disorder and age- and gender-matched healthy volunteers judged the emotion of 100 facial stimuli displaying different intensities of sadness and happiness and neutral expressions presented for short (100 ms) and long (2,000 ms) durations. Compared with healthy volunteers, depressed patients demonstrated subtle impairments in discrimination accuracy and a predominant bias away from the identification as happy of mildly happy expressions. The authors suggest that, in depressed patients, the inability to accurately identify subtle changes in facial expression displayed by others in social situations may underlie the impaired interpersonal functioning.
Almost four decades of intensive research have sought to elucidate the neurobiological bases of depression. Epidemiological studies have revealed that both genetic and environmental factors contribute to the risk for depression. Adverse early-life experiences influence neurobiological systems within genetic limits, leading to the neurobiological and behavioral manifestations of depression. We summarize the burgeoning evidence concerning a pre-eminent role of early adverse experience in the pathogenesis of depression. The available data suggest that (1) early adverse experience contributes to the pathophysiology of depression, (2) there are neurobiologically different subtypes of depression depending on the presence or absence of early adverse experience, likely having confounded previous research on the neurobiology of depression, and (3) early adverse experience likely influences treatment response in depression. Classification of depression based on developmental and neurobiological features will likely considerably improve future research in the field of depression, and might lead to optimized treatment strategies that directly target different neurobiological pathways to depression.
Methamphetamine administration increases brain levels of histamine and neuronal histamine attenuates several of methamphetamine's behavioral effects. The role of different subtypes of histamine receptors in this negative feedback, however, remains unclear. There is some evidence on possible involvement of histamine H3 receptors in these actions of methamphetamine. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of two histamine H3 receptor antagonists, clobenpropit and thioperamide, on rewarding and neurochemical effects of methamphetamine utilizing three in vivo methodologies, drug self-administration, drug discrimination, and microdialysis in Sprague-Dawley rats. In rats self-administering methamphetamine intravenously under a fixed-ratio schedule, presession treatment with thioperamide (1.0-3.0 mg/kg, subcutaneous, s.c.) or clobenpropit (1.0-3.0 mg/kg, s.c.) potentiated the reinforcing effects of methamphetamine, as indicated by a dose-dependent increase in responding for a low 0.03 mg/kg dose of methamphetamine, that by itself failed to maintain responding above saline substitution levels, and a decrease in responding for a higher 0.06 mg/kg training dose of methamphetamine. In contrast, neither thioperamide nor clobenpropit treatment increased responding during saline substitution. In other rats trained to discriminate intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of 1.0 mg/kg methamphetamine from i.p. injection of saline, both thioperamide and clobenpropit (0.3-3.0 mg/kg, s.c.) dose dependently increased methamphetamine-appropriate responding when administered with a low 0.3 mg/kg i.p. dose of methamphetamine, which by itself produced predominantly saline-appropriate responding. However, thioperamide and clobenpropit produced only saline-appropriate responding when administered with saline vehicle. Finally, thioperamide and clobenpropit potentiated methamphetamine-induced elevations in extracellular dopamine levels in the shell of the nucleus accumbens, but did not increase brain dopamine levels when given alone. These findings point to histamine H3 receptors as a new and important receptor system modulating the reinforcing, subjective, and neurochemical actions of methamphetamine.
Previous studies have reported elevated concentrations of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) in patients with major depression. Elevations of CSF CRF have also been reported in adult laboratory animals exposed to the stress of brief maternal deprivation or maternal neglect in the neonatal or preweaning period. The present study was designed to determine whether major depression and a history of perceived early adversity in childhood are independently associated with elevated CSF CRF concentrations in adults. In this case-control study, 27 medication-free adults with major depression and 25 matched controls underwent standardized lumbar puncture for collection of a single CSF sample at 1200. Subjects provided data about significant adverse early-life experiences and rated their global perceived level of stress during pre-school and preteen years on a six-point Likert scale. The mean difference in CSF CRF between depressed patients and controls did not reach statistical significance. In a regression model, perceived early-life stress was a significant predictor of CSF CRF, but depression was not. Perinatal adversity and perceived adversity in the preteen adversity years (ages 6-13 years) were both independently associated with decreasing CSF CRF concentrations. The relationship observed between perceived early-life stress and adult CSF CRF concentrations in this study closely parallels recent preclinical findings. More work is needed to elucidate the critical nature and timing of early events that may be associated with enduring neuroendocrine changes in humans.
The mesolimbic system plays an important role in the regulation of both pathological behaviors such as drug addiction and normal motivated behaviors such as sexual behavior. The present study investigated the mechanism by which this system is endogenously activated during sexual behavior. Specifically, the effects of sexual experience and sex-related environmental cues on the activation of several components of the mesolimbic system were studied. The mesolimbic system consists of a dopaminergic projection from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Previous studies suggest that these neurons are under tonic inhibition by local GABA interneurons, which are in turn modulated by mu opioid receptor (MOR) ligands. To test the hypothesis that opioids are acting in the VTA during sexual behavior, visualization of MOR internalization in VTA was used as a marker for ligand-induced activation of the receptor. Significant increases in MOR internalization were observed following copulation or exposure to sex-related environmental cues. The next goal was to determine if sexual behavior activates dopamine neurons in the VTA, using tyrosine hydroxylase as a marker for dopaminergic neurons and Fos-immunoreactivity as a marker for neuronal activation. Significant increases in the percentage of activated dopaminergic neurons were observed following copulation or exposure to sex-related environmental cues. In addition, mating and sex-related cues activated a large population of nondopaminergic neurons in VTA as well as neurons in both the NAc Core and Shell. Taken together, our results provide functional neuroanatomical evidence that the mesolimbic system is activated by both sexual behavior and exposure to sex-related environmental cues.
delta-Opioid receptor agonists have antidepressant-like effects in behavioral models of depression. Chronic administration of classical antidepressants upregulates mRNA expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its high-affinity tyrosine kinase receptor, TrkB in the frontal cortex and hippocampus of rats. Increases in BDNF and TrkB levels are thought to be important for the therapeutic effects of these drugs. Therefore, we examined the ability of the delta-opioid receptor agonist (+)BW373U86 to regulate BDNF and TrkB mRNA expression in frontal cortex, hippocampus, as well as, basolateral amygdala, endopiriform nucleus, and primary olfactory cortex. At 3 h after a single administration of (+)BW373U86 animals were killed and BDNF and TrkB mRNA levels were examined by in situ hybridization. BDNF mRNA levels produced by (+)BW373U86 were compared to acute administration of the antidepressants desipramine and bupropion. A behaviorally antidepressant dose of 10 mg/kg (+)BW373U86 increased BDNF mRNA expression in all regions examined; a smaller dose of (+)BW373U86 (1 mg/kg) significantly increased BDNF mRNA expression only in frontal cortex. The delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole blocked (+)BW373U86-mediated increases in BDNF mRNA expression. In addition, tolerance developed to increased BDNF mRNA expression with repeated injection, except in frontal cortex. Midazolam was administered to some animals to prevent the convulsions produced by (+)BW373U86, but midazolam did not block delta-opioid receptor-mediated increases in BDNF mRNA expression in frontal cortex, hippocampus, or amygdala. Unlike desipramine and bupropion, (+)BW373U86 upregulated BDNF mRNA expression acutely (within 3 h after a single administration). These data support the concept that delta-opioid receptor agonists may have antidepressant potential, and could be good targets for the development of faster-acting antidepressants.
In this review, the potential role of positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography as biological markers for diagnosing and following the progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) is discussed. Their value for assessing the efficacy of putative neuroprotective agents in PD and for revealing the pharmacological changes underlying the symptomatology and complications of this disorder is also considered. It is concluded that in the future functional imaging will provide a valuable adjunct to clinical assessment when judging the efficacy of putative neuroprotective approaches to PD.
The introduction of acetylcholine esterase (AChE) inhibitors as a symptomatic treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has made patients seek medical advice at an earlier stage of the disease. This has highlighted the importance of diagnostic markers for early AD. However, there is no clinical method to determine which of the patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) will progress to AD with dementia, and which have a benign form of MCI without progression. In this paper, the performance of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) protein biomarkers for AD is reviewed. The diagnostic performance of the three biomarkers, total tau, phospho-tau, and the 42 amino acid form of beta-amyloid have been evaluated in numerous studies and their ability to identify incipient AD in MCI cases has also been studied. Some candidate AD biomarkers including ubiquitin, neurofilament proteins, growth-associated protein 43 (neuromodulin), and neuronal thread protein (AD7c) show interesting results but have been less extensively studied. It is concluded that CSF biomarkers may have clinical utility in the differentiation between AD and several important differential diagnoses, including normal aging, depression, alcohol dementia, and Parkinson's disease, and also in the identification of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in cases with rapidly progressive dementia. Early diagnosis of AD is not only of importance to be able to initiate symptomatic treatment with AChE inhibitors, but will be the basis for initiation of treatment with drugs aimed at slowing down or arresting the degenerative process, such as gamma-secretase inhibitors, if these prove to affect AD pathology and to have a clinical effect.
Considerable data exist to support the use of positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scanning as biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The techniques are reasonably sensitive and specific in differentiating AD from normal aging, and recent studies with pathological confirmation show good sensitivity and specificity in differentiating AD from other dementias. These techniques also can detect abnormalities in groups of asymptomatic and presymptomatic individuals and may be able to predict decline to dementia. However, there are a number of existing questions related to the use of these techniques in samples that are fully representative of the spectrum of patients with dementia. For example, it is unclear how well PET and SPECT perform in comparison to a clinical diagnosis obtained in the same patient group, when autopsy is used as a gold standard. It will also be important to know what PET and SPECT add to the certainty of diagnosis in addition to the standard clinical diagnosis. Despite these unanswered questions, PET and SPECT may have application as biomarkers for AD in a number of clinical and research settings, especially in academic centers, where most of the existing studies have been done.
In this review, findings of biobehavioral research into pathological gambling (PG) are discussed, focusing on neuropsychological, psychophysiological, neuroimaging, neurochemical and genetic studies. Neuropsychological studies indicate deficiencies in certain executive functions. Psychophysiological studies indicate that arousal in PG is of importance when reward is present. Neuroimaging studies point to abnormalities in brain functioning. Recent research into the neurochemistry of PG indicates that abnormalities exist in different neurotransmitter systems. Finally, genetic studies indicate the existence of abnormal dopamine receptor genes in PG. Methodological and theoretical factors that may explain discrepancies between studies include differences in screening and assessment, heterogeneity of gambling problems and different underlying cognitive or motivational mechanisms. Results from the PG studies fit in with recent theoretical models of addiction and PG, which stress the involvement of brain reward pathways, neurotransmitter abnormalities, the frontal cortex and the psychophysiological stress system. A framework for future studies is suggested, indicating the need for studies that integrate knowledge from different research areas, and that employ stricter diagnostic screening methods and inclusion of clinical control groups.
Early developmental variables engender behavioral and neural variation, especially in species in which embryonic environment determines gonadal sex. In the leopard gecko, Eublepharis macularius, the incubation temperature of the egg (IncT) determines gonadal sex. Moreover, IncT affects the sexual differentiation of the individual and, consequently, within-sex variation. Individuals hatched from eggs incubated at an IncT that produces predominantly males are more masculinized than same-sex counterparts from IncTs that produce predominantly females. Here we review how gonadal sex and IncT interact to affect behavioral, endocrinological, and neural phenotype in the leopard gecko and influence phenotypic plasticity following hormone administration or social experience. We discuss the hormonal dependence of sex- and IncT-dependent behavioral and neural morphological and metabolic differences and highlight the parallels between IncT effects in geckos and intrauterine position effects in rodents. We argue that the leopard gecko is an important model of how the process of sex determination can affect sexual differentiation and of selection forces underlying the evolution of sex ratios.



We describe a 25-year-old woman that presented with frequent rotational dizziness, visual loss of the right eye one month later, and unilateral deafness one year after. After 2 years, she presented with a right hemiparesis and deafness greater for low frequency tones. Magnetic resonance imaging with angiography of the brain showed constriction in the first segment of the cerebral anterior artery diagnosed as Susacs syndrome.
A spontaneous bladder rupture in an intact bladder without history of trauma has been reported before with different postulation for the pathogenesis. All these cases were reported in the adult age group. Patients with a neuropathic bladder associated with such a complication were post augmentation cystoplasty or catheter induced injury. We present our experience in a boy with a neuropathic bladder secondary to spina bifida who had a spontaneous bladder rupture with no surgical intervention carried out before, and discuss the possible pathogenesis.






In minority world countries, autonomy is central to client focused rehabilitation, as it represents a prerequisite for effective participation in the process of rehabilitation. The diverse and dynamic paradoxes within the &quot;autonomy paradigm&quot; will ensure its safe application and survival in such communities. However, the strong family relationships and different cultural backgrounds of majority world countries motivate us to conclude that a &quot;patient-family interactive deliberative process&quot; based on accommodation and negotiation is more acceptable, reliable and implementable in these communities. Our suggested model of decision making is more convenient, particularly in cases where competency is compromised by cognitive dysfunction, political or religious restrictions. The insistence on absolute autonomy beyond such borders could be counter productive for both patients and health care personnel. Clearly, the need for further research is paramount, as a deeper understanding of the various cultures and subcultures is essential for developing a more useful structural framework for rehabilitation.
Landau-Kleffner syndrome is one of several language disorders associated with epilepsy or epileptiform abnormalities on EEG. Ultimately, these patients understand little or nothing of what they hear. Two thirds have behavioral abnormalities and close to 75% have seizures. Brain computerized tomography and MRI are normal, EEG changes show characteristic epileptiform changes. Antiepileptic drugs can easily control seizures, but language recovery is more difficult. Autoimmune etiology is considered likely and long-term prognosis remains variable.
Epilepsy is a chronic disease interlinked with many aspects of a womans life. The objective for this syllabus is to review these aspects and update physicians treating epileptic women on the recent management recommendations in this population. Epilepsy is more common in males except in adolescence and the elderly. Certain epileptic syndromes are exclusively seen in females such as Rett syndrome, Aicardi syndrome and periventricular nodular heterotopia. Female sex hormones may alter seizure threshold in epileptic women and form the basis for catamenial epilepsy. Seizures particularly those of temporal lobe may influence the normal hormonal balance leading to menstrual irregularities and probable reduced fertility. Although most pregnant epileptic women have successful outcomes of their pregnancies, there is an increased risk of maternal and fetal complications during pregnancy and labor in comparison to non-epileptic women. Menopausal epileptic women receiving anti-epileptic drugs that interfere with calcium and vitamin metabolism are at a higher risk for osteoporosis.
Neurosurgery in Hong Kong had its origins as a division of General Surgery and became a subspecialty only 46 years ago with the arrival of Hsiang-Lai Wen. For well over a decade, Wen would be the only neurosurgeon in the colony. His contributions to neurosurgery included the ventriculosuperior sagittal sinus shunt and the application of acupuncture in anesthesia, pain ablation, and drug detoxification. A pilot with the China National Aviation Corporation during World War II, he played an active part in the Allied war effort. As a diplomate of the American Board of Neurological Surgery, Wen sought to improve the standard of neurosurgery in Hong Kong and southern China with the establishment of the Hong Kong Neurosurgical Society in 1981 and the Research Institute of Neurosciences in Guangzhou in 1988. Wen was acknowledged as Hong Kong's &quot;father of neurosurgery,&quot; and his work paved the way for the development of modern neurosurgery in the region.
Most ion-coupled cotransporters display, in the absence of organic substrate, transient currents resembling the gating currents of voltage-dependent ion channels. Detailed comparison of these currents in different ionic and temperature conditions with the corresponding steady-state currents when translocation of the substrate occurs reveals new insights into the mechanisms of the process.





Surgical operations have developed in the method which skillful surgeon's hands and eyes are used. However, to realize a new surgical therapy in the 21st century, it is necessary to use various advanced technologies; surgical robots, three dimensional medical images, computer graphics, computer simulation technology and others. Three dimensional medical image for surgical operation provides surgeons with advanced vision. Surgical robots provide surgeons with advanced hand, but it is not a machine to do the same action of a surgeon using scissors or a scalpel. The advanced vision and hands available to surgeons are creating new surgical fields which are minimally invasive surgery, non-invasive surgery, virtual reality micro-surgery, tele-surgery, fetus surgery, neuro-informatics surgery and others in the 21st century.
Central alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors are potential targets for recently developed antipsychotic drugs. Two new 11C labeled potent and selective alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonists, 1- [2- [4-[1-(4-fluorophenyl)-5-(2-[(11)C]methyl-tetrazol-5-yl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-1-piperidinyl]ethyl]-imidazolidin-2-one ([(11)C]2) and 1- [2- [4-[1-(4-fluorophenyl)-5-(1-[(11)C]methyl-(1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-1-piperidinyl]ethyl]-imidazolidin-2-one ([(11)C]3) were prepared and evaluated for imaging of central alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors in the cynomolgus monkey brain. For both compounds, the total brain radioactivity was only about 0.6% of the radioactivity injected i.v. There was no evident binding in regions known to contain alpha(1)-adrenoceptors. This observation suggests that the affinity of the radioligands in primates in vivo is not sufficient to provide a signal for specific binding that can be differentiated from the background. In addition, active efflux by P-glycoprotein may be responsible for the low total brain-uptake of the two radioligands. Both compounds showed a highly polarised and verapamile sensitive transport across monolayers of Caco-2 cells. The total brain-uptake of [(3)H]2 was 6 times higher in mdr1a(-/-) knock-out mice lacking the gene encoding P-glycoprotein compared to wild type mice. Pretreatment of one monkey with Cyclosporin A (15 mg/kg) resulted in 40% higher brain uptake for [(11)C]3 when compared with baseline. These observations support the view that efflux by P-glycoprotein can be of quantitative importance for the total brain-uptake of some PET radioligands.
Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 4 (IGFBP4/BP4) gene expression plays an important role in the transition from proliferation to differentiation of a human colon cancer cell line, CaCo2. We recently cloned and identified multiple cis elements (including putative binding sites for activator protein 1 (AP-1) and specificity proteins (Sps) ) in the promoter of human BP4 gene, and measured a significant upregulation of the promoter activity in response to c-Jun. We therefore examined the role of the single AP-1 site (-869/-863) and other cis elements, in regulating the expression of hBP4 gene, in the current studies. Deletion of a 25 bp sequence from -872 to -848, which contains the AP-1 site, significantly reduced BP4 promoter activity by approximately 50%. Surprisingly, mutation of the AP-1 site did not produce significant alteration in the activity of the BP4 promoter. However, mutation of 7 bp (5'-TGCTGCA) at the 3' end of the AP-1 site resulted in significantly decreasing the promoter activity by &gt;50%. Proteins bound to the 25 bp probe (-872/-848) could be supershifted by antibodies specific for JunD and Sp3 in an EMSA. JunD binding was abolished on mutation of the AP-1 site and Sp3 binding was abolished on mutation of the 7 bp at -861/-855; binding of the purified Sp3 protein to the 25 bp probe was similarly abolished on mutation of the newly discovered Sp3 binding site (TGCTGCA). BP4 promoter activity was upregulated in insect cells in response to Sp3 expression, confirming a functional importance of the novel Sp3 binding site. These studies suggest that the Sp3 binding site, rather than the AP-1 site, may be playing a significant role in regulating the expression of IGFBP4 gene in CaCo2 cells.
The mechanism of mechanical hyperalgesia in inflammation might involve a 'mechanochemical' process whereby stretch evokes the release of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) from the damaged tissue that then excites nearby primary sensory nerve terminals. In the present study, phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (pERK) immunoreactivity was used as a marker indicating functional activation of primary afferent neurons to examine the P2X receptor-mediated noxious response in DRG neurons in a rat model of peripheral inflammation. We found that very few pERK-labeled DRG neurons were detected in normal rats after alpha, beta methylene-ATP (alphabetame-ATP) intraplantar injection. However, a number of DRG neurons were labeled for pERK after alphabetame-ATP injection to the complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) induced inflamed paw. Seventy-three percent of pERK-labeled DRG neurons co-expressed the P2X3 receptor. After mechanical noxious stimulation to the hind paw of CFA-inflamed rats, we found many more pERK-labeled neurons compared to those in the normal rats. Administration of the P2X3 receptor antagonists, pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid or 2'- (or 3')-O-(trinitrophenyl)adenosine 5'-triphosphate (TNP-ATP), significantly decreased the mechanical stimulation-evoked pERK labeling in CFA-inflamed rats, but not in normal rats. We also found the recruitment of neurons with myelinated A fibers labeled for pERK in CFA-inflamed rats, which was reversed by P2X3 receptor antagonists. Moreover, TNP-ATP dose dependently reduced the mechanical hypersensitivity of CFA rats. These data suggest that the P2X receptors in primary afferent neurons increase their activity with enhanced sensitivity of the intracellular ERK signaling pathway during inflammation and then contribute to the hypersensitivity to mechanical noxious stimulation in the inflammatory state.
Nociceptive neurons within dorsal root ganglia (DRG) express multiple voltage-gated sodium channels, of which the tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) channel Na(v)1.8 has been suggested to play a major role in inflammatory pain. Previous work has shown that acute administration of inflammatory mediators, including prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), serotonin, and adenosine, modulates TTX-R current in DRG neurons, producing increased current amplitude and a hyperpolarizing shift of its activation curve. In addition, 4 days following injection of carrageenan into the hind paw, an established model of inflammatory pain, Na(v)1.8 mRNA and slowly-inactivating TTX-R current are increased in DRG neurons projecting to the affected paw. In the present study, the expression of sodium channels Na(v)1.1-Na(v)1.9 in small (&lt; or = 25 micromdiameter) DRG neurons was examined with in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry, Western blot and whole-cell patch-clamp methods following carrageenan injection into the peripheral projection fields of these cells. The results demonstrate that, following carrageenan injection, there is increased expression of TTX-S channels Na(v)1.3 and Na(v)1.7 and a parallel increase in TTX-S currents. The previously reported upregulation of Na(v)1.8 and slowly-inactivating TTX-R current is not accompanied by upregulation of mRNA or protein for Na(v)1.9, an additional TTX-R channel that is expressed in some DRG neurons. These observations demonstrate that chronic inflammation results in an upregulation in the expression of both TTX-S and TTX-R sodium channels, and suggest that TTX-S sodium channels may also contribute, at least in part, to pain associated with inflammation.
Defects of development of the neural tube can result in a number of seemingly different malformations. Understanding the abnormal embryology helps one understand the malformations and their surgical treatments. The clinical presentations and the follow-up of these patients require attention to various end organs besides the nervous system. For most of these conditions, long-term follow-up is necessary regardless of initial treatment. A decline in function is not a part of the natural history of these malformations and requires prompt evaluation and treatment.
To study brain function in the neonatal period, disproportionately growth-retarded (n = 33) and appropriately grown (n = 21) infants were examined using Doppler flow velocities prenatally and visual evoked potentials postnatally. Visual evoked potentials recordings were made at gestation of 40 and 46 weeks. The group of growth-retarded infants had significantly prolonged latencies to both of the two major peaks (designated P and N), most pronounced for the P peak. This result was observed at both ages investigated and corresponds to a developmental delay of 3 weeks. For individuals, the increase in P latency correlated to prenatal flow indices and to neonatal anthropometric parameters indicative of growth retardation. We conclude that in utero growth retardation affects brain development as assessed by visual evoked potentials in the neonatal period. This developmental delay may be produced by intracerebral factors during the process of growth retardation, and these alterations may have a prognostic value.
This invited review, based on the receipt of the Third Gayle A. Olson and Richard D. Olson Prize for the publication of the outstanding behavioral article published in the journal Peptides in 2002, examines the 30-year historical perspective of the role of the endogenous opioid system in feeding behavior. The review focuses on the advances that this field has made over the past 30 years as a result of the timely discoveries that were made concerning this important neuropeptide system, and how these discoveries were quickly applied to the analysis of feeding behavior and attendant homeostatic processes. The discoveries of the opioid receptors and opioid peptides, and the establishment of their relevance to feeding behavior were pivotal in studies performed in the 1970s. The 1980s were characterized by the establishment of opioid receptor subtype agonists and antagonists and their relevance to the modulation of feeding behavior as well as by the use of general opioid antagonists in demonstrating the wide array of ingestive situations and paradigms involving the endogenous opioid system. The more recent work from the 1990s to the present, utilizes the advantages created by the cloning of the opioid receptor genes, the development of knockout and knockdown techniques, the systematic utilization of a systems neuroscience approach, and establishment of the reciprocity of how manipulations of opioid peptides and receptors affect feeding behavior with how feeding states affect levels of opioid peptides and receptors. The role of G-protein effector systems in opioid-mediated feeding responses, which was the subject of the prize-winning article, is then reviewed.
We compared the in vivo efficacy of two selective CRF2 agonists, mouse urocortin II (mUcn II) and human urocortin III (hUcn III), using food intake, anxious behavior, or ACTH release in CD-1 or Balb/c mice as indices of biological stress responses. All three peptides produced anorexia (Minimal Effective Dose (M.E.D.) for CRF and mUcn II = 0.03 nmol; M.E.D. for hUcn III = 0.3 nmol). Only mUcn II and CRF appeared to increase anxious behaviors in the elevated plus maze test (M.E.D. = 0.3 and 0.01 nmol, respectively). CRF increased the release of plasma ACTH (M.E.D. of 0.3 nmol), while mUcn II and hUcn III had no effect on ACTH release. These data suggest that the CRF2 receptor subtype plays a primary role in the activation of behavioral, but not neuroendocrine, stress responses.
Harmonic priming studies have reported facilitated processing for chords that are harmonically related to the prime context. Responses to the target (the last chord of an 8-chord sequence) were faster and more accurate when the target was strongly related, i.e., a tonic chord, to the preceding prime context than when it was less related, i.e., a subdominant chord. Results have been interpreted in terms of musical expectations and processing speed: the prime allows listeners to develop expectations for future events which lead to facilitated processing of the most strongly expected event. The present experiment investigated an alternative hypothesis suggesting that the harmonic structure of the prime context might create an ambiguity about &quot;when&quot; to respond that is stronger in contexts ending on less related targets than in contexts ending on strongly related targets. A change of musical timbre was used as surface marker indicating without ambiguity the temporal occurrence of the target. Participants made speeded intonation judgments of the target, i.e., judging whether targets are acoustically consonant or dissonant. The findings replicate the previously reported priming effect and rule out that processing differences are solely due to ambiguities about when in time the target will occur.
A recent study with 69 Japanese liver transplants treated with tacrolimus found that the MDR13435 C &gt;T polymorphism, but not the MDR12677 G &gt;T polymorphism, was associated with differences in the intestinal expression level of CYP3A4 mRNA. In the present study, over 6 h, we measured the kinetics of a 75 microg oral dose of midazolam, a CYP3A substrate, in 21 healthy subjects genotyped for the MDR13435 C &gt;T and 2677 G &gt;T polymorphism. No statistically significant differences were found in the calculated pharmacokinetic parameters between the three 3435 C &gt;T genotypes (TT, CT and CC group, respectively: Cmax (mean +/- SD: 0.30 +/- 0.08 ng/ml, 0.31 +/- 0.09 ng/ml and 0.31 +/- 0.11 ng/ml; Apparent clearance: 122 +/- 29 l/h, 156 +/- 92 l/h and 111 +/- 35 l/h; t1/2: 1.9 +/- 1.1 h, 1.6 +/- 0.90 h and 1.7 +/- 0.7 h). In addition, the 30-min 1'OH midazolam to midazolam ratio, a marker of CYP3A activity, determined in 74 HIV-positive patients before the introduction of antiretroviral treatment, was not significantly different between the three 3435 C &gt;T genotypes (mean ratio +/- SD: 3.65 +/- 2.24, 4.22 +/- 3.49 and 4.24 +/- 2.03, in the TT, CT and CC groups, respectively). Similarly, no association was found between the MDR12677 G &gt;T polymorphism and CYP3A activity in the healthy subjects or in the HIV-positive patients. The existence of a strong association between the activity of CYP3A and MDR13435 C &gt;T and 2677 G &gt;T polymorphisms appears unlikely, at least in Caucasian populations and/or in the absence of specific environmental factors.
Because neural activity is highly energy consuming and heat producing, brain temperature offers a reliable, real-time measure of an animal's activity state and its changes induced by environmental and drug challenges. Therefore, it allows evaluation of the activity state of an animal preceding drug administration and its relation to subsequent drug-induced neural effects. This approach was used to explore the state dependency of cocaine's effects. Brain and body temperatures, as well as locomotion were measured simultaneously in rats during repeated, daily administration of cocaine (15 mg/kg i.p., daily for 5 days) under different experimental conditions. The drug was administered via (a). a chronically implanted catheter in quiet resting conditions, (b). an injection made under quiet rest or (c). an injection under activated conditions associated with placement in the cage. Although brain temperature and movement increased after cocaine administration in each condition, cocaine's action (evaluated as cocaine-saline difference for both parameters) was situational. Catheter-administered cocaine induced the strongest movement activation and robust, monophasic temperature increase, which remained relatively stable following each subsequent drug infusion. Cocaine injected during quiet and, especially, activated conditions, induced a weaker locomotor activation, while the temperature response (evaluated as drug-saline difference) had a biphasic pattern. Cocaine initially inhibited the temperature increases seen in saline-treated animals (0-20 min) and then induced a more prolonged hyperthermia, which was about twofold weaker than that seen after catheter-administered drug. Although movement activation gradually increased following repeated treatment in activated conditions, the magnitude of this sensitized motor response barely reached the levels induced by the initial cocaine administration via catheter. These data suggest that both the acute effects of cocaine in the brain and their change following repeated drug administration are dependent upon the ongoing neural activity state of the animal. Cocaine's interaction with this activity state is a crucial factor determining the behavioral effects of this drug, including state-dependent motor sensitization.
Apolipoprotein (apo) E is a glycoprotein that is most commonly associated with cardiovascular and Alzheimer's disease risk. Recent data showing that apoE mRNA expression is reduced in the frontal cortex of alcoholics raise the possibility that apoE may also be related to the rewarding properties of ethanol. In this study, we examined whether Apoe deletion affects the rewarding properties of ethanol in mice. Male and female wild-type (WT; C57BL/6J) and apoE knockout (Apoe(-/-); C57BL/6J-Apoe(tm1Unc)) mice underwent an unbiased place conditioning procedure with ethanol (2 g/kg) or cocaine (5 mg/kg). Female mice were also tested for ethanol intake in a two-bottle choice procedure. Apoe(-/-) mice showed greater ethanol-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). In contrast, cocaine-induced CPP and ethanol intake were similar between the genotypes. These findings suggest that apoE normally reduces the conditioned rewarding properties of ethanol but not of cocaine. While the exact mechanisms underlying these effects of apoE are unknown, these data support a possible role for apoE in modulating the conditioned rewarding properties of ethanol.
The abuse of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) and two of its precursors, gamma-butyrolactone (GBL) and 1,4-butanediol (1,4-BD) are recognized as a public health concern. Here, we report dose-response and time-course analyses for effects of GBL and 1,4-BD on locomotor activity and body temperature in Swiss-Webster mice. Locomotor activity was measured for 2 h following a single injection of one of four doses of each agent plus a saline vehicle control. At 50 mg/kg, GBL produced an initial depression of locomotor activity which was followed by stimulation of locomotor activity. In contrast, 1,4-BD at 50 mg/kg stimulated locomotor activity without producing any depression of activity. At higher doses, GBL produced primarily a dose-dependent decrease in locomotor activity that returned to baseline within 50 min. In contrast, 1,4-BD produced an initial depression which was followed by stimulation of activity. Body temperature was measured rectally across a 2.5-h time course following injection with either agent. Both drugs produced hypothermia with peak effects occurring at 20 and 30 min for both drugs for the lower and higher dose, respectively. At 150 mg/kg, GBL produced a greater hypothermic response; however, no differences in hypothermic response were observed at 100 mg/kg. These studies demonstrate that the precursor drugs to GHB have some differential actions from each other.
Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. The majority of ADRs can be considered common disorders with considerable clinical variability (clinical phenotype) in which many different genes are involved together with environmental variables. Pharmacogenomics is the study of how genes affect the individual response to drugs. There is some evidence that in the future the use of pharmacogenomics could help to reduce ADRs, as it aims to predict which patients are likely to respond to a particular drug and which patients are likely to have significant ADRs. In this article some examples of genetic polymorphisms affecting drug kinetics, drug toxicity and hypersensitivity related to ADRs are illustrated.
Satiation for food comprises the physiological processes that result in the termination of eating. Satiation is evoked by physical and chemical qualities of ingested food, which trigger afferent signals to the brain from multiple sites in the GI tract, including the stomach, the proximal small intestine, the distal small intestine and the colon. The physiological nature of each signal's contribution to satiation and overall control of food intake is likely to vary, depending on the level of the GI tract from which the signal arises. This article is a critical, though non-exhaustive, review of our current understanding of the mechanisms and adaptive value of satiation signals from the stomach and intestine.
Concepts of motivation are vital to progress in behavioral neuroscience. Motivational concepts help us to understand what limbic brain systems are chiefly evolved to do, i.e., to mediate psychological processes that guide real behavior. This article evaluates some major motivation concepts that have historic importance or have influenced the interpretation of behavioral neuroscience research. These concepts include homeostasis, setpoints and settling points, intervening variables, hydraulic drives, drive reduction, appetitive and consummatory behavior, opponent processes, hedonic reactions, incentive motivation, drive centers, dedicated drive neurons (and drive neuropeptides and receptors), neural hierarchies, and new concepts from affective neuroscience such as allostasis, cognitive incentives, and reward 'liking' versus 'wanting'.
Large and long-lasting cytosolic calcium surges in astrocytes have been described in cultured cells and acute slice preparations. The mechanisms that give rise to these calcium events have been extensively studied in vitro. However, their existence and functions in the intact brain are unknown. We have topically applied Fluo-4 AM on the cerebral cortex of anesthetized rats, and imaged cytosolic calcium fluctuation in astrocyte populations of superficial cortical layers in vivo, using two-photon laser scanning microscopy. Spontaneous [Ca(2+)](i) events in individual astrocytes were similar to those observed in vitro. Coordination of [Ca(2+)](i) events among astrocytes was indicated by the broad cross-correlograms. Increased neuronal discharge was associated with increased astrocytic [Ca(2+)](i) activity in individual cells and a robust coordination of [Ca(2+)](i) signals in neighboring astrocytes. These findings indicate potential neuron-glia communication in the intact brain.
In the adult brain, different neuronal populations display different degrees of plasticity. Here, we describe the highly different plastic properties of inferior olivary neurones and Purkinje cells. Olivary neurones show a basal expression of growth-associated proteins, such as GAP-43 and Krox24/EGR-1, and remarkable remodelling capabilities of their terminal arbour. They also regenerate their transected neurites into growth-permissive territories and may reinnervate the lost target. Sprouting and regrowing olivary axons are able to follow specific positional information cues to establish new connections according to the original projection map. In addition, they set a strong cell body reaction to injury, which in specific olivary subsets is regulated by inhibitory target-derived cues. In contrast, Purkinje cells do not have a constitutive level of growth-associated genes, and show little cell body reaction, no axonal regeneration after axotomy, and weak sprouting capabilities. Block of myelin-derived signals allows terminal arbour remodelling, but not regeneration, while selective over-expression of GAP-43 induces axonal sprouting along the axonal surface and at the level of the lesion. We suggest that the high constitutive intrinsic plasticity of the inferior olive neurones allows their terminal arbour to sustain the activity-dependent ongoing competition with the parallel fibres in order to maintain the post-synaptic territory, and possibly underlies mechanisms of learning and memory. Such a plasticity is used also as a reparative mechanism following axotomy. In contrast, in Purkinje cells, poor intrinsic regenerative capabilities and myelin-derived signals stabilise the mature connectivity and prevent axonal regeneration after lesion.
The human orbitofrontal cortex is an important brain region for the processing of rewards and punishments, which is a prerequisite for the complex and flexible emotional and social behaviour which contributes to the evolutionary success of humans. Yet much remains to be discovered about the functions of this key brain region, and new evidence from functional neuroimaging and clinical neuropsychology is affording new insights into the different functions of the human orbitofrontal cortex. We review the neuroanatomical and neuropsychological literature on the human orbitofrontal cortex, and propose two distinct trends of neural activity based on a meta-analysis of neuroimaging studies. One is a mediolateral distinction, whereby medial orbitofrontal cortex activity is related to monitoring the reward value of many different reinforcers, whereas lateral orbitofrontal cortex activity is related to the evaluation of punishers which may lead to a change in ongoing behaviour. The second is a posterior-anterior distinction with more complex or abstract reinforcers (such as monetary gain and loss) represented more anteriorly in the orbitofrontal cortex than simpler reinforcers such as taste or pain. Finally, we propose new neuroimaging methods for obtaining further evidence on the localisation of function in the human orbitofrontal cortex.

Inflammatory changes in brain exert a negative impact on cognitive function and in animal studies, these changes are associated with impairment in hippocampal-dependent learning paradigms and in long-term potentiation (LTP), which is a putative biological substrate for learning and/or memory. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a component of the cell wall of gram negative bacteria, induces inflammatory changes in the brain and leads to impairment of LTP. Since eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) inhibits LPS-induced changes in vitro, we assessed the possibility that treatment of rats with EPA, alone or in combination with gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) might inhibit LPS-induced changes in vivo. The data presented indicate that the LPS-induced inhibition of LTP and decrease in hippocampal concentration of anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-10 and IL-4 are blocked in rats treated with EPA, GLA or both. The evidence suggests that these effects may be coupled with fatty acid-induced up-regulation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma which possesses known anti-inflammatory effects.
In this prospective study, the overall treatment and outcome of patients that underwent major lower limb amputation in a defined population is described. The study was performed over a five year period in the Health Care District of North-East Skne, Sweden. Some 190 patients, permanent inhabitants of the Health Care District, underwent major lower limb amputation. Sixteen (16) of these patients had amputations before the study started and went through late second leg amputation during the period. One hundred and seventy four (174) patients had primary major amputation. Seventy nine (79) were men and 95 were women, with a median age of 81. The re-amputation rate was 17% although the primary knee preservation ratio was as high as 3.0:1. Rigid dressing was the standard method following trans-tibial amputation and was used for 5-7 days. ICEROSS silicone liner was used for compression therapy in 90% of all cases that resulted in delivery of a prosthesis. Prostheses were delivered to 43% of all patients with primary amputations. These patients spent a median of 13 days at the orthopaedic clinic. 55 days at the rehabilitation unit. Pressure casting was used as a standard method in the production of the prosthetic socket. ICEX carbon-fibre socket was used in 52%. New procedures, treatments and techniques were introduced, standardised and evaluated whilst the routines in the hospital were reorganised. In this way, a system has been implemented that better guarantees the outcome of the whole procedure and the service received by this category of patients.

The distinction between bottom-up and top-down control of action has been central in cognitive psychology, and, subsequently, in functional neuroimaging. While the model has proven successful in describing central mechanisms in cognitive experiments, it has serious shortcomings in explaining how top-down control is established. In particular, questions as to what is at the top in top-down control lead us to a controlling homunculus located in a mythical brain region with outputs and no inputs. Based on a discussion of recent brain imaging experiments, we argue for the need to factor the interaction between the experimenter and the experimental participant into a realistic understanding of top-down control. We suggest these interactions involve a 'sharing of scripts' for perception and action that may be described as 'top-top processes.' We thereby expand the understanding of the homunculus to include elements of social cognition. This conceptual reconfiguration may grant some sort of asylum for a--not very omnipotent--homunculus.
This article critically examines the view that the signal detection theory (SDT) interpretation of the remember-know (RK) paradigm has been ruled out by the evidence. The author evaluates 5 empirical arguments against a database of 72 studies reporting RK data under 400 different conditions. These arguments concern (a). the functional independence of remember and know rates, (b). the invariance of estimates of sensitivity, (c). the relationship between remember rates and overall hit and false alarm rates, (d). the relationship between RK responses and confidence judgments, and (e). dissociations between remember and overall hit rates. Each of these arguments is shown to be flawed, and despite being open to refutation, the SDT interpretation is consistent with existing data from both the RK and remember-know-guess paradigms and offers a basis for further theoretical development.
Research has shown that backward masking is a powerful tool for studying unconscious mental processes. Whereas studies have traditionally presented stimuli using cathode-ray tube (CRT) monitors or mechanical shutters together with slide projectors, recent studies (mainly in functional magnetic resonance imaging, fMRI) have begun to use methods based on liquid crystal displays (LCDs) and thin-film transistor (TFT) technology. However, because of differences in technology, all methods may not be equally suited for masking. When methods were compared for their accuracy in presenting pictures at short durations, LCD and TFT presentations had poor accuracy, but shutter and CRT presentations had better accuracy. Because CRTs interfere with the imaging process in fMRI, we recommend the use of mechanical shutters. However, our results may not generally apply to all displays, so we advise researchers to validate the presentation parameters of their displays. The procedure described here may be useful for that purpose.
Partial report methods have shown that a large-capacity representation exists for a few hundred milliseconds after a picture has disappeared. However, change blindness studies indicate that very limited information remains available when a changed version of the image is presented subsequently. What happens to the large-capacity representation? New input after the first image may interfere, but this is likely to depend on the characteristics of the new input. In our first experiment, we show that a display containing homogeneous image elements between changing images does not render the large-capacity representation unavailable. Interference occurs when these new elements define objects. On that basis we introduce a new method to produce change blindness: The second experiment shows that change blindness can be induced by redefining figure and background, without an interval between the displays. The local features (line segments) that defined figures and background were swapped, while the contours of the figures remained where they were. Normally, changes are easily detected when there is no interval. However, our paradigm results in massive change blindness. We propose that in a change blindness experiment, there is a large-capacity representation of the original image when it is followed by a homogeneous interval display, but that change blindness occurs whenever the changed image forces resegregation of figures from the background.
In a recent study we investigated the acute effects of cortisol administration in healthy male volunteers on free recall of pleasant, unpleasant, and neutral nouns using a between-subjects double-blind placebo-controlled design. The volunteers were administered 10 mg of hydrocortisone or placebo between 9:00 and 10:30. Two hours after administration of cortisol a decline in recall of neutral and pleasant words was found, while recall of unpleasant words did not change. These results are consistent with a possible inhibitory influence of cortisol on a prefrontal dopaminergic mechanism involved in approach and positivity bias. In this paper we first explain why this interpretation would predict recall of pleasant words from recency positions to be especially sensitive to cortisol administration. Comparing primacy and recency recall of pleasant and unpleasant words, there proved to be a selective decline in recall of pleasant recency words. These results did not appear to stem from differences in recall strategies between our groups of volunteers.



This paper reviews the behavioural and neuroscience literatures on extinction in Pavlovian conditioning with a view towards finding possible points of contact between these two often independent lines of investigation. Recent discoveries at the behavioural level indicate (1) that conditioned stimulus (CS)-unconditioned stimulus (US) associations specific in their sensory content are fully preserved during extinction, (2) that inhibitory stimulus-response associations appear to be learned during extinction, (3) that extinction is influenced by the level of activation of the US representation during nonreinforced trials, (4) that decreases in attention can influence conditioned performance during extinction, and (5) that contexts acquire an ability to modulate learning during both conditioning and extinction. Recent discoveries at the neural systems level suggest (1) that the hippocampus is important in context-specific learning during extinction, (2) that the prefrontal cortex is possibly important in long-term memory for extinction, (3) that the basolateral amygdala may be important in sustaining attention to a CS during extinction, (4) that NMDA receptors are important either in neural plasticity during extinction or by affecting the value of the US representation during extinction, and (5) that the GABAergic system may partially mediate inhibitory learning during extinction. It is concluded that both of these levels of analysis can benefit the other in the pursuit of a more comprehensive understanding of extinction.


Stroke in patients with malignant tumor are associated with various aetiologies. We report a case of lung adnocarcinoma with pulmonary vein thrombosis appending into the left atrial revealed by multiple cerebral infarcts.
Modern theories in cognitive psychology and neuroscience indicate that there are two fundamental ways in which human beings comprehend risk. The &quot;analytic system&quot; uses algorithms and normative rules, such as probability calculus, formal logic, and risk assessment. It is relatively slow, effortful, and requires conscious control. The &quot;experiential system&quot; is intuitive, fast, mostly automatic, and not very accessible to conscious awareness. The experiential system enabled human beings to survive during their long period of evolution and remains today the most natural and most common way to respond to risk. It relies on images and associations, linked by experience to emotion and affect (a feeling that something is good or bad). This system represents risk as a feeling that tells us whether it is safe to walk down this dark street or drink this strange-smelling water. Proponents of formal risk analysis tend to view affective responses to risk as irrational. Current wisdom disputes this view. The rational and the experiential systems operate in parallel and each seems to depend on the other for guidance. Studies have demonstrated that analytic reasoning cannot be effective unless it is guided by emotion and affect. Rational decision making requires proper integration of both modes of thought. Both systems have their advantages, biases, and limitations. Now that we are beginning to understand the complex interplay between emotion and reason that is essential to rational behavior, the challenge before us is to think creatively about what this means for managing risk. On the one hand, how do we apply reason to temper the strong emotions engendered by some risk events? On the other hand, how do we infuse needed &quot;doses of feeling&quot; into circumstances where lack of experience may otherwise leave us too &quot;coldly rational&quot;? This article addresses these important questions.

It has been known for at least a hundred years that the speech of a person who stammers becomes more fluent when alterations are made to the speaking environment. Alterations that lead to an improvement in fluency include a) noises that prevent a speaker hearing his or her own voice, and b) manipulations to the sound of a speaker's voice before it is heard. Examples of manipulations that have been made are introducing a delay, and shifting the voice up or down in frequency. The influences all these alterations have on fluent speakers and speakers who stammer, that have been established over the last century, are reviewed. In addition, the ways in which these phenomena have been explained for both fluent speaker and speakers who stammer are outlined. Several previous findings have potential significance for ways in which the fluency-enhancing effects of these alterations in speakers who stammer could be employed in clinical settings. These are highlighted and discussed, mainly in connection with the SpeechEasy prosthetic device for treating stammering.
Enkephalin (ENK) immunoreactivity is widely distributed in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), where endogenous ENK and dynorphin opioid peptides are known to have opposing actions in reward, stress, cognition, and fear-related behaviors. Many neurons in the VTA give rise to mesocortical projections terminating in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and these projections have been implicated to varying extents in all these functions. To determine whether there is a synaptic basis for ENK and/or dynorphin modulation of cortically projecting neurons within the VTA, we combined retrograde tract-tracing from the mPFC with dual immunocytochemical-labeling electron microscopy in the rat VTA. The retrograde tracer Fluorogold (FG) was microinjected into mPFC. At optimal survival periods, sections through the VTA were processed for immunolabeling of anti-FG and a Leu(5)-ENK antibody recognizing both ENK and dynorphin peptides. Over 26% of the retrogradely labeled neuronal somatodendritic profiles (n = 177) were contacted by ENK-immunoreactive axonal profiles including small axons and axon terminals. The axon terminals varied in their subcellular distribution of ENK immunoreactivity and also differed in forming either inhibitory-type (symmetric) or excitatory-type (asymmetric) synapses. Many of the axonal profiles also were apposed to FG-labeled somata or dendrites without forming recognizable synapses. Approximately one-third of the mesocortical neuronal perikarya also showed sparsely distributed somatodendritic ENK-immunoreactivity. Our results provide ultrastructural evidence that ENK and possibly dynorphin in the rat VTA have distributions consistent with involvement in diverse physiological actions affecting the output of mesocortical neurons, some of which also contain one or both peptides.
As for other drugs, there is a large interindividual variability of the plasma concentrations of antidepressants for a given dose. Within the last 2 decades, a very large number of pharmacogenetic studies have made it possible to understand the importance of genetic factors on the disposition of drugs in the organism, many of them at the levels of drug metabolism. Polymorphism of CYP2D6 and of other drug-metabolizing enzymes may thus lead to very large differences in drug exposure between patients and possibly also to toxicity or ineffective drug concentrations in some subjects. In consequence, dose recommendations of antidepressants based on genotypes, justified by the principle of administering bioequivalent individualized drug doses, are now proposed. However, blood (and thus possibly brain) concentrations also depend on other factors than the genetic makeup of the patients. Therapeutic drug monitoring of antidepressants allows us to take into account the influence of factors such as comedications, diet, smoking habit, impaired organ function, and compliance. Therapeutic drug monitoring and genotyping are thus complementary, and their combined use contributes to improve pharmacotherapy with antidepressants and other drugs.
Neuroprotective effect of Ginkgo biloba extract EGb761 in cisplatin (cis-diamminedi-chloroplatinum, or CDDP)-induced peripheral neuropathy was investigated. Swiss albino mice were treated with CDDP, 2 mg/kg ip twice a week for nine times. One group of the animals also received EGb761 in the drinking water at an estimated dosage of 100 mg/kg per day. Two other groups received vehicle (control) or EGb761 only. Development of neuropathy was evaluated with changes in sensory nerve conduction velocity (NCV). Following the treatments, dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) were microscopically examined and some were cultured for 3 days. EGb761 proved effective in preventing the reduction in NCV (P &lt; 0.0001) caused by CDDP. CDDP caused a decrease in the number of migrating cells (P &lt; 0.01) and in the length of outgrowing axons (P &lt; 0.01) while EGb761 treatment prevented the latter. CDDP led to smaller nuclear and somatic sizes in neurons (P &lt; 0.01), while with EGb761 co-administration, both were close to control values. Animals having EGb761 only had similar results with controls. In conclusion, EGb761 was found to be effective in preventing some functional and morphological deteriorations in CDDP-induced peripheral neuropathy.
Nerve terminals are specific sites of action of a very large number of toxins produced by many different organisms. The presynaptic neurotoxins which interfere directly with the process of neurotransmitter release can be grouped in three large families: (1) the clostridial neurotoxins which act inside nerves and block neurotransmitter release via their metalloproteolytic activity directed specifically on SNARE proteins; (2) the snake presynaptic neurotoxins with phospholipase A2 activity whose site of action is still undefined and which induce the release of acetylcholine followed by impairment of synaptic functions; (3) the excitatory latrotoxin-like neurotoxins which induce a massive release of neurotransmitter at peripheral and central synapses. In this paper, the first two families are considered in terms of their modes of action and in relation to their potential use in cell biology and neuroscience as well as the therapeutic utilisation of the botulinum neurotoxins in human diseases characterised by hyperfunction of cholinergic terminals.
The centrosome plays diverse roles throughout the cellular mitotic cycle and in post-mitotic cells. Analysis of centrosome position and dynamics in living murine cells has been limited due to a lack of adequate reporters and currently requires either cell fixation/immunostaining or transfection with centrosome reporters. Here we describe the generation and characterization of a transgenic mouse line that constitutively expresses green fluorescent protein-labeled Centrin-2 (GFP-CETN2). The phenotype of the mouse is indistinguishable from wild-type and it displays a single pair of fluorescent centrioles in cells of every organ and time point examined. This model will be helpful for visualizing the centrosome in multiple experimental conditions.
The neural substrate for behavioral, cognitive and linguistic actions is hierarchically organized in the cortex of the frontal lobe. In their methodologically impeccable study, Koechlin et al. reveal the neural dynamics of the frontal hierarchy in behavioral action. Progressively higher areas control the performance of actions requiring the integration of progressively more complex and temporally dispersed information. The study substantiates the crucial role of the prefrontal cortex in the temporal organization of behavior.
Annexin 1 (ANXA1) was first identified as a mediator of the anti-inflammatory actions of glucocorticoids in the host defence system. Subsequent work revealed that this protein fulfils a wider brief and it is now recognized as an important signalling intermediate in a variety of other systems. Here, we consider the role of ANXA1 in the endocrine system, placing particular emphasis on new insights into the mechanisms and functional significance of the secondary processing of ANXA1, the processes that control the intracellular and transmembrane trafficking of the molecule and the molecular mechanisms of ANXA1 action that have identified a novel role for the protein as a paracrine/juxtacrine mediator of the non-genomic actions of glucocorticoids in the neuroendocrine system.

Very precise nociceptive skin reflexes that withdraw the skin from a harmful stimulus are formed through an experience-dependent mechanism that develops around two weeks after birth in rodents. Tactile input paves the way for the nociceptive reflex, and nociceptive stimuli are not required for the reflex to be formed. Petersson et al. show that the tactile input produced during muscle twitches occurring during sleep are essential for this process to develop.
The performance of the brain is constrained by wiring length and maintenance costs. The apparently inverse relationship between number of neurons in the various interneuron classes and the spatial extent of their axon trees suggests a mathematically definable organization, reminiscent of 'small-world' or scale-free networks observed in other complex systems. The wiring-economy-based classification of cortical inhibitory interneurons is supported by the distinct physiological patterns of class members in the intact brain. The complex wiring of diverse interneuron classes could represent an economic solution for supporting global synchrony and oscillations at multiple timescales with minimum axon length.
The development, beginning in 1979, of fluorescent Ca2+-specific indicators as research tools has revolutionized transmembrane signaling studies. In this article, the state of the art in the 'pre-Ca2+-indicator' era and the rationale for the development of indicators trapped in the cytosol to investigate the cytosolic concentration of Ca2+ in mammalian cells are summarized. Subsequent extension of these studies to the level of the single cell, together with the unique impact that Ca2+ indicators have had on signaling research and the introduction of specific, fluorescent gene constructs that provide direct, high-resolution information about the intracellular concentration of Ca2+, are also discussed.
The National Institute on Drug Abuse was founded in 1974, and since that time there have been significant advances in understanding the processes by which drugs of abuse cause addiction. The initial protein targets for almost all drugs of abuse are now known. Animal models that replicate key features of addiction are available, and these models have made it possible to characterize the brain regions that are important for addiction and other drug effects, such as physical dependence. A large number of drug-induced changes at the molecular and cellular levels have been identified in these brain areas and rapid progress is being made in relating individual changes to specific behavioral abnormalities in animal models of addiction. The current challenges are to translate this increasingly impressive knowledge of the basic neurobiology of addiction to human addicts, and to identify the specific genes that make some individuals either particularly vulnerable or resistant to addiction. In this article, I present a historical review of basic research on opiate and cocaine addiction.
Invasiveness of temperature monitoring devices is presently one of the most serious limitations to the application of oncological hyperthermia (HT). A promising approach aims at detecting temperature variations by monitoring the mean grey level (MGL) of the ultrasonographic image of the tissue. Gaseous ultrasound contrast agents (UCA), enhancing Ultrasonic (US) imaging, are expected to be sensitive to temperature, and are therefore a good candidate as temperature monitoring medium. The present study evaluates the 'in vitro' temporal and thermal stability and the correlation between temperature and MGL using a gaseous UCA (SonoVue) as phantom. No statistical differences were detected between the MGL value of the phantom kept at 43.5 degrees C before (215.2+/-3.5) and after 1 h (214.8+/-2.5), showing good stability at HT temperatures. Data of MGL image vs. temperature were obtained during both heating and cooling experiments in the HT range (30-43 degrees C). A good linearity of MGL vs. temperature (R2=0.976) was found with a good accuracy (2.5%) and a sensitivity of about 6.6 MGL/degrees C.
The responses of motion mechanisms depend not only on the direction of a stimulus, but also on its contrast, coherence and speed. We examined how contrast, coherence and directional selectivity interact by measuring directional tuning psychophysically across a wide range of coherence and contrast levels. We fit data with a simple model that estimated directional tuning bandwidth using contrast and coherence gain parameters that were based on neurophysiological estimates. This model estimated a bandwidth of approximately 90 degrees for directionally selective mechanisms. Bandwidth was invariant across a wide range of contrasts and coherences, as predicted by models of contrast normalization.
Psychotherapy has a long history but its practice has always been strewn with controversy. In this review, the current status of psychotherapy is examined by setting its development in historical perspective. While previous practice was often based on the pronouncements of &quot;masters&quot;, current approaches are almost always embedded in both rigorous theoretical formulations and frequently also in empirically derived data on efficacy. A fundamental understanding about the mechanisms of action of psychotherapy is a promising new development that is emanating from modern techniques of neurosciences and neuroimaging. Whether such understanding will lead to a renaissance in the clinical utility of psychotherapy is still early to say. However, there is little doubt that the provision of a holistic care for patients with psychological and mental disorders in particular, and most physical conditions in general, should be informed by an appreciation of the bi-directional nature of the relationship between the mind and the body and should therefore include the provision of appropriate psychotherapeutic interventions.

Treatment with alpha-lipoic acid (LA) or evening primrose oil (EPO), individually, fails to prevent diabetes-induced changes in enteric nerves. Since synergy between these treatments has been reported, the aim was to investigate the effectiveness of combined LA/EPO treatment. LA and EPO were administered in the diet (approximately 80 and 200 mg/kg/day, respectively) to control and diabetic (induced by streptozotocin, 65 mg/kg, i.p.) rats. For prevention, treatment started after 1 week and lasted 7 weeks. For reversal, treatment lasted 4 weeks and was initiated after 8 weeks. Nerves supplying the ileum containing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and noradrenaline (NA) were examined immunohistochemically or biochemically. Diabetes caused a significant increase in VIP-containing cell bodies (p&lt;0.001), decrease in NA content (p&lt;0.01) and loss of CGRP-immunoreactivity. LA/EPO treatment totally prevented diabetes-induced changes in VIP (p&lt;0.001) and CGRP and partially reversed (p&lt;0.05) these changes once they had been allowed to develop. In contrast, treatment had no effect on diabetes-induced changes in NA-containing nerves. Therefore, LA and EPO are only effective at treating diabetes-induced changes in some enteric nerves when administered in combination. However, diabetes-induced changes in NA-containing nerves are resistant to treatment.
Recent experimental work in animals has emphasized the importance of homeostatic plasticity as a means of stabilizing the properties of neuronal circuits. Here, we report a phenomenon that indicates a homeostatic pattern of cortical plasticity in healthy human subjects. The experiments combined two techniques that can produce long-term effects on the excitability of corticospinal output neurons: transcranial direct current stimulation (TDCS) and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of the left primary motor cortex. &quot;Facilitatory preconditioning&quot; with anodal TDCS caused a subsequent period of 1 Hz rTMS to reduce corticospinal excitability to below baseline levels for &gt;20 min. Conversely, &quot;inhibitory preconditioning&quot; with cathodal TDCS resulted in 1 Hz rTMS increasing corticospinal excitability for at least 20 min. No changes in excitability occurred when 1 Hz rTMS was preceded by sham TDCS. Thus, changing the initial state of the motor cortex by a period of DC polarization reversed the conditioning effects of 1 Hz rTMS. These preconditioning effects of TDCS suggest the existence of a homeostatic mechanism in the human motor cortex that stabilizes corticospinal excitability within a physiologically useful range.
Sensory neurons express hyperpolarization-activated currents (I(H)) that differ in magnitude and kinetics within the populations. We investigated the structural basis for these differences and explored the functional role of the I(H) channels in sensory neurons isolated from rat nodose ganglia. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated a differential distribution of hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) protein (HCN1, HCN2, HCN4) in sensory neurons and peripheral terminals. HCN2 and HCN4 immunoreactivity was present in all nodose neurons. In contrast, only 20% of the total population expressed HCN1 immunoreactivity. HCN1 did not colocalize with IB4 (a marker for C-type neurons), and only 15% of HCN1-positive neurons colocalized with immunoreactivity for the vanilloid receptor VR1, another protein associated primarily with C-type neurons. Therefore, most HCN1-containing neurons were A-type neurons. In further support, HCN1 was present in the mechanosensitive terminals of myelinated but not unmyelinated sensory fibers, whereas HCN2 and HCN4 were present in receptor terminals of both myelinated and unmyelinated fibers. In voltage-clamp studies, cell permeant cAMP analogs shifted the activation curve for I(H) to depolarized potentials in C-type neurons but not A-type neurons. In current-clamp recording, CsCl, which inhibits only I(H) in nodose neurons, hyperpolarized the resting membrane potential from -63 +/- 1 to -73 +/- 2 mV and nearly doubled the input resistance from 1.3 to 2.2 GOmega. In addition, action potentials were initiated at lower depolarizing current injections in the presence of CsCl. At the sensory receptor terminal, CsCl decreased the threshold pressure for initiation of mechanoreceptor discharge. Therefore, elimination of the I(H) increases excitability of both the soma and the peripheral sensory terminals.
Paranodal axoglial junctions in myelinated nerve fibers are essential for efficient action potential conduction and ion channel clustering. We show here that, in the mature CNS, a fraction of the oligodendroglial 155 kDa isoform of neurofascin (NF-155), a major constituent of paranodal junctions, has key biochemical characteristics of a lipid raft-associated protein. However, despite its robust expression, NF-155 is detergent soluble before paranodes form and in purified oligodendrocyte cell cultures. Only during its progressive localization to paranodes is NF-155 (1) associated with detergent-insoluble complexes that float at increasingly lower densities of sucrose and (2) retained in situ after detergent treatment. Finally, mutant animals with disrupted paranodal junctions, including those lacking specific myelin lipids, have significantly reduced levels of raft-associated NF-155. Together, these results suggest that trans interactions between oligodendroglial NF-155 and axonal ligands result in cross-linking, stabilization, and formation of paranodal lipid raft assemblies.
Neuronal injury in manganese neurotoxicity (manganism) is thought to involve activation of astroglial cells and subsequent overproduction of nitric oxide (NO) by inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2). Manganese (Mn) enhances the effects of proinflammatory cytokines on expression of NOS2 but the molecular basis for this effect has not been established. It was postulated in the present studies that Mn enhances expression of NOS2 through the cis-acting factor, nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB). Exposure of C6 glioma cells to lipopopolysaccharide (LPS) resulted in increased expression of NOS2 and production of NO that was dramatically potentiated by Mn and was blocked through overexpression of mutant IkappaBalpha (S32/36A). LPS-induced DNA binding of p65/p50 was similarly enhanced by Mn and was decreased by mutant IkappaBalpha. Phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha was potentiated by Mn and LPS and was not blocked by U0126, a selective inhibitor of ERK1/2. Mn decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and increased matrix calcium, associated with a rise in intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) that was attenuated by the mitochondrial-specific antioxidant, MitoQ. Blocking mitochondrial ROS also attenuated the enhancing effect of Mn on LPS-induced phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha and expression of NOS2, suggesting a link between Mn-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and activation of NF-kappaB. Overexpression of a dominant-negative mutant of the NF-kappaB-interacting kinase (Nik) prevented enhancement of LPS-induced phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha by Mn. These data indicate that Mn augments LPS-induced expression of NOS2 in C6 cells by increasing mitochondrial ROS and activation of NF-kappaB.
Oligodendrocytes are the myelin-producing cells in the central nervous system. It was proposed that these cells are much more prone to oxidative damage than to other cells of the central nervous system. This fact seems to be due to their high iron store and low antioxidative defense mechanisms. Consequently, free radical induced damage should lead to an enhanced damage of oligodendrocytes. Thus, we chose the oligodendrocyte cell line OLN 93 to measure the stability of the protein pool after oxidation and the possibilities of protecting proteins by alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN). We were able to demonstrate for the first time that OLN 93 cells are able to respond with an increase in overall proteolysis when exposed to various oxidants. This increase was the consequence of an enhanced protein oxidation. The activity of the 20S proteasome, which is thought to be involved in the removal of oxidized proteins, was not effected by moderate concentrations of the oxidants. The spin-trap PBN was used as an antioxidant and was able to prevent protein oxidation in OLN 93 cells effectively. Consequently, we proved that PBN is also able to prevent the increase in overall protein oxidation. We were able to demonstrate that OLN 93 oligodendrocytes react to oxidative stress with an increase in the protein turnover directed towards the removal of oxidized proteins. The intracellular spin-trap PBN is able to prevent protein oxidation in OLN 93 cells.
Myelin is a dynamic, functionally active membrane necessary for rapid action potential conduction, axon survival, and cytoarchitecture. The number of debilitating neurological disorders that occur when myelin is disrupted emphasizes its importance. Using high-resolution 2D gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, and immunoblotting, we have developed an extensive proteomic map of proteins present in myelin, identifying 98 proteins corresponding to at least 130 of the approximately 200 spots on the map. This proteomic map has been applied to analyses of the localization and function of selected proteins, providing a powerful tool to investigate the diverse functions of myelin.
Chemical communication between sperm and egg is a critical factor mediating sexual reproduction. Sperm attractants may be significant evolutionarily for maintaining species barriers, and important ecologically for increasing gamete encounters. Still unresolved, however, are the functional consequences of these dissolved signal molecules. Here, we provide experimental evidence that sperm chemoattraction directly affects the magnitude of fertilization success. The recent discovery of L-tryptophan as a potent attractant to red abalone (Haliotis rufescens) sperm affords the opportunity to quantify how navigation affects gamete interactions. Sperm behavioral responses to manipulations of the natural tryptophan gradient around individual eggs reveals that both chemotaxis and chemokinesis significantly promote contacts. Our results show further that attractant release by means of diffusion effectively doubles the target size of red abalone eggs, which in turn significantly increases fertilization success. Although long theorized as potential barriers to hybridization, species-specific sperm attractants in red and green (Haliotis fulgens) abalone are only minor contributors to maintaining reproductive isolation. Because abalone typically live in dense, multispecies aggregations, chemically mediated navigation would prevent sperm from pointlessly tracking heterospecific eggs. Thus, even though reproductive isolation fundamentally resides at the level of membrane recognition proteins, species-specific sperm attractants may evolve to locate the right target within mixed gamete suspensions of closely related species.
Perception of complex sound is a process carried out in everyday life situations and contributes in the way one perceives reality. Attempting to explain sound perception and how it affects human beings is complicated. Physics of simple sound can be described as a function of frequency, amplitude and phase. Psychology of sound, also termed psychoacoustics, has its own distinct elements of pitch, intensity and tibre. An interconnection exists between physics and psychology of hearing.Music being a complex sound contributes to communication and conveys information with semantic and emotional elements. These elements indicate the involvement of the central nervous system through processes of integration and interpretation together with peripheral auditory processing.Effects of sound and music in human psychology and physiology are complicated. Psychological influences of listening to different types of music are based on the different characteristics of basic musical sounds. Attempting to explain music perception can be simpler if music is broken down to its basic auditory signals. Perception of auditory signals is analyzed by the science of psychoacoustics. Differences in complex sound perception have been found between normal subjects and psychiatric patients and between different types of psychopathologies.

Male green anoles possess two copulatory organs (hemipenes), which are independently controlled by bilateral muscles: the transversus penis (TPN) and retractor penis magnus (RPM). Adult females do not possess hemipenes or either of the two related muscles. Motoneurons projecting to the TPN lie in spinal segments trunk 17 and sacral 1 (T17-S1). Overall, motoneurons in this region are larger and more numerous in males than females. The present studies were designed to determine 1) whether motoneurons projecting to the RPM are located in the same sexually dimorphic nucleus, 2) other targets of T17-S1 motoneurons, and 3) the approximate proportion of motoneurons projecting to each muscle. In Study 1, unilateral injection of the retrograde tracer Fast Blue (FB) into RPMs and simultaneous unilateral injection of either Cholera Toxin-fluorescein (CT-FITC) or Diamidino Yellow into TPNs revealed that RPM and TPN motoneurons are indeed interdigitated in T17-S1. In Study 2, FB was used to characterize other targets of this nucleus in both males and females. In adult males, projections to four muscles accounted for 96% of the T17-S1 motoneurons: the TPN, RPM, caudifemoralis (CF), and cloacal sphincter (SC). In adult females, projections to the CF and SC comprised 70% of this nucleus. These data demonstrate that the T17-S1 nucleus is a mixed spinal nucleus that has projections to muscles present in both sexes, as well as those present only in males and specialized for male copulatory behavior.
A conditioned abducens nerve response is generated in in vitro brainstem preparations from turtles by pairing a weak conditioned stimulus (CS) applied to the auditory nerve that immediately precedes an unconditioned stimulus (US) applied to the trigeminal nerve. Tract-tracing studies showed direct projections from auditory and trigeminal nerves to abducens motor neurons. In light of these findings for convergent CS-US inputs, it is hypothesized that auditory and trigeminal nerve synaptic inputs onto abducens motor neurons are in spatial proximity because the CS is a weak input that may be required to be near the US inputs to have an associative effect, and conditioning occurs only when the CS and US are temporally separated by less than 100 ms. This study examined the spatial relationship of 133 anterogradely labeled synaptic boutons conveying CS or US information on retrogradely labeled abducens motor neurons. The results show that trigeminal and auditory nerve terminal fields occupy primarily the soma and proximal dendrites of abducens motor neurons. Quantitative analysis shows that the majority of labeled boutons (76% and 85% from injections of the trigeminal and auditory nerves, respectively) were apposed to somata or were localized to dendritic segments no more than about 30 microm from the nucleus. There were no quantitative differences between trigeminal and auditory nerve boutons in terms of their localization on dendrites or bouton diameter. Finally, triple labeling experiments demonstrated that individual abducens motor neurons receive inputs from both nerves and that these inputs may be in close spatial proximity to one another. This synaptic arrangement allows for the possibility that in vitro abducens conditioning is generated by coincident CS-US detection mediated by NMDA receptors and may utilize a Hebbian-like plasticity mechanism.
Antidepressants, which increase monoamine levels, induce glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) release in C6 cells. Thus, we examined whether monoamines affect on GDNF release in C6 cells. We found that serotonin (5-HT) specifically increased GDNF mRNA expression and GDNF release in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The 5-HT-induced GDNF release was mediated through the MEK/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and, at least, 5-HT(2A) receptors. The action of 5-HT on GDNF release may provide important insights into the mechanism of antidepressants.
During long &quot;summer-like&quot; photoperiods, female Syrian hamsters display a regular 4-day estrous cycle. However, during short &quot;winter-like&quot; photoperiods (&lt;12.5 h of light/day) hamsters become anestrus. Short photoperiod exposure eliminates reproductive behavior but social behaviors such as aggression and scent marking continue to be displayed. In long photoperiods, the types and intensity of social behaviors change as a function of the estrous cycle. For example, aggression and scent marking tend to occur at higher levels on diestrus 1 and diestrus 2 than on proestrus or estrus. Aggression and scent marking may be regulated, at least in part, by changes in the density of arginine vasopressin-V(1a) receptors (V(1a)R). In Experiment 1, it was hypothesized that the density of V(1a)R would change across the estrous cycle in several subcortical regions implicated in the regulation of aggression and scent marking. In Experiment 2, it was hypothesized that exposure to short photoperiod would alter the density of V(1a)R in several regions involved in the regulation of social behavior. Interestingly, there were no dramatic changes in V(1a)R binding across the estrous cycle within any of the neuroanatomical areas measured. However, in hamsters housed in short photoperiod, there were lower levels of V(1a)R binding within the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN), medial preoptic area (MPO), lateral hypothalamus (LH), central nucleus of the amygdala (Ce) and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) than in hamsters housed in long photoperiod. These data suggest that photoperiodic mechanisms can alter the density of V(1a)R in subset of V(1a) binding sites thought to be involved in the regulation of social behaviors in female hamsters.
Unconscious odor detection has been demonstrated but the mechanisms implied in this process have been poorly studied. In so far, most odorants activate both olfactory and trigeminal systems, it is relevant to explore how each system could be involved in the unconscious detection processes. This study used three methods to determine the detection thresholds for three odorants. The results showed that (1). psychophysical were lower than self-evaluated thresholds whatever the odorant; (2). an odorant with trigeminal component had the ability to produce an autonomic (skin conductance response-SCR) activation with lower concentrations than psychophysical and self-evaluated thresholds; on the contrary, an odorant, which stimulates only the olfactory system, induces an autonomic activation only with higher concentrations than psychophysical and self-evaluated thresholds. These findings suggest that unconscious odor detection could be due to the trigeminal component of odorants.
Antidepressants are widely prescribed in the treatment of depression, although the mechanism of how they exert their therapeutic effects is poorly understood. To shed further light on their mode of action, we have attempted to identify a common proteomic signature in guinea pig brains after chronic treatment with two different antidepressants. Both fluoxetine and the substance P receptor (NK(1)R) antagonist (SPA) L-000760735 altered cortical expression of multiple heat shock protein 60 forms along with neurofilaments and related proteins that are critical determinants of synaptic structure and function. Analysis of NK(1)R-/- mice showed similar alterations of neurofilaments confirming the specificity of the effects observed with chronic NK(1)R antagonist treatment. To determine if these changes were associated with structural modification of synapses, we carried out electron microscopic analysis of cerebral cortices from fluoxetine-treated guinea pigs. This showed an increase in the percentage of synapses with split postsynaptic densities (PSDs), a phenomenon that is characteristic of activity-dependent synaptic rearrangement. These findings suggest that cortical alterations of the neurofilament pathway and increased synaptic remodeling are associated with the mechanism of these two antidepressant drug treatments and may contribute to their psychotherapeutic actions.
Although cell culture studies have implicated the presence of vesicle proteins in mediating the release of glutamate from astrocytes, definitive proof requires the identification of the glutamate release mechanism and the localization of this mechanism in astrocytes at synaptic locales. In cultured murine astrocytes we show an array of vesicle proteins, including SNARE proteins, and vesicular glutamate transporters that are required to fill vesicles with glutamate. Using immunocytochemistry and single-cell multiplex reverse transcription-PCR we demonstrate the presence of these proteins and their transcripts within astrocytes freshly isolated from the hippocampus. Moreover, immunoelectron microscopy demonstrates the presence of VGLUT1 in processes of astrocytes of the hippocampus. To determine whether calcium-dependent glutamate release is mediated by exocytosis, we expressed the SNARE motif of synaptobrevin II to prevent the formation of SNARE complexes, which reduces glutamate release from astrocytes. To further determine whether vesicular exocytosis mediates calcium-dependent glutamate release from astrocytes, we performed whole cell capacitance measurements from individual astrocytes and demonstrate an increase in whole cell capacitance, coincident with glutamate release. Together, these data allow us to conclude that astrocytes in situ express vesicle proteins necessary for filling vesicles with the chemical transmitter glutamate and that astrocytes release glutamate through a vesicle- or fusion-related mechanism.
Mn-SOD serves as the primary cellular defense against oxidative damage by converting superoxide radicals (O(2)(-)) to O(2) and H(2)O(2). A unique characteristic of this mitochondrial anti-oxidant enzyme is the conservation from bacteria to man of a rapidly formed product inhibited state. Using site-directed mutagenesis, we have generated an active site mutant (H30N) of human Mn-SOD, which exhibits significantly reduced product inhibition and increased enzymatic efficiency. Overexpression of the H30N enzyme causes anti-proliferative effects in vitro and anti-tumor effects in vivo. Our results provide a teleological basis for the phylogenetically invariant nature of position His-30 and the evolutionary conservation of product inhibition. These data also provide more direct intracellular evidence for the signaling role associated with H(2)O(2).


The Sir2 deacetylase modulates organismal life-span in various species. However, the molecular mechanisms by which Sir2 increases longevity are largely unknown. We show that in mammalian cells, the Sir2 homolog SIRT1 appears to control the cellular response to stress by regulating the FOXO family of Forkhead transcription factors, a family of proteins that function as sensors of the insulin signaling pathway and as regulators of organismal longevity. SIRT1 and the FOXO transcription factor FOXO3 formed a complex in cells in response to oxidative stress, and SIRT1 deacetylated FOXO3 in vitro and within cells. SIRT1 had a dual effect on FOXO3 function: SIRT1 increased FOXO3's ability to induce cell cycle arrest and resistance to oxidative stress but inhibited FOXO3's ability to induce cell death. Thus, one way in which members of the Sir2 family of proteins may increase organismal longevity is by tipping FOXO-dependent responses away from apoptosis and toward stress resistance.
