Twenty-five percent of ischemic strokes are lacunar in type, but the cause remains unclear. Pathological descriptions of lacunar lesions are available but have not been systematically assessed. We therefore systematically summarized studies describing lacunar lesions by extracting data on the number of patients and lesions, clinical details, pathological methods, brain regions and/or vessels examined, and both parenchymal and vascular findings. Among 39 papers describing &gt;4000 lesions (&gt;50% from one study), 15 papers examined patients with a clinical lacunar syndrome. Terminology varied, many studies only reported macroscopic pathology and many lesions were cavitated (ie, old). Aside from symptomatic lesions occurring more often in the internal capsule or caudate nucleus, we found no other differences between symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Perivascular edema and thickening, inflammation and disintegration of the arteriolar wall were common, whereas vessel occlusion was rare. The causal mechanisms of lacunar stroke remain poorly defined because of methodological inconsistencies and challenges. Standardised pathological definitions based on well-characterized post-mortem derived material supported by detailed clinical and imaging data are needed.
Neuroendocrine, metabolic and autonomic nervous system dysfunctions are prevalent among patients with Huntington's disease (HD) and may underlie symptoms such as depression, weight loss and autonomic failure. Using post-mortem paraffin-embedded tissue, we assessed the integrity of the major neuropeptide populations in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN)-the hypothalamic neuroendocrine and autonomic integration center-in HD patients. The number corticotropin-releasing hormone, cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript, arginine vasopressin and oxytocin immunoreactive (ir) neurons did not differ between HD patients and control subjects. However, the significant positive correlation between arginine vasopressin and oxytocin ir neurons in control subjects (P = 0.036) was absent in patients. Corticotropin-releasing hormone mRNA levels were 68% higher in HD patients (P = 0.046). Thyrotropin-releasing hormone mRNA levels did not differ between HD patients and control subjects, although a negative correlation with disease duration was present in the former (P = 0.036). These findings indicate that the PVN is largely unaffected in HD patients. However, our findings suggest that hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis activity may alter during the course of the disease and that autonomic nervous system dysfunction might partly arise from an imbalance between arginine vasopressin and oxytocin neurons in the PVN.
Two independent genomic approaches have recently converged to provide insight into the domain organization of the Drosophila genome. Genome-wide mapping of chromosomal proteins and histone modifications has generated detailed maps of the Drosophila chromatin landscape and has led to the identification of a number of different chromatin states and their distribution in domains across the genome. A remarkably similar domain organization is derived from whole genome mapping of chromatin interactions that reveals the segmentation of the genome into structural domains. This review focuses on our current understanding of this domain architecture which provides a foundation for our understanding of the link between chromatin organization and the dynamic activity of the genome.
We compared the effects of electrical stimulation of primary dissociated neuronal cultures cultured on microelectrode arrays in terms on the expression of c-fos transcriptional factor that is involved in plastic reorganization in neurons. Dissociated hippocampal neurons cultured on multielectrode arrays were exposed to two stimulation protocols: high-frequency and low-frequency stimulations. Expression of c-fos was evaluated using immunofluorescence. Both high-frequency and low-frequency stimulations significantly increased c-fos expression in comparison with non-stimulated control. These findings indicate that c-fos expression can be induced in neuronal cell culture by different types of electrical stimulations and can be used for studying plasticity processes in microphysiological in vitro systems.


Antiangiogenic treatment using bevacizumab may cause difficulties in distinguishing between antivascular and true antitumor effects when using MRI response criteria based on changes of contrast enhancement (i.e., Macdonald criteria). Furthermore, more precise tumor response assessment criteria (i.e., RANO criteria), which incorporate nonenhancing T2/FLAIR sequences into Macdonald criteria, may be influenced by other causes of T2/FLAIR hyperintensity (e.g., radiation-induced gliosis). The authors present discrepant MR and [(18)F]fluoroethyl-L-tyrosine PET imaging findings in a patient with bevacizumab treatment failure.
Due to poor proliferation abilities of cardiomyocytes, the repair process in the heart after insults is often associated with fibrosis formation. In this study, we characterized inflammation and/or fibrosis-related molecules in the heart with experimental autoimmune carditis. Immunohistochemical examinations reveled that expression of tenascin-C (TNC), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), transforming growth factor1 (TGF-1), connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and  smooth muscle cell actin (SMA) peaked at 2 weeks post-immunization but only TGF-1 expression was sustained at 8 weeks. Administration of siRNAs for MMP-2 (siMMP-2) and for MMP-9 (siMMP-9) alone did not modulate inflammation and fibrosis. In contrast, simultaneous administration of siMMP-2 and siMMP-9 significantly reduced inflammation and fibrosis. Of note, siRNA treatment for TGF-1, which is an anti-inflammatory cytokine, increased inflammation and decreased fibrosis. These findings suggest that in case of diseases characterized by initial inflammation and subsequent fibrosis, immunotherapies should target inflammation, not fibrosis, because the latter therapies exacerbate inflammation.
Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) is a chronic neurological disorder characterized by recurrent seizures. The pathogenic mechanisms underlying mTLE may involve defects in the post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding RNAs that control the expression of genes at the post-transcriptional level. Here, we performed a genome-wide miRNA profiling study to examine whether miRNA-mediated mechanisms are affected in human mTLE. miRNA profiles of the hippocampus of autopsy control patients and two mTLE patient groups were compared. This revealed segregated miRNA signatures for the three different patient groups and 165 miRNAs with up- or down-regulated expression in mTLE. miRNA in situ hybridization detected cell type-specific changes in miRNA expression and an abnormal nuclear localization of select miRNAs in neurons and glial cells of mTLE patients. Of several cellular processes implicated in mTLE, the immune response was most prominently targeted by deregulated miRNAs. Enhanced expression of inflammatory mediators was paralleled by a reduction in miRNAs that were found to target the 3'-untranslated regions of these genes in reporter assays. miR-221 and miR-222 were shown to regulate endogenous ICAM1 expression and were selectively co-expressed with ICAM1 in astrocytes in mTLE patients. Our findings suggest that miRNA changes in mTLE affect the expression of immunomodulatory proteins thereby further facilitating the immune response. This mechanism may have broad implications given the central role of astrocytes and the immune system in human neurological disease. Overall, this work extends the current concepts of human mTLE pathogenesis to the level of miRNA-mediated gene regulation.
Functional connectivity between brain regions can define large-scale neural networks and provide information about relationships between those networks. We examined how relationships within and across intrinsic connectivity networks were 1) sensitive to individual differences in dopaminergic function, 2) modulated by cognitive state, and 3) associated with executive behavioral traits. We found that regardless of cognitive state, connections between frontal, parietal, and striatal nodes of Task-Positive networks (TPNs) and Task-Negative networks (TNNs) showed higher functional connectivity in 10/10 homozygotes of the dopamine transporter gene, a polymorphism influencing synaptic dopamine, than in 9/10 heterozygotes. However, performance of a working memory task (a state requiring dopamine release) modulated genotype differences selectively, such that cross-network connectivity between TPNs and TNNs was higher in 10/10 than 9/10 subjects during working memory but not during rest. This increased cross-network connectivity was associated with increased self-reported measures of impulsivity and inattention traits. By linking a gene regulating synaptic dopamine to a phenotype characterized by inefficient executive function, these findings validate cross-network connectivity as an endophenotype of executive dysfunction.
Monocular deprivation (MD) during development shifts the ocular preference of primary visual cortex (V1) neurons by depressing closed-eye responses and potentiating open-eye responses. As these 2 processes are temporally and mechanistically distinct, we tested whether loss of responsiveness occurs also in absence of competing inputs. We thus compared the effects of long-term MD in layer 4 regular-spiking pyramidal neurons (L4Ns) of binocular and monocular V1 (bV1 and mV1) with whole-cell recordings. In bV1, input depression was larger than potentiation, and the ocular dominance shift was larger for spike outputs. MD-but not retinal inactivation with tetrodotoxin-caused a comparable loss of synaptic and spike responsiveness in mV1, which is innervated only by the deprived eye. Conversely, brief MD depressed synaptic responses only in bV1. MD-driven depression in mV1 was accompanied by a proportional reduction of visual thalamic inputs, as assessed upon pharmacological silencing of intracortical transmission. Finally, sub- and suprathreshold responsiveness was similarly degraded in L4Ns of bV1 upon complete deprivation of patterned vision through a binocular deprivation period of comparable length. Thus, loss of synaptic inputs from the deprived eye occurs also in absence of competition in the main thalamorecipient lamina, albeit at a slower pace.
Despite extraordinary diversity in the rodent order, studies of motor cortex have been limited to only 2 species, rats and mice. Here, we examine the topographic organization of motor cortex in the Eastern gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) and cortical connections of motor cortex in the California ground squirrel (Spermophilus beecheyi). We distinguish a primary motor area, M1, based on intracortical microstimulation (ICMS), myeloarchitecture, and patterns of connectivity. A sensorimotor area between M1 and the primary somatosensory area, S1, was also distinguished based on connections, functional organization, and myeloarchitecture. We term this field 3a based on similarities with area 3a in nonrodent mammals. Movements are evoked with ICMS in both M1 and 3a in a roughly somatotopic pattern. Connections of 3a and M1 are distinct and suggest the presence of a third far rostral field, termed &quot;F,&quot; possibly involved in motor processing based on its connections. We hypothesize that 3a is homologous to the dysgranular zone (DZ) in S1 of rats and mice. Our results demonstrate that squirrels have both similar and unique features of M1 organization compared with those described in rats and mice, and that changes in 3a/DZ borders appear to have occurred in both lineages.
The local field potential (LFP) is a population measure, mainly reflecting local synaptic activity. Beta oscillations (12-40 Hz) occur in motor cortical LFPs, but their functional relevance remains controversial. Power modulation studies have related beta oscillations to a &quot;resting&quot; motor cortex, postural maintenance, attention, sensorimotor binding and planning. Frequency modulations were largely overlooked. We here describe context-related beta frequency modulations in motor cortical LFPs. Two monkeys performed a reaching task with 2 delays. The first delay demanded attention in time in expectation of the visual spatial cue, whereas the second delay involved visuomotor integration and movement preparation. The frequency in 2 beta bands (around 20 and 30 Hz) was systematically 2-5 Hz lower during cue expectancy than during visuomotor integration and preparation. Furthermore, the frequency was directionally selective during preparation, with about 3 Hz difference between preferred and nonpreferred directions. Direction decoding with frequency gave similar accuracy as with beta power, and decoding accuracy improved significantly when combining power and frequency, suggesting that frequency might provide an additional signal for brain-machine interfaces. In conclusion, multiple beta bands coexist in motor cortex, and frequency modulations within each band are as behaviorally meaningful as power modulations, reflecting the changing behavioral context and the movement direction during preparation.

The ability to image the cortex laminar arrangements in vivo is one of the holy grails of neuroscience. Recent studies have visualized the cortical layers ex vivo and in vivo (on a small region of interest) using high-resolution T(1)/T(2) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In this study, we used inversion-recovery (IR) MRI to increase the sensitivity of MRI toward cortical architecture and achieving whole-brain characterization of the layers, in vivo, in 3D on humans and rats. Using the IR measurements, we computed 3D signal intensity plots along the cortex termed corticograms to characterize cortical substructures. We found that cluster analyses of the multi-IR images along the cortex divides it into at least 6 laminar compartments. To validate our observations, we compared the IR-MRI analysis with histology and revealed a correspondence, although these 2 measures do not represent similar quantities. The abilities of the method to segment the cortex into layers were demonstrated on the striate cortex (visualizing the stripe of Gennari) and on the frontal cortex. We conclude that the presented methodology can serve as means to study and characterize individual cortical architecture and organization.


Intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations play a crucial role in the physiological interaction between Ca(2+) channels and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels. The commonly used model, a Ca(2+) pool with a short relaxation time, fails to simulate interactions occurring at multiple time scales. On the other hand, detailed computational models including various Ca(2+) buffers and pumps can result in large computational cost due to radial diffusion in large compartments, which may be undesirable when simulating morphologically detailed Purkinje cell models. We present a method using a compensating mechanism to replace radial diffusion and compared the dynamics of different Ca(2+) buffering models during generation of a dendritic Ca(2+) spike in a single compartment model of a PC dendritic segment with Ca(2+) channels of P- and T-type and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels of BK- and SK-type. The Ca(2+) dynamics models used are (1) a single Ca(2+) pool; (2) two Ca(2+) pools, respectively, for the fast and slow transients; (3) detailed Ca(2+) dynamics with buffers, pump, and diffusion; and (4) detailed Ca(2+) dynamics with buffers, pump, and diffusion compensation. Our results show that detailed Ca(2+) dynamics models have significantly better control over Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels and lead to physiologically more realistic simulations of Ca(2+) spikes and bursting. Furthermore, the compensating mechanism largely eliminates the effect of removing diffusion from the model on Ca(2+) dynamics over multiple time scales.
Cerebellar Purkinje cells (PCs) encode afferent information in the rate and temporal structure of their spike trains. Both spontaneous firing in these neurons and its modulation by synaptic inputs depend on Ca(2+) current carried by Ca(v)2.1 (P/Q) type channels. Previous studies have described how loss-of-function Ca(v)2.1 mutations affect intrinsic excitability and excitatory transmission in PCs. This study examines the effects of the leaner mutation on fast GABAergic transmission and its modulation of spontaneous firing in PCs. The leaner mutation enhances spontaneous synaptic inhibition of PCs, leading to transitory reductions in PC firing rate and increased spike rate variability. Enhanced inhibition is paralleled by an increase in the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) measured under voltage clamp. These differences are abolished by tetrodotoxin, implicating effects of the mutation on spike-induced GABA release. Elevated sIPSC frequency in leaner PCs is not accompanied by increased mean firing rate in molecular layer interneurons, but IPSCs evoked in PCs by direct stimulation of these neurons exhibit larger amplitude, slower decay rate, and a higher burst probability compared to wild-type PCs. Ca(2+) release from internal stores appears to be required for enhanced inhibition since differences in sIPSC frequency and amplitude in leaner and wild-type PCs are abolished by thapsigargin, an ER Ca(2+) pump inhibitor. These findings represent the first account of the functional consequences of a loss-of-function P/Q channel mutation on PC firing properties through altered GABAergic transmission. Gain in synaptic inhibition shown here would compromise the fidelity of information coding in these neurons and may contribute to impaired cerebellar function resulting from loss-of function mutations in the Ca(V)2.1 channel gene.
Low threshold voltage-gated T-type calcium channels have long been implicated in the electrical excitability and calcium signaling of cerebellar Purkinje neurons although the molecular composition, localization, and modulation of T-type channels within Purkinje cells have only recently been addressed. The specific functional roles that T-type channels play in local synaptic integration within Purkinje spines are also currently being unraveled. Overall, Purkinje neurons represent a powerful model system to explore the potential roles of postsynaptic T-type channels throughout the nervous system. In this review, we present an overview of T-type calcium channel biophysical, pharmacological, and physiological characteristics that provides a foundation for understanding T-type channels within Purkinje neurons. We also describe the biophysical properties of T-type channels in context of other voltage-gated calcium channel currents found within Purkinje cells. The data thus far suggest that one specific T-type isoform, Ca(v)3.1, is highly expressed within Purkinje spines and both physically and functionally couples to mGluR1 and other effectors within putative signaling microdomains. Finally, we discuss how the selective potentiation of Ca(v)3.1 channels via activation of mGluR1 by parallel fiber inputs affects local synaptic integration and how this interaction may relate to the overall excitability of Purkinje neuron dendrites.
The molecular mechanism underlying channel opening in response to agonist binding remains a challenging issue in neuroscience. In this regard, many efforts have been recently undertaken in ATP-gated P2X receptors. Among those efforts, we have provided evidence in the P2X2 receptor that tightening of ATP sites upon agonist binding induces opening of the ion channel. Here we extend our analysis to show that the sulfhydryl-reactive ATP analog 8-thiocyano-ATP (NCS-ATP), a potent P2X2 agonist, when covalently labeled in the ATP-binding site at position Leu186 likely favors the tightening mechanism, but not the channel opening mechanism. Our data predict the existence of intermediate or preactivation state(s) trapped by NCS-ATP, in which tightening of the binding site is favored while the channel is still closed. We propose that this (these) intermediate ATP-bound state(s) prime(s) channel gating in the P2X2 receptor.
2-APB is a widely used compound in ion channel research. It affects numerous channels including inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors, store-operated calcium channels and TRP channels, TRPV3 and TRPM7 among them. A characteristic property of TRPM7 channels is their sensitivity to intracellular Mg ( 2+) and pH. Using patch clamp electrophysiology we find that in Jurkat T lymphocytes, 100-300 M extracellular 2-APB reversibly inhibits TRPM7 channels when internal HEPES concentration is low (1 mM). Increasing the concentration to 140 mM abolishes the 2-APB effect. Using single-cell fluorescence pH video imaging, we show that at concentrations of 100 M and higher, 2-APB potently acidifies the cytoplasm. We conclude that TRPM7 sensitivity to 2-APB is not direct but rather, can be explained by cytoplasmic acidification and a resulting channel inhibition.
In this review, a conceptualization of oppositional defiant (ODD) and conduct disorder (CD) is presented according to which social learning processes in these disorders are affected by neurocognitive dysfunctions. Neurobiological studies in ODD and CD suggest that the ability to make associations between behaviors and negative and positive consequences is compromised in children and adolescents with these disorders due to reduced sensitivity to punishment and to reward. As a result, both learning of appropriate behavior and learning to refrain from inappropriate behavior may be affected. Likewise, problem solving is impaired due to deficiencies in inhibition, attention, cognitive flexibility, and decision making. Consequently, children and adolescents with ODD and CD may have difficulty learning to optimize their behavior in changeable environments. This conceptualization of ODD and CD is relevant for the improvement of the effect of psychological treatments. Behavioral and cognitive-behavioral interventions that have been shown to be modestly effective in ODD and CD are based on social learning. Limited effectiveness of these interventions may be caused by difficulties in social learning in children and adolescents with ODD and CD. However, although these impairments have been observed at a group level, the deficits in reward processing, punishment processing, and cognitive control mentioned above may not be present to the same extent in each individual with ODD and CD. Therefore, the neurocognitive characteristics in children and adolescents with ODD and CD should be assessed individually. Thus, instead of delivering interventions in a standardized way, these programs may benefit from an individualized approach that depends on the weaknesses and strengths of the neurocognitive characteristics of the child and the adolescent.



As genotype-phenotype correlations require the study of large patient populations, we investigated 49 Italian patients (33 unreported) with the muscle form of carnitine-palmitoyl-transferase-II (CPT-II) deficiency and CPT2 gene mutations. CPT enzyme activity below 25% of controls would lead to the development of muscle symptoms, and CPT activity below 15% would cause a relatively severe phenotype of the muscle form. Of the 15 different mutations found, 6 are novel (40%). A functional significance of mutations could be derived only for the two homozygous missense mutations found: both the p.S113L and the p.R631C (recurring in four unrelated patients from a genetic isolate) alleles caused a severe CPT enzyme defect (15% and 7%, respectively) and a relatively severe clinical phenotype of the muscle form. We identified three genotypes (homozygous p.R631C, homozygous p.S113L, and heterozygous null mutations) usually associated with a relatively severe and often life-threatening condition, which should be considered both in the clinical management of newly diagnosed patients (to prevent symptoms) and in their possible inclusion in therapeutic trials. We confirmed the existence of symptomatic heterozygous patient(s), through a family study, providing an important issue when offering genetic counseling and suggesting the crucial role of polymorphisms or environmental factors in determining the phenotype.











Hyperammonemia leads to neurotoxic levels of brain ammonia and is a major factor involved in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). Ammonia-lowering treatments primarily involve two strategies: inhibiting ammonia production and/or increasing ammonia removal. Targeting the gut has been the primary focus for many years, with the goal of inhibiting the generation of ammonia. However, in the context of liver failure, extrahepatic organs containing ammonia metabolic pathways have become new potential ammonia-lowering targets. Skeletal muscle has the capacity to remove ammonia by producing glutamine through the enzyme glutamine synthetase (amidation of glutamate) and, given its large mass, has the potential to be an important ammonia-removing organ. On the other hand, glutamine can be deaminated to glutamate by phosphate-activated glutaminase, thus releasing ammonia (ammonia rebound). Therefore, new treatment strategies are being focused on stimulating the removal of both ammonia and glutamine.
Novel treatments for gastrointestinal (GI) diseases are based on molecular targets. Novel pharmacologic and biological agents with greater selectivity and specificity are being developed for a variety of epithelial diseases, including eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE), gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), celiac disease, short bowel syndrome (SBS), and inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs; Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis). Motility and secretory agents are being developed for gastroparesis, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), functional constipation, and diarrhea. Here we focus on data from clinical trials involving validated pharmacodynamic or patient response outcomes.

The role of A1 and A3 receptors is discussed based on data almost exclusively obtained in the hippocampus. This brain area, where A1 receptor expression predominates, has been a matter of intensive research in the adenosine field. Interestingly, in the last decade, the relevance of the much less expressed adenosine receptor in the hippocampus, the A2A receptor, has been put forward. These two high affinity receptors operate as effective regulators of a number of neurotransmitters and/or neuromodulators, through modulation of their release, action, or even inactivation. Therefore, A1 and A2A receptors constitute a must in the discussion about adenosine receptors in the hippocampus, and consequently, about the potential implications of their pharmacological manipulation and drug targeting.
Stroke is a leading cause of death that affects 15 million people worldwide each year. Increasing evidence suggests that stroke confers substantial risk for suicide and following a stroke, patients frequently develop poststroke depression, which is a well-established risk factor for suicide. In this overview of the current literature, we examined the association between suffering a stroke and subsequent risk for suicide and suicidal ideation. We performed a careful MedLine, Excerpta Medica, PsycLit, PsycInfo, and Index Medicus search to identify all articles and book chapters in English. We initially selected 31 articles published between 1990 and 2011; however, only 16 studies were included in this review. All articles identified stroke as a significant risk factor for suicide, especially among depressed patients, providing further support for poststroke depression and suicidality. The results also indicated that there were differences between patients who developed acute-onset suicidal plans and those who reported delayed-onset plans, which occurred more frequently. Many of the stroke patients who died by suicide suffered from depression prior to their death, suggesting that being diagnosed with a mood disorder contributes to an increased risk of suicide in this population. Suffering from a stroke increases the risk of dying by suicide and developing suicidal ideation, particularly in young adults and women. The factors found to confer the most risk for suicidality were depression, previous mood disorder, prior history of stroke, and cognitive impairment.
The Behavioral Inhibition System (BIS) is described in Gray's Reinforcement Sensitivity Theory as a hypothetical construct that mediates anxiety in animals and humans. The neuroanatomical correlates of this system are not fully clear, although they are known to involve the amygdala, the septohippocampal system, and the prefrontal cortex. Previous neuroimaging research has related individual differences in BIS with regional volume and functional variations in the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and hippocampal formation. The aim of the present work was to study BIS-related individual differences and their relationship with brain regional volume. BIS sensitivity was assessed through the BIS/BAS questionnaire in a sample of male participants (N = 114), and the scores were correlated with brain regional volume in a voxel-based morphometry analysis. The results show a negative correlation between the BIS and the volume of the right and medial orbitofrontal cortices and the precuneus. Our results and previous findings suggest that individual differences in anxiety-related personality traits and their related psychopathology may be associated with reduced brain volume in certain structures relating to emotional control (i.e., the orbitofrontal cortex) and self-consciousness (i.e., the precuneus), as shown by our results.
When faced with decisions, rats sometimes pause and look back and forth between possible alternatives, a phenomenon termed vicarious trial and error (VTE). When it was first observed in the 1930s, VTE was theorized to be a mechanism for exploration. Later theories suggested that VTE aided the resolution of sensory or neuroeconomic conflict. In contrast, recent neurophysiological data suggest that VTE reflects a dynamic search and evaluation process. These theories make unique predictions about the timing of VTE on behavioral tasks. We tested these theories of VTE on a T-maze with return rails, where rats were given a choice between a smaller reward available after one delay or a larger reward available after an adjustable delay. Rats showed three clear phases of behavior on this task: investigation, characterized by discovery of task parameters; titration, characterized by iterative adjustment of the delay to a preferred interval; and exploitation, characterized by alternation to hold the delay at the preferred interval. We found that VTE events occurred during adjustment laps more often than during alternation laps. Results were incompatible with theories of VTE as an exploratory behavior, as reflecting sensory conflict, or as a simple neuroeconomic valuation process. Instead, our results were most consistent with VTE as reflecting a search process during deliberative decision making. This pattern of VTE that we observed is reminiscent of current navigational theories proposing a transition from a deliberative to a habitual decision-making mechanism.
Outcome monitoring is crucial for subsequent adjustments in behavior and is associated with a specific electrophysiological response, the feedback-related negativity (FRN). Besides feedback generated by one's own action, the performance of others may also be relevant for oneself, and the observation of outcomes for others' actions elicits an observer FRN (oFRN). To test how these components are influenced by social setting and predictive value of feedback information, we compared event-related potentials, as well as their topographies and neural generators, for performance feedback generated by oneself and others in a cooperative versus competitive context. Our results show that (1) the predictive relevance of outcomes is crucial to elicit an FRN in both players and observers, (2) cooperation increases FRN and P300 amplitudes, especially in individuals with high traits of perspective taking, and (3) contrary to previous findings on gambling outcomes, oFRN components are generated for both cooperating and competing observers, but with smaller amplitudes in the latter. Neural source estimation revealed medial prefrontal activity for both FRN and oFRN, but with additional generators for the oFRN in the dorsolateral and ventral prefrontal cortex, as well as the temporoparietal junction. We conclude that the latter set of brain regions could mediate social influences on action monitoring by representing agency and social relevance of outcomes and are, therefore, recruited in addition to shared prediction error signals generated in medial frontal areas during action outcome observation.
According to a recent hypothesis, the prefrontal cortex has been proposed as the site of emotional memory integration, because it is sensitive to the recognition of emotional contents. In the present research, we explored the role of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in memory recognition processes for positive versus negative emotional stimuli when old (target) and new (distractor, either semantically related or unrelated to the target) stimuli were presented. The role of the DLPFC was analysed using an rTMS (repeated transcranial magnetic stimulation) paradigm that induced increased cortical activation of the left DLPFC. The subjects were required to perform a task that consisted of two experimental phases (i.e., an encoding and a recognition phase) in which the targets and the distractors were presented and recognition performance was measured. rTMS stimulation was provided over the left DLPFC during the recognition phase. We found that the rTMS stimulation affected the memory recognition of positive emotional material. Moreover, related and unrelated distractors were discarded better when they were positively valenced, and a more significant effect (i.e., increased performance) was produced in response to related distractors. This result suggests that the activation of the left DLPFC favours the memory recognition of positive emotional information, and that such activation is able to induce a more appropriate selective process to distinguish target from distractor stimuli in the presence of more complex processes (related distractors). The valence model of emotional cue processing may explain this increased performance by demonstrating the distinct role of the left hemisphere in the retrieval of positive emotional information.

Despite a large body of recognition memory research, its temporal, measured with ERPs, and spatial, measured with fMRI, substrates have never been investigated in the same subjects. In the present study, we obtained this information in parallel sessions, in which subjects studied and recognized images of visual objects and their orientation. The results showed that ERP-familiarity processes between 240 and 440 ms temporally preceded recollection processes and were structurally associated with prefrontal brain regions. Recollection processes were most prominent from 440 to 600 ms and correlated with activation in temporal, parietal, and occipital brain regions. Post-retrieval monitoring, which occurred in the ERP between 600 and 1000 ms as a long-lasting slow-wave over frontal channel groups, showed correlations with activation in the prefrontal and parietal cortex. These ERP/fMRI relationships showed some correspondences to source localizations of the investigated ERP memory effects.
Brain activity immediately before an event can predict whether the event will later be remembered. This indicates that memory formation is influenced by anticipatory mechanisms engaged ahead of stimulus presentation. Here, we asked whether anticipatory processes affect the learning of short word lists, and whether such activity varies as a function of serial position. Participants memorized lists of intermixed visual and auditory words with either an elaborative or rote rehearsal strategy. At the end of each list, a distraction task was performed followed by free recall. Recall performance was better for words in initial list positions and following elaborative rehearsal. Electrical brain activity before auditory words predicted later recall in the elaborative rehearsal condition. Crucially, anticipatory activity only affected recall when words occurred in initial list positions. This indicates that anticipatory processes, possibly related to general semantic preparation, contribute to primacy effects.
Neurons can sustain high rates of synaptic transmission without exhausting their supply of synaptic vesicles. This property relies on a highly efficient local endocytic recycling of synaptic vesicle membranes, which can be reused for hundreds, possibly thousands, of exo-endocytic cycles. Morphological, physiological, molecular, and genetic studies over the last four decades have provided insight into the membrane traffic reactions that govern this recycling and its regulation. These studies have shown that synaptic vesicle endocytosis capitalizes on fundamental and general endocytic mechanisms but also involves neuron-specific adaptations of such mechanisms. Thus, investigations of these processes have advanced not only the field of synaptic transmission but also, more generally, the field of endocytosis. This article summarizes current information on synaptic vesicle endocytosis with an emphasis on the underlying molecular mechanisms and with a special focus on clathrin-mediated endocytosis, the predominant pathway of synaptic vesicle protein internalization.
As the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain, glutamate plays an undisputable integral role in opiate addiction. This relates, in part, to the fact that addiction is a disorder of learning and memory, and glutamate is required for most types of memory formation. As opiate addiction develops, the addict becomes conditioned to engage in addictive behaviors, and these behaviors can be triggered by opiate-associated cues during abstinence, resulting in relapse. Some medications for opiate addiction exert their therapeutic effects at glutamate receptors, especially the NMDA receptor. Understanding the neural circuits controlling opiate addiction, and the locus of glutamate's actions within these circuits, will help guide the development of targeted pharmacotherapeutics for relapse.
Research progress has provided detailed understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD). This knowledge has been translated into new drug candidates with putative disease-modifying effects, which are now being tested in clinical trials. The promise of effective therapy has created a great need for biomarkers able to detect AD in the predementia phase, because drugs will probably be effective only if neurodegeneration is not too advanced. In this chapter, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma biomarkers are reviewed. The core CSF biomarkers total tau (T-tau), phosphorylated tau (P-tau) and the 42 amino acid form of -amyloid (A42) reflect AD pathology, and have high diagnostic accuracy to diagnose AD with dementia and prodromal AD in mild cognitive impairment cases. The rationale for the use of CSF biomarkers to identify and monitor the mechanism of action of new drug candidates is also outlined in this chapter.
Neuroscience researchers have long sought methods to describe the neural connectivity of the circuits responsible for specific behaviors. One major obstacle is scale: Neural spines can be &lt;1 m in diameter, but axons can range from millimeters to centimeters (or larger) in length, making tissue imaging and neuron reconstruction a challenging task. New tissue-clearing agents and long-working-distance objectives offer improved imaging conditions, and here we present a complete protocol for invertebrate tissue that uses these advances. In this protocol, tissue-processing steps previously published in separate articles are combined with recent advances in confocal imaging to visualize invertebrate tissue samples that are &gt;500 m thick and contain dye-filled neurons. The steps describe dye filling, fixing, antibody labeling, clearing, whole tissue mounting, and confocal imaging with matched refractive indexes. Thus, manual sectioning or &quot;flipping&quot; the tissue to image the whole volume is not required. With matched refractive indexes, loss of resolution and signal is avoided. Tissue volumes are imaged in one stack and nonlinear deformations caused by tissue flipping are prevented. We apply the protocol to whole dragonfly thoracic ganglia (2  1  0.6 mm) and cephalopod skin samples (20  2  0.6 mm) with minimal tissue deformation. The resulting images will be used to develop a three-dimensional connectivity atlas of dragonfly ganglia and cephalopod skin innervation. This protocol can be applied to other invertebrate species, and has the advantage that it avoids problems with antigen specificity.
Sleep improves cognition and is necessary for normal brain plasticity, but the precise cellular and molecular mechanisms mediating these effects are unknown. At the molecular level, experience-dependent synaptic plasticity triggers new gene and protein expression necessary for long-lasting changes in synaptic strength.(1) In particular, translation of mRNAs at remodeling synapses is emerging as an important mechanism in persistent forms of synaptic plasticity in vitro and certain forms of memory consolidation.(2) We have previously shown that sleep is required for the consolidation of a canonical model of in vivo plasticity (i.e., ocular dominance plasticity [ODP] in the developing cat).(3) Using this model, we recently showed that protein synthesis during sleep participates in the consolidation process. We demonstrate that activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin [mTOR] pathway, an important regulator of translation initiation,(4) is necessary for sleep-dependent ODP consolidation and that sleep promotes translation (but not transcription) of proteins essential for synaptic plasticity (i.e., ARC and BDNF). Our study thus reveals a previously unknown mechanism operating during sleep that consolidates cortical plasticity in vivo.
Neurodegenerative diseases are a burden of our century. Although significant efforts were made to find a cure or relief to this scourge, their pathophysiology remains vague and the cellular function of the key involved proteins is still unclear. However, in the case of amyloid  (A), a key protein concerned in Alzheimer disease, we are now a step closer in the unscrambling of its cellular functions. Interestingly, whereas the exact role of A in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer disease is still unresolved, a recent study revealed a neuroprotective function of A in multiple sclerosis with possibly promising therapeutic benefits.
Hepatic glycogen synthesis fluxes from direct and indirect pathways were quantified in seabass by postmortem (2)H NMR analysis of plasma water (PW) and glycogen glucosyl (2)H enrichments from (2)H-enriched seawater. Eighteen fish (28.0  1.7 cm and 218.0  43.0 g) were divided into three groups of 6 and studied over 24 days with transfer to 5% (2)H-seawater after day 21. Over this period, one group was fed daily with fishmeal, a second group was fasted, and a third group was fasted for 21 days followed by 3 days refeeding. Glycogen turnover and sources were determined from the ratio of glucosyl position 5 enrichment to that of plasma water (H5/PW). Glycogen levels of fed fish were significantly higher than fasted (665.4  345.2 mol.g(-1) liver versus 77.2  59.5 mol.g(-1) liver, P&lt;0.05) while refed fish had comparable levels to fed (584.6  140.4 mol.g(-1) liver). Glycogen enrichment of fed fish was undetectable indicating negligible turnover over 3 days. For fasted fish, H5/PW was ~50% indicating that half of the glycogen had turned over via indirect pathway flux. For refed fish, H5/PW was ~100% indicating that the indirect pathway accounted for all net glycogen synthesis. Direct pathway conversion of dietary carbohydrate to glycogen was not detected in any of the groups.
Hypoxic tolerance is subjected to modification during environmental stress. Understanding the mechanisms underlying the plasticity of hypoxic tolerance will be helpful for clinical applications such as stroke prevention. In a freshwater invertebrate, Daphnia pulex, we found that preconditioning with the antidiabetic drug metformin protects the animals from hypoxic insult. Metformin is known to activate the cellular energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Application of the AMPK antagonist, compound C, effectively abolished the protective action by metformin. Meanwhile, the AMPK agonist AICAR failed to mimic the protective effect of metformin. At transcript level, metformin treatment increased the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)  and  genes, as well as the HIF target genes in an AMPK-dependent manner, while AICAR treatment alone failed to increase the expression of HIF genes. Metformin treatment also increased the expression of AMPK  and  genes, and this effect was blocked by compound C. These observations suggest that HIF activation and HIF target gene expression are possibly involved in metformin-mediated protection, while AMPK activation is necessary, but not sufficient for metformin-induced protection. Since increased hypoxic tolerance involves regenerative responses and thus protein synthesis, we measured the gene expression of the components of mTOR signaling pathway. Metformin increased the gene expression of raptor, a component of mTORC1 and known to control protein synthesis, and such increase was also eliminated by compound C. Taken together, metformin preconditioning activates multiple signaling pathways involved in gene expression and protein synthesis.
Recent studies have shown the importance of integrating multisensory information in the body representation for constituting self-consciousness. However, one idea that has received only scant attention is that our body representation is also constituted by knowledge of bodily visual characteristics (i.e. 'what I look like'). Here in two experiments we used a full body crossmodal congruency task in which visual distractors were presented on a photograph of the participant, another person, who was either familiar or unfamiliar, or an object. Results revealed that during the 'self-condition' CCEs were enhanced compared to the 'other condition'. The CCE was similar for unfamiliar and familiar others. CCEs for the object condition were significantly smaller. The results show that presentation of an irrelevant image of a body affects multimodal processing and that the effect is enhanced when that image is of the self. The results hold intriguing implications for body representation in social situations.
The mental representation of one's own body does not necessarily correspond to the physical body. For instance, a dissociation between perceived and actual reach-ability has been shown, that is, individuals perceive that they can reach objects that are out of grasp. We presented participants with 3D pictures of objects located at four different distances, namely near-reaching space, actual-reaching space, perceived-reaching space and non-reaching space. Immediately after they were presented with function, manipulation, observation or pointing verbs and were required to judge if the verb was compatible with the object. Participants were faster with function and manipulation verbs than with observation and pointing verbs. Strikingly, with both function and manipulation verbs participants were faster when objects were presented in actual than the perceived reaching space. These findings suggest that our knowledge of the world is implicitly built online through behaviour, and is not necessarily reflected in explicit estimates or conscious representations.
Power differentials are a ubiquitous feature of social interactions and power has been conceptualised as an interpersonal construct. Here we show that priming power changes the sense of agency, indexed by intentional binding. Specifically, participants wrote about episodes in which they had power over others, or in which others had power over them. After priming, participants completed an interval estimation task in which they judged the interval between a voluntary action and a visual effect. After low-power priming, participants judged intervals to be significantly longer than judgments after high-power or no priming. Thus, intentional binding was significantly changed by low-power, suggesting that power reduces the sense of agency for action outcomes. Our results demonstrate a clear intrapersonal effect of power. We suggest that intentional binding could be employed to assess agency in individuals suffering from anxiety and depression, both of which are characterised by reduced feelings of personal control.
In an item-method directed forgetting paradigm, participants were required to attend to one of two colored words presented on opposite sides of a central fixation stimulus; they were instructed to Remember or Forget the attended item. On a subsequent recognition test, the Attended words showed a typical directed forgetting effect with better recognition of Remember words than Forget words. Our interest was in the fate of the Unattended words. When the study display disappeared before the memory instruction, there was no effect of that instruction on unattended words; when the study display remained visible during presentation of the memory instruction, there was a reverse directed forgetting effect with better recognition of unattended words from Forget trials than from Remember trials. Incidental encoding of task-irrelevant stimuli occurs following presentation of a Forget instruction - but only when those task-irrelevant stimuli are still visible in the external environment.
Schizophrenia spectrum has been associated with a disruption of the basic sense of self, which pertains, among others, the representation of one's own body. We investigated the impact of either implicit or explicit access to the representation of one's own body-effectors on bodily self-awareness, in first-episode schizophrenia (FES) patients and healthy controls (HCs). We contrasted their performance in an implicit self-recognition task (visual matching) and in an explicit self/other discrimination task. Both tasks employed participant's own and others' body-effectors. Concerning the implicit task, HCs were more accurate with their own than with others' body-effectors, whereas patients did not show such self-advantage. Regarding the explicit task, both groups did not exhibit a self-advantage, and patients showed a higher percentage of self-misattribution errors. Neither self/other nor implicit/explicit effects were found in both groups when processing inanimate-objects. We propose that FES patients suffer of a disturbed implicit sense of bodily self.
Cocaine dependence is a significant public health problem for which there are currently no FDA-approved medications. Hence, identifying candidate compounds and employing an efficient evaluation process is crucial. This paper describes key design decisions made for a National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Clinical Trials Network (CTN) study that uses a novel two-stage process to evaluate buspirone (60 mg/day) for cocaine-relapse prevention. The study includes pilot (N=60) and full-scale (estimated N=264) trials. Both trials will be randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled and both will enroll treatment-seeking cocaine-dependent participants engaged in inpatient/residential treatment and scheduled for outpatient treatment post-discharge. All participants will receive contingency management in which incentives are given for medication adherence as evaluated by the Medication Events Monitoring System (MEMS). The primary outcome measure is maximum days of continuous cocaine abstinence, as assessed by twice-weekly urine drug screens (UDS) and self-report, during the 15-week outpatient treatment phase. Drug-abuse outcomes include cocaine use as assessed by UDS and self-report of cocaine use, other substance use as assessed by UDS and self-report of substance use (i.e., alcohol and/or illicit drugs), cocaine bingeing, HIV risk behavior, quality of life, functioning, and substance abuse treatment attendance. Unique aspects of the study include conducting an efficacy trial in community treatment programs, a two-stage process to efficiently evaluate buspirone, and an evaluation of mediators by which buspirone might exert a beneficial effect on relapse prevention.
The impact of cognitive operations on haemodynamic activity in the human brain is a cornerstone of modern cognitive neuroscience. This essay presents an early speculation about why there is increased blood flow following cognitive operations: Emil Harle, a 19th century German physiologist, proposed that this blood flow responds to irritations caused by &quot;the will&quot; in order to restore homeostasis. Peculiar from a modern perspective, this speculation shows how neuroscientific concepts - and corresponding perspectives on cognitive function - have changed over the centuries.
Deficits for pitch structure processing in congenital amusia has been mostly reported for melodic stimuli and explicit judgments. The present study investigated congenital amusia with harmonic stimuli and a priming task. Amusic and control participants performed a speeded phoneme discrimination task on sung chord sequences. The target phoneme was sung either on a functionally important chord (tonic chord, referred to as &quot;related target&quot;) or a less important one (subdominant chord, referred to as &quot;less-related target&quot;). Correct response times were faster when the target phoneme was sung on tonic chords rather than on subdominant chords, and this effect was less pronounced, albeit significant, in amusic participants. These data report for the first time a deficit in congenital amusia for chord processing, but also provide evidence that, despite this deficit, amusic individuals have internalized sophisticated syntactic-like functions of chords in the Western tonal musical system. This finding suggests that thanks to this musical knowledge, amusic individuals could develop expectancies for musical events, and, presumably, follow the tension-relaxation schemas in Western tonal music, which also influence emotional responses to music.
Previous research found that quantitative information labelled on target objects of grasping movement modulates grip apertures. While the interaction between numerical cognition and sensorimotor control may reflect a general representation of magnitude underpinned by the parietal cortex, the nature of this embodied cognitive processing remains unclear. In the present study, we examined whether the numerical effects on grip aperture can be flexibly modulated by the relative magnitude between numbers under a context, which suggests a trial-by-trial comparison mechanism to underlie this effect. The participants performed visual open-loop grasping towards one of two adjacent objects that were of the same physical size but labelled with different Arabic digits. Analysis of participants' grip apertures revealed a numerical size-contrast effect, in which the same numerical label (i.e., 5) led to larger grip apertures when it was accompanied by a smaller number (i.e., 2) than by a larger number (i.e., 8). The corrected grip aperture over the time course of movement showed that the numerical size-contrast effect remained significant throughout the grasping movement, despite a trend of gradual dissipation. Our findings demonstrated that interactions between number and action critically depend on the size-contrast of magnitude information in the context. Such a size-contrast effect might result from a general system, which is sensitive to relative magnitude, for different quantity domains. Alternatively, the magnitude representations of numbers and action might be processed separately and interact at a later stage of motor programming.
Evidence indicates that when one feature of an object is specifically attended, other task-irrelevant features of that object also receive enhanced processing, presumably as a result of automatic binding processes. On the other hand, evidence also shows that attention can be selectively biased in favor of processing one feature at the expense of processing others. Thus, binding invokes combinatorial processing of related features whereas selective attention emphasizes differential processing. We hypothesized that binding and selective feature-based attention depend on a common resource and therefore might show interference effects. The current study tested this by manipulating binding demands while human participants directed their attention to the color or motion of moving random dot stimuli. Response time measures showed that effects of biased attention were reduced when binding demands were increased. This finding supports the thesis that binding relies, at least in part, upon the same mechanisms invoked by preparatory biasing of selective attention.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common age-related neurodegenerative disorder among the elderly. Nmethyl- D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) overactivation has been implicated in early synaptic dysfunction that precedes late neurodegeneration in AD. Moreover, oligomers of amyloid-beta peptide (A) 1-42 are considered the most synaptotoxic forms, responsible for early cognitive deficits in AD. In this work we evaluate the role of NMDARs on A-evoked neuronal dysfunction and cell death through changes in microtubule polymerization in mature hippocampal cultures. Exposure to A 1-42 caused a decrease in total and polymerized levels of beta-III tubulin and polymerized alpha-tubulin, suggesting microtubule disassembly. Moreover, A induced DNA fragmentation in both neuronal and non-neuronal cells. Indeed, the effects of A on beta-III tubulin polymerization were significantly correlated with reduced neurite length and neuronal DNA fragmentation. Interestingly, these effects were prevented by MK-801 and memantine, suggesting a role for extrasynaptic NMDARs in A toxicity, and by ifenprodil, further indicating the involvement of GluN2B-containing NMDARs. Nevertheless, exposure to A did not potentiate the effects caused by selective activation of NMDARs. Data largely suggest that A-induced hippocampal neuronal dysfunction occurs through NMDAR-dependent microtubule disassembly associated to neurite retraction and DNA fragmentation in mature hippocampal cells.
Whereas cognitive impairment is a common symptom in multiple brain disorders, predictive and high-throughput animal models of cognition and behavior are becoming increasingly important in the field of translational neuroscience research. In particular, reliable models of the cognitive deficits characteristic of numerous neurobehavioral disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia have become a significant focus of investigation. While rodents have traditionally been used to study cognitive phenotypes, zebrafish (Danio rerio) are gaining popularity as an excellent model to complement current translational neuroscience research. Here we discuss recent advances in pharmacological and genetic approaches using zebrafish models to study cognitive impairments and to discover novel cognitive enhancers and neuroprotective mechanisms.
Involuntary abnormal movements have been reported after ischaemic and haemorrhagic stroke. Post stroke movement disorders can appear as acute or delayed sequel. At the moment, for many of these disorders the knowledge of pharmacological treatment is still inadequate. Dopaminergic and GABAergic systems may be mainly involved in post-stroke movement disorders. This article provides a review on drugs commonly used in post-stroke movement disorders, given that some post-stroke movement disorders have shown a partial benefit with pharmacological approach.





The majority of cognitive processes show measurable change over the lifespan. However, some argue that implicit learning from environmental structure is development invariant [e.g., Muelemans et al. [1998] Experimental Child Psychology, 69, 199-221; Reber [1993] Implicit learning and tacit knowledge: An essay on the cognitive unconscious. Oxford University Press], while others have shown that adults learn faster than children [Thomas et al. [2004] Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 16, 1339-1351]. In two experiments, we tested infants through adults using the same saccade latency measure and behavioral learning paradigm. We examined implicit learning when subjects are presented with interleaved regularities acting on one item, as well as the ability to adjust behavior when learned information is violated. In one comparison, the first- (item frequencies) and second- (spatiotemporal item relations) order statistics are in conflict, allowing us to examine flexibility in learning from multiple parameters. Data from Experiment 1 (N=90, 6- to 30-year olds) showed no developmental differences in either implicit learning from environmental regularity or flexibility of learning from conflicting parameters across our age range. Accuracy data showed that children are especially sensitive to low frequency relative to high frequency items. In Experiment 2, we showed that 7- to 11-month-old infants had a saccade latency profile that was consistent with task structure, that is, they simultaneously learned both item frequencies and spatiotemporal relations, as indicated by data patterns similar to those obtained in Experiment 1. Taken together, these data provide support for developmental invariance in implicit learning from environmental regularities.
Adolescents involved with the juvenile justice system have a high incidence of risky sexual behaviors resulting in unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections. Substance use may be particularly important as a risk factor for unsafe sexual behavior for this group, and recent evidence suggests a possible association between marijuana use and risky sexual behavior. Adolescents (n = 728; 33% female) on probation were followed for 2 years, at intervals of 6 months, to explore the association of marijuana use and condom use longitudinally and at a specific intercourse occasion. Latent growth curve modeling indicated that greater marijuana use at baseline was associated with a steeper decline in condom use over the 2-year period of the study. In-depth analysis of the most recent intercourse occasion suggested that condom use was less likely if marijuana was being used by the participant or his/her partner and that this association was more pronounced if intercourse occurred with someone the participant had just met. Implications for the prevention of risky sexual behavior in this population are discussed.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are rapidly emerging as a new layer of regulation of mammalian brain development. However, most of the miRNA target genes remain unidentified. Here, we explore gene expression profiling upon miRNA depletion and in vivo target validation as a strategy to identify novel miRNA targets in embryonic mouse neocortex. By this means, we find that Foxp2, a transcription factor associated with speech and language development and evolution, is a novel miRNA target. In particular, we find that miR-9 and miR-132 are able to repress ectopic expression of Foxp2 protein by targeting its 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) in vivo. Interestingly, ectopic expression of Foxp2 in cortical projection neurons (a scenario that mimics the absence of miRNA-mediated silencing of Foxp2 expression) delays neurite outgrowth in vitro and impairs their radial migration in embryonic mouse neocortex in vivo. Our results uncover a new layer of control of Foxp2 expression that may be required for proper neuronal maturation.
Neuronal migration, a key event during brain development, remains largely unexplored in the mesencephalon, where dopaminergic (DA) and GABA neurons constitute two major neuronal populations. Here we study the migrational trajectories of DA and GABA neurons and show that they occupy ventral mesencephalic territory in a temporally and spatially specific manner. Our results from the Pitx3-deficient aphakia mouse suggest that pre-existing DA neurons modulate GABA neuronal migration to their final destination, providing novel insights and fresh perspectives concerning neuronal migration and connectivity in the mesencephalon in normal as well as diseased brains.
During development, spinal motoneurons (MNs) diversify into a variety of subtypes that are specifically dedicated to the motor control of particular sets of skeletal muscles or visceral organs. MN diversification depends on the coordinated action of several transcriptional regulators including the LIM-HD factor Isl1, which is crucial for MN survival and fate determination. However, how these regulators cooperate to establish each MN subtype remains poorly understood. Here, using phenotypic analyses of single or compound mutant mouse embryos combined with gain-of-function experiments in chick embryonic spinal cord, we demonstrate that the transcriptional activators of the Onecut family critically regulate MN subtype diversification during spinal cord development. We provide evidence that Onecut factors directly stimulate Isl1 expression in specific MN subtypes and are therefore required to maintain Isl1 production at the time of MN diversification. In the absence of Onecut factors, we observed major alterations in MN fate decision characterized by the conversion of somatic to visceral MNs at the thoracic levels of the spinal cord and of medial to lateral MNs in the motor columns that innervate the limbs. Furthermore, we identify Sip1 (Zeb2) as a novel developmental regulator of visceral MN differentiation. Taken together, these data elucidate a comprehensive model wherein Onecut factors control multiple aspects of MN subtype diversification. They also shed light on the late roles of Isl1 in MN fate decision.
Ampullary organ electroreceptors excited by weak cathodal electric fields are used for hunting by both cartilaginous and non-teleost bony fishes. Despite similarities of neurophysiology and innervation, their embryonic origins remain controversial: bony fish ampullary organs are derived from lateral line placodes, whereas a neural crest origin has been proposed for cartilaginous fish electroreceptors. This calls into question the homology of electroreceptors and ampullary organs in the two lineages of jawed vertebrates. Here, we test the hypothesis that lateral line placodes form electroreceptors in cartilaginous fishes by undertaking the first long-term in vivo fate-mapping study in any cartilaginous fish. Using DiI tracing for up to 70 days in the little skate, Leucoraja erinacea, we show that lateral line placodes form both ampullary electroreceptors and mechanosensory neuromasts. These data confirm the homology of electroreceptors and ampullary organs in cartilaginous and non-teleost bony fishes, and indicate that jawed vertebrates primitively possessed a lateral line placode-derived system of electrosensory ampullary organs and mechanosensory neuromasts.

The ideal anti-obesity drug would produce sustained weight loss with minimal side effects. The mechanisms that regulate energy balance have substantial built-in redundancy, overlap considerably with other physiological functions, and are influenced by social, hedonic and psychological factors that limit the effectiveness of pharmacological interventions. It is therefore unsurprising that anti-obesity drug discovery programmes have been littered with false starts, failures in clinical development, and withdrawals due to adverse effects that were not fully appreciated at the time of launch. Drugs that target pathways in metabolic tissues, such as adipocytes, liver and skeletal muscle, have shown potential in preclinical studies but none has yet reached clinical development. Recent improvements in the understanding of peptidergic signalling of hunger and satiety from the gastrointestinal tract mediated by ghrelin, cholecystokinin (CCK), peptide YY (PYY) and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), and of homeostatic mechanisms related to leptin and its upstream pathways in the hypothalamus, have opened up new possibilities. Although some have now reached clinical development, it is uncertain whether they will meet the strict regulatory hurdles required for licensing of an anti-obesity drug. However, GLP-1 receptor agonists have already succeeded in diabetes treatment and, owing to their attractive body-weight-lowering effects in humans, will perhaps also pave the way for other anti-obesity agents. To succeed in developing drugs that control body weight to the extent seen following surgical intervention, it seems obvious that a new paradigm is needed. In other therapeutic arenas, such as diabetes and hypertension, lower doses of multiple agents targeting different pathways often yield better results than strategies that modify one pathway alone. Some combination approaches using peptides and small molecules have now reached clinical trials, although recent regulatory experience suggests that large challenges lie ahead. In future, this polytherapeutic strategy could possibly rival surgery in terms of efficacy, safety and sustainability of weight loss.
Acylguanidines are a new class of antiviral compounds with the unique ability to target both RNA polymerase and transmembrane proteins of viruses from different families. Importantly, they inhibit proteins which are not targeted by existing antiviral therapies, for example, Vpu of HIV type 1, p7 of hepatitis C virus, E of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase of coxsackievirus B3. BIT225, developed by Biotron Limited, is the first acylguanidine in clinical trials against HIV type 1 and hepatitis C virus. In this article we focus on the mechanisms of inhibition of viral proteins by acylguanidines.
Negative allosteric modulation (NAM) of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu) represents a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of childhood developmental disorders, such as fragile X syndrome and autism. VU0409106 emerged as a lead compound within a biaryl ether series, displaying potent and selective inhibition of mGlu. Despite its high clearance and short half-life, VU0409106 demonstrated efficacy in rodent models of anxiety after extravascular administration. However, lack of a consistent correlation in rat between in vitro hepatic clearance and in vivo plasma clearance for the biaryl ether series prompted an investigation into the biotransformation of VU0409106 using hepatic subcellular fractions. An in vitro appraisal in rat, monkey, and human liver S9 fractions indicated that the principal pathway was NADPH-independent oxidation to metabolite M1 (+16 Da). Both raloxifene (aldehyde oxidase inhibitor) and allopurinol (xanthine oxidase inhibitor) attenuated the formation of M1, thus implicating the contribution of both molybdenum hydroxylases in the biotransformation of VU0409106. The use of O-labeled water in the S9 experiments confirmed the hydroxylase mechanism proposed, because O was incorporated into M1 (+18 Da) as well as in a secondary metabolite (M2; +36 Da), the formation of which was exclusively xanthine oxidase-mediated. This unusual dual and sequential hydroxylase metabolism was confirmed in liver S9 and hepatocytes of multiple species and correlated with in vivo data because M1 and M2 were the principal metabolites detected in rats administered VU0409106. An in vitro-in vivo correlation of predicted hepatic and plasma clearance was subsequently established for VU0409106 in rats and nonhuman primates.
CYP450 enzymes are basics for the metabolism of several medications such as numerous AEDs. As AEDs polypharmacy could lead to hidden pharmacokinetic interactions due to CYP450, there fore, the aim of this study was to determine a proper guide line for AEDs prescription in Iranian epileptic population. A cross-sectional study of fifty-four patients' (n=23 females; n= 31 males with a mean age of 27 years) located in the Epilepsy Ward of Kashani Hospital of Isfahan University of Medical Sciences was carried out during the year 2011. Variables including sex, age, age of seizureonset, type and number of AEDs were recorded in d-Base. Results showed that the number of prescriptions based on AEDs polypharmacy was 77.8%. The most important drugs in prescriptions were carbamazepine (n=41) that is a potent inducer of CYP450 and valproic acid (n=31) that is a potent inhibitor of CYP450 simultaneously. Administration of AEDs was based on: three (n=17), four (n=7), five (n=4) or six (n=3) AEDs simultaneously. To avoid side effects, in prescribing AEDs that act as CYP450 inhibitors or inducers concomitantly, their spectrum of interactions should be predicted.





Total glucocorticoid hormone levels in plasma of various species, including humans, follow a circadian rhythm that is made up from an underlying series of hormone pulses. In blood most of the glucocorticoid is bound to corticosteroid-binding globulin and albumin, resulting in low levels of free hormone. Although only the free fraction is biologically active, surprisingly little is known about the rhythms of free glucocorticoid hormones. We used single-probe microdialysis to measure directly the free corticosterone levels in the blood of freely behaving rats. Free corticosterone in the blood shows a distinct circadian and ultradian rhythm with a pulse frequency of approximately one pulse per hour together with an increase in hormone levels and pulse height toward the active phase of the light/dark cycle. Similar rhythms were also evident in the subcutaneous tissue, demonstrating that free corticosterone rhythms are transferred from the blood into peripheral target tissues. Furthermore, in a dual-probe microdialysis study, we demonstrated that the circadian and ultradian rhythms of free corticosterone in the blood and the subcutaneous tissue were highly synchronized. Moreover, free corticosterone rhythms were also synchronous between the blood and the hippocampus. These data demonstrate for the first time an ultradian rhythm of free corticosterone in the blood that translates into synchronized rhythms of free glucocorticoid hormone in peripheral and central tissues. The maintenance of ultradian rhythms across tissue barriers in both the periphery and the brain has important implications for research into aberrant biological rhythms in disease and for the development of improved protocols for glucocorticoid therapy.
Activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis is commonly assessed by measuring glucocorticoids such as cortisol (CORT). For many years, CORT was obtained primarily from blood plasma or urine, whereas later approaches added saliva and feces for noninvasive monitoring of HPA functioning. Despite the value of all these sample matrices for answering many research questions, they remain limited in the temporal range of assessment. Plasma and saliva are point samples that vary as a function of circadian rhythmicity and are susceptible to confounding by environmental disturbances. Even urine and feces generally assess HPA activity over a period of only 24 h or less. We and others have recently developed and validated methods for measuring the concentration of CORT in the body hair of animals (e.g. rhesus monkeys) and scalp hair of humans. CORT is constantly deposited in the growing hair shaft, as a consequence of which such deposition can serve as a biomarker of integrated HPA activity over weeks and months instead of minutes or hours. Since the advent of this methodological advance, hair CORT has already been used as an index of chronic HPA activity and stress in human clinical and nonclinical populations, in a variety of laboratory-housed and wild-living animal species, and in archival specimens that are many decades or even centuries old. Moreover, because human hair is known to grow at an average rate of about 1 cm/month, several studies suggest that CORT levels in hair segments that differ in proximity to the scalp can, under certain conditions, be used as a retrospective calendar of HPA activity during specific time periods preceding sample collection.
Progesterone (P4) is cytoprotective in various experimental models, but our understanding of the mechanisms involved is still incomplete. Our laboratory has implicated brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling as an important mediator of P4's protective actions. We have shown that P4 increases the expression of BDNF, an effect mediated by the classical P4 receptor (PR), and that the protective effects of P4 were abolished using inhibitors of Trk receptor signaling. In an effort to extend our understanding of the interrelationship between P4 and BDNF signaling, we determined whether P4 influenced BDNF release and examined the role of the classical PR and a putative membrane PR, progesterone receptor membrane component-1 (Pgrmc1), as mediators of this response. Given recent data from our laboratory that supported the role of ERK5 in BDNF release, we also tested whether P4-induced BDNF release was mediated by ERK5. In this study, we found that P4 and the membrane-impermeable P4 (P4-BSA) both induced BDNF release from cultured C6 glial cells and primary astrocytes. Both these cells lack the classical nuclear/intracellular PR but express high levels of membrane-associated PR, including Pgrmc1. Using RNA interference-mediated knockdown of Pgrmc1 expression, we determined that P4-induced BDNF release was dependent on the expression of Pgrmc1, although pharmacological inhibition of the PR failed to alter the effects of P4. Furthermore, the BDNF release elicited by P4 was mediated by ERK5, and not ERK1/2. Collectively, our data describe that P4 elicits an increase in BDNF release from glia via a Pgrmc1-induced ERK5 signaling mechanism and identify Pgrmc1 as a potential therapeutic target for future hormone-based drug development for the treatment of such degenerative diseases as Alzheimer's disease as well as other diseases wherein neurotrophin dysregulation is noted.
Investigations on emotional words demonstrated that processing emotional information in child patients with anxiety disorders diagnosed for anxiety (generalized anxiety disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder) or depression is biased towards pathology-related stimuli. Also, neuroimaging studies showed a failure of prefrontal areas in inhibiting the emotional reaction in children with bipolar disorder. Finally, despite several studies investigated memory and attention using emotional words, little is known about the development of emotional lexicon in both healthy and psychopathological children.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) and arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are common: their asymptomatic prevalence on brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is 1 in 625 and 1 in 2,000, respectively. The risk of epileptic seizure(s) for people with AVMs and CCMs affects their domestic, social, and professional lives, and may influence their decisions about treatment. This article summarizes the seizure risks for people with AVMs and CCMs, gleaned from published original articles indexed in OVID Medline and Embase before 1 January 2012. In the absence of prior intracranial hemorrhage and nonhemorrhagic focal neurologic deficit, a population-based study in Scotland, United Kingdom, found that the 5-year risks of first seizure were 8% for AVM and 4% for CCM; presentation with intracranial hemorrhage or focal neurologic deficit raised this risk for AVM (23%) but not for CCM (6%). Features associated with the occurrence of epileptic seizures for CCM are lesion multiplicity and cortical CCM location, whereas for AVM the most consistently reported associations are younger age, temporal location, cortical involvement, and nidus diameter &gt;3 cm. In the absence of prior intracranial hemorrhage and nonhemorrhagic focal neurologic deficit, the 5-year risk of developing epilepsy following a first seizure is 58% for AVM and 94% for CCM, though there is no difference in the chance of achieving 2-year seizure freedom in this time frame (45% AVM vs. 47% CCM). Observational case series describe encouraging differences in seizure frequency before and after AVM and CCM treatment, but the shortage of studies demonstrating dramatic effects in comparison to concurrent control groups justifies the need for more controlled studies, ideally with randomized treatment allocation when the benefits of AVM or CCM treatment are uncertain.
The association between hippocampal sclerosis (HS) and epilepsy has been known for almost two centuries. For many years, HS was studied in postmortem series; however, since the mid-20th century, surgical specimens from temporal lobe resections have provided important new knowledge. HS is the most common pathology underlying drug-resistant mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), a syndrome with a characteristic history and seizure semiology. In the early 1990 s, it was recognized that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) could detect HS. The standard MRI protocol for temporal lobe abnormalities uses coronal slices perpendicular to the long axis of the hippocampus. The MRI features of HS include reduced hippocampal volume, increased signal intensity on T(2)-weighted imaging, and disturbed internal architecture. The histopathologic diagnosis of HS is usually straightforward, with neuronal loss and chronic fibrillary gliosis centered on the pyramidal cell layer. There are several patterns or subtypes of HS recognized from surgical series based on qualitative or quantified assessments of regional neuronal loss. The pathologic changes of HS include granule cell dispersion, mossy fiber sprouting, and alterations to interneurons. There may also be more extensive sclerosis of adjacent structures in the medial temporal lobe, including the amygdala and parahippocampal gyrus. Subtle cortical neuropathologies may accompany HS. The revised classification of dysplasias in epilepsy denotes these as focal cortical dysplasias type IIIa. Sometimes, HS occurs with a second lesion, either in the temporal lobe or extratemporal, most often ipsilateral to the HS. HS on preoperative MRI strongly predicts good seizure outcome following temporal lobe resection (TLR). If adequate MRI shows no structural correlate in patients with MTLE, functional imaging studies are valuable, especially if they are in agreement with ictal electroencephalography (EEG) findings. Focal hypometabolism on 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) ipsilateral to the symptomatic temporal lobe predicts a good surgical outcome; the added value of (11) C-Flumazenil-PET (FMZ-PET) and proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) is less clear. Surgical methods have evolved, particularly resecting less tissue, aiming to preserve function without compromising seizure outcome. Around two thirds of patients operated for MTLE with HS obtain seizure freedom. However, the best surgical approach to optimize seizure outcome remains controversial.




Epilepsy is associated with a significant burden of social stigma that appears to be influenced by psychosocial and cultural factors. Stigma has a negative effect on the management of people with epilepsy (PWE), representing one of the major factors that contribute to the burden of epilepsy. To assess stigma perception among the Guarani population, one hundred thirty-two people living in Guaran communities in Bolivia were invited to complete the Stigma Scale of Epilepsy questionnaire. The main determinants of stigma identified were: the fear linked to loss of control, the feelings of sadness and pity toward PWE, the difficulties faced by PWE in the professional and relationship fields, the level of education and type of seizure. Our study pointed out that, in this population, PWE face difficulties in everyday life because of epilepsy-associated stigma and the results attest to the importance of promoting community-based educational programs aimed at reducing the stigmatization process.
Progesterone (P) plays an important role in seizure susceptibility in women with epilepsy. Preclinical and experimental studies suggest that P appears to interrupt epileptogenesis, which is a process whereby a normal brain becomes progressively susceptible to recurrent, unprovoked seizures due to precipitating risk factors. Progesterone has not been investigated widely for its potential disease-modifying activity in epileptogenic models. Recently, P has been shown to exert disease-modifying effects in the kindling model of epileptogenesis. However, the mechanisms underlying the protective effects of P against epileptogenesis remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of P-derived neurosteroids in the disease-modifying activity of P. It is hypothesized that 5-reductase converts P to allopregnanolone and related neurosteroids that retard epileptogenesis in the brain. To test this hypothesis, we utilized the mouse hippocampus kindling model of epileptogenesis and investigated the effect of finasteride, a 5-reductase and neurosteroid synthesis inhibitor. Progesterone markedly retarded the development of epileptogenesis and inhibited the rate of kindling acquisition to elicit stage 5 seizures. Pretreatment with finasteride led to complete inhibition of the P-induced retardation of the limbic epileptogenesis in mice. Finasteride did not significantly influence the acute seizure expression in fully kindled mice expressing stage 5 seizures. Thus, neurosteroids that potentiate phasic and tonic inhibition in the hippocampus, such as allopregnanolone, may mediate the disease-modifying effect of P, indicating a new role of neurosteroids in acquired limbic epileptogenesis and temporal lobe epilepsy.
Neurostimulation as a treatment for epilepsy has been around for almost 20 years in the form of vagus nerve stimulation. Newer types of neurostimulation are being developed and stand on the brink of approval for use. The two newest therapies, not yet approved in the United States, are deep brain stimulation and the Responsive Neurostimulator System . In fact, in Europe, approval has already been given for deep brain stimulation and newer forms of vagus nerve stimulation. Efficacy is similar between these therapies, and side effects are moderate, so what will be the future? The challenge will be to learn how to use these therapies correctly and offer the right treatment for the right patient.
There is a substantial body of evidence that spontaneous recurrent seizures occur in a subset of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), especially the familial forms that have an early onset. In transgenic mice that simulate these genetic forms of AD, seizures or reduced seizure threshold have also been reported. Mechanisms underlying the seizures or reduced seizure threshold in these mice are not yet clear and are likely to be complex, because the synthesis of amyloid  (A) involves many peptides and proteases that influence excitability. Based on transgenic mouse models of AD where A and its precursor are elevated, it has been suggested that seizures are caused by the downregulation of the Nav1.1 sodium channel in a subset of GABAergic interneurons, leading to a reduction in GABAergic inhibition. Another mechanism of hyperexcitability appears to involve tau, because deletion of tau reduces seizures in some of the same transgenic mouse models of AD. Therefore, altered excitability may be as much a characteristic of AD as plaques and tangles-especially for the familial forms of AD.
To study the risk of developing unprovoked seizures among patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), we used 1885 new onset seizure cases, 15,080 controls and defined exposure as a hospital discharge diagnosis of MS or SLE. The odds ratio with 95% confidence interval was 3.7 (CI 1.2-11.0) for MS and 8.0 (2.2-30.0) for SLE, suggesting an increased risk of unprovoked seizures in patients with both these diagnoses.
The greater reliability of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) over non-randomised studies to objectively assess efficacy and/or safety of new therapeutic interventions is one of the main paradigms which sustains the evidence-based decision process in clinical practice. This assumption is primarily based on the hypothesis that randomisation, and particularly blinding procedure, drastically reduces the potential bias related to the preferences of patients and physicians. However, from non-randomised studies to double-blind, placebo-controlled RCTs, the preferences of patients and physicians can impact the evaluation of treatment effectiveness. Both internal validity and external validity of RCTs are impacted by various biases related to patient and physician preferences. Thus, influence of patient and physician expectations on trial outcomes might be much less trivial than expected, both in open-label and double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised trials. Accordingly, it might be interesting to systematically collect information about patient preferences before randomisation, using dedicated questionnaires, in order to be able to evaluate the impact of non-preferred allocation on trial results.
In order to understand the physiopathology of epilepsies and develop antiepileptic drugs, animal models have been developed. These models appear to be valuable predictors of treatment efficacy; however, several of the currently used models remain questionable and probably inappropriate for the search for new treatments, in particular for epilepsies that cannot be treated by current antiepileptic drugs. In the present review, we report the results of a recent survey conducted by neurologists in charge of an epilepsy programme based at different hospitals in France. The 36 experts were questioned, via the internet, on the most critical features of four prototypic forms of epilepsy (idiopathic generalised epilepsies with convulsive seizures, absence epilepsy, focal epilepsy associated with dysplasia, and focal epilepsy associated with hippocampal sclerosis) that should be taken into account with regards to the relevance of animal models of epilepsy. Their answers suggest that most current models for focal epilepsies associated with either dysplasia or hippocampal sclerosis do not address the most relevant features. The models currently used in mice and rats are discussed in light of the data obtained in our survey.
Limbic encephalitis with LGI1 antibodies may cause drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy. We report a case of a young man with progressive drug-resistant focal epilepsy, hyperhidrosis, and memory impairment associated with a left mesial temporal lesion. Epilepsy surgery was performed with the provisional diagnosis of cortical dysplasia or tumour. A neuropathological study following amygdalohippocampectomy revealed limbic encephalitis and LGI1 antibodies were identified in the serum. Two and a half years after surgery, the patient remains seizure-free without medication, with normal memory and without hyperhidrosis. Although immunosuppression is the first-line therapy for autoimmune limbic encephalitis, this case suggests that, in selected cases, a lasting response can be achieved with surgery.
To examine prospectively the stability, changes, and incidence in DSM-IV-related anxiety symptom clusters in a community sample of adolescents. On two occasions, 1year apart, 946 Norwegian adolescents aged 13-16years completed the SCARED, a 41-item multidimensional anxiety self-report scale that measures the levels of five principal DSM-IV-related anxiety symptom clusters. Seventy-three percent of the adolescents participated in the study at baseline, and only 7% were lost to follow-up. Both sexes in all age cohorts, except girls aged 14-15years, showed the same 1-year developmental pattern of stable scores, or small reductions in the total anxiety score, for all DSM-IV-related anxiety symptom clusters. Adolescents defined as &quot;high anxiety scorers&quot; showed a girl:boy ratio of 4:1. Whereas approximately half these students remained high scorers at the 1-year follow-up, the same proportion returned to normal anxiety levels. The 1-year incidence of high-level anxiety was 8.2% for the whole sample, 12.6% for the girls and 3.4% for the boys. These results underscore the need for improved identification of adolescents in the general population with stable high anxiety levels, as opposed to those with transient high anxiety. The normative findings of this study also provide reference data with which to evaluate individual changes in clinical practice and the results of efficacy trials, including 1-year follow-up evaluations.

Neural network activity regulates the development of hippocampal newborn granule cells (GCs). Excitatory GABAergic input is known to be a key player in this regulation. Although calcium signaling is thought to be a downstream mediator of GABA, GABA-induced calcium signaling in newborn GCs is not well understood. We investigated Ca(2+) signaling and its regulatory role in axon and dendrite outgrowth in newborn GCs identified in the organotypic slice culture of early postnatal rat hippocampus. Here, we report that hippocampal network activity can induce calcium transients (CaTs) in newborn GCs during the first post-mitotic week via GABAergic inputs. The GABA-induced CaTs were mediated mainly by L-type Ca(2+) channels. Furthermore, we found that inhibiting any step in the signaling pathway, network activity  GABA  L-type Ca(2+) channels, selectively suppressed the axonal outgrowth and pruning of newborn GCs, but not dendritic outgrowth. The GABA(A) receptor blocker bicuculline significantly suppressed axonal outgrowth, despite increasing network activity, thus indicating an essential role of GABAergic inputs. Therefore, we conclude that network activity-dependent GABAergic inputs open L-type Ca(2+) channels and promote axonal outgrowth in newborn GC during the first post-mitotic week.
The hypothesis of communication through coherence proposes that coherent or synchronous oscillations in connected neural systems can promote communication. It has been applied mainly to how oscillations interact in connected networks. We tested by simulations whether information transmission about an external stimulus from one network to a second network is influenced by gamma oscillations, by whether the oscillations are coherent, and by their phase. Gamma oscillations were induced by increasing the relative conductance of AMPA to NMDA excitatory synapses. It was found that small associative connection strengths between the networks were sufficient to produce information transmission (measured by Shannon mutual information) such that the second attractor network took the correct decision based on the state of the first network. Although gamma oscillations were present in both networks, the synaptic connections sufficient for perfect information transmission about the stimulus presented to the network (100% correct, 1 bit of information) were insufficiently strong to produce coherence, or phase-locking, between the two networks; this only occurred when the synaptic strengths between the networks were increased by &gt; 10 . Further, the phase of the oscillations between the networks did not influence the information transmission or its speed at these connection strengths. Moreover, information transmission was as good when the AMPA-to-NMDA ratio was reduced to its normal value, and oscillations were not present. Similar results were found when the second network was not an attractor decision-making network. Thus information transmission can occur before synapses have been made sufficiently strong to produce coherence.
Long-term dopamine replacement therapy with l-DOPA in Parkinson's disease often leads to the development of abnormal involuntary movements known as l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Growing evidence suggests that, following dopamine cell loss, serotonin neurons acting as surrogates for dopaminergic processes take up l-DOPA, convert it to dopamine and release it in an unregulated fashion that precipitates dyskinesia. Although most studies have focused on serotonin 5-HT(1) receptor stimulation as an antidyskinetic strategy, targeting the serotonin transporter modulation of dopamine activity has been overlooked. Therefore, in the current study, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors were tested for their ability to reduce l-DOPA- and apomorphine-induced dyskinesia. In Experiments 1 and 2, hemi-parkinsonian rats were primed with l-DOPA until stable dyskinesia developed. Rats in Experiment 1 were administered the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors paroxetine, citalopram or fluoxetine, followed by l-DOPA. Abnormal involuntary movements and forepaw adjusting steps were recorded to determine the effects of these compounds on dyskinesia and motor performance, respectively. Brains were collected on the final test day, after which striatal and raphe monoamines were examined via high-performance liquid chromatography. In Experiment 2, dyskinesias were measured after selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and apomorphine. Serotonin reuptake inhibitors dose-dependently attenuated l-DOPA- but not apomorphine-induced dyskinesia, and preserved l-DOPA efficacy. Neurochemically, serotonin transporter inhibition enhanced striatal and raphe serotonin levels and reduced its turnover, indicating a potential mechanism of action. The present results support targeting serotonin transporters to improve Parkinson's disease treatment and provide further evidence for the role of the serotonin system in l-DOPA's effects.
During slow-wave sleep, the neocortex shows complex, self-organized spontaneous activity. Similar slow-wave oscillations are present under anesthesia where massive, persistent network activity (UP states) alternates with periods of generalized neural silence (DOWN states). To investigate the neuronal activity patterns occurring during UP states, we recorded simultaneously from populations of cells in neocortical layer V of ketamine/xylazine-anesthetized rats. UP states formed a diverse class. In particular, simultaneous-onset UP states were typically accompanied by sharp field potentials and 10-14 Hz modulation, and were often grouped in a 3 Hz ('delta') pattern. Longer, slow-onset UP states did not exhibit 10-14 Hz modulation, and showed a slow propagation across recording electrodes ('traveling waves'). Despite this diversity, the temporal patterns of spiking activity were similar across different UP state types. Analysis of cross-correlograms revealed conserved temporal relationships among neurons, with each neuron having specific timing during UP states. As a group, putative interneurons were most active at the beginning of UP states and putative pyramidal cells were active uniformly throughout the duration of UP states. These results show that UP states under ketamine anesthesia have a stable, fine-structured firing pattern despite a large variability in global structure.
Cranial radiotherapy in the treatment of pediatric malignancies may lead to cognitive deficits, and girls suffer more severe deficits than boys. However, most experimental studies are performed on male animals only. Our aim was to investigate possible long-term gender differences in response to cranial irradiation (IR). Basal neurogenesis in non-irradiated mice was higher in females but this was not apparent until the animals were adult. Male and female C57BL/6J mice received a single dose of 8 Gy to the whole brain on postnatal day 14 and were killed 6 h or 4 months later. Proliferation in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus, as judged by the number of phosphohistone H3-positive cells, was reduced by half 6 h after IR in both males and females. The reduced proliferation was still obvious 4 months after IR. Consequently, the continuous addition of new neurons to the granule cell layer (GCL) during brain growth was reduced in irradiated mice, and the reduction was more pronounced in females. This resulted in hampered growth of the GCL, reduced bromodeoxyuridine incorporation in adulthood, and severely reduced adult neurogenesis, as judged by the number of doublecortin-positive cells in the GCL. In an open-field test, locomotor activity was increased in both males and females after IR and anxiety levels were increased, more so in females. In an IntelliCage test, place learning was impaired by IR in females but not males.
Involvement of fronto-parietal structures within the right hemisphere in bodily self recognition has gained convergent support from behavioural, neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies. Increases in corticospinal excitability via transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) also testify to right hemisphere self-related processing. However, evidence for self-dependent modulations of motor excitability is limited to the processing of face-related information that, by definition, conveys someone's identity. Here we tested the hypothesis that vision of one's own hand, as compared with vision of somebody else's hand, would also engage specific self-hand processing in the right hemisphere. Healthy participants were submitted to a classic TMS paradigm to assess changes in corticospinal excitability of the right (Experiment 1) and left (Experiment 2) motor cortex, while viewing pictures of a (contralateral) still hand, which could either be their own (Self) or not (Other). As a control for body selectivity, subjects were also presented with pictures of a hand-related, but non-corporeal object, i.e. a mobile phone, which could similarly be their own or not. Results showed a selective right hemisphere increase in corticospinal excitability with self-hand and self-phone stimuli with respect to Other stimuli. Such a Self vs. Other modulation of primary motor cortex appeared at 600 ms and was maintained at 900 ms, but was not present at earlier timings (100 and 300 ms) and was completely absent following stimulation of the left hemisphere. A similar pattern observed for self-hand and self-phone stimuli suggests that owned hands and objects may undergo similar self-processing, possibly via a different cortical network from that responsible for self-face processing.
Dravet syndrome is a severe infantile-onset epilepsy syndrome with a distinctive but complex electroclinical presentation. A healthy, developmentally normal infant presents at around 6 months of age with convulsive status epilepticus, which may be hemiclonic or generalized; seizures may be triggered by fever, illness or vaccination. The infant typically has further episodes of status epilepticus every month or two, often triggered by fever. Other seizure types including focal dyscognitive seizures, absence and myoclonic seizures develop between 1 and 4 years. Atonic drop attacks and episodes of non-convulsive status may occur. Early development is normal but slows in the second year. Developmental regression may occur, particularly with status epilepticus. EEG studies are initially normal, but after 2 years they show generalized spike-wave and polyspike-wave activity with multifocal discharges. Photosensitivity may be seen. Imaging is normal or shows non-specific findings such as atrophy. Dravet syndrome is associated with mutations of the gene encoding the alpha-1 subunit of the sodium channel, SCN1A, in &gt;70% of patients. These include sequencing mutations and copy number variant anomalies; 90% of mutations arise de novo. PCDH19 mutational analysis is a second-tier test for girls with a Dravet-like picture who do not have SCN1A mutations. Outcome is poor, with intellectual disability in most patients and ongoing seizures. Intellectual impairment varies from severe in 50% patients, to moderate and mild intellectual disability each accounting for 25% cases. Rare patients have normal intellect. The long-term course involves ongoing, brief nocturnal convulsions and a characteristic deterioration in gait.
This review, addressed mainly to clinicians, considers commonly asked questions related to the neuroimaging, neurophysiology, neurochemistry and genetics of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). It provides answers based on the most recent meta-analyses and systematic reviews, as well as additional relevant original studies. Empirical findings from neurobiological research into ADHD reflect a shift in the conceptualisation of this disorder from simple theoretical views of a few isolated dysfunctions to more complex models integrating the heterogeneity of the clinical manifestations of ADHD. Thus, findings from structural and functional neuroimaging suggest the involvement of developmentally abnormal brain networks related to cognition, attention, emotion and sensorimotor functions. Brain functioning alterations are confirmed by neurophysiological findings, showing that individuals with ADHD have elevated theta/beta power ratios, and less pronounced responses and longer latencies of event-related potentials, compared with controls. At a molecular level, alterations in any single neurotransmitter system are unlikely to explain the complexity of ADHD; rather, the disorder has been linked to dysfunctions in several systems, including the dopaminergic, adrenergic, serotoninergic and cholinergic pathways. Genetic studies showing a heritability of 60-75% suggest that a plethora of genes, each one with a small but significant effect, interact with environmental factors to increase the susceptibility to ADHD. Currently, findings from neurobiological research do not have a direct application in daily clinical practice, but it is hoped that in the near future they will complement the diagnostic process and contribute to the long-term effective treatment of this impairing condition.








Paranoia is commonly a mood-incongruent psychotic symptom of mania which may be related to dopamine dysregulation. Progesterone and its metabolite allopregnanolone (ALLO) have been found in animals to antagonize the effects of dopamine. We therefore examined serum progesterone, its endogenous antagonist DHEAS and polymorphisms of the genes coding for certain steroidogenetic enzymes (AKR1C4, HSD3B2, and SRD5A1) in 64 males and 96 females with bipolar 1 or 2 disorder with or without paranoid ideation during mood elevation. Euthymic morning serum progesterone, DHEAS and cortisol concentrations were measured in males and in premenopausal women who were in follicular phase and not taking oral contraceptives. In women only, SNPs in AKR1C4 reduced the likelihood of having exhibited paranoid ideation by circa 60%. The haplotype of all 4 SNPs in the AKR1C4 gene reduced the risk of exhibiting paranoia by 80% (OR 0.19, 95% CI 0.06-0.61, p=0.05). A history of paranoid ideation was not, however, related to progesterone or DHEAS concentration. Serum DHEAS and progesterone concentrations were lower in men who had shown paranoid ideation during mania/hypomania compared with those who had not (F=7.30, p=0.006) however this was not coupled to polymorphisms in the selected genes. The ancestral G in rs4659174 in HSD3B2 was in men associated with a lower risk of paranoid ideation (likelihood ratio (2) 3.97, p=0.046, OR 0.31 (95% CI 0.10-0.96)) but did not correlate with hormone concentrations. Hence, gene variants in the steroidogenetic pathway and steroids concentration differences may be involved in the susceptibility to paranoia during mood elevation.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a chronic and complex psychiatric disorder with a lifetime prevalence of 2-3%. Recent work has shown that OCD rituals were not only characterized by a high rate of repetition but also by an increased behavioral repertoire due to additional non-functional unique acts. These two behavioral characteristics may provide an ethological basis for studying compulsive behavior in an animal model of OCD. Here, quinpirole induced behavior (so far only investigated in rats) has been studied in A/J and C57BL/6J mice by using behavioral pattern analysis. The aim of this study is to investigate whether genetic background is mediating this behavior. Results showed that open field motor activity levels of saline treated C57BL/6J mice was significantly higher compared to A/J treated saline mice. Long-term quinpirole treatment increased open field motor activity levels in A/J, but not in C57BL/6J. Quinpirole treatment induced a strain dependent difference in behavioral repertoire. There was a dose dependent increase in the number of different behavioral patterns in A/J, whereas, in C57BL/6J there was a dose dependent decrease. This data suggest that genetic background is important in expressing quinpirole induced compulsive like behavior. Following quinpirole treatment, A/J mice express a greater behavioral repertoire with a high rate of repetition. This phenotype resembles that of OCD rituals in patients and indicates that this strain is very interesting to further validate for studying neurobiological mechanisms of compulsive behavior.
The interhemispheric interactions between homologous wrist extensor and flexor muscles representations in the right and left primary cortex (M1) were studied using a paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation in healthy subjects. The magnitude of interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) was studied in 9 right-handed subjects at short (10ms, SIHI) and long (40ms, LIHI) interstimulus intervals between the magnetic conditioning (CS) and test stimulus in the motor dominant to non-dominant cortex and vice versa, while the right or left hand was at rest or performing a unimanual sustained tonic contraction (holding a pen with the hand contralateral to the CS). A bidirectional powerful interhemispheric inhibition could be elicited at the short and long IHI phases (SIHI and LIHI) in wrist extensor and flexor muscles in most of the subjects at rest. SIHI but not LIHI was significantly bidirectionally reduced during unimanual contraction of the hand contralateral to the CS stimulation in comparison with rest. The amount of IHI after the stimulation of the &quot;non-dominant&quot; right hemisphere was not reduced in comparison with IHI after stimulation of the &quot;dominant&quot; left hemisphere whatever the active or resting condition. IHI directed to the wrist muscles had a similar level than IHI directed to digit muscles (FDI) at rest. Our data indicate that contralateral wrist muscles activity evokes a global, bidirectional reduction in IHI which was more pronounced for SIHI. These results provide additional evidence that changes in interhemispheric interactions between the M1s are involved in the control of unimanual movements including suppression of unwanted motor activity in the opposite limb during unilateral movements.
Serine protease of the fibrinolytic system and their specific inhibitors, the serine protease inhibitors (SERPINs) are implicated in a number of physiological and pathological processes in skin. The main SERPIN is the plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (or PAI-1), which is involved in wound healing and in pathogenesis of several diseases including skin fibrosis. Another member of SERPIN superfamily, the neuroserpin (NSP), is widely expressed in the central nervous system. It has been recently detected in different organs such as pancreas, heart, kidney and testis. In this study, we provided evidences for the presence of NSP in the skin, in 10 human skin samples (HSS) at mRNA level (RT-PCR) and protein level (Western blot and immunohistochemistry). The immunohistochemistry analysis showed that this expression was located in dermis around blood vessels.
Consciousness has become a legitimate theme of neuroscientific discourse over the last two decades. Neuroscientific investigation seeking neural correlates of consciousness (NCC) has ranged from the neuronal level to the system level. Regarding system level studies, there is a large body of evidence supporting the idea that functional connectivity studies can help in examining NCC. Functional connectivity studies have suggested the involvement of the thalamo-cortical, frontoparietal, and other cortico-cortical connectivity under anesthetic-induced unconsciousness and in disorders of consciousness. Likewise, effective connectivity has been used to investigate the causal interactions among elements of functional connectivity in various consciousness states, and provided a deeper understanding of NCC. Moreover, as an extended version of connectivity studies, complex network methods have also been used for studies on NCC. In this review, we focused on the aspect of the brain system level of NCC including functional and effective connectivity networks from methodological perspectives. In addition, as for states of consciousness, anesthetic-induced unconsciousness and disorders of consciousness are the main subjects. This review discusses what we have learned from recent studies about the exploration of human brain connectivity on consciousness and its neural correlates.
Research in the area of stem cell biology and regenerative medicine, along with neuroscience, will further our understanding of drug-induced death of neurons during their development. With the development of an in vitro model of stem cell-derived human neural cell lines investigators can, under control conditions and during intense neuronal growth, examine molecular mechanisms of various drugs and conditions on early developmental neuroapoptosis in humans. If the use of this model will lead to fewer risks, or identification of drugs and anesthetics that are less likely to cause the death of neurons, this approach will be a major stride toward assuring the safety of drugs during the brain development. The ultimate goal would be not only to find the trigger for the catastrophic chain of events, but also to prevent neuronal cell death itself.
The granule cells (GCs) of the dentate gyrus transiently express markers of the GABAergic phenotype early during development. However, GCs are generated throughout life, posing the question of whether the newborn neurons in the adult rodent recapitulate the development of the neurotransmitter phenotype of GCs generated during embryonic and early postnatal development. In this work we asked whether newborn GCs transiently express a GABAergic phenotype during their development in the adult rat. Using retroviral infection, we labeled dividing cells in the dorsal hippocampus with GFP, identified them as granule cells, and determined their expression of GABAergic markers at different developmental stages. We found that GFP-positive cells express Prox-1 and calbindin, identifying them as GCs. GABA or GAD(67) was expressed in 13% of GFP-positive cells at 7 dpi, in 16% at 10 dpi and in 20% at 15 dpi. At 30 dpi, however, no GFP-positive cell somata containing GABAergic markers were detected, but their mossy fiber boutons did contain GAD(67). Interestingly, developing GCs detected with doublecortin and PSA-NCAM in non-injected adult rats, did not express GABAergic markers, suggesting that retroviral injection/infection stimulates their transient expression. However, in non-injected rats, a number of mossy fiber boutons of newborn granule cells detected with PSA-NCAM did express GAD(67). Our findings reveal that developing GCs born in the adult are able to transiently up-regulate the expression of GABAergic markers to be detected in their soma in response to insults, while they constitutively express GAD(67) in their mossy fibers.
Several pharmacological approaches to promote neural repair and recovery after CNS injury have been identified. Blockade of either astrocyte-derived chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) or oligodendrocyte-derived NogoReceptor (NgR1) ligands reduces extrinsic inhibition of axonal growth, though combined blockade of these distinct pathways has not been tested. The intrinsic growth potential of adult mammalian neurons can be promoted by several pathways, including pre-conditioning injury for dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and macrophage activation for retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Singly, pharmacological interventions have restricted efficacy without foreign cells, mechanical scaffolds or viral gene therapy. Here, we examined combinations of pharmacological approaches and assessed the degree of axonal regeneration. After mouse optic nerve crush injury, NgR1-/- neurons regenerate RGC axons as extensively as do zymosan-injected, macrophage-activated WT mice. Synergistic enhancement of regeneration is achieved by combining these interventions in zymosan-injected NgR1-/- mice. In rats with a spinal dorsal column crush injury, a preconditioning peripheral sciatic nerve axotomy, or NgR1(310)ecto-Fc decoy protein treatment or ChondroitinaseABC (ChABC) treatment independently support similar degrees of regeneration by ascending primary afferent fibers into the vicinity of the injury site. Treatment with two of these three interventions does not significantly enhance the degree of axonal regeneration. In contrast, triple therapy combining NgR1 decoy, ChABC and preconditioning, allows axons to regenerate millimeters past the spinal cord injury site. The benefit of a pre-conditioning injury is most robust, but a peripheral nerve injury coincident with, or 3 days after, spinal cord injury also synergizes with NgR1 decoy and ChABC. Thus, maximal axonal regeneration and neural repair are achieved by combining independently effective pharmacological approaches.
Complement proteins C1q and C3 play a critical role in synaptic elimination during development. Axotomy of spinal motoneurons triggers removal of synaptic terminals from the cell surface of motoneurons by largely unknown mechanisms. We therefore hypothesized that the complement system is involved also in synaptic stripping of injured motoneurons. In the sciatic motor pool of wild type (WT) mice, the immunoreactivity (IR) for both C1q and C3 was increased after sciatic nerve transection (SNT). Mice deficient in C3 (C3(-/-)) showed a reduced loss of synaptic terminals from injured motoneurons at one week after SNT, as assessed by immunoreactivity for synaptic markers and electron microscopy. In particular, the removal of putative inhibitory terminals, immunopositive for vesicular inhibitory amino acid transporter (VIAAT) and ultrastructurally identified as type F synapses, was reduced in C3(-/-) mice. In contrast, lesion-induced removal of nerve terminals in C1q(-/-) mice appeared similar to WT mice. Growth associated protein (GAP)-43 mRNA expression in lesioned motoneurons increased much more in C3(-/-) compared to WT mice after SNT. After sciatic nerve crush (SNC), the C3(-/-) mice showed a faster functional recovery, assessed as grip strength, compared to WT mice. No differences were detected regarding nerve inflammation at the site of injury or pattern of muscle reinnervation. These data indicate that a non-classical pathway of complement activation is involved in axotomy-induced adult synapse removal, and that its inhibition promotes functional recovery.



In recent years it has become clear that the neuronal compartment already plays an important role early in the pathology of multiple sclerosis (MS). Neuronal injury in the course of chronic neuroinflammation is a key factor in determining long-term disability in patients. Viewing MS as both inflammatory and neurodegenerative has major implications for therapy, with CNS protection and repair needed in addition to controlling inflammation. Here, the authors' review recently elucidated molecular insights into inflammatory neuronal/axonal pathology in MS and discuss the resulting options regarding neuroprotective and regenerative treatment strategies.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is well-known for its cholinergic functions in the nervous system; however, this enzyme is also found in other tissues where its function is still not understood. AChE is synthesized through alternative splicing as splicing variants, with isoforms including read-through (AChE(R)), tailed (AChE(T)) and hydrophobic (AChE(H)). In human erythrocytes, AChE(H) is a glycophosphatidylinositol-linked dimer on the plasma membrane. Three N-linked glycosylation sites have been identified in the catalytic domain of human AChE. Here, we investigate the roles of glycosylation in assembly and trafficking of human AChE(H). In transfected fibroblasts, expression of AChE(H) was able to mimic the function of the dimeric form of AChE on the erythrocyte membrane. A glycan-depleted form was constructed by site-directed mutagenesis. By comparison with the wild-type AChE(H), the mutant had a much lower enzymatic activity and a much higher K(m) value. In addition, the mutant was dimerized in the endoplasmic reticulum, but was not trafficked to the Golgi apparatus. The results suggest that the glycosylation may affect AChE(H) enzymatic activity and trafficking, but not dimer formation. The present findings indicate the significance of N-glycosylation in controlling the biosynthesis of the AChE(H) dimer form.
Classical polyarteritis nodosa (cPAN) refers to a rare, potentially fatal systemic transmural necrotizing vasculitis that usually affects medium-sized, and occasionally small, muscular arteries, primarily involves the kidneys, gastrointestinal tract, skin, nervous system, joints, and muscles, and is rarely, if ever, expressed in the lungs. The incidence of mortality has significantly decreased with recently developed treatment modalities, in particular antiviral medications. Sudden death due to previously undiagnosed cPAN is rarely encountered. We report a case of a young man who had been evaluated on three occasions by medical personnel in the 3 weeks prior to his death. He had complained of nonspecific symptoms of abdominal and perineal/suprapubic pain, nausea, vomiting, sensation of chilling, and constipation. The spectrum of diagnoses included &quot;gastroenteritis,&quot; enteric infection, and prostatitis. Found agonal at home and dying despite immediate cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), he underwent a medicolegal autopsy, which revealed vasculitis of various organs, including heart (myocardium and epicardium) and extramural coronary arteries, liver, spleen, kidneys, adrenal glands, stomach and bowel, omentum, gallbladder, and pancreas. His sudden death was cardiac in nature due to PAN associated clinically with hepatitis B surface antigen positivity (hepatitis B virus-associated PAN [HBV-PAN]). A complete autopsy with thorough histopathological examination is necessary to diagnose this uncommon yet potentially fatal vasculitis.
At the beginning of the 19 (th) century German scholars wanted to differentiate men and women on the basis of anatomic brain or cerebrum particularities. With the help of scientific criteria such as the weight of the brain they aimed not only to prove pre-postulated intellectual differences, but also to find scientific justification for the inferiority of women in general and their inferior position and treatment in society. This paper presents insights into and excerpts from studies written by renowned scientists such as S. T. von Soemmerring, J. F. Ackermann, K. F. Burdach, F. Tiedemann, E. Huschke, H. Schaaffhausen, or P. J. Mbius. Covering the years from 1780 to 1900, these materials show how at the beginning the interest was primarily in comparative anatomic studies and results, but was soon mingled with sociological intentions. Hence this study gives insights into the history of modern gender studies of neurosciences.
Despite the technique of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) improved the development of modern cardiac surgery, many factors during CPB have been reported to induce acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The present study was to investigate which pro-inflammatory factors involved in the early phase of ARDS. Ten patients underwent valve replacement surgery with or without ARDS were enrolled for analysis of pulmonary function and inflammatory factors release including white blood cell (WBC), neutrophils, CD11b, CD18, interleukin (IL)-8 and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-). The results demonstrated that the ratio of arterial oxygen tension/fraction of inspire oxygen (PaO(2)/FiO(2)) was greatly reduced in ARDS patients, but only the release of TNF- was significantly increased, which was reversely correlated to the values of PaO(2)/FiO(2). Also, the count of neutrophils adhesive to pulmonary endothelial cells was significantly increased in ARDS patients. Therefore, we concluded that TNF- was quickly up-regulated and involved in the pathogenesis of CPB-induced ARDS via guiding primed neutrophils to pulmonary interstitium.
Tramadol is a potent analgesic. However, the analgesia efficacy of tramadol, particularly its minimum effective dose (MED), is not clear. The aim of this study is to find MED of tramadol for postoperative analgesia in infants. The continual reassessment method (CRM) was performed to find MED. Infants undergoing surgeries were included in the 3 phases of this series. In each phase, 24 participants were allocated a different tramadol dose. Pain intensity was measured by face, legs, activity, cry, consolability (FLACC) measurement at 3-hour intervals. Tramadol was considered ineffective if the FLACC score was higher than 4 in 10 at anytime. In phase 1, seven dose levels were used within the range 0.1-0.4 mgkg(-1)h(-1). Phase 1 was insufficient to identify the MED, and we increased the dose to 0.4-0.8 mgkg(-1)h(-1) in phase 2. Phase 2 was insufficient to identify the MED. In phase 3, local anesthetic wound infiltration was introduced, and the tramadol dose levels tested were the same as in phase 1. The successful analgesia probability of tramadol 0.4 mgkg(-1)h(-1) was 82.1% (95% CI, 0.742-0.925) in phase 1. In phase 2, it was 84.7% (95% CI, 0.789-0.991) with the dose 0.8 mgkg(-1)h(-1). Phase 1 and phase 2 were insufficient to identify the MED. In phase 3, the successful analgesia probability for dose 0.35 mgkg(-1)h(-1) was 96.7% (95% CI, 0.853-0.997).We have demonstrated that tramadol provides insufficient analgesia for surgeries considered to cause moderate-to-severe postoperative pain in infants if used as the sole analgesic, and that local anesthetic wound infiltration enhances the efficacy of tramadol.
Glutamate is the primary excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter in the CNS. The concentration of glutamate in the synaptic cleft is tightly controlled by interplay between glutamate release and glutamate clearance. Abnormal glutamate release and/or dysfunction of glutamate clearance can cause overstimulation of glutamate receptors and result in neuronal injury known as excitotoxicity. The glial glutamate transporter EAAT2 plays a major role in glutamate clearance. Dysfunction or reduced expression of EAAT2 has been documented in many neurodegenerative diseases. In addition, many studies in animal models of disease indicate that increased EAAT2 expression provides neuronal protection. Here, we summarize these studies and suggest that EAAT2 is a potential target for the prevention of excitotoxicity. EAAT2 can be upregulated by transcriptional or translational activation. We discuss current progress in the search for EAAT2 activators, which is a promising direction for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.

There is increasing evidence for vesicular release of glutamate from astrocytes. We have previously demonstrated existence of VGLUT1 on astrocytic synaptic-like microvesicles (SMLVs) in several brain regions indicating a role in astroglial glutamate release. As VGLUT3 is prominently expressed in non-neuronal cells, this prompted us to investigate whether VGLUT3 is also involved in astroglial release of glutamate. Confocal microscopic investigations revealed that astrocytes in the hippocampus and the frontal cortex, as well as Bergmann glia in the cerebellum were labeled for VGLUT3. Immunogold cytochemistry showed that VGLUT3 gold particles were located over SMLVs in perisynaptic astrocytic and Bergmann glial processes. The specificity of the VGLUT3 immunoreactivity was demonstrated by abolished VGLUT3 labeling in astroglia in VGLUT3 knock-out mice. Double immunogold labeling showed that astrocytic processes contained labeling for VGLUT3 and VGLUT1, but the antibodies labeled separate subpopulations of vesicles in the processes. The ratio of gold particle densities between glial processes and nerve terminals were higher for VGLUT3 than for VGLUT1, suggesting that VGLUT3 is particularly abundant in astrocytic processes. Thus, our data show that VGLUT3 localizes to a distinct set of SMLVs in perisynaptic astroglial processes and suggest that VGLUT3 is important for glutamate release from astrocytes.

The aim of this review is to bring the phenomenological sense of place approach together with current results from neuroscience. We searched in neuroscientific literature for ten dimensions which were beforehand identified to be important in a phenomenological sense of place/place identity model: behaviour, body, emotion, attention, perception, memory, orientation, spirituality, meaning/value and culture/sociality. Neuroscience has identified many neurobiological correlates of phenomenological observations concerning sense of place. The human brain comprises specific and specialised structures and processes to perceive, memorise, link, assess and use spatial information. Specific parts (hippocampus, entorhinal, parahippocampal and parietal cortex), subregions (parahippocampal place area, lingual landmark area), and cells (place cells, grid cells, border cells, head direction cells) have been identified, their specific function could be understood and their interaction traced. Neuroscience has provided evidence that place constitutes a distinct dimension in neuronal processing. This reinforces the phenomenological argumentation of human geography and environmental psychology.


Tissue oxygenation in general and hypoxia in particular are important regulators of retinal physiology and pathophysiology. Reduced oxygen tension and hypoxia-inducible transcription factors along with some of their target genes are critically involved in retinal development, and especially in the generation of a normal retinal vasculature. Well-timed hypoxia is thus vital for the young eye to establish proper retinal function and vision. However, when hypoxia is ill-timed, reduced oxygen tension may be associated with the development of retinal pathologies, including retinopathy of prematurity, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration, or high altitude retinopathy. Here, reduced oxygen tension activates a hypoxic response that culminates in an increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor. This causes pathological neovascularization of the delicate neuronal retina, a process that may ultimately lead to loss of vision. In contrast, preconditioning by well-defined and controlled short-term hypoxia is not devastating for the retina but instead induces a molecular response that provides protection to neuronal cells. Detailed investigation of hypoxic mechanisms during development and adulthood may thus reveal factors, which may be targeted by therapeutic approaches to save and preserve vision in patients.

The postrhinal (POR) cortex of the rat is homologous to the parahippocampal cortex of the primate based on connections and other criteria. POR provides the major visual and visuospatial input to the hippocampal formation, both directly to CA1 and indirectly through connections with the medial entorhinal cortex. Although the cortical and hippocampal connections of the POR cortex are well described, the physiology of POR neurons has not been studied. Here, we examined the electrical and morphological characteristics of layer 5 neurons from POR cortex of 14- to 16-day-old rats using an in vitro slice preparation. Neurons were subjectively classified as regular-spiking (RS), fast-spiking (FS), or low-threshold spiking (LTS) based on their electrophysiological properties and similarities with neurons in other regions of neocortex. Cells stained with biocytin included pyramidal cells and interneurons with bitufted or multipolar dendritic patterns. Similarity analysis using only physiological data yielded three clusters that corresponded to FS, LTS, and RS classes. The cluster corresponding to the FS class was composed entirely of multipolar nonpyramidal cells, and the cluster corresponding to the RS class was composed entirely of pyramidal cells. The third cluster, corresponding to the LTS class, was heterogeneous and included both multipolar and bitufted dendritic arbors as well as one pyramidal cell. We did not observe any intrinsically bursting pyramidal cells, which is similar to entorhinal cortex but unlike perirhinal cortex. We conclude that POR includes at least two major classes of neocortical inhibitory interneurons, but has a functionally restricted cohort of pyramidal cells.
The hippocampus is involved in segregating memories, an ability that utilizes the neural process of pattern separation and allows for cognitive flexibility. We evaluated a proposed role for adult hippocampal neurogenesis in cognitive flexibility using variants of the active place avoidance task and two independent methods of ablating adult-born neurons, focal X-irradiation of the hippocampus, and genetic ablation of glial fibrillary acidic protein positive neural progenitor cells, in mice. We found that ablation of adult neurogenesis did not impair the ability to learn the initial location of a shock zone. However, when conflict was introduced by switching the location of the shock zone to the opposite side of the room, irradiated and transgenic mice entered the new shock zone location significantly more than their respective controls. This impairment was associated with increased upregulation of the immediate early gene Arc in the dorsal dentate gyrus, suggesting a role for adult neurogenesis in modulating network excitability and/or synaptic plasticity. Additional experiments revealed that irradiated mice were also impaired in learning to avoid a rotating shock zone when it was added to an initially learned stationary shock zone, but were unimpaired in learning the identical simultaneous task variant if it was their initial experience with place avoidance. Impaired avoidance could not be attributed to a deficit in extinction or an inability to learn a new shock zone location in a different environment. Together these results demonstrate that adult neurogenesis contributes to cognitive flexibility when it requires changing a learned response to a stimulus-evoked memory.
An important feature of the human defense system comprises fear learning, which stress hormones can crucially modulate. However, stress hormones might influence men and women differently, in part because of interactions with sex hormones. In women, distinct stages of the menstrual cycle or the intake of oral contraceptives (OC) affect sex hormone levels. In this study, we used a differential fear conditioning paradigm with electrical stimulation as unconditioned stimulus (UCS) following one neutral stimulus (conditioned stimulus, CS+), but not another (CS-).To investigate implicit fear learning, participants were distracted from detecting the contingencies between CS and UCS. To address interaction effects of sex and stress hormones, 32 men, 30 women in the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle (FO), 30 women in the luteal phase (LU), and 30 OC women received either 30 mg cortisol or a placebo. In the contrast CS+ minus CS-, an interaction between cortisol administration and sex hormone status emerged in the anterior parahippocampal gyrus and the hippocampus. Cortisol reduced fear learning in men, FO, and LU women, but enhanced it in OC women. Additionally, cortisol attenuated differential amygdala activation in the entire group. These results demonstrate that OC usage substantially modifies cortisol effects on emotional learning in women, particularly in memory-related medial temporal lobe regions. Further, a high dose of cortisol reduces amygdala differentiation pointing to a lowered learning ability of the defense system under high cortisol concentrations, irrespective of current sex hormone availability.
Oxytocin (80 ng) induces yawning when injected into the caudal part of the ventral tegmental area, the hippocampal ventral subiculum and the posteromedial nucleus of the amygdala of male rats. The behavioural response occurred concomitantly with an increase in the concentration of extracellular dopamine and its main metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the dialysate obtained from the shell of the nucleus accumbens and of the prelimbic medial prefrontal cortex by means of intracerebral microdialysis. Both oxytocin responses were significantly reduced by d(CH)Tyr(Me)-Orn-vasotocin, a selective oxytocin receptor antagonist, injected in the above brain areas 15 min before oxytocin. Similar results were obtained by activating central oxytocinergic neurons originating in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and projecting to the ventral tegmental area, the hippocampus and the amygdala, with the dopamine agonist apomorphine given at a dose that induces yawning when injected into the paraventricular nucleus. Since oxytocin is considered a key regulator of emotional and social reward that enhances amygdala-dependent, socially reinforced learning and emotional empathy, mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine neurons play a key role in motivation and reward, and yawning in mammals is considered a primitive, unconscious form of empathy, the present results support the hypothesis that oxytocinergic neurons originating in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and projecting to the above brain areas and mesolimbic and mesocortical dopaminergic neurons participate in the complex neural circuits that play a role in the above mentioned functions.
Endogenous estrogens have bidirectional effects on learning and memory, enhancing or impairing cognition depending on many variables, including the task and the memory systems that are engaged. Moderate increases in estradiol enhance hippocampus-sensitive place learning, yet impair response learning that taps dorsal striatal function. This memory modulation likely occurs via activation of estrogen receptors, resulting in altered neural function. Supplements containing estrogenic compounds from plants are widely consumed despite limited information about their effects on brain function, including learning and memory. Phytoestrogens can enter the brain and signal through estrogen receptors to affect cognition. Enhancements in spatial memory and impairments in executive function have been found following treatment with soy phytoestrogens, but no tests of actions on striatum-sensitive tasks have been made to date. The present study compared the effects of acute exposure to the isoflavone genistein with the effects of estradiol on performance in place and response learning tasks. Long-Evans rats were ovariectomized, treated with 17-estradiol benzoate, genistein-containing sucrose pellets, or vehicle (oil or plain sucrose pellets) for 2 days prior to behavioral training. Compared to vehicle controls, estradiol treatment enhanced place learning at a low (4.5 g/kg) but not high dose (45 g/kg), indicating an inverted pattern of spatial memory facilitation. Treatment with 4.4 mg of genistein over 2 days also significantly enhanced place learning over vehicle controls. For the response task, treatment with estradiol impaired learning at both low and high doses; likewise, genistein treatment impaired response learning compared to rats receiving vehicle. Overall, genistein was found to mimic estradiol-induced shifts in place and response learning, facilitating hippocampus-sensitive learning and slowing striatum-sensitive learning. These results suggest signaling through estrogen receptor  and membrane-associated estrogen receptors in learning enhancements and impairments given the preferential binding of genistein to the ER subtype and affinity for GPER.
Linear dominance hierarchies organize and maintain stability in female rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta) social groups regardless of group size. As a consequence of their low social status, subordinate females suffer from an array of adverse outcomes including reproductive compromise, impaired immune function, and poor cardiovascular health. However, data that differentiate limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (LHPA) parameters between dominant from subordinate female monkeys are inconsistent, bringing into question whether social subordination alters the LHPA axis in female macaques. One difficulty in examining LHPA function in macaques may be the confounding effects of cycling ovarian steroids that are known to modulate LHPA activity. The current study used ovariectomized dominant and subordinate female rhesus monkeys to examine the effect that social subordination has on LHPA function by measuring morning and diurnal serum cortisol levels, dexamethasone (Dex) suppression of cortisol, metabolic clearance of Dex, and ACTH stimulation of adrenal cortisol release and cortisol response following exposure to acute social isolation. Compared to dominant females, subordinate females showed diminished morning peak cortisol secretion, weakened glucocorticoid negative feedback, and decreased adrenal cortisol response to an ACTH challenge as well as a restrained cortisol response following social isolation. However, the metabolism of Dex did not account for differences in Dex suppression between dominant and subordinate females. These results indicate that the ability to mount and limit glucocorticoid release is significantly reduced by psychosocial stress in female rhesus macaques, suggesting a hyporesponsive LHPA phenotype which resembles that observed in several human psychopathologies.
Disruptions in the social environment, such as social isolation, are distressing and can induce various behavioral and neural changes in the distressed animal. We conducted a series of experiments to test the hypothesis that long-term social isolation affects brain plasticity and alters behavior in the highly social prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster). In Experiment 1, adult female prairie voles were injected with a cell division marker, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU), and then same-sex pair-housed (control) or single-housed (isolation) for 6 weeks. Social isolation reduced cell proliferation, survival, and neuronal differentiation and altered cell death in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and the amygdala. In addition, social isolation reduced cell proliferation in the medial preoptic area and cell survival in the ventromedial hypothalamus. These data suggest that long-term social isolation affects distinct stages of adult neurogenesis in specific limbic brain regions. In Experiment 2, isolated females displayed higher levels of anxiety-like behaviors in both the open field and elevated plus maze tests and higher levels of depression-like behavior in the forced swim test than controls. Further, isolated females showed a higher level of affiliative behavior than controls, but the two groups did not differ in social recognition memory. Together, our data suggest that social isolation not only impairs cell proliferation, survival, and neuronal differentiation in limbic brain areas, but also alters anxiety-like, depression-like, and affiliative behaviors in adult female prairie voles. These data warrant further investigation of a possible link between altered neurogenesis within the limbic system and behavioral changes.
This study addresses how visual food cues are encoded in reward related brain areas and whether this encoding might provide information to differentiate between patients suffering from eating disorders [binge-eating disorder (BED) and bulimia nervosa (BN)], overweight controls (C-OW), and normal-weight controls (C-NW). Participants passively viewed pictures of food stimuli and neutral stimuli in a cue reactivity design. Two classification analyses were conducted. First, we used multivariate pattern recognition techniques to decode the category of a currently viewed picture from local brain activity patterns. In the second analysis, we applied an ensemble classifier to predict the clinical status of subjects (BED, BN, C-OW, and C-NW) based on food-related brain response patterns. The left insular cortex separated between food and neutral contents in all four groups. Patterns in the right insular cortex provided a maximum diagnostic accuracy for the separation of BED patients and C-NW (86% accuracy, P &lt; 10(-5) , 82% sensitivity, and 90% specificity) as well as BN patients and C-NW (78% accuracy, P = 0.001, 86% sensitivity, and 70% specificity). The right ventral striatum separated maximally between BED patients and C-OW (71% accuracy, P = 0.013, 59% sensitivity, and 82% specificity). The right lateral orbitofrontal cortex separated maximally between BN patients and C-OW (86% accuracy, P &lt; 10(-4) , 79% sensitivity, and 94% specificity). The best differential diagnostic separation between BED and BN patients was obtained in the left ventral striatum (84% accuracy, P &lt; 10(-3) , 82% sensitivity, and 86% specificity). Our results indicate that pattern recognition techniques are able to contribute to a reliable differential diagnosis of BN and BED.

Aberrant sensitivity of incentive neurocircuitry to nondrug rewards has been suggested as either a risk factor for or consequence of drug addiction. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we tested whether alcohol-dependent patients (ADP: n = 29) showed altered recruitment of ventral striatal (VS) incentive neurocircuitry compared to controls (n = 23) by: (1) cues to respond for monetary rewards, (2) post-response anticipation of rewards, or (3) delivery of rewards. Using an instrumental task with two-stage presentation of reward-predictive information, subjects saw cues signaling opportunities to win $0, $1, or $10 for responding to a target. Following this response, subjects were notified whether their success would be indicated by a lexical notification (Hit?) or by delivery of a monetary reward (Win?). After a variable interval, subjects then viewed the trial outcome. We found no significant group differences in voxelwise activation by task contrasts, or in signal change extracted from VS. Both ADP and controls showed significant VS and other limbic recruitment by pre-response reward anticipation. In addition, controls also showed VS recruitment by post-response reward-anticipation, and ADP had appreciable subthreshold VS activation. Both groups also showed similar mesolimbic responses to reward deliveries. Across all subjects, a questionnaire measure of hot impulsivity correlated with VS recruitment by post-response anticipation of low rewards and with VS recruitment by delivery of low rewards. These findings indicate that incentive-motivational processing of nondrug rewards is substantially maintained in recovering alcoholics, and that reward-elicited VS recruitment correlates more with individual differences in trait impulsivity irrespective of addiction.
Trans-synaptic degeneration could exacerbate neurodegeneration in multiple sclerosis (MS). We aimed to assess whether anterograde trans-synaptic degeneration could be identified in the primary visual pathway in vivo. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was used to assess the optic radiations in 15 patients with previous optic nerve inflammation and 9 healthy volunteers. A probabilistic atlas of the optic radiations was created from healthy diffusion tractography data. Lengthwise profiles for DTI parameters (axial [(||) ], radial [() ] and mean diffusivity [MD], fractional anisotropy [FA] and the angle of deviation of the principal eigenvector []) were analyzed for patients and controls. Patients also underwent multifocal visual evoked potential (mfVEP) assessments to characterize the latency and amplitude of cortical potentials. Correlations were performed between mfVEP latency and amplitude in the left and right visual hemi-fields and DTI parameters in the contra-lateral optic radiations. Patients displayed a significant decrease in (||) within the body of both optic radiations, which significantly correlated with loss of mfVEP amplitude. Abnormal () and FA were detected bilaterally throughout the optic radiations in patients but the abnormality was not associated with amplitude reduction or latency prolongation of the mfVEP. An abnormal  value was observed in the left optic radiations of patients, and the  value in the body of the optic radiations also correlated with mfVEP amplitude loss. The assocation between bilateral DTI abnormalities within the optic radiations and loss of afferent electrical activity could indicate anterograde trans-synaptic degeneration occurs following optic neuritis.
In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the progressive loss of motor neurons is accompanied by extensive muscle denervation, resulting in paralysis and ultimately death. Upregulation of amyloid beta (A4) precursor protein (APP) in muscle fibres coincides with symptom onset in both sporadic ALS patients and the SOD1(G93A) mouse model of familial ALS. We have further characterized this response in SOD1(G93A) mice and also revealed elevated levels of -amyloid (A) peptides in the SOD1(G93A) spinal cord, which were predominantly localized within motor neurons and their surrounding glial cells. We therefore examined the effect of genetic ablation of APP on disease progression in SOD1(G93A) mice, which significantly improved multiple disease parameters, including innervation, motor function, muscle contractile characteristics, motor unit and motor neuron survival. These results therefore strongly suggest that APP actively contributes to SOD1(G93A)-mediated pathology. Together with observations from ALS cases, this study indicates that APP may contribute to human ALS pathology.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are a group of inherited diseases that affect synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction and result in fatiguable muscle weakness. A subgroup of CMS patients have a recessively inherited limb-girdle pattern of weakness caused by mutations in DOK7. DOK7 encodes DOK7, an adaptor protein that is expressed in the skeletal muscle and heart and that is essential for the development and maintenance of the neuromuscular junction. We have screened the DOK7 gene for mutations by polymerase chain reaction amplification and bi-directional sequencing of exonic and promoter regions and performed acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering assays and used exon trapping to determine the pathogenicity of detected variants. Approximately 18% of genetically diagnosed CMSs in the UK have mutations in DOK7, with mutations in this gene identified in more than 60 kinships to date. Thirty-four different pathogenic mutations were identified as well as 27 variants likely to be non-pathogenic. An exon 7 frameshift duplication c.1124_1127dupTGCC is commonly found in at least one allele. We analyse the effect of the common frameshift c.1124_1127dupTGCC and show that 10/11 suspected missense mutations have a deleterious effect on AChR clustering. We identify for the first time homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations that are localized 5' to exon 7. In addition, three silent variants in the N-terminal half of DOK7 are predicted to alter the splicing of the DOK7 RNA transcript. The DOK7 gene is highly polymorphic, and within these many variants, we define a spectrum of mutations that can underlie DOK7 CMS that will inform in managing this disorder.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder with a substantial heritable component. In pedigrees affected by its familial form, incomplete penetrance is often observed. We hypothesized that this could be caused by a complex inheritance of risk variants in multiple genes. Therefore, we screened 111 familial ALS (FALS) patients from 97 families, and large cohorts of sporadic ALS (SALS) patients and control subjects for mutations in TAR DNA-binding protein (TARDBP), fused in sarcoma/translated in liposarcoma (FUS/TLS), superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1), angiogenin (ANG) and chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9orf72). Mutations were identified in 48% of FALS families, 8% of SALS patients and 0.5% of control subjects. In five of the FALS families, we identified multiple mutations in ALS-associated genes. We detected FUS/TLS and TARDBP mutations in combination with ANG mutations, and C9orf72 repeat expansions with TARDBP, SOD1 and FUS/TLS mutations. Statistical analysis demonstrated that the presence of multiple mutations in FALS is in excess of what is to be expected by chance (P = 1.57  10(-7)). The most compelling evidence for an oligogenic basis was found in individuals with a p.N352S mutation in TARDBP, detected in five FALS families and three apparently SALS patients. Genealogical and haplotype analyses revealed that these individuals shared a common ancestor. We obtained DNA of 14 patients with this TARDBP mutation, 50% of whom had an additional mutation (ANG, C9orf72 or homozygous TARDBP). Hereby, we provide evidence for an oligogenic aetiology of ALS. This may have important implications for the interpretation of whole exome/genome experiments designed to identify new ALS-associated genes and for genetic counselling, especially of unaffected family members.
In Huntington's disease (HD), the mutant huntingtin (mhtt) protein is associated with striatal dysfunction and degeneration. Excitotoxicity and early synaptic defects are attributed, in part, to altered NMDA receptor (NMDAR) trafficking and function. Deleterious extrasynaptic NMDAR localization and signalling are increased early in yeast artificial chromosome mice expressing full-length mhtt with 128 polyglutamine repeats (YAC128 mice). NMDAR trafficking at the plasma membrane is regulated by dephosphorylation of the NMDAR subunit GluN2B tyrosine 1472 (Y1472) residue by STriatal-Enriched protein tyrosine Phosphatase (STEP). NMDAR function is also regulated by calpain cleavage of the GluN2B C-terminus. Activation of both STEP and calpain is calcium-dependent, and disruption of calcium homeostasis occurs early in the HD striatum. Here, we show increased calpain cleavage of GluN2B at both synaptic and extrasynaptic sites, and elevated extrasynaptic total GluN2B expression in the YAC128 striatum. Calpain inhibition significantly reduced extrasynaptic GluN2B expression in the YAC128 but not wild-type striatum. Furthermore, calpain inhibition reduced whole-cell NMDAR current and the surface/internal GluN2B ratio in co-cultured striatal neurons, without affecting synaptic GluN2B localization. Synaptic STEP activity was also significantly higher in the YAC128 striatum, correlating with decreased GluN2B Y1472 phosphorylation. A substrate-trapping STEP protein (TAT-STEP C-S) significantly increased VGLUT1-GluN2B colocalization, as well as increasing synaptic GluN2B expression and Y1472 phosphorylation. Moreover, combined calpain inhibition and STEP inactivation reduced extrasynaptic, while increasing synaptic GluN2B expression in the YAC128 striatum. These results indicate that increased STEP and calpain activation contribute to altered NMDAR localization in an HD mouse model, suggesting new therapeutic targets for HD.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the commonest adult onset motor neuron disease, with a peak age of onset in the seventh decade. With advances in genetic technology, there is an enormous increase in the volume of genetic data produced, and a corresponding need for storage, analysis, and interpretation, particularly as our understanding of the relationships between genotype and phenotype mature. Here, we present a system to enable this in the form of the ALS Online Database (ALSoD at http://alsod.iop.kcl.ac.uk), a freely available database that has been transformed from a single gene storage facility recording mutations in the SOD1 gene to a multigene ALS bioinformatics repository and analytical instrument combining genotype, phenotype, and geographical information with associated analysis tools. These include a comparison tool to evaluate genes side by side or jointly with user configurable features, a pathogenicity prediction tool using a combination of computational approaches to distinguish variants with nonfunctional characteristics from disease-associated mutations with more dangerous consequences, and a credibility tool to enable ALS researchers to objectively assess the evidence for gene causation in ALS. Furthermore, integration of external tools, systems for feedback, annotation by users, and two-way links to collaborators hosting complementary databases further enhance the functionality of ALSoD.
The inherited cerebellar ataxias are a diverse group of clinically and genetically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorders. Inheritance patterns of these disorders can be complex with autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, X-linked, and mitochondrial inheritance demonstrated by one or more ataxic syndromes. The broad range of mutation types found in inherited ataxia contributes to the complex genetic etiology of these disorders. The majority of inherited ataxias are caused by repeat expansions; however, conventional mutations are important causes of the rarer dominant and recessive ataxias. Advances in sequencing technology have allowed for much broader testing of these rare ataxia genes. This is relevant to the aims of the Human Variome Project, which aims to collate and store gene variation data through mutation databases. Variant data is currently located in a range of public and commercial resources. Few locus-specific databases have been created to catalogue variation in the dominant ataxia genes although there are several databases for some recessive genes. Developing these resources will facilitate a better understanding of the complex genotype-phenotype relationships in these disorders and assist interpretation of gene variants as testing for rarer ataxia genes becomes commonplace.
Accurately detecting hidden clinical or behavioral states from sequential measurements is an emerging topic in neuroscience and medicine, which may dramatically impact neural prosthetics, brain-computer interface and drug delivery. For example, early detection of an epileptic seizure from sequential electroencephalographic (EEG) measurements would allow timely administration of anticonvulsant drugs or neurostimulation, thus reducing physical impairment and risks of overtreatment. We develop a Bayesian paradigm for state transition detection that combines optimal control and Markov processes. We define a hidden Markov model of the state evolution and develop a detection policy that minimizes a loss function of both probability of false positives and accuracy (i.e., lag between estimated and actual transition time). Our strategy automatically adapts to each newly acquired measurement based on the state evolution model and the relative loss for false positives and accuracy, thus resulting in a time varying threshold policy. The paradigm was used in two applications: 1) detection of movement onset (behavioral state) from subthalamic single unit recordings in Parkinson's disease patients performing a motor task; 2) early detection of an approaching seizure (clinical state) from multichannel intracranial EEG recordings in rodents treated with pentylenetetrazol chemoconvulsant. Our paradigm performs significantly better than chance and improves over widely used detection algorithms.
Gene translation is a central process in all living organisms. Developing a better understanding of this complex process may have ramifications to almost every biomedical discipline. Recently, Reuveni et al. proposed a new computational model of this process called the ribosome flow model (RFM). In this study, we show that the dynamical behavior of the RFM is relatively simple. There exists a unique equilibrium point e and every trajectory converges to e. Furthermore, convergence is monotone in the sense that the distance to e can never increase. This qualitative behavior is maintained for any feasible set of parameter values, suggesting that the RFM is highly robust. Our analysis is based on a contraction principle and the theory of monotone dynamical systems. These analysis tools may prove useful in studying other properties of the RFM as well as additional intracellular biological processes.


There are reports of de novo development or exacerbation of obsessive-compulsive symptoms in patients with schizophrenia treated with atypical antipsychotics, although this is widely debated. We report one such case where a patient with a primary diagnosis of schizophrenia, treated with olanzapine, developed de novo obsessive-compulsive disorder, with convincing evidence for its causality due to the drug.




The aim of the present clinical positron emission tomography study was to examine if the 5-HTT is a common target, both for tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Serotonin transporter (5-HTT) occupancy was estimated during treatment with TCA, SSRI and mirtazapine in 20 patients in remission from depression. The patients were recruited from out-patient units and deemed as responders to antidepressive treatment. The radioligand [C]MADAM was used to determine the 5-HTT binding potential. The mean 5-HTT occupancy was 67% (range 28-86%). There was no significant difference in 5-HTT occupancy between TCA (n=5) and SSRI (n=14). 5-HTT affinity correlated with the recommended clinical dose. Mirtazapine did not occupy the serotonin transporter. The results support that TCAs and SSRIs have a shared mechanism of action by inhibition of 5-HTT.



The subventricular zone (SVZ) and the hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ) comprise two main germinal niches in the adult mammalian brain. Within these regions there are self-renewing and multipotent neural stem cells (NSCs) which can ultimately give rise to new neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Understanding how to efficiently trigger NSCs differentiation is crucial to devise new cellular therapies aimed to repair the damaged brain. A large amount of data ranging from epigenetic alterations, chromatin remodelling and signalling pathways involved in NSCs differentiation are now within reach. Furthermore, a vast array of proteins and molecules have been described to modulate NSCs fate and tested in innovative therapeutic applications, however with little success so far. Nowadays, the main focus is on how to manipulate these factors to our full advantage. Unfortunately, concerns related to solubility, stability, concentration or spatial and temporal positioning can hinder their desirable effects. Biomaterials emerge as the ideal support to overcome these limitations and consequently boost NSCs differentiation towards desired phenotypes. However, the balance between biomaterials and differentiating factors must be well established, since the bioaccumulation and concomitant toxicity can be an undesired side-effect. Currently, innovative materials and formulations including more degradable carriers allow a controlled and efficient release of bioactive factors with minimal side-effects. Recently, micro- and nanoparticles have been successfully used to deliver molecules able to induce neurogenesis. This review presents recent research that highlights the role of both extracellular environmental factors as well as molecular remodelling mechanisms in the control of NSCs differentiation processes. Appropriate biomaterials that may trigger an efficient delivery of therapeutic molecules will be also discussed. Therefore, the interface between NSCs biology and tissue engineering may offer great potential in future therapeutics for treatment or amelioration of neurodegenerative diseases or brain injury.
Freud lived in a time when technology was incapable of explaining the biological correlates of the mental processes he described in psychoanalytic theory. During the last two decades, advances in neuroimaging methods and neuroscience have provided new insights for understanding mind-brain collaboration. Neurobiological underpinnings of psychoanalytical concepts have been an area of interest in recent years. This paper will suggest a new hypothesis for neurobiology of repression. This hypothesis will be discussed with the help of our knowledge about neurobiological mechanisms underlying perception of the emotional significance of an event, memory formation of an emotionally arousing stimulus, role of prefrontal cortex in modulation of subcortical information, neural mechanisms of suppression and molecular mechanisms of memory erasure. We suggest that dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and especially its caudal part plays a major role for repression of childhood traumatic events. Possible molecular mechanism of memory erasure in repression is long term depression of glutamatergic neurotransmission between prefrontal cortex- thalamus- limbic system.
In this paper I argue that the recent tendency to elevate neuropsychology to the status of the one true scientific core of studies of people thinking, feeling, acting and perceiving is not best understood as a simple mereological fallacy, that is the fallacy of ascribing certain properties of wholes to their parts, in particular mental concepts to the material brain as a part of a person. In defending Svend Brinkmann's way of undermining the claims of neuroscience against the criticism offered by Gaeto and Cornejo of the cognitive task-brain as tool proposal, I argue that a person's brain is part of the body of that person, but that the body is not a part of a person. Hence the use of person-concepts to describe brain activity is not a mereological fallacy. Rather human bodies are sites for people. Material tools can be fashioned or found at such sites. It is a fallacy to present neuroscience as the core of psychology but it is the error of deriving an `ought' from an 'is' as identified by David Hume. Where to look for a positive guide to a philosophically respectable psychology, that is a study program that does justice to the phenomena of human thinking, feeling, acting and perceiving, without falling into logical and semantic traps. I show how to adapt Aristotle's schema for 'complete explanation' to this role.


Each year, more than 18 million adults in the United States receive manual therapies, at a total annual out-of-pocket cost of $3.9 billion. Although there is growing evidence supporting the efficacy of manual therapies, little is known about the mechanisms underlying these treatments. This lack of basic knowledge significantly limits the development of rational strategies for the use of these treatments and potentially hinders their acceptance by the wider scientific and health care communities. Many authors have hypothesized that manual therapies act by disrupting the pain-spasm-pain cycle, but relatively little experimental evidence has supported this hypothesis. The authors have tested this hypothesis and summarize their work on the biology of manual therapies.

This presentation stresses the uniqueness of both the therapist's and patient's personal experience in clinical work and relates this to the significance of The Red Book as Jung's personal odyssey and for me personally as an analyst. I consider The Red Book's enduring relevance alongside recent psychological theories, neuroscience and early mystical writings, and conclude with a clinical vignette of a patient's response to a piece of choral music and subsequent use of active imagination.
Neuroplasticity (also referred to as brain plasticity, cortical plasticity or cortical re-mapping) is the changing of neurons, organization of their networks, and their function via new experiences. The brain consists of nerve cells or neurons and glial cells which are interconnected, and learning may happen through changing of the strength of the connections between neurons, by adding or removing connections, or by adding new cells. &quot;Plasticity&quot; relates to learning by adding or removing connections, or adding cells. Contrary to the traditional belief of neurolocalizationism, which states that each region of brain is dedicated for a particular type of activity, neuroplasticity has struggled a long way and has created a safe niche in the neuroscientific hall of honor. Salute to the neuroplasticians for their efforts to revolutionize the doctrine of neurology for the better understanding of the remarkable powers of brain. This article is a brief attempt to fathom the mysterious and scientific ways of neuroplasticity.
The adaptive threat-detection advantage takes the form of a preferential orienting of attention to threatening scenes. In this study, we compared attention to social scenes in 15 high-functioning individuals with autism (ASD) and matched typically developing (TD) individuals. Eye-tracking was recorded while participants were presented with pairs of scenes, either emotional positive-neutral, emotional negative-neutral or neutral-neutral scenes. Early allocation of attention, the first image fixated in each pair, differed between groups: contrary to TD individuals who showed the typical threat-detection advantage towards negative images, the ASD group failed to show a bias toward threat-related scenes. Later processing of stimuli, indicated by the total fixation to the images during the 3-s presentation, was found unaffected in the ASD group. These results support the hypothesis of an early atypical allocation of attention towards natural social scenes in ASD, that is compensated in later stages of visual processing.
As more bacterial protein glycosylation systems are identified and characterized, a central question that arises is, what governs the prevalence of particular glycans associated with them? In addition, accumulating evidence shows that bacterial protein glycans can be subject to the phenomenon of microheterogeneity, in which variant glycan structures are found at specific attachment sites of a given glycoprotein. Although factors underlying microheterogeneity in reconstituted expression systems have been identified and modeled, those impacting natural systems largely remain enigmatic. On the basis of a sensitive and specific glycan serotyping system, microheterogeneity has been reported for the broad-spectrum, O-linked protein glycosylation system in species within the genus Neisseria. To elucidate the mechanisms involved, a genetic approach was used to identify a hypomorphic allele of pglA (encoding the PglA galactosyltransferase) as a significant contributor to simultaneous expression of multiple glycoforms. Moreover, this phenotype was mapped to a single amino acid polymorphism in PglA. Further analyses revealed that many pglA phase-off variants (containing out-of-frame configurations in simple nucleotide repeats within the open reading frame) were associated with disproportionally high levels of the N,N'-diacetylbacillosamine-Gal disaccharide glycoform generated by PglA. This phenotype is emblematic of nonstandard decoding involving programmed ribosomal frameshifting and/or programmed transcriptional realignment. Together, these findings provide new information regarding the mechanisms of neisserial protein glycan microheterogeneity and the anticipatory nature of contingency loci.
Intracranial aneurysms (IAs) linger as a potentially devastating clinical problem. Despite intense investigation, our understanding of the mechanisms leading to aneurysm development, progression and rupture remain incompletely defined. An accumulating body of evidence implicates inflammation as a critical contributor to aneurysm pathogenesis. Intracranial aneurysm formation and progression appear to result from endothelial dysfunction, a mounting inflammatory response, and vascular smooth muscle cell phenotypic modulation producing a pro-inflammatory phenotype. A later final common pathway appears to involve apoptosis of cellular constituents of the vessel wall. These changes result in degradation of the integrity of the vascular wall leading to aneurysmal dilation, progression and eventual rupture in certain aneurysms. Various aspects of the inflammatory response have been investigated as contributors to IA pathogenesis including leukocytes, complement, immunoglobulins, cytokines, and other humoral mediators. Furthermore, gene expression profiling of IA compared with control arteries has prominently featured differential expression of genes involved with immune response/inflammation. Preliminary data suggest that therapies targeting the inflammatory response may have efficacy in the future treatment of IA. Further investigation, however, is necessary to elucidate the precise role of inflammation in IA pathogenesis, which can be exploited to improve the prognosis of patients harboring IA.
The brain is highly susceptible to oxidative injury, and the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) has been shown to be affected by pathological conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease and traumatic brain injury. While this pathway has been investigated in the intact brain and in astrocytes, little is known about the PPP in neurons. The activity of the PPP was quantified in cultured cerebral cortical and cerebellar neurons after incubation in the presence of [2-(13)C]glucose or [3-(13)C]glucose. The activity of the PPP was several fold lower than glycolysis in both types of neurons. While metabolism of (13)C-labeled glucose via the PPP does not appear to contribute to the production of releasable lactate, it contributes to labeling of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates and related amino acids. Based on glutamate isotopomers, it was calculated that PPP activity accounts for ~6% of glucose metabolism in cortical neurons and ~4% in cerebellar neurons. This is the first demonstration that pyruvate generated from glucose via the PPP contributes to the synthesis of acetyl CoA for oxidation in the TCA cycle. Moreover, the fact that (13)C labeling from glucose is incorporated into glutamate proves that both the oxidative and the nonoxidative stages of the PPP are active in neurons.
Perfusion-diffusion (perfusion-weighted imaging (PWI)/diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI)) mismatch is used to identify penumbra in acute stroke. However, limitations in penumbra detection with mismatch are recognized, with a lack of consensus on thresholds, quantification and validation of mismatch. We determined perfusion and diffusion thresholds from final infarct in the clinically relevant spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone (SHRSP) rat and its normotensive control strain, Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and compared three methods for penumbra calculation. After permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) (WKY n=12, SHRSP n=15), diffusion-weighted (DWI) and perfusion-weighted (PWI) images were obtained for 4 hours post stroke and final infarct determined at 24 hours on T(2) scans. The PWI/DWI mismatch was calculated from volumetric assessment (perfusion deficit volume minus apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC)-defined lesion volume) or spatial assessment of mismatch area on each coronal slice. The ADC-derived lesion growth provided the third, retrospective measure of penumbra. At 1 hour after MCAO, volumetric mismatch detected smaller volumes of penumbra in both strains (SHRSP: 31  50 mm(3), WKY: 22  59 mm(3), mean  s.d.) compared with spatial assessment (SHRSP: 36  15 mm(3), WKY: 43  43 mm(3)) and ADC lesion expansion (SHRSP: 41  45 mm(3), WKY: 65  41 mm(3)), although these differences were not statistically significant. Spatial assessment appears most informative, using both diffusion and perfusion data, eliminating the influence of negative mismatch and allowing the anatomical location of penumbra to be assessed at given time points after stroke.
Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is used widely in clinical studies. However, the technique requires image reconstruction and the methods for correcting scattered radiation and absorption are not standardized among SPECT procedures. Therefore, quantitation of cerebral blood flow (CBF) may not be constant across SPECT models. The quantitative SPECT (QSPECT) software package has been developed for standardization of CBF. Using the QSPECT/dual-table autoradiographic (DTARG) method, CBF and cerebral vascular reactivity (CVR) at rest and after acetazolamide challenge can be evaluated using (123)I-iodoamphetamine in a single SPECT session. In this study, we examined the reproducibility of quantitative regional CBF and CVR in QSPECT/DTARG using different SPECT models at two facilities. The subjects were nine patients with chronic cerebral ischemic disease who underwent QSPECT/DTARG at both facilities with use of different -cameras and collimators. There were significant correlations for CBF at rest and after acetazolamide challenge measured at the two facilities. The consistency of the CBFs of the patients measured at the two facilities were good in all cases. Our results show that CBF measured by QSPECT/DTARG in the same patients is reproducible in different SPECT models. This indicates that standardized evaluation of CBF can be performed in large multicenter studies.



Humans are able to continuously monitor environmental situations and adjust their behavioral strategies to optimize performance. Here we investigate the behavioral and brain adjustments that occur when conflicting stimulus elements are, or are not, temporally predictable. ERPs were collected while manual response variants of the Stroop task were performed in which the SOAs between the relevant color and irrelevant word stimulus components were either randomly intermixed or held constant within each experimental run. Results indicated that the size of both the neural and behavioral effects of stimulus incongruency varied with the temporal arrangement of the stimulus components, such that the random-SOA arrangements produced the greatest incongruency effects at the earliest irrelevant first SOA (-200 msec) and the constant-SOA arrangements produced the greatest effects with simultaneous presentation. These differences in conflict processing were accompanied by rapid (150 msec) modulations of the sensory ERPs to the irrelevant distractor components when they occurred consistently first. These effects suggest that individuals are able to strategically allocate attention in time to mitigate the influence of a temporally predictable distractor. As these adjustments are instantiated by the participants without instruction, they reveal a form of rapid strategic learning for dealing with temporally predictable stimulus incongruency.

Malacostracan crustaceans and dicondylic insects possess large second-order olfactory neuropils called, respectively, hemiellipsoid bodies and mushroom bodies. Because these centers look very different in the two groups of arthropods, it has been debated whether these second-order sensory neuropils are homologous or whether they have evolved independently. Here we describe the results of neuroanatomical observations and experiments that resolve the neuronal organization of the hemiellipsoid body in the terrestrial Caribbean hermit crab, Coenobita clypeatus, and compare this organization with the mushroom body of an insect, the cockroach Periplaneta americana. Comparisons of the morphology, ultrastructure, and immunoreactivity of the hemiellipsoid body of C. clypeatus and the mushroom body of the cockroach P. americana reveal in both a layered motif provided by rectilinear arrangements of extrinsic and intrinsic neurons as well as a microglomerular organization. Furthermore, antibodies raised against DC0, the major catalytic subunit of protein kinase A, specifically label both the crustacean hemiellipsoid bodies and insect mushroom bodies. In crustaceans lacking eyestalks, where the entire brain is contained within the head, this antibody selectively labels hemiellipsoid bodies, the superior part of which approximates a mushroom body's calyx in having large numbers of microglomeruli. We propose that these multiple correspondences indicate homology of the crustacean hemiellipsoid body and insect mushroom body and discuss the implications of this with respect to the phylogenetic history of arthropods. We conclude that crustaceans, insects, and other groups of arthropods share an ancestral neuronal ground pattern that is specific to their second-order olfactory centers.
The basal ganglia, including the striatum, globus pallidus interna and externa (GPe), subthalamic nucleus (STN), and substantia nigra pars compacta, are conserved throughout vertebrate phylogeny and have been suggested to form a common vertebrate mechanism for action selection. In mammals, this circuitry is further elaborated by the presence of a dual-output nucleus, the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), and the presence of modulatory input from the cholinergic pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN). We sought to determine whether these additional components of the mammalian basal ganglia are also present in one of the phylogenetically oldest vertebrates, the lamprey. We show, by using immunohistochemistry, tract tracing, and whole-cell recordings, that homologs of the SNr and PPN are present in the lamprey. Thus the SNr receives direct projections from inwardly rectifying -aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic striatal neurons expressing substance P, but it is also influenced by indirect basal ganglia projections from the STN and potentially the GPe. Moreover, GABAergic SNr projection neurons are tonically active and project to the thalamus and brainstem motor areas. The homolog of the PPN contains both cholinergic and GABAergic neurons and is connected with all the nuclei of the basal ganglia, supporting its proposed role as part of an extended basal ganglia. A separate group of cholinergic neurons dorsal to the PPN corresponds to the descending mesencephalic locomotor region. Our results suggest that dual-output nuclei are part of the ancestral basal ganglia and that the PPN appears to have coevolved as part of a mechanism for action selection common to all vertebrates.
Electron microscopical observations of the hemiellipsoid bodies of the land hermit crab Coenobita clypeatus resolve microglomerular synaptic complexes that are comparable to those observed in the calyces of insect mushroom bodies and which characterize olfactory inputs onto intrinsic neurons. In an adult hermit crab, intrinsic neurons and one class of efferent neurons originate from neuronal somata of globuli cells covering the hemiellipsoid bodies. Counts of their nucleoli show that about 120,000 globuli cells supply each hemiellipsoid body in an adult hermit crab. This number is comparable to the number of globuli cells supplying mushroom bodies of certain insects, such as honey bees and cockroaches. Counts of axons in tracts leading from the olfactory lobes to the hemiellipsoid bodies resolve 20,000 afferent axons, however, an order of magnitude greater than known for any insect. These afferent axons provide numerous swollen varicosities, each presynaptic to many small profiles, and thus comparable to the microglomeruli that characterize insect mushroom body calyces. Also, common to mushroom bodies and hemiellipsoid bodies are arrangements of intrinsic neurons, afferent neurons containing dense core vesicles, and systems of serial synaptic complexes that relate to postsynaptic profiles of efferent neurons. Together, the ultrastructural organization of the hemiellipsoid bodies of C. clypeatus supports the proposition that this center may share a common origin with the insect mushroom body despite obvious divergent evolution of overall shape.
The general organization of neocortical connectivity in rhesus monkey is relatively well understood. However, mounting evidence points to an organizing principle that involves clustered synapses at the level of individual dendrites. Several synaptic plasticity studies have reported cooperative interaction between neighboring synapses on a given dendritic branch, which may potentially induce synapse clusters. Additionally, theoretical models have predicted that such cooperativity is advantageous, in that it greatly enhances a neuron's computational repertoire. However, largely because of the lack of sufficient morphologic data, the existence of clustered synapses in neurons on a global scale has never been established. The majority of excitatory synapses are found within dendritic spines. In this study, we demonstrate that spine clusters do exist on pyramidal neurons by analyzing the three-dimensional locations of 40,000 spines on 280 apical dendritic branches in layer III of the rhesus monkey prefrontal cortex. By using clustering algorithms and Monte Carlo simulations, we quantify the probability that the observed extent of clustering does not occur randomly. This provides a measure that tests for spine clustering on a global scale, whenever high-resolution morphologic data are available. Here we demonstrate that spine clusters occur significantly more frequently than expected by pure chance and that spine clustering is concentrated in apical terminal branches. These findings indicate that spine clustering is driven by systematic biological processes. We also found that mushroom-shaped and stubby spines are predominant in clusters on dendritic segments that display prolific clustering, independently supporting a causal link between spine morphology and synaptic clustering.
Catatonia is a common presentation to psychiatric services in developing countries. Medical causes of catatonia are common and are difficult to treat. A 20-year-old woman presented with an acute illness consisting of fever, delirium, perceptual abnormalities, and catatonic state. After trials with antiviral medications, benzodiazepines, and atypical antipsychotic medications, she was treated with 6 sessions of electroconvulsive therapy with complete recovery and no complications. Catatonia arising in the background of organic pathology can be treated on similar lines as in other psychiatric disorders. Electroconvulsive therapy can be a safe option that needs consideration in such cases after ruling out the contraindications.
This case report describes the successful response to electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in a patient with an unusual presentation of catatonia, whose onset occurred in the context of an extremely severe form of refractory obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). We correlated the clinical improvement in catatonic and OCD symptoms with specific changes in brain function as shown by regional cerebral blood flow scans, neurological soft signs examination, and neuropsychological testing. All assessments were conducted before and after the ECT course. The results strongly suggest that a right hemisphere dysfunction was the neural correlate of our patient's symptoms, and that ECT, by reverting this abnormality, may serve as an effective therapeutic approach for refractory catatonic OCD.

In mammals, parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTHrP, alias PTH-like hormone (Pthlh)) acts as a paracrine hormone that regulates the patterning of cartilage, bone, teeth, pancreas, and thymus. Beyond mammals, however, little is known about the molecular genetic mechanisms by which Pthlh regulates early development. To evaluate conserved pathways of craniofacial skeletogenesis, we isolated two Pthlh co-orthologs from the zebrafish (Danio rerio) and investigated their structural, phylogenetic, and syntenic relationships, expression, and function. Results showed that pthlh duplicates originated in the teleost genome duplication. Zebrafish pthlha and pthlhb were maternally expressed and showed overlapping and distinct zygotic expression patterns during skeletal development that mirrored mammalian expression domains. To explore the regulation of duplicated pthlh genes, we studied their expression patterns in mutants and found that both sox9a and sox9b are upstream of pthlha in arch and fin bud cartilages, but only sox9b is upstream of pthlha in the pancreas. Morpholino antisense knockdown showed that pthlha regulates both sox9a and sox9b in the pharyngeal arches but not in the brain or otic vesicles and that pthlhb does not regulate either sox9 gene, which is likely related to its highly degraded nuclear localization signal. Knockdown of pthlha but not pthlhb caused runx2b overexpression in craniofacial cartilages and premature bone mineralization. We conclude that in normal cartilage development, sox9 upregulates pthlh, which downregulates runx2, and that the duplicated nature of all three of these genes in zebrafish creates a network of regulation by different co-orthologs in different tissues.

Dopamine (DA) activates fictive crawling behavior in the medicinal leech. To identify the cellular mechanisms underlying this activation at the level of crawl-specific motoneuronal bursting, we targeted potential cAMP-dependent events that are often activated through DA(1)-like receptor signaling pathways. We found that isolated ganglia produced crawl-like motoneuron bursting after bath application of phosphodiesterase inhibitors (PDIs) that upregulated cAMP. This bursting persisted in salines in which calcium ions were replaced with equimolar cobalt or nickel, but was blocked by riluzole, an inhibitor of a persistent sodium current. PDI-induced bursting contained a number of patterned elements that were statistically similar to those observed during DA-induced fictive crawling, except that one motoneuron (CV) exhibited bursting during the contraction rather than the elongation phase of crawling. Although DA and the PDIs produced similar bursting profiles, intracellular recordings from motoneurons revealed differences in altered membrane properties. For example, DA lowered motoneuron excitability whereas the PDIs increased resting discharge rates. We suggest that PDIs (and DA) activate a sodium-influx-dependent timing mechanism capable of setting the crawl rhythm and that multiple DA receptor subtypes are involved in shaping and modulating the phase relationships and membrane properties of cell-specific members of the crawl network to generate crawling.
In 2 experiments, relatively proficient Chinese-English bilinguals decided whether Chinese words were the correct translations of English words. Critical trials were those on which incorrect translations were related in lexical form or meaning to the correct translation. In Experiment 1, behavioral interference was revealed for both distractor types, but event-related potentials (ERPs) revealed a different time course for the 2 conditions. Semantic distractors elicited effects primarily on the N400 and late positive component (LPC), with a smaller N400 and a smaller LPC over the posterior scalp but a larger LPC over the anterior scalp relative to unrelated controls. In contrast, translation form distractors elicited a larger P200 and a larger LPC than did unrelated controls. To determine whether the translation form effects were enabled by the relatively long, 750-ms stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) between words, a 2nd ERP experiment was conducted using a shorter, 300-ms, SOA. The behavioral results revealed interference for both types of distractors, but the ERPs again revealed different loci for the 2 effects. Taken together, the data suggest that proficient bilinguals activate 1st-language translations of words in the 2nd language after they have accessed the meaning of those words. The implications of this pattern for claims about the nature of cross-language activation when bilinguals read in 1 or both languages are discussed.
A defining characteristic of visual working memory is its limited capacity. This means that it is crucial to maintain only the most relevant information in visual working memory. However, empirical research is mixed as to whether it is possible to selectively maintain a subset of the information previously encoded into visual working memory. Here we examined the ability of participants to use cues to either forget or remember a subset of the information already stored in visual working memory. In Experiment 1, participants were cued to either forget or remember 1 of 2 groups of colored squares during a change-detection task. We found that both types of cues aided performance in the visual working memory task but that observers benefited more from a cue to remember than a cue to forget a subset of the objects. In Experiment 2, we show that the previous findings, which indicated that directed-forgetting cues are ineffective, were likely due to the presence of invalid cues that appeared to cause observers to disregard such cues as unreliable. In Experiment 3, we recorded event-related potentials and show that an electrophysiological index of focused maintenance is elicited by cues that indicate which subset of information in visual working memory needs to be remembered, ruling out alternative explanations of the behavioral effects of retention-interval cues. The present findings demonstrate that observers can focus maintenance mechanisms on specific objects in visual working memory based on cues indicating future task relevance.
This article reports the determination of phenobarbital in the mummified body of a 56-year-old man found completely mummified 10 years after his death. When alive, he was being treated for epilepsy with phenobarbital, and the recent analyses, performed with both immunochemical techniques and gas chromatography with mass spectrometry (GC-MS), have revealed the presence of this substance in various tissues: the mean content of barbiturate in the mummified liver tissue was 93 g/g, 216 g/g in the heart, 17 g/g in the lungs, 12 g/g in muscles, and 31 g/g in the skin. Preliminary screening tests with immunochemical techniques to evaluate the presence of other drugs were also performed. The sample resulted negative for all substances tested. Phenobarbital can be identified and quantified thanks to its excellent chemical stability and a hypothesis of what the concentrations in the fresh tissue could have been has also been reported.
Judging the validity of a disputed will is complex; however, one of the main issues is what the mental status of the testator was at the time of the will. If the will is handwritten, a handwriting analysis can provide information on the mental status of the testator. We tested how two writing parameters (the &quot;writing score,&quot; a novel evaluation scale that we previously described, and the percentage of spelling mistakes) are capable to identify cognitively impaired persons. These parameters are especially helpful because they can be used to evaluate the mental status of a deceased person. We found a significant correlation between either parameter and established scales of neuropsychological evaluation (Mini Mental State Examination and Milan Overall Dementia Assessment scale). Specifically, a poor score on either parameter reliably identified a compromised cognitive status. These may represent helpful additions to existing techniques in posthumously identifying persons with severe cognitive impairment.


Theory of mind (ToM) involves thinking about mental states and intentions to understand what other people know and to predict how they will act. We studied ToM in children with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and age- and gender-matched children with orthopedic injuries (OI), using a new three-frame Jack and Jill cartoon task that measures intentional thinking separate from contingent task demands. In the key ToM trials, which required intentional thinking, Jack switched a black ball from one hat to another of a different color, but Jill did not witness the switch; in the otherwise identical non-ToM trials, the switch was witnessed. Overall accuracy was higher in children with OI than in those with TBI. Children with severe TBI showed a larger decline in accuracy on ToM trials, suggesting a specific deficit in ToM among children with severe TBI. Accuracy was significantly higher on trials following errors than on trials following correct responses, suggesting that all groups monitored performance and responded to errors with increased vigilance. TBI is associated with poorer intentional processing in school-age children and adolescents relative to peers with OI; furthermore, children with TBI are challenged specifically by intentional demands, especially when their injury is severe. (JINS, 2012, 19, 1-9).
Application of comparison theorem is used to examine the validitiy of the &quot;lumped parameter assumption&quot; in describing the behavior of solutions of the continuous cable equation U(t) = DU(xx)+f(U) with the discrete cable equation dV(n)/dt = d*(V(n+1) - 2V(n) + V(n-1)) + f(V(n)), where f is a nonlinear functional describing the internal diffusion of electrical potential in single neurons. While the discrete cable equation looks like a finite difference approximation of the continuous cable equation, solutions of the two reveal significantly different behavior which imply that the compartmental models (spiking neurons) are poor quantifiers of neurons, contrary to what is commonly accepted in computational neuroscience.


Stem cell-based regenerative medicine raises great hope for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS). Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) are being tested in clinical trials. Bone marrow is the traditional source of human MSCs, but human term placenta appears to be an excellent alternative because of its availability, without ethical issues. In this study, the therapeutic effect of human placental MSCs (PL-MSCs) was evaluated in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the mice model of MS. EAE mice were transplanted intra-cerebrally with PL-MSCs or with the vehicle saline 5 or 10 days after first MOG injection. The mice were monitored for a month after therapy. A daily EAE score revealed a decrease in disease severity in the transplanted animals when compared to saline. Survival was significantly higher in the transplanted animals. In vitro experiments demonstrated that conditioned media from LPS-activated astrocytes stimulated PL-MSCs to express the gene TNF--stimulated gene/protein 6 (TSG-6). The same mRNA expression was obtained when PL-MSCs were exposed to TNF- or IL1-. These results demonstrate that PL-MSCs have a therapeutic effect in the EAE mice model. We assume that this effect is caused by reduction of the anti-inflammatory protein, TSG-6, of the inflammatory damage.
Electromagnetic fields (EMFs) may affect the endogenous neural stem cells within the brain. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of EMFs on the process of toxin-induced demyelination and subsequent remyelination. Demyelination was induced using local injection of lysophosphatidylcholine within the corpus callosum of adult female Sprague-Dawley rats. EMFs (60 Hz; 0.7 mT) were applied for 2 h twice a day for 7, 14, or 28 days postlesion. BrdU labeling and immunostaining against nestin, myelin basic protein (MBP), and BrdU were used for assessing the amount of neural stem cells within the tissue, remyelination patterns, and tracing of proliferating cells, respectively. EMFs significantly reduced the extent of demyelinated area and increased the level of MBP staining within the lesion area on days 14 and 28 postlesion. EMFs also increased the number of BrdU- and nestin-positive cells within the area between SVZ and lesion as observed on days 7 and 14 postlesion. It seems that EMF potentiates proliferation and migration of neural stem cells and enhances the repair of myelin in the context of demyelinating conditions.
Monoamine reuptake inhibitors increase brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) activity, and this growth factor is regarded as an interesting target for developing new antidepressant drugs. The aims of this study were to evaluate whether monoaminergic reuptake inhibition increases BDNF in vivo and in vitro as predicted by the neurotrophic hypothesis of depression, and whether triple reuptake inhibition has a superior BDNF response compared to dual reuptake inhibition. Twenty-one days of oral treatment (30 mg/kg) with the dual serotonin/noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor duloxetine or the triple serotonin/noradrenaline/dopamine reuptake inhibitor DOV 216,303 restored BDNF protein levels in the rat hippocampus, which were initially decreased due to injection stress. The prefrontal cortex contained increased BDNF levels only after DOV 216,303 treatment. In vitro, neither duloxetine nor DOV 216,303 altered intracellular BDNF levels in murine HT22 neuronal cells. In contrast, BDNF release was more effectively decreased following treatment with DOV 216,303 in these cells. In rat C62B astrocytomas, both antidepressants increased intracellular BDNF levels at their highest nontoxic concentration. C62B astrocytomas did not release BDNF, even after antidepressant treatment. Increased BDNF levels support the neurotrophic hypothesis of depression, but our findings do not clearly evidence that the BDNF response after triple reuptake inhibitors is more effective than after dual reuptake inhibitors. Moreover, the data suggest that the role of BDNF in neurons and astrocytes is complex and likely depends on factors including specificity of cell types in different brain regions, cell-cell interactions, and different mechanisms of action of antidepressants used.
Recent studies show that morphine possesses protective preconditioning effects in different ischemia/reperfusion models. However, there is very little information about the antineuroinflammatory role of morphine and its protective effect against memory deficit. In the present study, we evaluated the role of morphine preconditioning in a model of mild neuroinflammation induced by intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection (1 mg/kg). Rats were trained on passive avoidance apparatus and challenged with LPS 20 h later. Four hours after LPS, rats were subjected to passive avoidance testing and then for the assessments of inflammatory and apoptotic cell death mediators in the hippocampus. LPS significantly increased the nuclear NF-B and expression of COX-2, IL-1, and TNF-, augmented the activity of caspase-3 and PARP cleavage, and in parallel shortened the latencies to enter the dark compartment. Although morphine injection in a noninflammatory context was able to induce a neuroinflammatory response and memory loss, morphine preconditioning at the dose of 4 mg/kg significantly prevented the LPS-induced neuroinflammation and memory deficit. Morphine preconditioning was abolished by naloxone and, therefore, is dependent on opioid receptors. These results suggest that acute morphine injection, in spite of the induction of a neuroinflammatory response and amnesia per se, exerts an antineuroinflammatory role and protects from cell death and memory deficit in an inflammatory context.
Cognitive models propose that auditory verbal hallucinations arise through inner speech misidentification. However, such models cannot explain why the voices in hallucinations often have identities different from the hearer. This study investigated whether a general voice identity recognition difficulty might be present in schizophrenia and related to auditory verbal hallucinations. Twenty-five schizophrenia patients and 13 healthy controls were tested on recognition of famous voices. Signal detection theory was used to calculate perceptual sensitivity and response criterion measures. Schizophrenia patients obtained fewer hits and had lower perceptual sensitivity to detect famous voices than healthy controls did. There were no differences between groups in false alarm rate or response criterion. A symptom-based analysis demonstrated that especially those patients with auditory verbal hallucinations performed poorly in the task. The results indicate that patients with hallucinations are impaired at voice identity recognition because of decreased sensitivity, which may result in inner speech misidentification.

Multiple extracellular factors have been implicated in orchestrating myelination of the CNS; however, less is known about the intracellular signaling cascades that regulate this process. We have previously shown that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) promotes oligodendrocyte myelination. Here, we screened for the activation of candidate signaling pathways in in vitro myelination assays and found that extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk) signaling positively correlated with basal levels of oligodendrocyte myelination as well as BDNF-induced myelination in vitro. By selectively manipulating Erk1/2 activation in oligodendrocytes in vitro, we found that constitutive activation of Erk1/2 significantly increased myelination, mimicking the promyelinating effect of BDNF, and also caused myelination to occur earlier. Conversely, selective inhibition of Erk1/2 in oligodendrocytes significantly reduced the basal level of myelination and blocked the promyelinating effect of BDNF. Analysis of myelinating spinal cord and corpus callosum white matter tracts revealed that the majority of mature oligodendrocytes are co-labeled with phospho-Erk1/2, whereas phospho-Erk1/2 was rarely observed in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Finally, the total level of phospho-Erk1/2 correlated with myelin formation during the early postnatal period. Collectively, these data identify that Erk1/2 signaling within oligodendrocytes exerts an important and direct effect to promote myelination.
The pre-Btzinger complex (pre-BtC) in the ventrolateral medulla oblongata is critical for the generation of respiratory rhythm in mammals. Somatostatin (SST) and neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1R) immunoreactivity have been used as markers of the pre-BtC. SST immunoreactivity almost completely overlaps with small fusiform NK1R-immunoreactive (ir) neurons, the presumed rhythmogenic neurons, but not with large multipolar NK1R-ir neurons. Understanding the neurochemical characteristics, especially the synaptic relationship of SST/NK1R-ir neurons within the pre-BtC network is essential in providing cellular and structural bases for understanding their physiological significance. This work has not been documented so far. We found that SST immunoreactivity was highly expressed in terminals, somas, and primary dendrites in the pre-BtC. Besides the small fusiform neurons, a small population of medium-sized NK1R-ir neurons also colocalized with SST. Large NK1R-ir neurons were not SST-ir, but received somatostatinergic inputs. SST-ir terminals were glutamatergic or GABAergic, and synapsed with NK1R-ir neurons. Most of synapses between them were of the symmetric type, indicating their inhibitory nature. Asymmetric synapses were evident between SST-ir terminals and NK1R-ir dendrites, strongly suggesting an excitatory innervation from the presumed rhythmogenic neurons as these neurons are glutamatergic. We speculate that SST-mediated excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission onto NK1R-ir rhythmogenic and follower neurons synchronizes their activity to contribute to respiratory rhythmogenesis and control.
Dual-specificity tyrosine(Y)-phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (Dyrk1A) is a protein kinase that might be responsible for mental retardation and early onset of Alzheimer's disease in Down's syndrome patients. Dyrk1A plays a role in many cellular pathways through phosphorylation of diverse substrate proteins; however, its role in synaptic vesicle exocytosis is poorly understood. Munc18-1, a central regulator of neurotransmitter release, interacts with Syntaxin 1 and X11. Syntaxin 1 is a key soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor protein involved in synaptic vesicle docking/fusion events, and X11 modulates amyloid precursor protein processing and  amyloid generation. In this study, we demonstrate that Dyrk1A interacts with and phosphorylates Munc18-1 at the Thr(479) residue. The phosphorylation of Munc18-1 at Thr(479) by Dyrk1A stimulated binding of Munc18-1 to Syntaxin 1 and X11. Furthermore, the levels of phospho-Thr(479) -Munc18-1 were enhanced in the brains of transgenic mice over-expressing Dyrk1A protein, providing in vivo evidence of Munc18-1 phosphorylation by Dyrk1A. These results reveal a link between Munc18-1 and Dyrk1A in synaptic vesicle trafficking and amyloid precursor protein processing, suggesting that up-regulated Dyrk1A in Down's syndrome and Alzheimer's disease brains may contribute to some pathological features, including synaptic dysfunction and cognitive defect through abnormal phosphorylation of Munc18-1.
Evidence indicates altered neurogenesis in neurodegenerative diseases associated with inflammation, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuroinflammation and its propagation have a critical role in the degeneration of hippocampal neurons, cognitive impairment, and altered neurogenesis. Particularly, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- plays a central role in initiating and regulating the cytokine cascade during an inflammatory response and is up-regulated in brain of AD patients. In this study, we investigated the effects of a novel thalidomide-based TNF- lowering drug, 3,6'-dithiothalidomide, on hippocampal progenitor cell proliferation, neurogenesis and, memory tasks after intracerebroventricular injection of -amyloid (A)(1-42) peptide. Seven days after A(1-42) injection, a significant proliferation of hippocampal progenitor cells and memory impairment were evident. Four weeks after A(1-42) peptide injection, elevated numbers of surviving 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine cells and newly formed neurons were detected. Treatment with 3,6'-dithiothalidomide attenuated these A(1-42) provoked effects. Our data indicate that although treatment with 3,6'-dithiothalidomide in part attenuated the increase in hippocampal neurogenesis caused by A(1-42) -induced neuroinflammation, the drug prevented memory deficits associated with increased numbers of activated microglial cells and inflammatory response. Therefore, 3,6'-dithiothalidomide treatment likely reduced neuronal tissue damage induced by neuroinflammation following A(1-42) injection. Understanding the modulation of neurogenesis, and its relationship with memory function could open new therapeutic interventions for AD and other neurodegenerative disorders with an inflammatory component.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. It is axonally transported, endocytosed and sorted to different cellular compartments where amyloid beta (A) is produced. However, the mechanism of APP trafficking remains unclear. We present evidence that huntingtin associated protein 1 (HAP1) may reduce A production by regulating APP trafficking to the non-amyloidogenic pathway. HAP1 and APP are highly colocalized in a number of brain regions, with similar distribution patterns in both mouse and human brains. They are associated with each other, the interacting site is the 371-599 of HAP1. APP is more retained in cis-Golgi, trans-Golgi complex, early endosome and ER-Golgi intermediate compartment in HAP1-/- neurons. HAP1 deletion significantly alters APP endocytosis and reduces the re-insertion of APP into the cytoplasmic membrane. Amyloid precursor protein-YFP(APP-YFP) vesicles in HAP1-/- neurons reveal a decreased trafficking rate and an increased number of motionless vesicles. Knock-down of HAP1 protein in cultured cortical neurons of Alzheimer's disease mouse model increases A levels. Our data suggest that HAP1 regulates APP subcellular trafficking to the non-amyloidogenic pathway and may negatively regulate A production in neurons.
Retinitis pigmentosa is a group of diseases in which one of hundreds of mutations causes death of rod photoreceptor cells and then cones gradually die from oxidative damage. As different mutations cause rod cell death by different mechanisms, mutation-specific treatments are needed. Another approach is to use a neurotrophic factor to promote photoreceptor survival regardless of the mechanism of cell death, and previous studies have demonstrated encouraging short-term results with gene transfer of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). We generated rd10 mice with doxycycline-inducible expression of GDNF in photoreceptors (Tet/IRBP/GDNF-rd10 mice) or retinal pigmented epithelial cells (Tet/VMD2/GDNF-rd10 mice). In doxycycline-treated Tet/IRBP/GDNF-rd10 mice, there was a 9.3  10(4) -fold increase in Gdnf mRNA at P35 and although it decreased over time, it was still increased by 9.4  10(3) -fold at P70. Gdnf mRNA was increased 4.5  10(2) -fold in doxycycline-treated Tet/VMD2/GDMF-rd10 mice at P35 and was not significantly decreased at P70. GDNF protein levels were increased about 2.3-fold at P35 and 30% at P70 in Tet/IRBP/GDNF-rd10 mice, and in Tet/VMD2/GDNF-rd10 mice they were increased 30% at P35 and not significantly increased at P70. Despite the difference in expression, Tet/IRBP/GDNF-rd10 and Tet/VMD2/GDNF-rd10 mice had comparable significant increases in outer nuclear layer thickness and mean photopic and scotopic ERG b-wave amplitudes compared with rd10 mice at P35 which decreased, but was still significant at P70. Compared with rd10 mice, Tet/IRBP/GDNF-rd10 and Tet/VMD2/GDNF-rd10 mice had comparable significant improvements in cone density at P50 that decreased, but were still significant at P70. These data indicate that despite a large difference in expression of GDNF, Tet/IRBP/GDNF-rd10 and Tet/VMD2/GDNF-rd10 provide comparable slowing of photoreceptor degeneration, but cannot stop the degeneration.
Cooling temperatures may modify action potential firing properties to alter sensory modalities. Herein, we investigated how cooling temperatures modify action potential firing properties in two groups of rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTXs) Na(+) channel-expressing neurons and tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTXr) Na(+) channel-expressing neurons. We found that multiple action potential firing in response to membrane depolarization was suppressed in TTXs neurons but maintained or facilitated in TTXr neurons at cooling temperatures. We showed that cooling temperatures strongly inhibited A-type K(+) currents (IA) and TTXs Na(+) channels but had fewer inhibitory effects on TTXr Na(+) channels and non-inactivating K(+) currents (IK). We demonstrated that the sensitivity of A-type K(+) channels and voltage-gated Na(+) channels to cooling temperatures and their interplay determine somatosensory neuron excitability at cooling temperatures. Our results provide a putative mechanism by which cooling temperatures modify different sensory modalities including pain.
Hibernation is an adaptation to overcome periods of resource limitation often associated with extreme climatic conditions. The hibernation season consists of prolonged bouts of torpor that are interrupted by brief interbout arousals. Physiological mechanisms regulating spontaneous arousals are poorly understood, but may be related to a need for gluconeogenesis or elimination of metabolic wastes. Glutamate is derived from glutamine through the glutamate-glutamine cycle and from glucose via the pyruvate carboxylase pathway when nitrogen balance favors formation of glutamine. This study tests the hypothesis that activation of NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDAR) maintains torpor in arctic ground squirrel (arctic ground squirrel (AGS); Urocitellus parryii). Administration of NMDAR antagonists MK-801 (5 mg/kg, i.p.) that crosses the blood-brain barrier and AP5 (5 mg/kg, i.p.) that does not cross the blood-brain barrier induced arousal in AGS. Central administration of MK-801 (0.2, 2, 20 or 200 g; icv) to hibernating AGS failed to induce arousal. Results suggest that activation of NMDAR at a peripheral or circumventricular site is necessary to maintain prolonged torpor and that a decrease in glutamate at these sites may contribute to spontaneous arousal in AGS.
While free radicals and inflammation constitute major routes of neuronal injury occurring in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), neither antioxidants nor non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have shown significant efficacy in human clinical trials. We examined the possibility that concurrent blockade of free radicals and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2))-mediated inflammation might constitute a safe and effective therapeutic approach to ALS. We have developed 2-hydroxy-5-[2-(4-trifluoromethylphenyl)-ethylaminobenzoic acid] (AAD-2004) as a derivative of aspirin. AAD-2004 completely removed free radicals at 50 nM as a potent spin-trapping molecule and inhibited microsomal PGE(2) synthase-1 (mPGES-1) activity in response to both lipopolysaccharide-treated BV2 cell with IC(50) of 230 nM and recombinant human mPGES-1 protein with IC(50) of 249 nM in vitro. In superoxide dismutase 1(G93A) transgenic mouse model of ALS, AAD-2004 blocked free radical production, PGE(2) formation, and microglial activation in the spinal cords. As a consequence, AAD-2004 reduced autophagosome formation, axonopathy, and motor neuron degeneration, improving motor function and increasing life span. In these assays, AAD-2004 was superior to riluzole or ibuprofen. Gastric bleeding was not induced by AAD-2004 even at a dose 400-fold higher than that required to obtain maximal therapeutic efficacy in superoxide dismutase 1(G93A). Targeting both mPGES-1-mediated PGE(2) and free radicals may be a promising approach to reduce neurodegeneration in ALS and possibly other neurodegenerative diseases.
We recently reported that female aromatase knockout (ArKO) mice show deficits in sexual behaviour and a decreased population of kisspeptin-immunoreactive neurones in the rostral periventricular area of the third ventricle (RP3V), resurrecting the question of whether oestradiol actively contributes to female-typical sexual differentiation. To further address this question, we assessed the capacity of ArKO mice to generate a steroid-induced luteinising hormone (LH) surge. Adult, gonadectomised wild-type (WT) and ArKO mice were given silastic oestradiol implants s.c. and, 1 week later, received s.c. injections of either oestradiol benzoate (EB) followed by progesterone, EB alone, or no additional steroids to activate gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurones and generate an LH surge. Treatment with EB and progesterone induced significant Fos/GnRH double-labelling and, consequently, an LH surge in female WT and in ArKO mice of both sexes but not in male WT mice. ArKO mice of both sexes had fewer cells expressing Kiss-1 mRNA in the RP3V compared to female WT mice but had more Kiss-1 mRNA-expressing cells compared to WT males, reflecting an incomplete sexual differentiation of this system. To determine the number of cells expressing kisspeptin, the same experimental design was repeated in Experiment 2 with the addition of groups of WT and ArKO mice that were given EB + progesterone and sacrificed 2 h before the expected LH surge. No differences were observed in the number of kisspeptin-immunoreactive cells 2 h before and at the time of the LH surge. The finding that ArKO mice of both sexes have a competent LH surge system suggests that oestradiol has predominantly defeminising actions on the GnRH/LH surge system in males and that the steroid-induced LH surge can occur in females even with a greatly reduced population of kisspeptin neurones in the RP3V.

Automated tracking methods facilitate screening for and characterization of abnormal locomotion or more complex behaviors in Drosophila. We developed the Iowa Fly Locomotion and Interaction Tracker (IowaFLI Tracker), a MATLAB-based video analysis system, to identify and track multiple flies in a small arena. We report altered motor activity in the K(+) and Na(+) channel mutants, Hk(1) and para(ts1), which had previously been shown to display abnormal larval locomotion. Environmental factors influencing individual behavior, such as available &quot;social space,&quot; were studied by using IowaFLI Tracker to simultaneously track multiple flies in the same arena. We found that crowding levels affect individual fly activity, with the total movement of individual flies attenuated around a particular density. This observation may have important implications in the design of activity chambers for studying particular kinds of social interactions. IowaFLI Tracker also directly quantifies social interactions by tracking the amount of time individuals are in proximity to one another-visualized as an &quot;interactogram.&quot; This feature enables the development of a &quot;target-preference&quot; assay to study male courtship behavior where males are presented with a choice between two immobilized, decapitated females, and their locomotion and interactions quantified. We used this assay to study the chemosensory mutants olf D (para(olfD), sbl(2)) and Gr32a and their preferences towards virgin or mated females. Male olf D flies showed reduced courtship levels, with no clear preference towards either, whereas Gr32a males preferentially courted with virgin females over mated females in this assay. These initial results demonstrate that IowaFLI Tracker can be employed to explore motor coordination and social interaction phenomena in behavioral mutants of Drosophila.
Abstract: This essay is dedicated to Obaid on the occasion of his 80th birthday. We both worked on the behavior of Drosophila and on what underlies behavior in the fly brain. Is that the fly's mind? The essay is about some limitations of brain science. It is just a little piece of writing. It is meant to honor Obaid for his contributions to Drosophila neurogenetics in 40 years and to science in India. I hope he takes it instead of a bowl of flowers-adding to the praise.
This article deals with the aims and achievements of intensive lecture and laboratory courses given in countries with very little money available for research in neurobiology.
Motor dysfunctions of Parkinson Disease (PD) are due to the progressive loss of midbrain nigrostriatal dopamine (NSDA) neurons. Evidence suggests a role for cannabinoid receptors in the neurodegeneration of these neurons following neurotoxicant-induced injury. This work evaluates NSDA neurons in CB1/CB2 knockout (KO) mice and tests the hypothesis that CB1/CB2 KO mice are more susceptible to neurotoxicant exposure. NSDA neuronal indices were assessed using unbiased stereological cell counting, high pressure liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection or mass spectrometry, and Western blot. Results reveal that CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptor signaling is not necessary for the maintenance of a normally functioning NSDA neuronal system. Mice lacking CB1 and CB2 receptors were found to be equally susceptible to the neurotoxicant 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6- tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). These studies support the use of CB1/CB2 KO mice for investigating the cannabinoid receptor-mediated regulation of the NSDA neuronal system in models of PD.
The risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in patients treated with natalizumab for multiple sclerosis (MS) is a serious concern. The presence of anti-JC virus antibodies is a risk factor for PML development, but 2.5 % of the patients result falsely-negative, while the prognostic relevance of testing JCV-DNA in biological fluids of treated patients is debated. Aim of this work was to evaluate the utility of testing JCV-DNA, together with anti-JCV antibodies, in biological samples of treated patients as a tool for PML risk stratification. 126 subjects from 5 MS Centers in Italy were included in the study. We performed a cross-sectional study in 63 patients testing JCV-DNA in blood, peripheral blood cells and urine. We longitudinally assessed the presence of JCV-DNA in a cohort of 33 subjects, one of which developed PML. We could test retrospectively serum samples from another PML case occurred during natalizumab therapy. Anti-JCV antibodies and urinary JCV-DNA were both tested in 73 patients. No changes in JCV-DNA status occurred during natalizumab treatment. The subject who developed PML in the longitudinal cohort had detectable JCV-DNA in urine at all time-points while serum or blood from both PML patients were always negative before the onset of disease and, in one case, after. Four subjects with JCV-DNA in urine and undetectable anti-JCV antibodies were retested for anti-JCV antibodies and three out of four resulted positive. In conclusion, testing JCV-DNA in urine is complementary to testing anti-JCV antibodies in identifying patients at risk of PML.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) induces a neurological disease culminating in frank dementia referred to as HIV-associated dementia (HAD). Neurotoxins from HIV-1-infected and activated mononuclear phagocytes contribute to the neuropathogenesis of HAD. Glutamate is the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) and functions through activation of multiple receptors. Excessive glutamate production by HIV-infected macrophages in HAD may contribute to neuronal injury. Our previous studies have suggested that mitochondrial glutaminase is responsible for the excessive production of glutamate. However, how HIV-1 infection regulates glutamate over-production remains unclear. In this study, we propose that HIV infection-induced oxidative stress contributes to mitochondrial glutaminase release, which results in the excessive production of glutamate and subsequent neuronal injury. We collected conditioned media from HIV-1 infected macrophages and analyzed glutamate concentration in the media by RP-HPLC, and found that the cyclosporine A (CsA), an inhibitor of HIV-1 replication and mitochondrial permeability transition pore, and N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a remover of reactive oxygen species (ROS), not only blocked the excessive glutamate production, but also decreased the glutamate-mediated neurotoxicity. In addition, HIV-infection-induced ROS generation was accompanied with the excessive glutamate production, suggesting that oxidative stress was involved in glutamate regulation. Using the isolated rat brain mitochondria as an ex vivo model and over-expressing GFP-glutaminase fusion protein in mammalian cells as a cell model, we confirm oxidative stress-mediated mitochondrial glutaminase release during HIV-1 infection contributes to glutamate over-production and the subsequent neurotoxicity. These results may provide insight into HAD pathogenesis and a therapeutic strategy for HAD treatment.
Researchers have recently demonstrated the presence of anti-HIV-1 microRNAs (miR-28, miR-125b, miR-150, miR-223, and miR-382) in monocytes, macrophages, and CD4+ T cells, which are the primary targets of HIV infection. These miRNAs appear to regulate the level of infectivity of HIV-1 in the target cells, and thus have an impact on HIV-1 latency. The levels of these miRNAs are significantly higher in resting CD4+ T cells than those in active CD4+ T cells, whereas HIV-1 infectivity is greater in active than in resting CD4+ T cells. Similarly, the levels of these miRNAs are significantly higher in monocytes than in macrophages, whereas HIV-1 infectivity is greater in macrophages than in monocytes. Down-regulation or inhibition of the activity of these miRNAs can promote replication of latent HIV-1 in resting CD4+ T cells and in monocytes. Recently, morphine was shown to down regulate the expression of anti-HIV miRNAs (miRNA-28, 125b, 150, and 382) in cultured human monocytes and this effect of morphine was mediated via activation of mu opioid receptors (MOR). In addition, levels of these anti-HIV miRNAs were significantly lower in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) isolated from heroin-dependent subjects than those from control subjects. These findings raise an important question: Does morphine have potential to activate latent HIV-1 in resting CD4+ T cells and macrophages, including microglia of human subjects maintained on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART)? Further research is required to answer this question.

Functional neurological disorders are common, disabling and often difficult to treat. There is little consensus on the best approach to management. Multidisciplinary inpatient approaches are employed in some centres for patients with severe refractory symptoms, but their efficacy and, in particular, long-term outcomes are uncertain. We conducted a study using questionnaires completed retrospectively by patients treated at a specialised multidisciplinary inpatient programme at the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery. Consecutive patients with functional motor symptoms admitted to this centre between 2006 and 2008 were invited to participate. Questionnaires were sent at least 2 years after discharge. We contacted 32 patients, and 26 responded. The majority had symptoms for at least 3 years prior to admission; 58 % of patients reported benefit from the programme on discharge. This self-reported benefit to symptoms and function was after a 2-year follow-up period in the majority of patients, but return to work or cessation of health-related financial benefits was uncommon even in those who improved. Seventy-four percent of those questioned stated they would recommend the programme to others with similar symptoms. Attribution of symptoms to stress or emotional state was correlated with favourable outcome. Our data suggest that multidisciplinary inpatient treatment for patients with refractory functional motor symptoms provides self-reported benefit in the long-term. Prospective analysis of such interventions and the determinants of benefit need assessment in order to improve the service and target treatment to patients most likely to benefit.

Huntingtons disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a triad of chorea, psychiatric disturbance and cognitive decline. Around 1% of patients with HD-like symptoms lack the causative HD expansion and are considered HD phenocopies. Genetic diseases that can present as HD phenocopies include HD-like syndromes such as HDL1, HDL2 and HDL4 (SCA17), some spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) and dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA). In this study we screened a cohort of 21 Greek patients with HD phenocopy syndromes formutations causing HDL2, SCA17, SCA1, SCA2, SCA3,SCA8, SCA12 and DRPLA. Fifteen patients (71%) had a positive family history. We identified one patient (4.8% of the total cohort) with an expansion of 81 combined CTA/CTG repeats at the SCA8 locus. This falls within what is believed to be the high-penetrance allele range. In addition to the classic HD triad, the patient had features of dystonia and oculomotor apraxia. There were no cases of HDL2, SCA17, SCA1, SCA2, SCA3, SCA12 or DRPLA. Given the controversy surrounding the SCA8 expansion, the present finding may be incidental. However, if pathogenic, it broadens the phenotype that may be associated with SCA8 expansions. The absence of any other mutations in our cohort is not surprising, given the low probability of reaching a genetic diagnosis in HD phenocopy patients.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a powerful tool for in vivo imaging investigations of human brain function. It provides non-invasive quantification of brain metabolism, receptor binding of various neurotransmitter systems, and alterations in regional blood flow. The use of PET in a clinical setting is still limited due to the high costs of cyclotrons and radiochemical laboratories. However, once these limitations can be bypassed, PET could aid clinical practice by providing a useful imaging technique for the diagnosis, the planning of treatment, and the prediction outcome in various neurological diseases.This review aims to explain the PET imaging technique and its applications in neurological disorders such as Parkinsons disease, Huntingtons disease, multiple sclerosis, and dementias.
Natalizumab has been shown to be effective in pivotal clinical trials in multiple sclerosis; however, the patients in whom treatment is indicated in clinical practice have a different clinical profile from those included in the clinical trials. The aim of this study is therefore to collect data on natalizumab use in everyday clinical practice in Spain. The 86 participating centers throughout Spain submitted data on disease characteristics at baseline and after treatment. Valid data were available for 1,364 patients (69.3% women, 86.9% with relapsingremitting disease).
Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is a mitochondrial disease characterized by retinal ganglion cell degeneration and optic nerve atrophy, leading to a loss of central vision. The aim of this study was to explore the topographical pattern of damage to the brain white matter (WM) tracts from patients with chronic LHON using diffusion tensor (DT) MRI and tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS). Brain dual-echo and DT MRI scans were acquired from 13 patients with chronic LHON and 25 matched controls using a 3.0 T scanner. TBSS analysis was performed using the FMRIB's Diffusion Toolbox. A complete neuro-ophthalmologic examination, including standardized automated Humphrey perimetry as well as average and temporal peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (PRNFL) measurements, was obtained in all patients. Mean average and temporal PRNFL thicknesses were decreased significantly in LHON patients. Compared to controls, TBSS analysis revealed significant diffusivity abnormalities in these patients, which were characterized by a decreased fractional anisotropy (FA) and an increased mean diffusivity and radial diffusivity, affecting exclusively the optic tracts and optic radiations (OR). In patients, a significant correlation was found between optic tract average FA and mean visual acuity (r = 0.57, p = 0.04). In LHON patients, DT MRI reveals a microstructural alteration of the WM along the entire visual pathways, with a sparing of the other main WM tracts of the brain. Damage to the OR may be secondary either to trans-synaptic degeneration, which in turn is due to neuroaxonal loss in the retina and optic nerve, or to local mitochondrial dysfunction.
Oliver Sacks, the well known neurologist and writer, published his fourth book, 'A Leg to Stand On', in 1984 following an earlier essay 'The Leg' in 1982. The book described his recovery after a fall in a remote region of Norway in which he injured his leg. Following surgery to reattach his quadriceps muscle, he experienced an emotional period in which his leg no longer felt a part of his body, and he struggled to regain his ability to walk. Sacks attributed the experience to a neurologically determined disorder of body-image and bodyego induced by peripheral injury. In the first edition of his book Sacks explicitly rejected the diagnosis of 'hysterical paralysis' as it was then understood, although he approached this diagnosis more closely in subsequent revisions. In this article we propose that, in the light of better understanding of functional neurological symptoms, Sacks' experiences deserve to be reappraised as a unique insight in to a genuinely experienced functional/psychogenic leg paralysis following injury.




Spikelets, small spikelike membrane potential deflections, are prominent in the activity of hippocampal pyramidal neurons in vivo. The origin of spikelets is still a source of much controversy. Somatically recorded spikelets have been postulated to originate from dendritic spikes, ectopic spikes, or spikes in an electrically coupled neuron. To differentiate between the different proposed mechanisms we used a dual recording approach in which we simultaneously recorded the intracellular activity of one CA1 pyramidal neuron and the extracellular activity in its vicinity, thus monitoring extracellularly the activity of both the intracellularly recorded cell as well as other units in its surroundings. Spikelets were observed in a quarter of our recordings (n = 36). In eight of these nine recordings a second extracellular unit fired in correlation with spikelet occurrences. This observation is consistent with the idea that the spikelets reflect action potentials of electrically coupled nearby neurons. The extracellular spikes of these secondary units preceded the onset of spikelets. While the intracellular spikelet amplitude was voltage dependent, the simultaneously recorded extracellular unit remained unchanged. Spikelets often triggered action potentials in neurons, resulting in a characteristic 1- to 2-ms delay between spikelet onset and firing. Here we show that this relationship is bidirectional, with spikes being triggered by and also triggering spikelets. Secondary units, coupled to pyramidal neurons, showed discharge patterns similar to the recorded pyramidal neuron. These findings suggest that spikelets reflect spikes in an electrically coupled neighboring neuron, most likely of pyramidal cell type. Such coupling might contribute to the synchronization of pyramidal neurons with millisecond precision.
Itch of peripheral origin requires information transfer from the spinal cord to the brain for perception. Here, primate spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons from lumbar spinal cord were functionally characterized by in vivo electrophysiology to determine the role of these cells in the transmission of pruriceptive information. One hundred eleven STT neurons were identified by antidromic stimulation and then recorded while histamine and cowhage (a nonhistaminergic pruritogen) were sequentially applied to the cutaneous receptive field of each cell. Twenty percent of STT neurons responded to histamine, 13% responded to cowhage, and 2% responded to both. All pruriceptive STT neurons were mechanically sensitive and additionally responded to heat, intradermal capsaicin, or both. STT neurons located in the superficial dorsal horn responded with greater discharge and longer duration to pruritogens than STT neurons located in the deep dorsal horn. Pruriceptive STT neurons discharged in a bursting pattern in response to the activating pruritogen and to capsaicin. Microantidromic mapping was used to determine the zone of termination for pruriceptive STT axons within the thalamus. Axons from histamine-responsive and cowhage-responsive STT neurons terminated in several thalamic nuclei including the ventral posterior lateral, ventral posterior inferior, and posterior nuclei. Axons from cowhage-responsive neurons were additionally found to terminate in the suprageniculate and medial geniculate nuclei. Histamine-responsive STT neurons were sensitized to gentle stroking of the receptive field after the response to histamine, suggesting a spinal mechanism for alloknesis. The results show that pruriceptive information is encoded by polymodal STT neurons in histaminergic or nonhistaminergic pathways and transmitted to the ventrobasal complex and posterior thalamus in primates.
Partial hearing loss often results in enlarged representations of the remaining hearing frequency range in primary auditory cortex (AI). Recent studies have implicated certain types of synaptic plasticity in AI map reorganization in response to transient and long-term hearing loss. How changes in neuronal excitability and morphology contribute to cortical map reorganization is less clear. In the present study, we exposed adult rats to a 4-kHz tone at 123 dB, which resulted in increased thresholds over their entire hearing range. The threshold shift gradually recovered in the lower-frequency, but not the higher-frequency, range. As reported previously, two distinct zones were observed 10 days after the noise exposure, an enlarged lower-characteristic frequency (CF) zone displaying normal threshold and enhanced cortical responses and a higher-CF zone showing higher threshold and a disorganized tonotopic map. Membrane excitability of layer II/III pyramidal neurons increased only in the higher-CF, but not the lower-CF, zone. In addition, dendritic morphology and spine density of the pyramidal neurons were altered in the higher-CF zone only. These results indicate that membrane excitability and neuronal morphology are altered by long-term, but not transient, threshold shift. They also suggest that these changes may contribute to tinnitus but are unlikely to be involved in map expansion in the lower-CF zone.
Glucose, a primary energetic substrate for neural activity, is continuously influenced by two opposing forces that tend to either decrease its extracellular levels due to enhanced utilization in neural cells or increase its levels due to entry from peripheral circulation via enhanced cerebral blood flow. How this balance is maintained under physiological conditions and changed during neural activation remains unclear. To clarify this issue, enzyme-based glucose sensors coupled with high-speed amperometry were used in freely moving rats to evaluate fluctuations in extracellular glucose levels induced by brief audio stimulus, tail pinch (TP), social interaction with another rat (SI), and intravenous cocaine (1 mg/kg). Measurements were performed in nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), which drastically differ in neuronal activity. In NAcc, where most cells are powerfully excited after salient stimulation, glucose levels rapidly (latency 2-6 s) increased (30-70 M or 6-14% over baseline) by all stimuli; the increase differed in magnitude and duration for each stimulus. In SNr, where most cells are transiently inhibited by salient stimuli, TP, SI, and cocaine induced a biphasic glucose response, with the initial decrease (-20-40 M or 5-10% below baseline) followed by a reboundlike increase. The critical role of neuronal activity in mediating the initial glucose response was confirmed by monitoring glucose currents after local microinjections of glutamate (GLU) or procaine (PRO). While intra-NAcc injection of GLU transiently increased glucose levels in this structure, intra-SNr PRO injection resulted in rapid, transient decreases in SNr glucose. Therefore, extracellular glucose levels in the brain change very rapidly after physiological and pharmacological stimulation, the response is structure specific, and the pattern of neuronal activity appears to be a critical factor determining direction and magnitude of physiological fluctuations in glucose levels.
We have previously shown that the serotonergic input on Cajal-Retzius cells, mediated by 5-HT(3) receptors, plays an important role in the early postnatal maturation of the apical dendritic trees of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons. We reported that knockout mice lacking the 5-HT(3A) receptor showed exuberant apical dendrites of these cortical pyramidal neurons. Because model studies have shown the role of dendritic morphology on neuronal firing pattern, we used the 5-HT(3A) knockout mouse to explore the impact of dendritic hypercomplexity on the electrophysiological properties of this specific class of neurons. Our experimental results show that hypercomplexity of the apical dendritic tuft of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons affects neuronal excitability by reducing the amount of spike frequency adaptation. This difference in firing pattern, related to a higher dendritic complexity, was accompanied by an altered development of the afterhyperpolarization slope with successive action potentials. Our abstract and realistic neuronal models, which allowed manipulation of the dendritic complexity, showed similar effects on neuronal excitability and confirmed the impact of apical dendritic complexity. Alterations of dendritic complexity, as observed in several pathological conditions such as neurodegenerative diseases or neurodevelopmental disorders, may thus not only affect the input to layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons but also shape their firing pattern and consequently alter the information processing in the cortex.
The barrel cortex (BC) is essential for the acquisition of whisker-signaled trace eyeblink conditioning and shows learning-related expansion of the trained barrels after the acquisition of a whisker-signaled task. Most previous research examining the role of the BC in learning has focused on anatomic changes in the layer IV representation of the cortical barrels. We studied single-unit extracellular recordings from individual neurons in layers V and VI of the BC as rabbits acquired the whisker-signaled trace eyeblink conditioning task. Neurons in layers V and VI in both conditioned and pseudoconditioned animals robustly responded to whisker stimulation, but neurons in conditioned animals showed a significant enhancement in responsiveness in concert with learning. Learning-related changes in firing rate occurred as early as the day of learning criterion within the infragranular layers of the primary sensory cortex.
Skilled object lifting requires the prediction of object weight. When lifting new objects, such prediction is based on well-learned size-weight and material-density correlations, or priors. However, if the prediction is erroneous, people quickly learn the weight of the particular object and can use this knowledge, referred to as sensorimotor memory, when lifting the object again. In the present study, we explored how sensorimotor memory, gained when lifting a given object, interacts with well-learned material-density priors when predicting the weight of a larger but otherwise similar-looking object. Different groups of participants 1st lifted 1 of 4 small objects 10 times. These included a pair of wood-filled objects and a pair of brass-filled objects where 1 of each pair was covered in a wood veneer and the other was covered in a brass veneer. All groups then lifted a larger, brass-filled object with the same covering as the small object they had lifted. For each lift, we determined the initial peak rate of change of vertical load-force rate and the load-phase duration, which provide estimates of predicted object weight. Analysis of the 10th lift of the small cube revealed no effects of surface material, indicating participants learned the appropriate forces required to lift the small cube regardless of object appearance. However, both surface material and core material of the small cube affected the 1st lift of the large block. We conclude that sensorimotor memory related to object density can contribute to weight prediction when lifting novel objects but also that long-term priors related to material properties can influence the prediction.
Contrast adaptation is a commonly studied phenomenon in vision, where prolonged exposure to spatial contrast alters perceived stimulus contrast and produces characteristic shifts in the contrast response functions of primary visual cortex neurons in cats and primates. In this study we investigated contrast adaptation in mouse primary visual cortex with two goals in mind. First, we sought to establish a quantitative description of contrast adaptation in an animal model, where genetic tools are more readily applicable to this phenomenon. Second, the orientation specificity of contrast adaptation was studied to comparatively assess the possible role of local cortical networks in contrast adaptation. In cats and primates, predictable differences in visual processing across the cortical surface are thought to be caused by inhomogeneous local network membership that arises from the pinwheel organization of orientation columns. Because mice lack this pinwheel organization, we predicted that local cortical networks would have access to a broad spectrum of orientation signals, and contrast adaptation in mice would not be specific to the recorded cell's preferred orientation. We found that most mouse V1 neurons showed contrast adaptation that was robust regardless of whether the adapting stimulus matched the cell's preferred orientation or was orthogonal to it.
Previously we demonstrated that sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1PR(1)) played a prominent, but not exclusive, role in enhancing the excitability of small-diameter sensory neurons, suggesting that other S1PRs can modulate neuronal excitability. To examine the potential role of S1PR(2) in regulating neuronal excitability we used the established selective antagonist of S1PR(2), JTE-013. Here we report that exposure to JTE-013 alone produced a significant increase in excitability in a time- and concentration-dependent manner in 70-80% of recorded neurons. Internal perfusion of sensory neurons with guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (GDP--S) via the recording pipette inhibited the sensitization produced by JTE-013 as well as prostaglandin E(2). Pretreatment with pertussis toxin or the selective S1PR(1) antagonist W146 blocked the sensitization produced by JTE-013. These results indicate that JTE-013 might act as an agonist at other G protein-coupled receptors. In neurons that were sensitized by JTE-013, single-cell RT-PCR studies demonstrated that these neurons did not express the mRNA for S1PR(2). In behavioral studies, injection of JTE-013 into the rat's hindpaw produced a significant increase in the mechanical sensitivity in the ipsilateral, but not contralateral, paw. Injection of JTE-013 did not affect the withdrawal latency to thermal stimulation. Thus JTE-013 augments neuronal excitability independently of S1PR(2) by unknown mechanisms that may involve activation of other G protein-coupled receptors such as S1PR(1). Clearly, further studies are warranted to establish the causal nature of this increased sensitivity, and future studies of neuronal function using JTE-013 should be interpreted with caution.
Psychosis has been associated with glucose metabolism impairment. Here, we explored the gene expression of hexokinase 1 (Hk1) and glucose transporter 3 (GLUT3) after the administration of a subanesthetic or a subconvulsant dose of ketamine in rats, considered to provide an animal model of psychosis. Indeed, Hk1 and GLUT3 are crucially involved in the glucose utilization in brain tissues and have also been implicated in the pathophysiology of psychosis. Quantitative brain imaging of transcripts was used to evaluate Hk1 and GLUT3 mRNA in rat brain regions related to ketamine-induced behavioral abnormalities. Hk1 transcript was significantly increased by 50 mg/kg ketamine in cortical and subcortical areas, whereas 12 mg/kg ketamine affected Hk1 expression in the auditory cortex only. GLUT3 expression was increased by 12 mg/kg ketamine in the frontal cortex and decreased by 50 mg/kg ketamine in subcortical areas. The results show that Hk1 and GLUT3 are extensively and differentially affected by ketamine dose, supporting the view that glucose metabolism and psychosis may be causally related and suggesting that these molecules may play a role in the pathophysiology of ketamine-induced behavioral abnormalities.
Endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) have been associated with good functional outcome in ischemic stroke. From preclinical studies, it has been reported that EPC proliferation is mediated by several molecular markers, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1), and the activity of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). Therefore, our aim was to study the role of these molecular factors in EPC proliferation in human ischemic stroke. Forty-eight patients with first episode of nonlacunar ischemic stroke were prospectively included in the study within 12 hr of symptom onset. EPC colonies were classified as early-outgrowth colony forming unit-endothelial cell (CFU-EC) and quantified at admission, at 24 and 72 hr, at day 7, and at 3 months. At the same time, serum levels of VEGF, SDF-1, and active MMP-9 were measured by ELISA. The primary endpoint was EPC increment during the first week, which was defined as the difference in the number of CFU-EC between day 7 and admission. We found that VEGF (r = 0.782), SDF-1 (r = 0.828), and active MMP-9 (r = 0.740) levels at 24 hr from stroke onset showed a strong correlation with EPC increment. Similar results were found for VEGF levels at 72 hr (r = 0.839) and at day 7 (r = 0.602) as well as for active MMP-9 levels at 72 hr (r = 0.442) and at day 7 (r = 0.474). In the multivariate analyses, serum levels of VEGF at 72 hr (B: 0.074, P &lt; 0.0001) and SDF-1 at 24 hr (B: 0.049, P = 0.008) were independent factors for EPC increment during the first week of evolution. These findings suggest that VEGF and SDF-1 may mediate EPC proliferation in human ischemic stroke.

Neurosurgery has played an important role in the development of neuroscience and the science of consciousness. In this paper, the authors reflect on some of the historical contributions of neurosurgeons to the science of consciousness and discuss the ways in which clinical neurosurgery can contribute to the science of consciousness in the 21st century. An approach to the &quot;hard problem&quot; is proposed based on the principles of psychophysics, and the opportunities offered by intracranial recording and stimulation in patients capable of reporting changes in subjective experience are discussed. Such an approach will allow the systematic study and description of the bridging relationships between neurobiology and conscious experience.

Retinoblastoma is a deadly eye cancer in children, leading to death in 50%-70% of children in undeveloped nations who are diagnosed with it. This malignancy is the most common intraocular tumor in childhood worldwide. The good prognosis in developed nations is related to early detection and advanced treatments. With the advent of intraarterial chemotherapy, neurosurgeons have taken a central role in the treatment of this pediatric condition. Intraarterial chemotherapy is a novel treatment for retinoblastoma whereby chemotherapeutic agents are precisely delivered into the ophthalmic artery, minimizing systemic toxicity. This procedure has shown impressive results and has allowed a dramatic decrease in the rate of enucleation (eye removal) in advanced and refractory retinoblastoma. Recent reports have raised some concerns about the risk of ocular vasculopathy, radiation-related toxicity, and the potential for metastatic disease after intraarterial chemotherapy. In the authors' experience of more than 3 years, tumor control is excellent with globe salvage at 67% and vascular events less than 5%, mostly related to improvement in technique. The role of this novel approach in the management of retinoblastoma has yet to be defined. As more centers are adopting the technique, the topic will decidedly become the focus of intensive future research. In this paper, the authors review and discuss current data regarding intraarterial chemotherapy for retinoblastoma.

There is increasing attention in the neurosurgical literature towards surgery, specifically deep brain stimulation (DBS), for psychiatric indications. Several positive trials have spurred intense investigation and research in this area, owing to rapid advances in the neurosciences. As a result, the scope of neurosurgical practice is evolving to now include disorders that weren't traditionally in the purview of the average functional neurosurgeon. Further, functional neurosurgeons are now being charged with taking care of patients as part of a multi-disciplinary group that includes psychologists and psychiatrists. As DBS for psychiatry continues to evolve, and as further indications are explored, it is incumbent on neurosurgeons who treat these disorders to familiarize themselves with current standards of diagnosis and treatment. Just as the movement disorder surgeon should be familiar with the biology, physiology, diagnosis and treatment of Parkinson's disease, so they should become familiar with similar aspects of commonly referred psychiatric conditions. Specifically, much of the interest in the DBS literature currently surrounds major depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder and Tourette's syndrome. Here, we review the epidemiology, diagnostic criteria, hypothesized neurocircuitry and current treatments, both medical and surgical of each of these conditions to serve as a centralized, introductory primer for the practicing functional neurosurgeon.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can cause a broad array of behavioral problems including cognitive and emotional deficits. Human studies comparing neurobehavioral outcomes after TBI suggest that cognitive impairments increase with injury severity, but emotional problems such as anxiety and depression do not. To determine whether cognitive and emotional impairments increase as a function of injury severity we exposed mice to sham, mild, moderate, or severe controlled cortical impact (CCI) and evaluated performance on a variety of neurobehavioral tests in the same animals before assessing lesion volume as a histological measure of injury severity. Increasing cortical impact depth successfully produced lesions of increasing severity in our model. We found that cognitive impairments in the Morris water maze increased with injury severity, as did the degree of contralateral torso flexion, a measure of unilateral striatal damage. TBI also caused deficits in emotional behavior as quantified in the forced swim test, elevated-plus maze, and prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle, but these deficits were not dependent on injury severity. Stepwise regression analyses revealed that Morris water maze performance and torso flexion predicted the majority of the variability in lesion volume. In summary, we find that cognitive deficits increase in relation to injury severity, but emotional deficits do not. Our data suggest that the threshold for emotional changes after experimental TBI is low, with no variation in behavioral deficits seen between mild and severe brain injury.



Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a major toxicity of chemotherapy treatment for which no therapy is approved. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)1/2 are nuclear enzymes activated upon DNA damage, and PARP1/2 inhibition provides resistance against DNA damage. A role for PARP inhibition in sensory neurotransmission has also been established. PARP inhibitors attenuate pain-like behaviors and neuropathy-associated decreased peripheral nerve function in diabetic models. The hypothesis tested was that PARP inhibition protects against painful neuropathy. The objective of this study was to investigate whether the novel, selective PARP1/2 inhibitors (ABT-888 and related analogues) would attenuate development of mechanical allodynia in vincristine-treated rats. PARP inhibitors were dosed for 2 days, and then co-administered with vincristine for 12 days. Mechanical allodynia was observed in rats treated with vincristine. PARP1/2 inhibition significantly attenuated development of mechanical allodynia and reduced poly ADP-ribose (PAR) activation in rat skin. The data presented here show that PARP inhibition attenuates vincristine-induced mechanical allodynia in rats, and supports that PARP inhibition may represent a novel therapeutic approach for CIPN.
The infantile-onset axonal neuropathies and neuronopathies are an uncommon and heterogeneous group of conditions causing weakness, wasting, and developmental delay in early childhood. Many are associated with central nervous system or other systemic manifestations and cause early mortality. We review the axonal Charcot-Marie-Tooth subtypes with onset in infancy, spinal muscular atrophy, and related syndromes of early infancy, giant axonal neuropathy, infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy, hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy with agenesis of the corpus callosum, early-onset neuropathies associated with mitochondrial disorders, and other less well-delineated clinical entities. Useful clinical and neuropathologic features in the diagnostic work-up of these conditions are also presented.
Neurodegenerative diseases are a large group of disabling disorders of the nervous system, characterized by the relative selective death of neuronal subtypes. In most cases, there is overwhelming evidence of impaired mitochondrial function as a causative factor in these diseases. More recently, evidence has emerged for impaired mitochondrial dynamics (shape, size, fission-fusion, distribution, movement etc.) in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease. Here, we provide a concise overview of the major findings in recent years highlighting the importance of healthy mitochondria for a healthy neuron.
Although hunger and satiety are mainly centrally regulated, there is convincing evidence that also gastrointestinal motor activity and hormone fluctuations significantly contribute to appetite signalling. In this study, we investigated how motility and enteric nerve activity are set by fasting and feeding. By means of video-imaging, we tested whether peristaltic activity differs in ex vivo preparations from fasted and re-fed guinea pigs. Ca(2+) imaging was used to investigate whether the feeding state directly alters neuronal activity, either occurring spontaneously or evoked by (an)orexigenic signalling molecules. We found that pressure-induced (2 cmH(2)O) peristaltic activity occurs at a higher frequency in ileal segments from re-fed animals (re-fed versus fasted, 6.12  0.22 vs. 4.84  0.52 waves min(-1), P = 0.028), even in vitro hours after death. Myenteric neuronal responses were tuned to the feeding status, since neurons in tissues from re-fed animals remained hyper-responsive to high K(+)-evoked depolarization (P &lt; 0.001) and anorexigenic molecules (P &lt; 0.001), while being less responsive to orexigenic ghrelin (P = 0.013). This illustrates that the feeding status remains imprinted' ex vivo. We were able to reproduce this feeding state-related memory in vitro and found humoral feeding state-related factors to be implicated. Although the molecular link with hyperactivity is not entirely elucidated yet, glucose-dependent pathways are clearly involved in tuning neuronal excitability. We conclude that a bistable memory system that tunes neuronal responses to fasting and re-feeding is present in the enteric nervous system, increasing responses to depolarization and anorexigenic molecules in the re-fed state, while decreasing responses to orexigenic ghrelin. Unlike the hypothalamus, where specific cell populations sensitive to either orexigenic or anorexigenic molecules exist, the enteric feeding state-related memory system is present at the functional level of receptor signalling rather than confined to specific neuron subtypes.

On May 10th 2010 Platon Grigorevitch Kostyuk sadly left us at the age of 85. He was a talented scientist, a brilliant experimenter, an outstanding organizer of science and an excellent teacher. Platon Kostyuk was born in 1924 in Kiev, Ukraine. He obtained a double education: a graduate of the Kiev University Department of Biology in 1946 and the Kiev Medical Institute in 1949, he became a pioneer in neuroscience, the first in the Soviet Union to use microelectrodes for intracellular recording of electrical signals in neurons. Despite the difficulties for international travel for those living behind the Iron Curtain, he was able to present his work at the International Congress of Physiology in Buenos Aires in 1959 and here met Prof. John Eccles who invited him to work at the University of Canberra in Australia in 19601961. This was the start of an outstanding international career, complementing his creative achievements in the Soviet Union. In 1966 P.G. Kostyuk became director of the Bogomoletz Institute of Physiology in Kiev, which he headed for nearly 45 years. Under his direction this Institute became a leading centre for neuroscience, renowned not only in the Soviet Union but also internationally. New directions of research were developed in cell physiology, molecular biophysics and neurophysiology. Several important discoveries were made including the development of a method for intracellular perfusion, evidence for a calcium-dependent conductance in nerve cells and the discovery of new types of ion channels. Elected to the Ukraine Academy of Science in 1969 and Grand Academician of the Soviet Academy of Science in 1974, Kostyuk has also been honoured by many international societies. He is the author of more than 650 articles, 17 monographs and 7 discoveries and was the creator and editor of two scientific journals: &quot;Neurophysiology&quot; and &quot;Neuroscience&quot;. The outstanding career and multifaceted activities of Academician Platon Kostyuk form a pyramid of achievement, at the top of which ride his research in cognition and his enthusiasm for the discovery of the secrets of Nature.
Propagating waves of activity have been recorded in many species, in various brain states, brain areas, and under various stimulation conditions. Here, we review the experimental literature on propagating activity in thalamus and neocortex across various levels of anesthesia and stimulation conditions. We also review computational models of propagating waves in networks of thalamic cells, cortical cells and of the thalamocortical system. Some discrepancies between experiments can be explained by the &quot;network state&quot;, which differs vastly between anesthetized and awake conditions. We introduce a network model displaying different states and investigate their effect on the spatial structure of self-sustained and externally driven activity. This approach is a step towards understanding how the intrinsically-generated ongoing activity of the network affects its ability to process and propagate extrinsic input.
The representations of animate and inanimate objects appear to be anatomically and functionally dissociated in the primate brain. How much of the variation in object-category tuning across cortical locations can be explained in terms of the animate/inanimate distinction? How is the distinction between animate and inanimate reflected in the arrangement of object representations along the cortical surface? To investigate these issues we recorded BOLD activity in visual cortex while subjects viewed streams of natural scenes. We then constructed an explicit model of object-category tuning for each voxel along the cortical surface. We verified that these models accurately predict responses to novel scenes for voxels located in anterior visual areas, and that they can be used to accurately decode multiple objects simultaneously from novel scenes. Finally, we used principal components analysis to characterize the variation in object-category tuning across voxels. Remarkably, we found that the first principal component reflects the distinction between animate and inanimate objects. This dimension accounts for between 50 and 60% of the total variation in object-category tuning across voxels in anterior visual areas. The importance of the animate-inanimate distinction is further reflected in the arrangement of voxels on the cortical surface: voxels that prefer animate objects tend to be located anterior to retinotopic visual areas and are flanked by voxels that prefer inanimate objects. Our explicit model of object-category tuning thus explains the anatomical and functional dissociation of animate and inanimate objects.

The study objective was to comprehensively evaluate drug-nave, adult patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) for cortical structure abnormalities in comparison with healthy controls. In this cross-sectional study of case-control design, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (1-mm) was performed in drug-nave OCD patients (N=50) &amp; age- sex-, education- and handedness-matched healthy controls (N=40). We examined cortical volume, thickness, surface area &amp; local Gyrification Index (LGI) through a completely automated surface-based morphometric analysis using FreeSurfer software. OCD symptoms and insight were assessed using Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Symptom (Y-BOCS) check-list and severity scale. Illness severity was assessed using Clinical Global Impression Severity (CGI-S) Scale. OCD patients had significantly deficient volume, thickness and surface area of right anterior cingulate gyrus (ACG). Right lingual gyrus surface area was found to be significantly decreased in patients. Y-BOCS obsession score had significant negative correlation with left frontal pole volume. Y-BOCS compulsion score had significant negative correlations with right ACG volume and surface area and right lateral orbitofrontal cortex LGI. CGI-Severity score had significant negative correlations with right lingual gyrus volume, thickness and surface area as well as right lateral orbitofrontal area. Y-BOCS insight score showed a significant negative correlation with LGI of left medial OFC and left rostral ACG. Identification of novel deficits involving occipital brain regions and first-time observations of relevant correlations between various illness characteristics and cortical measures in OCD patients supports a network involving anterior cingulate, orbitofrontal and occipital brain regions in the pathogenesis of OCD.
Previous case-control and family-based association studies have implicated the SLC6A4 gene in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Little research, however, has examined this gene's role in obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCS) in community samples. The present study genotyped seven tag SNPs and two common functional tandem repeat polymorphisms (5-HTTLPR and STin2), which together cover the whole SLC6A4 gene, and investigated their associations with OCS in normal Chinese college students (N=572). The results revealed a significant gender main effect and gender-specific genetic effects of the SLC6A4 gene on OCS. Males scored significantly higher on total OCS and its three dimensions than did females (ps&lt;.01). The 5-HTTLPR in the promoter region showed a female-specific genetic effect, with the l/l and l/s genotypes linked to higher OCS scores than the s/s genotype (ps&lt;.05). In contrast, a conserved haplotype polymorphism (rs1042173| rs4325622| rs3794808| rs140701| rs4583306| rs2020942) covering from intron 3 to the 3' UTR of the SLC6A4 gene showed male-specific genetic effects, with the CGAAGG/CGAAGG genotype associated with lower OCS scores than the other genotypes (ps&lt;.05). These effects remained significant after controlling for OCS-related factors including participants' depressive and anxiety symptoms as well as stressful life events, and correction for multiple tests. These results are discussed in terms of their implications for our understanding of the sex-specific role of the different sections of the SLC6A4 gene in OCD.
Olanzapine is effective at treating multiple domains of schizophrenia symptoms. However, it induces serious metabolic side effects. Antipsychotic drug's antagonistic affinity to histamine H receptors has been identified as a main contributor for weight gain/obesity side effects. This study therefore investigated whether a combined treatment of betahistine (a H receptor agonist and H receptor antagonist) could reduce the body weight/obesity induced by olanzapine. Female Sprague Dawley rats were treated orally with olanzapine (1 mg/kg, t.i.d.) and/or betahistine (2.67 mg/kg, t.i.d.), or vehicle for two weeks. Rats treated with olanzapine exhibited significant body weight gain and increased food intake. Co-treatment of olanzapine with betahistine significantly prevented (-45%) weight gain and reduced feeding efficiency compared to sole olanzapine treatment. Betahistine treatment alone had no effect on weight gain and food intake. Olanzapine reduced locomotor activity, but not betahistine. These findings demonstrate that olanzapine-induced body weight gain can partially be reduced by co-treatment with betahistine. Betahistine has H receptor antagonistic effects to increase histamine release, which may augment its direct agonistic effects on H receptors. These findings have important implications for clinical trials using betahistine to control antipsychotic-induced obesity side effects.
Evidence suggests that some aspects of schizophrenia can be induced in healthy volunteers through acute administration of the non-competitive NMDA-receptor antagonist, ketamine. In probabilistic inference tasks, patients with schizophrenia have been shown to 'jump to conclusions' (JTC) when asked to make a decision. We aimed to test whether healthy participants receiving ketamine would adopt a JTC response pattern resembling that of patients. The paradigmatic task used to investigate JTC has been the 'urn' task, where participants are shown a sequence of beads drawn from one of two 'urns', each containing coloured beads in different proportions. Participants make a decision when they think they know the urn from which beads are being drawn. We compared performance on the urn task between controls receiving acute ketamine or placebo with that of patients with schizophrenia and another group of controls matched to the patient group. Patients were shown to exhibit a JTC response pattern relative to their matched controls, whereas JTC was not evident in controls receiving ketamine relative to placebo. Ketamine does not appear to promote JTC in healthy controls, suggesting that ketamine does not affect probabilistic inferences.





This article, based on the keynote address at the 5th National Spinal Cord Injury Conference in Toronto, addresses methods to neurophysiologically characterize patients after spinal cord injury and proposes how those methods could be used to individualize therapeutic interventions and monitor their efficacy over the course of neurorehabilitation.


The Cedars-Sinai Telepsychiatry Clinic uses a collaborative-care model to treat patients with developmental disabilities. We examined its practice in four areas: patient characteristics, clinical care, symptom severity and diagnostic outcomes to describe the care provided and the population seen in the telepsychiatry clinic. In a chart review, 45 out of 126 cases were selected and evaluated at three times: initial evaluation, year one and year three. Most of the patients (84%) had an intellectual disability, 55% had a pervasive developmental disorder and 71% spoke approximately 50 words or less. Prior to the initial assessment, none of the patients were diagnosed with anxiety or mood disorders, while almost one-third of patients received one of these diagnoses in the telepsychiatry clinic. Patients were seen six times on average in the first year and three times in the second and third years. The telepsychiatrist recommended a change in the patient's medication for 82% of patients at initial assessment, 41% at year one and 46% at year three. The review suggests that telepsychiatry evaluations can be valuable for patients with developmental disabilities, providing diagnostic clarity and specific recommendations that can be implemented by the primary care physician.
Poliovirus (PV) requires membranes of the host cell's secretory pathway to generate replication complexes (RCs) for viral RNA synthesis. Recent work identified the intermediate compartment and the Golgi apparatus as the precursors of the replication &quot;organelles&quot; of PV (N. Y. Hsu et al., Cell 141:799-811, 2010). In this study, we examined the effect of PV on COPII vesicles, the secretory cargo carriers that bud from the endoplasmic reticulum and homotypically fuse to form the intermediate compartment that matures into the Golgi apparatus. We found that infection by PV results in a biphasic change in functional COPII vesicle biogenesis in cells, with an early enhancement and subsequent inhibition. Concomitant with the early increase in COPII vesicle formation, we found an increase in the membrane fraction of Sec16A, a key regulator of COPII vesicle formation. We suggest that the early burst in COPII vesicle formation detected benefits PV by increasing the precursor pool required for the formation of its RCs.

The proper performance of the lower urinary tract is dependent on an intact neural innervation of the individual structures involved. Therefore, any congenital neurological anomalies, diseases, or lesions of the central, peripheral, or autonomic nervous systems can result in lower urinary tract symptoms. Lower urinary tract dysfunction (LUTD) secondary to neurological disorders can significantly reduce quality of life (QoL) and may also give rise to serious complications and psychological and social sequelae. The goals of management of LUTD in patients with neurological disorders are to prevent serious complications and to improve the patient's QoL. Understanding the physiology and pathophysiology of micturition is critical to selecting appropriate treatment options. This article provides an overview of the clinical characteristics, diagnosis, and management of LUTD in patients with certain central and peripheral neuropathies and common lesions.
Alpha-synuclein (-syn) is a presynaptic protein that is richly expressed in the central and peripheral nervous systems of mammals, and it is related to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders. In the present study, we compared the distribution of the immunoreactivity of -syn and its related gliosis in the spinal cord of young adult (2-3 years) and aged (10-12 years) beagle dogs. We discovered that -syn immunoreactivity was present in many neurons in the thoracic level of the aged spinal cord, however, its protein level was not distinct inform that of the adult spinal cord. In addition, ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule-1 (a marker for microglia) immunoreactivity, and not glial fibrillary acidic protein (a marker for astrocytes) immunoreactivity, was somewhat increased in the aged group compared to the adult group. These results indicate that -syn immunoreactivity was not dramatically changed in the dog spinal cord during aging.

Most women with active epilepsy need treatment with antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy. Antiepileptic drugs are also frequently used for other indications, such as migraine, pain syndromes, and psychiatric disorders, which are prevalent among women of childbearing age. Possible teratogenic effects of antiepileptic drugs are therefore of wide concern and the risks imposed by the drugs must be weighed against the risks associated with the disorder being treated. Adverse drug effects on the fetus can present as fetal loss, intrauterine growth retardation, congenital malformations, impaired postnatal development, and behavioural problems. For optimum use of antiepileptic drugs in women of childbearing age and rational management of epilepsy during pregnancy, a thorough understanding of the teratogenic effects of antiepileptic drugs and knowledge of the differences in risks between various treatment options are needed.
The temporal-difference (TD) algorithm from reinforcement learning provides a simple method for incrementally learning predictions of upcoming events. Applied to classical conditioning, TD models suppose that animals learn a real-time prediction of the unconditioned stimulus (US) on the basis of all available conditioned stimuli (CSs). In the TD model, similar to other error-correction models, learning is driven by prediction errors--the difference between the change in US prediction and the actual US. With the TD model, however, learning occurs continuously from moment to moment and is not artificially constrained to occur in trials. Accordingly, a key feature of any TD model is the assumption about the representation of a CS on a moment-to-moment basis. Here, we evaluate the performance of the TD model with a heretofore unexplored range of classical conditioning tasks. To do so, we consider three stimulus representations that vary in their degree of temporal generalization and evaluate how the representation influences the performance of the TD model on these conditioning tasks.
This article introduces a new &quot;real-time&quot; model of classical conditioning that combines attentional, associative, and &quot;flexible&quot; configural mechanisms. In the model, attention to both conditioned (CS) and configural (CN) stimuli are modulated by the novelty detected in the environment. Novelty increases with the unpredicted presence or absence of any CS, unconditioned stimulus (US), or context. Attention regulates the magnitude of the associations CSs and CNs form with other CSs and the US. We incorporate a flexible configural mechanism in which attention to the CN stimuli increases only after the model has unsuccessfully attempted learn input-output combinations with CS-US associations. That is, CSs become associated with the US and other CSs on fewer trials than they do CNs. Because the CSs activate the CNs through unmodifiable connections, a CS can become directly and indirectly (through the CN) associated with the US or other CSs. In order to simulate timing processes, we simply assume that a CS is formed by a temporal spectrum of short-duration CSs that are activated by the nominal CS trace. The model accurately describes 94% of the basic properties of classical conditioning, using fixed model parameters and simulation values in all simulations.
We frame behavior in classical conditioning experiments as the product of normative statistical inference. According to this theory, animals learn an internal model of their environment from experience. The basic building blocks of this internal model are latent causes-explanatory constructs inferred by the animal that partition observations into coherent clusters. Generalization of conditioned responding from one cue to another arises from the animal's inference that the cues were generated by the same latent cause. Through a wide range of simulations, we demonstrate where the theory succeeds and where it fails as a general account of classical conditioning.

The ability to visualize blood flow in a vessel-selective manner is of importance in a range of cerebrovascular diseases. Conventional X-ray methods are invasive and carry risks to the patient. Recently, a noninvasive dynamic angiographic MRI-based technique has been proposed using vessel-encoded pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling, yielding vessel-selective angiograms of the four main brain-feeding arteries. In this study, a novel kinetic model for the signal evolution in such acquisitions is derived and applied to healthy volunteers and to a patient with Moya-Moya disease. The model incorporates bolus dispersion, T(1) decay and radio frequency effects and is applicable to other angiographic methods based on continuous or pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling. The model fits the data well in all subjects and yields parametric maps relating to blood volume, arrival time, and dispersion, changes to which may indicate disease. These maps are also used to generate synthesized images of blood inflow without bias from T(1) decay and radio frequency effects, greatly improving collateral vessel visibility in the patient with Moya-Moya disease. Relative volume flow rates in downstream vessels are also quantified, showing the relative importance of each feeding artery. This framework is likely to be of use in assessing collateral blood flow in patient groups.
Previous functional MRI studies of normal sensory function in the human spinal cord, including right-to-left symmetry of activity, have been influenced by order effects between repeated studies. In this study, we apply thermal sensory stimulation to four dermatomes within each functional MRI time-series acquisition. Each of the four dermatomes receives a unique stimulation paradigm, such that the four paradigms form a linearly independent set, enabling detection of each individual stimulus response. Functional MRI data are shown spanning the cervical spinal cord and brainstem in 10 healthy volunteers. Results of general linear model analysis demonstrate consistent patterns of activity within the spinal cord segments corresponding to each dermatome, and a high degree of symmetry between right-side and left-side stimulation. Connectivity analyses also demonstrate consistent areas of activity and connectivity between spinal cord and brainstem regions corresponding to known anatomy. However, right-side and left-side responses are not at precisely the same rostral-caudal positions, but are offset by several millimeters, with left-side responses consistently more caudal than right-side responses. The results confirm that distinct responses to multiple interleaved sensory stimuli can be distinguished, enabling studies of sensory responses within the spinal cord without the confounding effects of comparing sequential studies.
Conventional diffusion MRI methods are mostly capable of portraying microarchitectural elements such as fiber orientation in white matter from detection of diffusion anisotropy, which arises from the coherent organization of anisotropic compartments. Double-pulsed-field-gradient MR methods provide a means for obtaining microstructural information such as compartment shape and microscopic anisotropies even in scenarios where macroscopic organization is absent. Here, we apply angular double-pulsed-gradient-spin-echo MRI in the rat brain both ex vivo and in vivo for the first time. Robust angular dependencies are detected in the brain at long mixing time (t(m) ). In many pixels, the oscillations seem to originate from residual directors in randomly oriented media, i.e., from residual ensemble anisotropy, as corroborated by quantitative simulations. We then developed an analysis scheme that enables one to map of structural indices such as apparent eccentricity (aE) and residual phase () that enables characterization of the rat brain in general, and especially the rat gray matter. We conclude that double-pulsed-gradient-spin-echo MRI may in principle become important in characterizing gray matter morphological features and pathologies in both basic and applied neurosciences.
Schizophrenia is a complex psychiatric disorder clinically categorized into three main symptom domains: positive, negative and cognitive deficits. Many reports have shown that great reduction in spine number was observed in schizophrenia patients. In addition, genetic studies have identified mutations in numerous genes that encode synaptic proteins in schizophrenia patients. Furthermore, it is well known that antipsychotic drugs change the number of spines, indicating that disturbance in spine homeostasis is deeply involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. On the other hand, it is commonly accepted that alteration in dopaminergic systems is also involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. However, the relationships between the changes of spine homeostasis and those of the dopaminergic system are largely unknown. Recently, spine homeostasis is reported to be tightly regulated by dopamine D1 receptors. Thus, I will set a new notion that disturbed spine homeostasis results in compensatory up-regulation in the dopaminergic system to keep normal cognitive functions. The hypothesis is as follows. Disturbance in spine homeostasis based on genetic vulnerabilities is the main cause of schizophrenia, and this disturbance results in network deficiency, negative symptoms and cognitive deficits. Since spine homeostasis is deeply regulated by dopamine D1 receptors, disturbed spine homeostasis leads to compensatory hyperactivity in the dopamine system to keep normal cognitive functions. This dopaminergic hyperactivity stimulates dopamine D2 receptors, leading to positive symptoms. All current antipsychotic medications have antagonist actions at dopamine D2 receptors. However, these drugs are not so effective to negative symptoms, consistent with the hypothesis, where dopamine D2 receptor over-activation is secondary. Thus, this hypothesis can integrally explain three main symptom domains: positive, negative and cognitive deficits.
Defining &quot;suffering and pain&quot; from both legal and medical perspectives is essential in understanding how misinterpretations, confusion and misconceptions can occur through &quot;impressions&quot; of events by uninvolved observers of these basic human sensations. Subjective interpretations of an individual's pain/narrative by professionals can lead to collisions in the courtroom and be a cause for clinical ambivalence in the physician's office. The phenomenon of cognitive, affective experiences with acute, chronic, and emotional pain and its association with &quot;suffering&quot; will be discussed. Contemporary experimental results in neuroscience and advances in clinical medical research attempting to explain how varied expressions of pain in man may have evolved, can be more carefully evaluated, and possibly visualized and measured, will be reviewed. The neurobiological impact of empathy and compassion derived from an individual's narrative and self-reporting of pain and suffering upon the psyches of physicians, juries and otherwise dispassionate observers will be discussed. The purpose of this discussion is to emphasize the importance of considering the complexities embodied in any decision-making process, legal or medical, involving the phenomenon of human perceptions and responses to pain. The data discussed are based on a comprehensive search and review of past and current pertinent literature attempting to explain and decipher man's expressions of pain and suffering in its legal, societal, clinical and scientific ramifications.

Delivery and penetration of chemotherapeutic drugs into tumors are limited by a number of factors related to abnormal vasculature and altered stroma composition in neoplastic tissues. Coupling of chemotherapeutic drugs with tumor vasculature-homing peptides or administration of drugs in combination with biological agents that affect the integrity of the endothelial lining of tumor vasculature is an appealing strategy to improve drug delivery to tumor cells. Promising approaches to achieve this goal are based on the use of Asn-Gly-Arg (NGR)-containing peptides as ligands for drug delivery and of NGR-TNF, a peptide-tumor necrosis factor- fusion protein that selectively alters drug penetration barriers and that is currently tested in a randomized Phase III trial in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma.


Clinical neurophysiology is both an extension of clinical examination and an integration of neuroimaging. It plays a role in diagnosis, prognosis and monitoring in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Electroencephalography (EEG) and somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) are the most informative neurophysiological tests. Both have a major prognostic role in the hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy and traumatic brain injury (TBI). In the former the absence of bilateral cortical SEPs has an unfavorable prognostic significance of 100%, whereas bilateral normal SEPs has uncertain prognostic value. In TBI these SEP patterns have high early prognostic value for both bad and good outcome. Continuous EEG monitoring is indicated for diagnosis and treatment of non convulsive seizures and status epilepticus (NCSE), whereas SEPs are more able to indicate the occurrence of neurological deterioration. In our opinion EEG-SEP monitoring is also valuable for interpretation and management of ICP trends, contributing to optimise treatment in a single patient. The EEG seems to have the same prognostic utility in pediatric as in adult ICU. Recent reviews supported the use of SEPs in the integrated process of outcome prediction after acute brain injury in children. However differences in interpretation are needed and the issue is whether it is possible to establish an age limit over which the prediction of SEPs is similar to that in adults. There are only a few studies of seizure prevalence in pediatric ICU. The variability of frequency of NCSE in comatose children is high as in adults and, similar to the adult, remains unclear the impact on outcome.
The American Society for Cell Biology is targeting the first week of October 2012 (the week before Nobel Prize winners are announced) to launch the We Are Research initiative. The goal of this initiative is to mobilize practicing junior and senior scientists, including graduate students, postdocs, and other lab members, to make contact with their elected officials and neighbors and explain to them why Federal support and investment in biomedical research is vital to the health and economic welfare of the United States. This initiative is designed to illustrate how important people are to scientific research and to supply our representatives with reliable and accurate information in the form of letters, emails, telephone calls, and personal visits.

The purpose of this study is to analyze the role of genes known to influence muscle performances on the outcome after enzyme replacement treatment (ERT) in type II Glycogenosis (GSDII). We analyzed 16 patients receiving ERT for two years. We assessed the changes in muscle strength by hand-held dynamometry, muscle mass by quantitative MRI, and resistance to exercise by the 6-minute walking test. Exercise gene assessment included angiotensin converting enzyme insertion/deletion polymorphism (ACE), alpha-actinin3 R577X polymorphism (ACTN3), and peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha G/C polymorphism (PPAR). Independent of disease severity, one third of patients had a poor response to ERT, which was found to be associated with ACE DD genotype. The ACTN3 null polymorphism appeared to exert a positive effect on treatment efficacy, while PPAR did not seem to exert any influence at all. We conclude that poor treatment outcome in ACE DD genotypes is in line with previous observation of a worse disease course in this subpopulation, and suggests the need for a more careful follow-up and individualized treatment approaches for these patients. Exercise genes may provide a new opportunity for studying the outcome after treatment and the muscle regeneration abilities in other models of genetic myopathies.
Type IV pili are surface organelles essential for pathogenicity of many Gram-negative bacteria. In Neisseria gonorrhoeae, the major subunit of type IV pili, PilE, is a target of its general O-linked glycosylation system. This system modifies a diverse set of periplasmic and extracellular gonococcal proteins with a variable set of glycans. Here we show that expression of a particular hexa-histidine-tagged PilE was associated with growth arrest. By studying intra- and extragenic suppressors, we found that this phenotype was dependent on pilus assembly and retraction. Based on these results, we developed a sensitive tool to identify factors with subtle effects on pilus dynamics. Using this approach, we found that glycan chain length has differential effects on the growth arrest that appears to be mediated at the level of pilin subunit-subunit interactions and bidirectional remodelling of pilin between its membrane-associated and assembled states. Gonococcal pilin glycosylation thus plays both an intracellular role in pilus dynamics and potential extracellular roles mediated through type IV pili. In addition to demonstrating the effect of glycosylation on pilus dynamics, the study provides a new way of identifying factors with less dramatic effects on processes involved in type IV pilus biogenesis.
Heart failure and arrhythmias occur at 3 to 5 times higher rates among individuals with diabetes mellitus, compared with age-matched, healthy individuals. Studies attribute these defects in part to alterations in the function of cardiac type 2 ryanodine receptors (RyR2s), the principal Ca(2+)-release channels on the internal sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). To date, mechanisms underlying RyR2 dysregulation in diabetes remain poorly defined. A rat model of type 1 diabetes, in combination with echocardiography, in vivo and ex vivo hemodynamic studies, confocal microscopy, Western blotting, mass spectrometry, site-directed mutagenesis, and [(3)H]ryanodine binding, lipid bilayer, and transfection assays, was used to determine whether post-translational modification by reactive carbonyl species (RCS) represented a contributing cause. After 8 weeks of diabetes, spontaneous Ca(2+) release in ventricular myocytes increased ~5-fold. Evoked Ca(2+) release from the SR was nonuniform (dyssynchronous). Total RyR2 protein levels remained unchanged, but the ability to bind the Ca(2+)-dependent ligand [(3)H]ryanodine was significantly reduced. Western blotting and mass spectrometry revealed RCS adducts on select basic residues. Mutation of residues to delineate the physiochemical impact of carbonylation yielded channels with enhanced or reduced cytoplasmic Ca(2+) responsiveness. The prototype RCS methylglyoxal increased and then decreased the RyR2 open probability. Methylglyoxal also increased spontaneous Ca(2+) release and induced Ca(2+) waves in healthy myocytes. Treatment of diabetic rats with RCS scavengers normalized spontaneous and evoked Ca(2+) release from the SR, reduced carbonylation of RyR2s, and increased binding of [(3)H]ryanodine to RyR2s. From these data, we conclude that post-translational modification by RCS contributes to the heterogeneity in RyR2 activity that is seen in experimental diabetes.

THAP1 mutations have been shown to be the cause of DYT6. A number of different mutation types and locations in the THAP1 gene have been associated with a range of severity and dystonia phenotypes, but, as yet, it has been difficult to identify clear genotype phenotype patterns. Here, we screened the THAP1 gene in a further series of dystonia cases and evaluated the mutation pathogenicity in this series as well as previously reported mutations to investigate possible phenotype-genotype correlations. THAP1 mutations have been identified throughout the coding region of the gene, with the greatest concentration of variants localized to the THAP1 domain. In the additional cases analyzed here, a further two mutations were found. No obvious, indisputable genotype-phenotype correlation emerged from these data. However, we managed to find a correlation between the pathogenicity of mutations, distribution, and age of onset of dystonia. THAP1 mutations are an important cause of dystonia, but, as yet, no clear genotype-phenotype correlations have been identified. Greater mutation numbers in different populations will be important and mutation-specific functional studies will be essential to identify the pathogenicity of the various THAP1 mutations.  2012 Movement Disorder Society.
A number of cognitive abnormalities have been identified as putative diagnostic markers in neurodegenerative parkinsonism based on statistically significant differences between diseases. The effect sizes of these differences frequently have not been reported, making practical interpretation of the results difficult. The objective of this study was to assess the potential contribution of cognitive testing to the diagnosis of parkinsonian disorders by quantifying effect size of previously identified significant differentiating cognitive features. A Medline search identified 1038 articles. Nineteen studies directly comparing at least 2 of Parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, multiple system atrophy, and corticobasal syndrome/degeneration were selected. Cohen's d and positive likelihood ratio were calculated as appropriate for cognitive tests showing statistically significant differences between diseases. Clinically useful differences were considered present when Cohen's d &gt; 1 or the positive likelihood ratio &gt; 2 and were considered high when Cohen's d &gt; 1.94 or the positive likelihood ratio &gt; 10. Only 16 of 141 cognitive tests were found to be highly useful. Cognitive testing was only moderately helpful in separating Parkinson's disease and multiple system atrophy. Inferior performance on phonemic (d = 1.56-2.13) and semantic (d = 1.43-2.13) verbal fluency, the Trail-Making Test (d = 1.63-1.95) and the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (d = 1.63-2.22) were moderately to very useful in separating progressive supranuclear palsy from Parkinson's disease and multiple system atrophy. Cognitive testing could not differentiate corticobasal syndrome from other parkinsonian disorders, although sequential orobuccal apraxia was very useful (d = 2.01-2.23). Few of the cognitive tests separating parkinsonian disorders identified from previous studies have sufficient effect size to be practically useful. Even these features must be interpreted in conjunction with other clinical characteristics to be helpful diagnostically.  2012 Movement Disorder Society.
It has been 50 years since the first patients with tardive dyskinesia (TD) were described, but the pathophysiology is only partially understood and effective treatments have remained elusive. Newer atypical antipsychotics with less nonspecific activity at dopamine receptors have not heralded the end of tardive dyskinesia and merely highlight the incomplete understanding of the disorder. We present an overview of the existing pathophysiology of the disorder and incorporate recent developments in genetics and the study of human synaptic plasticity in other hyperkinetic movement disorders. We propose a hypothesis that dopamine-receptor sensitization and altered function of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor produces maladaptive synaptic plasticity, which allows the encoding of abnormal motor programs, and propose studies that would falsify or support this hypothesis. In conclusion, a maladaptive synaptic plasticity&quot; hypothesis goes some way toward filling in the gaps of existing theories of TD with the pathophysiology of other hyperkinetic movement disorders.  2012 Movement Disorder Society.

Mutations of the cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5) and netrin-G1 (NTNG1) genes cause a severe neurodevelopmental disorder with clinical features that are closely related to Rett syndrome, including intellectual disability, early-onset intractable epilepsy and autism. We report here that CDKL5 is localized at excitatory synapses and contributes to correct dendritic spine structure and synapse activity. To exert this role, CDKL5 binds and phosphorylates the cell adhesion molecule NGL-1. This phosphorylation event ensures a stable association between NGL-1 and PSD95. Accordingly, phospho-mutant NGL-1 is unable to induce synaptic contacts whereas its phospho-mimetic form binds PSD95 more efficiently and partially rescues the CDKL5-specific spine defects. Interestingly, similarly to rodent neurons, iPSC-derived neurons from patients with CDKL5 mutations exhibit aberrant dendritic spines, thus suggesting a common function of CDKL5 in mice and humans.
Adolescence is characterized by making risky decisions. Early lesion and neuroimaging studies in adults pointed to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and related structures as having a key role in decision-making. More recent studies have fractionated decision-making processes into its various components, including the representation of value, response selection (including inter-temporal choice and cognitive control), associative learning, and affective and social aspects. These different aspects of decision-making have been the focus of investigation in recent studies of the adolescent brain. Evidence points to a dissociation between the relatively slow, linear development of impulse control and response inhibition during adolescence versus the nonlinear development of the reward system, which is often hyper-responsive to rewards in adolescence. This suggests that decision-making in adolescence may be particularly modulated by emotion and social factors, for example, when adolescents are with peers or in other affective ('hot') contexts.
Phasic activation of the dopamine (DA) midbrain system in response to unexpected reward or novelty is critical for adaptive behavioral strategies. This activation of DA midbrain neurons occurs via a synaptically triggered switch from low-frequency background spiking to transient high-frequency burst firing. We found that, in medial DA neurons of the substantia nigra (SN), activity of ATP-sensitive potassium (K-ATP) channels enabled NMDA-mediated bursting in vitro as well as spontaneous in vivo burst firing in anesthetized mice. Cell-selective silencing of K-ATP channel activity in medial SN DA neurons revealed that their K-ATP channel-gated burst firing was crucial for novelty-dependent exploratory behavior. We also detected a transcriptional upregulation of K-ATP channel and NMDA receptor subunits, as well as high in vivo burst firing, in surviving SN DA neurons from Parkinson's disease patients, suggesting that burst-gating K-ATP channel function in DA neurons affects phenotypes in both disease and health.
Memory formation is thought to be mediated by dendritic-spine growth and restructuring. Myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) restricts spine growth in vitro, suggesting that this transcription factor negatively regulates the spine remodeling necessary for memory formation. Here we show that memory formation in adult mice was associated with changes in endogenous MEF2 levels and function. Locally and acutely increasing MEF2 function in the dentate gyrus blocked both learning-induced increases in spine density and spatial-memory formation. Increasing MEF2 function in amygdala disrupted fear-memory formation. We rescued MEF2-induced memory disruption by interfering with AMPA receptor endocytosis, suggesting that AMPA receptor trafficking is a key mechanism underlying the effects of MEF2. In contrast, decreasing MEF2 function in dentate gyrus and amygdala facilitated the formation of spatial and fear memory, respectively. These bidirectional effects indicate that MEF2 is a key regulator of plasticity and that relieving the suppressive effects of MEF2-mediated transcription permits memory formation.
We found that, during the formation of the mouse barrel cortex, NG2 cells received glutamatergic synapses from thalamocortical fibers and preferentially accumulated along septa separating the barrels. Sensory deprivation reduced thalamocortical inputs on NG2 cells and increased their proliferation, leading to a more uniform distribution in the deprived barrels. Thus, early sensory experience regulates thalamocortical innervation on NG2 cells, as well as their proliferation and distribution during development.
Neuroimaging (for example, functional magnetic resonance imaging) signals are taken as a uniform proxy for local neural activity. By simultaneously recording electrode and neuroimaging (intrinsic optical imaging) signals in alert, task-engaged macaque visual cortex, we recently observed a large anticipatory trial-related neuroimaging signal that was poorly related to local spiking or field potentials. We used these same techniques to study the interactions of this trial-related signal with stimulus-evoked responses over the full range of stimulus intensities, including total darkness. We found that the two signals could be separated, and added linearly over this full range. The stimulus-evoked component was related linearly to local spiking and, consequently, could be used to obtain precise and reliable estimates of local neural activity. The trial-related signal likely has a distinct neural mechanism, however, and failure to account for it properly could lead to substantial errors when estimating local neural spiking from the neuroimaging signal.
Amyloid-beta (A) oligomers are thought to trigger Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology. Cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) selectively binds oligomeric A and can mediate Alzheimer's disease-related phenotypes. We examined the specificity, distribution and signaling of A-PrP(C) complexes, seeking to understand how they might alter the function of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) in neurons. PrP(C) is enriched in postsynaptic densities, and A-PrP(C) interaction leads to Fyn kinase activation. Soluble A assemblies derived from the brains of individuals with Alzheimer's disease interacted with PrP(C) to activate Fyn. A engagement of PrP(C)-Fyn signaling yielded phosphorylation of the NR2B subunit of NMDARs, which was coupled to an initial increase and then a loss of surface NMDARs. A-induced dendritic spine loss and lactate dehydrogenase release required both PrP(C) and Fyn, and human familial Alzheimer's disease transgene-induced convulsive seizures did not occur in mice lacking PrP(C). These results delineate an A oligomer signal transduction pathway that requires PrP(C) and Fyn to alter synaptic function, with deleterious consequences in Alzheimer's disease.
Interactions between the central nervous system and the immune system have been studied primarily in the context of pathology, popularizing the view that interplay between these two systems is inherently detrimental. However, recent experimental data have demonstrated productive neuroimmune interactions that occur under normal physiological conditions. In this Essay, we outline our current understanding of contemporary neuroimmunology, describe a working model of T cell function in support of learning and memory, and offer ideas regarding the selective advantages of immune-mediated effects on brain function.
During the past two decades calcium (Ca(2+)) accumulation in energized mitochondria has emerged as a biological process of utmost physiological relevance. Mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake was shown to control intracellular Ca(2+) signalling, cell metabolism, cell survival and other cell-type specific functions by buffering cytosolic Ca(2+) levels and regulating mitochondrial effectors. Recently, the identity of mitochondrial Ca(2+) transporters has been revealed, opening new perspectives for investigation and molecular intervention.
Transcriptome study in neurodegenerative disease has advanced considerably in the past 5 years. Increasing scientific rigour and improved analytical tools have led to more-reproducible data. Many transcriptome analysis platforms assay the expression of the entire genome, enabling a complete biological context to be captured. Gene expression profiling (GEP) is, therefore, uniquely placed to discover pathways of disease pathogenesis, potential therapeutic targets, and biomarkers. This Review summarizes microarray human GEP studies in the common neurodegenerative diseases amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson disease (PD) and Alzheimer disease (AD). Several interesting reports have compared pathological gene expression in different patient groups, disease stages and anatomical areas. In all three diseases, GEP has revealed dysregulation of genes related to neuroinflammation. In ALS and PD, gene expression related to RNA splicing and protein turnover is disrupted, and several studies in ALS support involvement of the cytoskeleton. GEP studies have implicated the ubiquitin-proteasome system in PD pathogenesis, and have provided evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction in PD and AD. Lastly, in AD, a possible role for dysregulation of intracellular signalling pathways, including calcium signalling, has been highlighted. This Review also provides a discussion of methodological considerations in microarray sample preparation and data analysis.
Semaphorins are key players in the control of neural circuit development. Recent studies have uncovered several exciting and novel aspects of neuronal semaphorin signalling in various cellular processes--including neuronal polarization, topographical mapping and axon sorting--that are crucial for the assembly of functional neuronal connections. This progress is important for further understanding the many neuronal and non-neuronal functions of semaphorins and for gaining insight into their emerging roles in the perturbed neural connectivity that is observed in some diseases. This Review discusses recent advances in semaphorin research, focusing on novel aspects of neuronal semaphorin receptor regulation and previously unexplored cellular functions of semaphorins in the nervous system.
Studies on synaptic plasticity in the context of learning have been dominated by the view that a single, particular type of plasticity forms the underlying mechanism for a particular type of learning. However, emerging evidence shows that many forms of synaptic and intrinsic plasticity at different sites are induced conjunctively during procedural memory formation in the cerebellum. Here, we review the main forms of long-term plasticity in the cerebellar cortex that underlie motor learning. We propose that the different forms of plasticity in the granular layer and the molecular layer operate synergistically in a temporally and spatially distributed manner, so as to ultimately create optimal output for behaviour.
Sex is a fundamental pleasure, and crucial to the survival of our species. Though not many people would disagree with the proposition that sexual behaviour depends on the brain, the neuroscientific study of human sex is still relatively taboo and much remains to be discovered. On the contrary, excellent experimental animal models (mostly rat) are available that have uncovered major behavioural, neurochemical, and neuroanatomical characteristics of sexual behaviour. Restructuring sexual behaviour into broader terms reflecting behavioural states (wanting, liking, and inhibition) facilitates species comparison, revealing many similarities between animal and human sexual pleasure cycles, some of which can serve as potential avenues of new human sex research. In particular, behavioural and brain evidence clearly shows that motivational and consummatory phases are fundamentally distinct, and that genitally-induced sexual reward is a major factor in sexual learning mechanisms.

Rodents use two distinct neuronal coordinate systems to estimate their position: place fields in the hippocampus and grid fields in the entorhinal cortex. Whereas place cells spike at only one particular spatial location, grid cells fire at multiple sites that correspond to the points of an imaginary hexagonal lattice. We study how to best construct place and grid codes, taking the probabilistic nature of neural spiking into account. Which spatial encoding properties of individual neurons confer the highest resolution when decoding the animal's position from the neuronal population response? A priori, estimating a spatial position from a grid code could be ambiguous, as regular periodic lattices possess translational symmetry. The solution to this problem requires lattices for grid cells with different spacings; the spatial resolution crucially depends on choosing the right ratios of these spacings across the population. We compute the expected error in estimating the position in both the asymptotic limit, using Fisher information, and for low spike counts, using maximum likelihood estimation. Achieving high spatial resolution and covering a large range of space in a grid code leads to a trade-off: the best grid code for spatial resolution is built of nested modules with different spatial periods, one inside the other, whereas maximizing the spatial range requires distinct spatial periods that are pairwisely incommensurate. Optimizing the spatial resolution predicts two grid cell properties that have been experimentally observed. First, short lattice spacings should outnumber long lattice spacings. Second, the grid code should be self-similar across different lattice spacings, so that the grid field always covers a fixed fraction of the lattice period. If these conditions are satisfied and the spatial &quot;tuning curves&quot; for each neuron span the same range of firing rates, then the resolution of the grid code easily exceeds that of the best possible place code with the same number of neurons.
A long standing debate in cognitive neuroscience has been the extent to which perceptual processing is influenced by prior knowledge and experience with a task. A converging body of evidence now supports the view that a task does influence perceptual processing, leaving us with the challenge of understanding the locus of, and mechanisms underpinning, these influences. An exemplar of this influence is learned categorical perception (CP), in which there is superior perceptual discrimination of stimuli that are placed in different categories. Psychophysical experiments on humans have attempted to determine whether early cortical stages of visual analysis change as a result of learning a categorization task. However, while some results indicate that changes in visual analysis occur, the extent to which earlier stages of processing are changed is still unclear. To explore this issue, we develop a biologically motivated neural model of hierarchical vision processes consisting of a number of interconnected modules representing key stages of visual analysis, with each module learning to exhibit desired local properties through competition. With this system level model, we evaluate whether a CP effect can be generated with task influence to only the later stages of visual analysis. Our model demonstrates that task learning in just the later stages is sufficient for the model to exhibit the CP effect, demonstrating the existence of a mechanism that requires only a high-level of task influence. However, the effect generalizes more widely than is found with human participants, suggesting that changes to earlier stages of analysis may also be involved in the human CP effect, even if these are not fundamental to the development of CP. The model prompts a hybrid account of task-based influences on perception that involves both modifications to the use of the outputs from early perceptual analysis along with the possibility of changes to the nature of that early analysis itself.
Histological subtyping and grading by malignancy are the cornerstones of the World Health Organization (WHO) classification of tumors of the central nervous system. They shall provide clinicians with guidance as to the course of disease to be expected and the choices of treatment to be made. Nonetheless, patients with histologically identical tumors may have very different outcomes, notably in patients with astrocytic and oligodendroglial gliomas of WHO grades II and III. In gliomas of adulthood, 3 molecular markers have undergone extensive studies in recent years: 1p/19q chromosomal codeletion, O(6)-methylguanine methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter methylation, and mutations of isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) 1 and 2. However, the assessment of these molecular markers has so far not been implemented in clinical routine because of the lack of therapeutic implications. In fact, these markers were considered to be prognostic irrespective of whether patients were receiving radiotherapy (RT), chemotherapy, or both (1p/19q, IDH1/2), or of limited value because testing is too complex and no chemotherapy alternative to temozolomide was available (MGMT). In 2012, this situation has changed: long-term follow-up of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 9402 and European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer 26951 trials demonstrated an overall survival benefit from the addition to RT of chemotherapy with procarbazine/CCNU/vincristine confined to patients with anaplastic oligodendroglial tumors with (vs without) 1p/19q codeletion. Furthermore, in elderly glioblastoma patients, the NOA-08 and the Nordic trial of RT alone versus temozolomide alone demonstrated a profound impact of MGMT promoter methylation on outcome by therapy and thus established MGMT as a predictive biomarker in this patient population. These recent results call for the routine implementation of 1p/19q and MGMT testing at least in subpopulations of malignant glioma patients and represent an encouraging step toward the development of personalized therapeutic approaches in neuro-oncology.
Recently it was discovered that mutations in the UBQLN2 gene were a cause of an X-linked dominant type of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We investigated the frequency of mutations in this gene in a cohort of 92 families with ALS in the Netherlands. Eight families were excluded because of male-to-male transmission. In the remaining 84 familial ALS cases no mutations were discovered in UBQLN2. Hence, UBQLN2 was not found to be a cause of familial ALS in the Netherlands.
Microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) mutations have been shown to underlie frontotemporal dementia and a variety of additional sporadic tauopathies. We identified a rare p.A152T variant in MAPT exon 7 in two (of eight) patients with clinical presentation of parkinsonism and postmortem finding of neurofibrillary tangle pathology. Two siblings of one patient also carried the p.A152T variant, and both have progressive cognitive impairment. Further screening identified the variant in two other cases: one with pathologically confirmed corticobasal degeneration and another with the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease with dementia. The balance of evidence suggests this variant is associated with disease, but the very varied phenotype of the cases with the mutation is not consistent with it being a fully penetrant pathogenic mutation. Interestingly, this variation results in the creation of a new phosphorylation site that could cause reduced microtubule binding. We suggest that the A152T variant is a risk factor associated with the development of atypical neurodegenerative conditions with abnormal tau accumulation.
Mutations in the UBQLN2 gene, which encodes a member of the ubiquitin-like protein family (ubiquilin-2), have been recently identified in patients with dominant X-linked amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and ALS with dementia. We report here the sequencing of the UBQLN2 gene in 590 ALS patients of French and French-Canadian ancestry. We identified two novel missense mutations (p.S155N and p.P189T) in two individuals with sporadic ALS. Bioinformatic analysis predicts that these missense mutations affect the normal protein's function. Importantly, these findings further highlight the importance of the proline residues located in the conserved domains of the ubiquilin-2 protein, suggesting that mutations affecting these residues are particularly relevant to the development of ALS. Our findings further support a causative role of the UBQLN2 gene in the pathogenesis of ALS and suggest that UBQLN2 mutations are rare in the French and French-Canadian population.
Although the role of cerebral small vessel disease (SVD), including white matter lesions (WMLs) and lacunar infarcts, in mild parkinsonian signs (MPS) is increasingly being recognized, not all individuals with SVD have MPS. Using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), we investigated whether the presence of MPS was dependent on the microstructural integrity underlying WMLs, the early loss of integrity of the normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) and location of this damage. We examined 483 elderly subjects with SVD and without parkinsonism. Subjects with severe loss of integrity within their WMLs had a higher risk of MPS, regardless of WML volume (fractional anisotropy odds ratios = 1.9; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-3.4). The same was found in the normal-appearing white matter, but this association disappeared after adjustment for WMLs and lacunar infarcts. The integrity of the periventricular frontal regions-of-interest was significantly lower in subjects with MPS than without, independent of WMLs and lacunar infarcts. This study indicates that integrity of WMLs, especially in the frontal lobe, is associated with MPS. Diffusion tensor imaging may be of added value in investigating the underlying mechanisms of parkinsonian signs in subjects with SVD.
Recent studies have implicated resveratrol and pterostilbene, a resveratrol derivative, in the protection against age-related diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanism for the favorable effects of resveratrol in the brain remains unclear and information about direct cross-comparisons between these analogs is rare. As such, the purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of diet-achievable supplementation of resveratrol to that of pterostilbene at improving functional deficits and AD pathology in the SAMP8 mouse, a model of accelerated aging that is increasingly being validated as a model of sporadic and age-related AD. Furthermore we sought to determine the mechanism of action responsible for functional improvements observed by studying cellular stress, inflammation, and pathology markers known to be altered in AD. Two months of pterostilbene diet but not resveratrol significantly improved radial arm water maze function in SAMP8 compared with control-fed animals. Neither resveratrol nor pterostilbene increased sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) expression or downstream markers of sirtuin 1 activation. Importantly, markers of cellular stress, inflammation, and AD pathology were positively modulated by pterostilbene but not resveratrol and were associated with upregulation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha expression. Taken together our findings indicate that at equivalent and diet-achievable doses pterostilbene is a more potent modulator of cognition and cellular stress than resveratrol, likely driven by increased peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha expression and increased lipophilicity due to substitution of hydroxy with methoxy group in pterostilbene.
The decline in cognitive function that accompanies normal aging has a negative impact on the quality of life of the elderly and their families. Studies in humans and rodents show that spatial navigation and other hippocampus-dependent functions are particularly vulnerable to the deleterious effects of aging. However, reduced motor activity and alterations in the stress response that accompany normal aging can hinder the ability to study certain cognitive behaviors in aged animals. In an attempt to circumvent these potential confounds, we used a hippocampus-dependent object-place recognition task to show that long-term spatial memory is impaired in aged mice. Aged animals performed similarly to young adult mice on an object recognition task that does not rely on hippocampal function.
The A(2A)R has become a therapeutic target in Parkinson disease due to its functional role in the striatum, capable of modulating dopaminergic neurotransmission in the basal ganglia. No conclusive evidence, however, has been provided to demonstrate the existence of A(2A)Rs in the output nuclei of the basal ganglia: the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr). Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization techniques we have confirmed the presence of A(2A)Rs in both the striatum (medium spiny and cholinergic neurons) and the external segment of the globus pallidus (GPe), in the monkey. The antibody routinely used to label A(2A)Rs failed to detect A(2A)R-positive neurons in the GPi and SNr, however, in situ hybridization showed that A(2A)R mRNA transcripts were indeed present in both these nuclei. Surprisingly, by labeling pallidothalamic and nigrothalamic projection neurons originating in the GPi and SNr with the neuronal retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B (CTB), the receptor protein was unmasked and detectable using the antibody. This unmasking of the protein was specific to CTB and not an artifact of the tracer. We have shown unequivocally that the A(2A)R is present in the output nuclei of the primate basal ganglia, however, to be able to detect the receptor immunohistochemically, unmasking the protein with CTB was necessary. The presence of A(2A)Rs in the GPi and SNr suggests that these output nuclei could be targeted therapeutically in Parkinson disease to restore abnormal activity in the basal ganglia.
Ketamine is an NMDA receptor antagonist with psychotomimetic, dissociative, amnestic and euphoric effects. When chronically abused, ketamine users display deficits in cognition and information processing, even following long-term abstinence from the drug. While animal studies have shown evidence of behavioral changes and cognitive deficits that mimic those seen in humans within the period immediately following subchronic ketamine, a few animal studies have assessed long-term changes following cessation of ketamine exposure. To this end, the present study assessed event related potentials (ERPs) and EEG oscillations in mice exposed to subchronic ketamine following a 6month period of abstinence from the drug. Ketamine-treated mice showed no change in P20, but did show marked reductions in amplitude of the later N40 and P80 components, consistent with previous studies of acute ketamine exposure. Additionally, ketamine-treated animals showed a significant reduction in stimulus evoked theta oscillations. To assess the functional significance of these changes, mice were also assessed on a series of behavioral and cognitive tests, including progressive ratio (motivation), extinction (behavioral flexibility) and win-shift radial maze (spatial memory). Subchronic ketamine produced marked disruptions in reversal learning and spatial memory. Analysis of brains from ketamine-treated mice failed to show evidence of neuronal degeneration as determined by NueN immunohistochemistry, but did show increased astrocyte proliferation and decreased expression of the glial specific glutamate transporter, GLT-1. These results strongly suggest: 1) that subchronic ketamine induces significant changes in brain function that long exceed exposure to the drug; 2) that ketamine exposure in mice induces lasting cognitive impairments closely resembling those observed in human ketamine abusers; 3) that ERP and EEG measures are highly sensitive to alterations in brain function associated with reduced cognitive function; and 4) that the brain changes induced by chronic ketamine treatment are suggestive of long-term adaptive or plastic, rather than degenerative, changes.
Dyskinesia seen in the off-state, referred as graft-induced dyskinesia (GID), has emerged as a serious complication induced by dopamine (DA) cell transplantation in parkinsonian patients. Although the mechanism underlying the appearance of GID is unknown, in a recent clinical study the partial 5-HT(1A) agonist buspirone was found to markedly reduce GID in three grafted patients, who showed significant serotonin (5-HT) hyperinnervation in the grafted striatum in positron emission tomography scanning (Politis et al., 2010, 2011). Prompted by these findings, this study was performed to investigate the involvement of serotonin neurons in the appearance of GID in the rat 6-hydroxydopamine model. L-DOPA-primed rats received transplants of DA neurons only, DA plus 5-HT neurons or 5-HT neurons only into the lesioned striatum. In DA cell-grafted rats, with or without 5-HT neurons, but not in 5-HT grafts, GID was observed consistently after administration of amphetamine (1.5mg/kg, i.p.) indicating that grafted DA neurons are required to induce GID. Strikingly, a low dose of buspirone produced a complete suppression of GID. In addition, activation of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) receptors by 8-OH-DPAT and CP 94253, known to inhibit the activity of 5-HT neurons, significantly reduced GID, whereas induction of neurotransmitter release by fenfluramine administration significantly increased GID, indicating an involvement of the 5-HT system in the modulation of GID. To investigate the involvement of the host 5-HT system in GID, the endogenous 5-HT terminals were removed by intracerebral injection of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, but this treatment did not affect GID expression. However, 5-HT terminal destruction suppressed the anti-GID effect of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) agonists, demonstrating that the 5-HT(1) agonist combination exerted its anti-GID effect through the activation of pre-synaptic host-derived receptors. By contrast, removal of the host 5-HT innervation or pre-treatment with a 5-HT(1A) antagonist did not abolish the anti-GID effect of buspirone, showing that its effect is independent from activation of either pre- or post-synaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors. Since buspirone is known to also act as a DA D(2) receptor antagonist, the selective D(2) receptor antagonist eticlopride was administered to test whether blockade of D(2) receptors could account for the anti-dyskinetic effect of buspirone. In fact, eticlopride produced complete suppression of GID in grafted animals already at very low dose. Together, these results point to a critical role of both 5-HT(1) and D(2) receptors in the modulation of GID, and suggest that 5-HT neurons exert a modulatory role in the development of this side effect of neuronal transplantation.

Evidence suggests that the nitric oxide (NO)/soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC)/cGMP dependent protein kinase (PKG) signaling pathway plays a key role in memory processing, but the actual participation of this signaling cascade in the hippocampal CA1 during morphine-induced reward memory remains unknown. In this study, we investigated the role of the NO/sGC/PKG signaling pathway in the CA1 on morphine-induced reward memory using a conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm. We found that rats receiving an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of 4mg/kg morphine exhibited CPP, whereas rats treated with only 0.2mg/kg morphine failed to produce CPP. Intra-CA1 injection of the neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) inhibitor 7-NI, the sGC inhibitor ODQ or the PKG inhibitor Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS had no effect on the acquisition of CPP by 4mg/kg morphine. Intra-CA1 injection of 7-NI blocked the consolidation of CPP induced by 4mg/kg morphine, and this amnesic effect of 7-NI was mimicked by ODQ and Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS. Intra-CA1 injection of the NOS substrate L-arg or the sGC activator YC-1 with an ineffective dose of morphine (0.2mg/kg, i.p.) elicited CPP. This response induced by L-arg or YC-1 was reversed by pre-microinjection of Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS in the CA1. These results indicated that the activation of the NO/sGC/PKG signaling pathway in the CA1 is necessary for the consolidation of morphine-related reward memory.
The learning of new information and recall of that information presumably involves modification of and access to shared circuitry in the brain. However, learning and recall may involve the activation of distinct parts of that circuitry, according to the quite distinct functional differences between these two processes. Previously we examined neuronal activation following learning of context fear conditioning. Using the Fos-Tau-LacZ (FTL) transgenic mouse to label activated neurons, we identified a number of distinct populations of neurons in amygdala and hypothalamus which showed learning specific activation. These populations of neurons showed much less activation following recall. Here we ask what populations of neurons might be specifically activated following recall. We trained mice in context fear conditioning, and then looked at FTL activation following recall of context fear. We identified a number of populations of neurons which showed recall specific activation in nucleus accumbens shell, the anterio-medial bed nucleus of stria terminalis, the anterior commissural nucleus and the periventricular hypothalamic nucleus. These were all different populations of neurons compared with those activated following context fear learning. These different functional activation patterns occurring between learning and recall may reflect the different brain functions occurring between these two memory related processes.
It is well established that glucocorticoid hormones strengthen the consolidation of long-term memory of emotionally arousing experiences but have little effect on memory of low-arousing experiences. Although both positive and negative emotionally arousing events tend to be well remembered, studies investigating the neural mechanism underlying glucocorticoid-induced memory enhancement focused primarily on negatively motivated training experiences. In the present study we show an involvement of glucocorticoids within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in enhancing memory consolidation of both an appetitive and aversive form of taste learning. The specific glucocorticoid receptor (GR) agonist RU 28362 (1 or 3ng) administered bilaterally into the NAc shell, but not core, of male Sprague-Dawley rats immediately after an appetitive saccharin drinking experience dose-dependently enhanced 24-h retention of the safe taste, resulting in a facilitated attenuation of neophobia. Similarly, GR agonist infusions given into the NAc shell immediately after pairing of the saccharin taste with a malaise-inducing agent enhanced memory of this negative experience, resulting in an intensified conditioned aversion. Importantly, a suppression of noradrenergic activity within the NAc shell with the -adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol blocked the facilitating effect of a concurrently administered GR agonist on memory consolidation in both the appetitive and aversive learning task. Thus, these findings indicate that GR activation interacts with the noradrenergic arousal system within the NAc to enhance memory consolidation of emotionally arousing training experiences regardless of valence.
While it is now generally accepted that sleep facilitates the processing of newly acquired declarative information, questions still remain as to the type and length of sleep necessary to best benefit declarative memories. A better understanding could lend support in one direction or another as to the much-debated role of sleep, be it passive, permissive, or active, in memory processing. The present study employed a napping paradigm and compared performance on a bimodal paired-associates task of those who obtained a 10-min nap, containing only Stages 1 and 2 sleep, to those whose nap contained slow-wave sleep (SWS) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep (60-min nap), as well as to subjects who remained awake. Measurements were obtained for baseline performance at training, after a sleep/no sleep interval for short-term retention, after a subsequent stimulus-related interference task, and again after a weeklong retention period. While all groups learned the information similarly, both nap groups performed better than the Wake group when examining short-term retention, approximately 1.5h after training (10-min p=.052, 60-min p=.002). However, performance benefits seen in the 10-min nap group proved to be temporary. Performance after a stimulus-related interference task revealed significantly better memory retention in the 60-min nap group, with interference disrupting the memory trace far less than both the Wake and 10-min nap groups (p&lt;.001, p=.006, respectively). After a weeklong retention period, sleep's benefit to memory persisted in the 60-min nap group, with performance significantly greater than both the Wake and 10-min nap groups (p&lt;.001, p=.004, respectively). It is our conclusion that SWS, obtained only by those in the 60-min nap group, served to actively facilitate the consolidation of learned bimodal paired-associates, supported by theories such as the Standard Theory of Consolidation as well as the Synaptic Homeostasis Hypothesis.
Rats emit distinct types of ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs), which serve as situation-dependent affective signals. In appetitive situations, such as rough-and-tumble-play, high-frequency 50-kHz USVs occur, whereas low-frequency 22-kHz USVs can be observed in aversive situations, such as social defeat. USVs serve distinct communicative functions and induce call-specific behavioral responses in the receiver. While aversive 22-kHz USVs serve as alarm calls and induce behavioral inhibition, appetitive 50-kHz USVs have a pro-social communicative function and elicit social approach behavior, supporting the notion that they serve as social contact calls to (re)establish or maintain contact among conspecifics. The aim of the present study was to use the rat's ability to communicate in the ultrasonic range via high-frequency 50-kHz USVs in order to develop a test for social acoustic memory in rats with relevance for human verbal memory. Verbal learning and memory is among the seven cognitive domains identified as commonly deficient in human schizophrenia patients, but particularly difficult to model. We therefore tested whether the induction of social approach behavior by playback of appetitive 50-kHz USVs is dependent on (1) acoustic stimulus configuration and (2) social long-term memory, and whether (3) social long-term memory effects can be blocked by the administration of scopolamine, a muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist producing amnesia. Results show that social approach behavior in response to playback of natural 50-kHz USVs depends on acoustic stimulus configuration and occurs only when sound energy is concentrated to a critical frequency band in the ultrasonic range. Social approach behavior was detected during the first exposure to playback of 50-kHz USVs, whereas no such response was observed during the second exposure 1week later, indicating a stable memory trace. In contrast, when memory formation was blocked by i.p. administration of scopolamine (0.5mg/kg or 1.5mg/kg) immediately after the first exposure, rats displayed social approach behavior during the second exposure as well. Induction of social approach behavior in response to repeated playback of natural 50-kHz USVs may therefore provide a new and rather unique approach for testing social acoustic memory in rats with relevance to human verbal memory.
In spite of the availability of new antiepileptic drugs a considerable number of epilepsy patients still have pharmacoresistant seizures, and thus there is a need for novel approaches. Acetyl-l-carnitine (ALCAR), which delivers acetyl units to mitochondria for acetyl-CoA production, has been shown to improve brain energy homeostasis and protects against various neurotoxic insults. To our knowledge, this is the first study of ALCAR's effect on metabolism in pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) kindled mice. ALCAR or the commonly used antiepileptic drug valproate, was added to the drinking water of mice for 25days, and animals were injected with PTZ or saline three times a week during the last 21 days. In order to investigate ALCAR's effects on glucose metabolism, mice were injected with [1-(13)C]glucose 15 min prior to microwave fixation. Brain extracts from cortex and the hippocampal formation (HF) were studied using (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopy and HPLC. PTZ kindling caused glucose hypometabolism, evidenced by a reduction in both glycolysis and TCA cycle turnover in both brain regions investigated. Glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons were affected in cortex and HF, but the amount of glutamate was only reduced in HF. Slight astrocytic involvement could be detected in the cortex. Interestingly, the dopamine content was increased in the HF. ALCAR attenuated the PTZ induced reduction in [3-(13)C]alanine and the increase in dopamine in the HF. However, TCA cycle metabolism was not different from that seen in PTZ kindled animals. In conclusion, even though ALCAR did not delay the kindling process, it did show some promising ameliorative effects, worthy of further investigation.
Non-cell autonomous pathology is widely accepted to determine the demise of motoneurons (MNs) in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with astrocytes, GFAP and glutamate transport suggested to play roles in reactive astrogliosis. Previously we described actions of excitotoxicity and oxidative stress to produce differential injury of motoneurons and astrocytes, respectively, and our goal here was to define patterns of MN injury and astrogliosis during a combined excitotoxic-oxidative injury since such a paradigm more closely models disease pathology. Using an in vitro neuronal-glial culture of embryonic mouse spinal cord, we demonstrate that glutamate transport activity was maintained or increased initially, despite a loss of cellular viability, induced by exposure to combinations of excitotoxic [(S)-5-fluorowillardiine (FW)] and oxidative [3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1)] insults over 48 h. Under these conditions, injury was slow in time course and apoptotic-like as shown by the patterns of annexin V and propidium iodide (PI) labelling. Immunocytochemistry for SMI-32 revealed that injury produced time- and insult-dependent reductions in the size of MN arbours, axonal dieback and appreciable neuritic blebbing. These changes were preceded by early hypertrophy of GFAP-positive astrocytes, and followed by more delayed stellation and eventual gliotoxicity. Alterations to EAAT2 immunolabelling were similar to those found for GFAP being initially maintained and then eventually reduced at 48 h. Image analysis of immunocytochemical data confirmed the differential time-dependent changes found with SMI-32, GFAP and EAAT2. Axonopathy and blebbing of MNs was frequently associated with areas of low GFAP immunoreactivity. The exact profile of changes to MNs and astrocytes was context-dependent and sensitive to subtle changes in the mix of excitotoxic-oxidative insults. Overall our findings are consistent with the concepts that the nature, extent and time-course of astrogliosis are insult-dependent, and that discrete pro-survival and destructive components of astrogliosis are likely to determine the precise profile of MN injury in non-cell autonomous pathology of ALS.
The NMDA receptor (NMDAR) family of l-glutamate receptors are well known to have diverse roles in CNS function as well as in various neuropathological and psychiatric conditions. Until recently, the types of agents available to pharmacologically regulate NMDAR function have been quite limited in terms of mechanism of action and subtype selectivity. This has changed significantly in the past two years. The purpose of this review is to summarize the many drug classes now available for modulating NMDAR activity. Previously, this included competitive antagonists at the l-glutamate and glycine binding sites, high and low affinity channel blockers, and GluN2B-selective N-terminal domain binding site antagonists. More recently, we and others have identified new classes of NMDAR agents that are either positive or negative allosteric modulators (PAMs and NAMs, respectively). These compounds include the pan potentiator UBP646, the GluN2A-selective potentiator/GluN2C and GluN2D inhibitor UBP512, the GluN2D-selective potentiator UBP551, the GluN2C/GluN2D-selective potentiator CIQ as well as the new NMDAR-NAMs such as the pan-inhibitor UBP618, the GluN2C/GluN2D-selective inhibitor QZN46 and the GluN2A inhibitors UBP608 and TCN201. These new agents do not bind within the l-glutamate or glycine binding sites, the ion channel pore or the N-terminal regulatory domain. Collectively, these new allosteric modulators appear to be acting at multiple novel sites on the NMDAR complex. Importantly, these agents display improved subtype-selectivity and as NMDAR PAMs and NAMs, they represent a new generation of potential NMDAR therapeutics.
In the present study we investigate the effect of Withania somnifera (WS) root extract and Withanolide A (WA) in restoring spatial memory deficit by inhibiting oxidative stress induced alteration in glutamergic neurotransmission. We demonstrate significant cellular loss in hippocampus of epileptic rats, visualized through decreased TOPRO stained neurons. Impaired spatial memory was observed in epileptic rats after Radial arm maze test. Treatment with WS and WA has resulted in increased number of TOPRO stained neurons. Enhanced performance of epileptic rats treated with WS and WA was observed in Radial arm maze test. The antioxidant activity of WS and WA was studied using superoxide dismutase (SOD) and Catalase (CAT) assays in the hippocampus of experimental rats. The SOD activity and CAT activity decreased significantly in epileptic group, treatment with WS and WA significantly reversed the enzymatic activities to near control. Real time gene expression studies of SOD and GPx showed significant up-regulation in epileptic group compared to control. Treatment with WS and WA showed significant reversal to near control. Lipid peroxidation quantified using TBARS assay, significantly increased in epileptic rats. Treatment with WS and WA showed significant reversal to near control. NMDA receptor expression decreased in epileptic rats. The treatment with WS and WA resulted in physiological expression of NMDA receptors. This data suggests that oxidative stress effects membrane constitution resulting in decreased NMDA receptor density leading to impaired spatial memory. Treatment with WS and WA has ameliorated spatial memory deficits by enhancing antioxidant system and restoring altered NMDA receptor density.
In the present paper, we use data mining methods to address two challenges in the sharing and integration of data from electrophysiological (ERP) studies of human brain function. The first challenge, ERP metric matching, is to identify correspondences among distinct summary features (&quot;metrics&quot;) in ERP datasets from different research labs. The second challenge, ERP pattern matching, is to align the ERP patterns or &quot;components&quot; in these datasets. We address both challenges within a unified framework. The utility of this framework is illustrated in a series of experiments using ERP datasets that are designed to simulate heterogeneities from three sources: (a) different groups of subjects with distinct simulated patterns of brain activity, (b) different measurement methods, i.e, alternative spatial and temporal metrics, and (c) different patterns, reflecting the use of alternative pattern analysis techniques. Unlike real ERP data, the simulated data are derived from known source patterns, providing a gold standard for evaluation of the proposed matching methods. Using this approach, we demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms well-known existing methods, because it utilizes cluster-based structure and thus achieves finer-grained representation of the multidimensional (spatial and temporal) attributes of ERP data.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a subset of stroke resulting from bleeding within the brain parenchyma of the brain. It is potentially lethal, and survival depends on ensuring an adequate airway, reversal of coagulopathy, and proper diagnosis. ICH was chosen as an emergency neurological life support (ENLS) protocol because intervention within the first critical hour may improve outcome, and it is helpful to have a protocol to drive care quickly and efficiently.

Synaptic vesicle dynamics play an important role in the study of neuronal and synaptic activities of neurodegradation diseases ranging from the epidemic Alzheimer's disease to the rare Rett syndrome. A high-throughput assay with a large population of neurons would be useful and efficient to characterize neuronal activity based on the dynamics of synaptic vesicles for the study of mechanisms or to discover drug candidates for neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental disorders. However, the massive amounts of image data generated via high-throughput screening require enormous manual processing time and effort, restricting the practical use of such an assay. This paper presents an automated analytic system to process and interpret the huge data set generated by such assays. Our system enables the automated detection, segmentation, quantification, and measurement of neuron activities based on the synaptic vesicle assay. To overcome challenges such as noisy background, inhomogeneity, and tiny object size, we first employ MSVST (Multi-Scale Variance Stabilizing Transform) to obtain a denoised and enhanced map of the original image data. Then, we propose an adaptive thresholding strategy to solve the inhomogeneity issue, based on the local information, and to accurately segment synaptic vesicles. We design algorithms to address the issue of tiny objects of interest overlapping. Several post processing criteria are defined to filter false positives. A total of 152 features are extracted for each detected vesicle. A score is defined for each synaptic vesicle image to quantify the neuron activity. We also compare the unsupervised strategy with the supervised method. Our experiments on hippocampal neuron assays showed that the proposed system can automatically detect vesicles and quantify their dynamics for evaluating neuron activities. The availability of such an automated system will open opportunities for investigation of synaptic neuropathology and identification of candidate therapeutics for neurodegeneration.
Vocal expressions commonly elicit activity in superior temporal and inferior frontal cortices, indicating a distributed network to decode vocally expressed emotions. We examined the involvement of this fronto-temporal network for the decoding of angry voices during attention towards (explicit attention) or away from emotional cues in voices (implicit attention) based on a reanalysis of previous data (Frhholz, S., Ceravolo, L., Grandjean, D., 2012. Cerebral Cortex 22, 1107-1117). The general network revealed high interconnectivity of bilateral inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) to different bilateral voice-sensitive regions in mid and posterior superior temporal gyri. Right superior temporal gyrus (STG) regions showed connectivity to the left primary auditory cortex and secondary auditory cortex (AC) as well as to high-level auditory regions. This general network revealed differences in connectivity depending on the attentional focus. Explicit attention to angry voices revealed a specific right-left STG network connecting higher-level AC. During attention to a nonemotional vocal feature we also found a left-right STG network implicitly elicited by angry voices that also included low-level left AC. Furthermore, only during this implicit processing there was widespread interconnectivity between bilateral IFG and bilateral STG. This indicates that while implicit attention to angry voices recruits extended bilateral STG and IFG networks for the sensory and evaluative decoding of voices, explicit attention to angry voices solely involves a network of bilateral STG regions probably for the integrative recognition of emotional cues from voices.
Understanding the temporal dynamics underlying cortical processing of auditory categories is complicated by difficulties in equating temporal and spectral features across stimulus classes. In the present magnetoencephalography (MEG) study, female voices and cat sounds were filtered so as to match in most of their acoustic properties, and the respective auditory evoked responses were investigated with a paradigm that allowed us to examine auditory cortical processing of two natural sound categories beyond the physical make-up of the stimuli. Three cat or human voice sounds were first presented to establish a categorical context. Subsequently, a probe sound that was congruent, incongruent, or ambiguous to this context was presented. As an index of a categorical mismatch, MEG responses to incongruent sounds were stronger than the responses to congruent sounds at ~250 ms in the right temporoparietal cortex, regardless of the sound category. Furthermore, probe sounds that could not be unambiguously attributed to any of the two categories (&quot;cat&quot; or &quot;voice&quot;) evoked stronger responses after the voice than cat context at 200-250 ms, suggesting a stronger contextual effect for human voices. Our results suggest that categorical templates for human and animal vocalizations are established at ~250 ms in the right temporoparietal cortex, likely reflecting continuous online analysis of spectral stimulus features during auditory categorizing task.
A growing body of experimental evidence suggests that functional connectivity at rest is shaped by the underlying anatomical structure. Furthermore, the organizational properties of resting-state functional networks are thought to serve as the basis for an optimal cognitive integration. A disconnection at the structural level, as occurring in some brain diseases, would then lead to functional and presumably cognitive impairments. In this work, we propose a computational model to investigate the role of a structural disconnection (encompassing putative local/global and axonal/synaptic mechanisms) on the organizational properties of emergent functional networks. The brain's spontaneous neural activity and the corresponding hemodynamic response were simulated using a large-scale network model, consisting of local neural populations coupled through white matter fibers. For a certain coupling strength, simulations reproduced healthy resting-state functional connectivity with graph properties in the range of the ones reported experimentally. When the structural connectivity is decreased, either globally or locally, the resultant simulated functional connectivity exhibited a network reorganization characterized by an increase in hierarchy, efficiency and robustness, a decrease in small-worldness and clustering and a narrower degree distribution, in the same way as recently reported for schizophrenia patients. Theoretical results indicate that most disconnection-related neuropathologies should induce the same qualitative changes in resting-state brain activity.
Diffusion MRI streamlines tractography suffers from a number of inherent limitations, one of which is the accurate determination of when streamlines should be terminated. Use of an accurate streamlines propagation mask from segmentation of an anatomical image confines the streamlines to the volume of the brain white matter, but does not take full advantage of all of the information available from such an image. We present a modular addition to streamlines tractography, which makes more effective use of the information available from anatomical image segmentation, and the known properties of the neuronal axons being reconstructed, to apply biologically realistic priors to the streamlines generated; we refer to this as &quot;Anatomically-Constrained Tractography&quot;. Results indicate that some of the known false positives associated with tractography algorithms are prevented, such that the biological accuracy of the reconstructions should be improved, provided that state-of-the-art streamlines tractography methods are used.
Reconstructing the macroscopic human cortical connectome by Diffusion Weighted Imaging (DWI) is a challenging research topic that has recently gained a lot of attention. In the present work, we investigate the effects of intra-voxel fiber direction modeling and tractography algorithm on derived structural network indices (e.g. density, small-worldness and global efficiency). The investigation is centered on three semi-independent distinctions within the large set of available diffusion models and tractography methods: i) single fiber direction versus multiple directions in the intra-voxel diffusion model, ii) deterministic versus probabilistic tractography and iii) local versus global measure-of-fit of the reconstructed fiber trajectories. The effect of algorithm and parameter choice has two components. First, there is the large effect of tractography algorithm and parameters on global network density, which is known to strongly affect graph indices. Second, and more importantly, there are remaining effects on graph indices which range in the tens of percent even when global density is controlled for. This is crucial for the sensitivity of any human structural network study and for the validity of study comparisons. We then investigate the effect of the choice of tractography algorithm on sensitivity and specificity of the resulting connections with a connectome dissection quality control (QC) approach. In this approach, evaluation of Tract Specific Density Coefficients (TSDCs) measures sensitivity while careful inspection of tractography path results assesses specificity. We use this to discuss interactions in the combined effects of these methods and implications for future studies.
To what extent do past experiences shape our behaviors, perceptions, and thoughts even without explicit knowledge of these influences? Behavioral research has demonstrated that various cognitive processes can be influenced by conceptual representations implicitly primed during a preceding and unrelated task. Here we investigated whether emotion processing might also be influenced by prior incidental exposure to negative semantic material and which neural substrates would mediate these effects. During a first (priming) task, participants performed a variant of the hangman game with either negative or neutral emotion-laden words. Subsequently, they performed a second, unrelated visual task with fearful and neutral faces presented at attended or unattended locations. Participants were generally not aware of any relationships between the two tasks. We found that priming with emotional words enhanced amygdala sensitivity to faces in the subsequent visual task, while decreasing discriminative responses to threat. Furthermore, the magnitude of the induced bias in behavior and amygdala activation was predicted by the effectiveness of semantic access observed in the priming task. This demonstrates that emotional processing can be modulated by implicit influence of environmental information processed at an earlier time, independently of volitional control.
Extensive work using magneto- and electroencephalography (M/EEG) suggests that cortical alpha activity represents a top-down controlled gating mechanism employed by processes like attention across different modalities. However, it is not yet clear to what extent this presumed gating function of alpha activity also applies to the processing of pain. In the current study, a spatial attention paradigm was employed requiring subjects to attend to painful laser stimuli on one hand while ignoring stimuli on the other hand. Simultaneously, brain activity was recorded with MEG. In order to disentangle pre- and post-stimulus effects of attention, alpha activity was analyzed during time windows in anticipation of and in response to painful laser stimulation. Painful laser stimuli led to a suppression of alpha activity over both ipsi- and contralateral primary somatosensory areas irrespective if they were attended or ignored. Spatial attention was associated with a lateralization of anticipatory pre-stimulus alpha activity. Alpha activity was lower over primary somatosensory areas when the contralateral hand was attended compared to when the ipsilateral hand was attended, in line with the notion that oscillatory alpha activity regulates the flow of incoming information by engaging and/or disengaging early sensory areas. On the contrary, post-stimulus alpha activity, for stimuli on either hand, was consistently decreased with attention over contralateral areas. Most likely, this finding reflects an increased cortical activation and enhanced alerting if a painful stimulus is attended. The present results show that spatial attention results in a modulation of both pre- and post-stimulus alpha activity associated with pain. This flexible regulation of alpha activity matches findings from other modalities. We conclude that the assumed functional role of alpha activity as a top-down controlled gating mechanism includes pain processing and most likely represents a unified mechanism used throughout the brain.
The functional brain network of a bilingual's first language (L1) plays a crucial role in shaping that of his or her second language (L2). However, it is less clear how L2 acquisition changes the functional network of L1 processing in bilinguals. In this study, we demonstrate that in bimodal (Chinese spoken-sign) bilinguals, the functional network supporting L1 production (spoken language) has been reorganized to accommodate the network underlying L2 production (sign language). Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and a picture naming task, we find greater recruitment of the right supramarginal gyrus (RSMG), the right temporal gyrus (RSTG), and the right superior occipital gyrus (RSOG) for bilingual speakers versus monolingual speakers during L1 production. In addition, our second experiment reveals that these regions reflect either automatic activation of L2 (RSOG) or extra cognitive coordination (RSMG and RSTG) between both languages during L1 production. The functional connectivity between these regions, as well as between other regions that are L1- or L2-specific, is enhanced during L1 production in bimodal bilinguals as compared to their monolingual peers. These findings suggest that L1 production in bimodal bilinguals involves an interaction between L1 and L2, supporting the claim that learning a second language does, in fact, change the functional brain network of the first language.
Multisensory experiences influence subsequent memory performance and brain responses. Studies have thus far concentrated on semantically congruent pairings, leaving unresolved the influence of stimulus pairing and memory sub-types. Here, we paired images with unique, meaningless sounds during a continuous recognition task to determine if purely episodic, single-trial multisensory experiences can incidentally impact subsequent visual object discrimination. Psychophysics and electrical neuroimaging analyses of visual evoked potentials (VEPs) compared responses to repeated images either paired or not with a meaningless sound during initial encounters. Recognition accuracy was significantly impaired for images initially presented as multisensory pairs and could not be explained in terms of differential attention or transfer of effects from encoding to retrieval. VEP modulations occurred at 100-130 ms and 270-310 ms and stemmed from topographic differences indicative of network configuration changes within the brain. Distributed source estimations localized the earlier effect to regions of the right posterior temporal gyrus (STG) and the later effect to regions of the middle temporal gyrus (MTG). Responses in these regions were stronger for images previously encountered as multisensory pairs. Only the later effect correlated with performance such that greater MTG activity in response to repeated visual stimuli was linked with greater performance decrements. The present findings suggest that brain networks involved in this discrimination may critically depend on whether multisensory events facilitate or impair later visual memory performance. More generally, the data support models whereby effects of multisensory interactions persist to incidentally affect subsequent behavior as well as visual processing during its initial stages.
Use of thrombolysis in acute ischaemic stroke may be limited by a narrow benefit/risk ratio. Pharmacological inhibition of the ischaemic cascade may constitute an effective and safer approach to stroke treatment. This study compared the effects of high doses of cytidine diphosphate-choline (CDP-choline; 1000 mg/kg) with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA; 5 mg/kg) in an experimental animal model of embolic stroke. Fifteen rats were embolized in the right internal carotid artery with an autologous clot and were divided into three groups: (1) infarct; (2) intravenous rt-PA 5 mg/kg 30 minutes post-embolization; and (3) CDP-choline 1000 mg/kg, intraperitoneal, three doses, 30 minutes, 24 hours, and 48 hours post-embolization. Functional evaluation scores were evaluated using Rogers test, lesion volume by haematoxylin and eosin staining, cell death with transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labelling, and plasma levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. In this study, CDP-choline and rt-PA produced a significant reduction in brain damage considering infarct volume, cell death, and inflammatory cytokines (tumour necrosis factor-alpha and IL-6) compared with the infarct group. Additionally, CDP-choline significantly decreased infarct volume, cell death, and IL-6 levels with respect to the rt-PA group. From these results, we conclude that high-dose CDP-choline may be an effective treatment for acute ischaemic stroke even in absence of thrombolysis.



Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are the two most common neurodegenerative disorders and exact a burden on our society greater than cardiovascular disease and cancer combined. While cognitive and motor symptoms are used to define AD and PD, respectively, patients with both disorders exhibit sleep disturbances including insomnia, hypersomnia and excessive daytime napping. The molecular basis of perturbed sleep in AD and PD may involve damage to hypothalamic and brainstem nuclei that control sleep-wake cycles. Perturbations in neurotransmitter and hormone signaling (e.g., serotonin, norepinephrine and melatonin) and the neurotrophic factor BDNF likely contribute to the disease process. Abnormal accumulations of neurotoxic forms of amyloid -peptide, tau and -synuclein occur in brain regions involved in the regulation of sleep in AD and PD patients, and are sufficient to cause sleep disturbances in animal models of these neurodegenerative disorders. Disturbed regulation of sleep often occurs early in the course of AD and PD, and may contribute to the cognitive and motor symptoms. Treatments that target signaling pathways that control sleep have been shown to retard the disease process in animal models of AD and PD, suggesting a potential for such interventions in humans at risk for or in the early stages of these disorders.
Cannabinoids have been shown to exert neuroprotective effects in a plethora of neurodegenerative conditions. Over the past decade, some studies demonstrate that cannabinoids can interact with nuclear peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). We investigated protective properties of WIN55212-2 (WIN, a non-selective cannabinoid receptor agonist) in beta-amyloid (A)-induced neurodegeneration in rat hippocampus and possible involvement of PPAR-gamma (PPAR-). A (1-42) was injected into the hippocampus of male rats. Animals were administered by intracerebroventricular rout the following treatments on days 1, 3, 5, 7: vehicle, WIN, GW9662 (selective PPAR- antagonist) plus WIN, AM251 (selective CB receptor antagonist) plus WIN, SR144528 (selective CB receptor antagonist) plus WIN, each of antagonists alone. Injection of A-induced spatial memory impairment and a dramatic rise in hippocampal TNF-, active caspase 3, nuclear NF-kB levels and TUNEL-positive neurons. WIN administration significantly improved memory function and diminished the elevated levels of these markers, while antagonizing either CB or CB receptor subtype partially attenuated the protective effects. Intriguingly, WIN significantly increased PPAR- level and transcriptional activity, the latter being partially inhibited with AM251 but not with SR144528. The enhancing effect on PPAR- pathway was crucial to WIN-induced neuroprotection since GW9662 partially reversed the beneficial actions of WIN. Co-administration of the three antagonists led to the complete abrogation of WIN effects. Our findings indicate that WIN exerts neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory actions against A damage through both CB and CB receptors. Of great note, both direct and CB-mediated increase in PPAR- signaling also contributes to WIN-induced neuroprotection.
Calcium-mediated pathologic activation of the cysteine protease calpain has been linked to neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) through the cleavage of proteolytic substrates that negatively affect neuronal function. Hyperphosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein tau and the subsequent aggregation of tau filaments resulting in the intracellular formation of neurofibrillary tangles are recognized as key etiological factors in AD pathology. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), a major kinase responsible for tau hyperphosphorylation in the AD brain, becomes hyperactivated through calpain-mediated cleavage-conversion of the Cdk5 regulatory protein p35 to p25. In the present study, we examined the effects of the novel small-molecule calpain inhibitor A-705253 in acute models of tau hyperphosphorylation in vitro and in vivo. In hippocampal slices in vitro, lowering medium temperature to 33 C increased tau phosphorylation in which incubation with A-705253 blocked low temperature-induced tau phosphorylation as measured by Western blot analysis. Pentobarbital-induced hypothermia or acute systemic LPS treatment in normal mice increased tau phosphorylation in hippocampal CA3 mossy fibers, as measured by immunohistochemistry, whereas acute A-705253 pretreatment prevented the stress-induced tau hyperphosphorylation in both models. In support of a Cdk5-mediated mechanism, A-705253 administered for two weeks in the drinking water of six month-old prepathogenic 3x Tg-AD mice resulted in decreased expression of the calpain proteolytic p25 fragment. Taken together, results of these studies suggest that calpain inhibition has potential utility in reducing tau hyperphosphorylation and may represent a novel disease-modifying approach in the treatment of AD.
Recent evidence suggests that GABA(A) receptor ligands may regulate ethanol intake via effects at both synaptic and extrasynaptic receptors. For example, the endogenous neurosteroid, allopregnanolone (ALLO) has a similar pharmacological profile as ethanol, and it alters ethanol intake in rodent models. Additionally, recent evidence suggests that -subunit-containing extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors may confer high sensitivity to both ethanol and neurosteroids. The purpose of the present study was to determine the effects of ganaxolone (GAN; an ALLO analog) and gaboxadol (THIP; a GABA(A) receptor agonist with selectivity for the extrasynaptic -subunit) on ethanol intake, drinking patterns, and bout characteristics in operant and limited-access self-administration procedures. In separate studies, the effects of GAN (0-10 mg/kg) and THIP (2-16 mg/kg) were tested in C57BL/6J male mice provided with 2-h access to a two-bottle choice of water or 10% ethanol or trained to respond for 30 min of access to 10% ethanol. GAN had no overall significant effect on operant ethanol self-administration, but tended to decrease the latency to consume the first bout. In the limited-access procedure, GAN dose-dependently decreased ethanol intake. THIP dose-dependently decreased ethanol intake in both paradigms, altering both the consummatory and appetitive processes of operant self-administration as well as shifting the drinking patterns in both procedures. These results add to literature suggesting time-dependent effects of neurosteroids to promote the onset, and to subsequently decrease, ethanol drinking behavior, and they support a role for extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptor activation in ethanol reinforcement.
Photolysis is widely used in experimental neuroscience to isolate post-synaptic receptor activation from presynaptic processes, to determine receptor mechanisms in situ, for pharmacological dissection of signaling pathways, or for photostimulation/inhibition in neural networks. We have evaluated new caged neuroactive amino acids that use 4-methoxy-7-nitroindolinyl- (MNI) or 1-(2-nitrophenyl)ethoxycarbonyl (NPEC) photoprotecting groups to make caged ligands specific for glutamate receptor sub-types. Each was tested for interference with synaptic transmission and excitability and for receptor-specific actions in slice preparations. No adverse effects were found at glutamate receptors. At high concentration, MNI-caged, but not NPEC-caged ligands, interfered with GABA-ergic transmission. MNI-caged amino acids have sub-microsecond release times suitable for investigating mechanisms at fast synaptic receptors in situ. MNI-NMDA and MNI-kainate were synthesized and tested. MNI-NMDA showed stoichiometric release of chirally pure NMDA. Wide-field photolysis in cerebellar interneurons produced a fast-rising sustained activation of NMDA receptors, and localized laser photolysis gave a fast, transient response. Photolysis of MNI-kainate to release up to 4 M kainate generated large inward currents at resting membrane potential in Purkinje neurons. Application of GYKI 53655 indicated that 40% of the current was due to AMPA receptor activation by kainate. Signaling via metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) does not require fast release rates. NPEC cages are simpler to prepare but have slower photorelease. Photolysis of NPEC-ACPD or NPEC-DHPG in Purkinje neurons generated slow inward currents blocked by the mGluR type 1 antagonist CPCCOEt similar to the slow sEPSC seen with parallel fiber burst stimulation. NPEC-AMPA was also tested in Purkinje neurons and showed large sustained inward currents selective for AMPA receptors with little activation of kainate receptors. MNI-caged l-glutamate, NMDA and kainate inhibit GABA-A receptors with IC concentrations close to the maximum concentrations useful in receptor signaling experiments.
Patients suffering from amphetamine-induced psychosis display repetitive behaviors, partially alleviated by antipsychotics, which are reminiscent of rodent stereotypies. Due to recent evidence implicating endocannabinoid involvement in brain disorders, including psychosis, we studied the effects of endocannabinoid signaling on neuronal oscillations of rats exhibiting methamphetamine stereotypy. Neuronal network oscillations were recorded with multiple single electrode arrays aimed at the nucleus accumbens of freely-moving rats. During the experiments, animals were dosed intravenously with the CB1 receptor antagonist rimonabant (0.3 mg/kg) or vehicle followed by an ascending dose regimen of methamphetamine (0.01, 0.1, 1, and 3 mg/kg; cumulative dosing). The effects of drug administration on stereotypy and local gamma oscillations were evaluated. Methamphetamine treatment significantly increased high frequency gamma oscillations (80 Hz). Entrainment of a subpopulation of nucleus accumbens neurons to high frequency gamma was associated with stereotypy encoding in putative fast-spiking interneurons, but not in putative medium spiny neurons. The observed ability of methamphetamine to induce both stereotypy and high frequency gamma power was potently disrupted following CB1 receptor blockade. The present data suggest that CB1 receptor-dependent mechanisms are recruited by methamphetamine to modify striatal interneuron oscillations that accompany changes in psychomotor state, further supporting the link between endocannabinoids and schizophrenia spectrum disorders.
The management of depression remains a constant challenge in clinical practice. This is largely due to the fact that initial treatments frequently do not lead to remission and recovery. The current treatment approach involves lengthy trial-and-error periods. It would be beneficial to have early reliable predictors to determine whether patients will respond to treatment or not. Electroencephalography (EEG) derived biomarkers namely change in the activity of EEG frequency bands, hemispheric alpha asymmetry, theta cordance, the antidepressant treatment response index (ATR) and evoked potentials have all been shown to predict response to a variety of antidepressant medications. However, the neurobiology in support of this association has been largely unexplored. In this review, we discuss biological mechanisms for each EEG derived biomarker predictive of treatment response. Validating such biomarkers will not only greatly aid clinicians in selecting antidepressant treatment for individual patients but will also provide a critical step in drug discovery.
Habenulo-interpeduncular nicotinic receptors, particularly those containing 3, 4 and 5 subunits, have recently been implicated in the reinforcing effects of nicotine. Our laboratory has shown that injection of 34 nicotinic receptor antagonists into the medial habenula (MHb) decreases self-administration of multiple abused drugs, including nicotine (Glick etal., 2006, 2008; 2011). However, it is unclear whether blockade of MHb nicotinic receptors has a direct effect on mesolimbic dopamine. Here, we performed invivo microdialysis in female rats. Microdialysis probes were implanted into the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and 34 nicotinic receptor antagonists (18-methoxycoronaridine; 18-MC or -conotoxin AuIB; AuIB), were injected into the ipsilateral MHb, just prior to systemic nicotine (0.4mg/kg, s.c.). Dialysate samples were collected before and after drug administration and levels of extracellular dopamine and its metabolites were measured using HPLC. Acute nicotine administration increased levels of extracellular dopamine and its metabolites in the NAcc. Pre-treatment with intra-habenular AuIB or 18-MC prevented nicotine-induced increases in accumbal dopamine. Neither drug had an effect on nicotine-induced increases in dopamine metabolites, suggesting that 34 receptors do not play a role in dopamine metabolism. The effect of intra-habenular blockade of 34 receptors on NAcc dopamine was selective for acute nicotine: neither AuIB nor 18-MC prevented increases in NAcc dopamine stimulated by acute d-amphetamine or morphine. These results suggest the mesolimbic response to acute nicotine, but not to acute administration of other drugs of abuse, is directly modulated by 34 nicotinic receptors in the MHb, and emphasize a critical role for habenular nicotinic receptors in nicotine's reinforcing effects.
Overactivity of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase enzyme 1 (PARP-1) is suggested to be a major contributor to neuronal damage following brain or spinal cord injury, and has led to study the PARP-1 inhibitor 2-(dimethylamino)-N-(5,6-dihydro-6-oxophenanthridin-2yl)acetamide (PJ-34) as a neuroprotective agent. Unexpectedly, electrophysiological recording from the neonatal rat spinal cord invitro showed that, under control conditions, 1-60M PJ-34 per se strongly increased spontaneous network discharges occurring synchronously on ventral roots, persisting for 24h even after PJ-34 washout. The PARP-1 inhibitor PHE had no similar effect. The action by PJ-34 was reversibly suppressed by glutamate ionotropic receptor blockers and remained after applying strychnine and bicuculline. Fictive locomotion evoked by neurochemicals or by dorsal root stimulation was present 24h after PJ-34 application. In accordance with this observation, lumbar neurons and glia were undamaged. Neurochemical experiments showed that PJ-34 produced up to 33% inhibition of synaptosomal glutamate uptake with no effect on GABA uptake. In keeping with this result, the glutamate uptake blocker TBOA (5M) induced long-lasting synchronous discharges without suppressing the ability to produce fictive locomotion after 24h. The novel inhibition of glutamate uptake by PJ-34 suggested that this effect may compound tests for its neuroprotective activity which cannot be merely attributed to PARP-1 block. Furthermore, the current data indicate that the neonatal rat spinal cord could withstand a strong, long-lasting rise in network excitability without compromising locomotor pattern generation or circuit structure in contrast with the damage to brain circuits known to be readily produced by persistent seizures.
Trifluoroacetic acid is a metabolite of the inhaled anesthetics halothane, desflurane and isoflurane as well as a major contaminant in HPLC-purified peptides. Ligand-gated ion channels, including cys-loop receptors such as the glycine receptor, have been the targets of peptide-based drug design and are considered to be likely candidates for mediating the effects of anesthetics in vivo, but the possible secondary contributions of contaminants and metabolites to these effects have not been studied. We used two-electrode voltage-clamp electrophysiology to test glycine, GABA(A) and 5-HT3 receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes for their sensitivities to sodium trifluoroacetate. Trifluoroacetate (100 M-3mM) enhanced the currents elicited by low concentrations of glycine applied to 1 homomeric and 1 heteromeric glycine receptors, but it had no effects when co-applied with a maximally-effective glycine concentration. Trifluoroacetate had no effects on 122S GABA(A) or 5-HT3A receptors at any GABA or serotonin concentration tested. The results demonstrate that trifluoroacetate acts as an allosteric modulator at the glycine receptor with greater specificity than other known modulators. These results have important implications for both the secondary effects of volatile anesthetics and the presence of contaminating trifluoroacetate in HPLC-purified peptides, which is potentially an important source of experimental variability or error that requires control.
Epilepsy and autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) frequently co-occur during childhood, however, the characteristics of psychiatric or behavioural problems in these children remains largely unknown. This article contributes to these discussions by reporting on the prevalence and presentation of psychiatric or behavioural problems in children with epilepsy and ASDs, as well as on the use of anticonvulsants in these children. The current evidence suggests that children with epilepsy and ASDs may present with a distinct clinical profile, with a greater number of developmental difficulties, and a more severe expression of the ASD phenotype that can not solely be accounted for by level of intellectual functioning. Positive effects of anticonvulsants on behavioural symptoms associated with ASDs were also reported, though pharmacoresistance and a lack of clear treatment guidelines may contribute to an elevated risk of adverse side effects. In relation to clinical presentation and management there is a need for careful consideration of potential interaction effects between disorder specific factors (e.g., age of seizure onset/ASD diagnosis), cognitive characteristics (e.g., intellectual functioning, memory), and psychosocial variables (e.g., coping strategies). Ultimately however, many conclusions are tentative and this review highlights the need for more empirically validated research on children with epilepsy and ASDs.
Accurate processing of emotional information is a critical component of appropriate social interactions and interpersonal relationships. Disturbance of emotion processing is present in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and is a clinical feature in two of the three subtypes: behavioural-variant FTD and semantic dementia. Emotion processing in progressive nonfluent aphasia, the third FTD subtype, is thought to be mostly preserved, although current evidence is scant. This paper reviews the literature on emotion recognition, reactivity and expression in FTD subtypes, although most studies focus on emotion recognition. The relationship between patterns of emotion processing deficits and patterns of neural atrophy are considered, by integrating evidence from recent neuroimaging studies. The review findings are discussed in the context of three contemporary theories of emotion processing: the limbic system model, the right hemisphere model and a multimodal system of emotion. Results across subtypes of FTD are most consistent with the multimodal system model, and support the presence of somewhat dissociable neural correlates for basic emotions, with strongest evidence for the emotions anger and sadness. Poor emotion processing is evident in all three subtypes, although deficits are more widespread than what would be predicted based on studies in healthy cohorts. Studies that include behavioural and imaging data are limited. Future investigations combining these approaches will help improve the understanding of the neural network underlying emotion processing. Presently, longitudinal investigations of emotion processing in FTD are lacking, and studies investigating emotion processing over time are critical to understand the clinical manifestations of disease progression in FTD.
While natural speech does not possess the same degree of temporal regularity found in music, there is recent evidence to suggest that temporal regularity enhances speech processing. The aim of this experiment was to examine whether speech processing would be enhanced by the prior presentation of a rhythmical prime. We recorded electrophysiological (EEG) and behavioural (reaction time) data while participants listened to nonsense words preceded by a simple rhythm. Results showed that speech processing was enhanced by the temporal expectations generated by the prime. Interestingly, beat and metrical structure of the prime had an effect on different ERP components elicited by the following word (N100, P300). These results indicate that using a musical-like rhythmic prime matched to the prosodic features of speech enhances phonological processing of spoken words and thus reveal a cross-domain effect of musical rhythm on the processing of speech rhythm.
Increasing evidence in the literature supports the usefulness of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) in studying reading processes. Two brain regions are primarily involved in phonological decoding: the left superior temporal gyrus (STG), which is associated with the auditory representation of spoken words, and the left inferior parietal lobe (IPL), which operates in phonological computation. This study aimed to clarify the specific contribution of IPL and STG to reading aloud and to evaluate the possibility of modulating healthy participants' task performance using high frequency repetitive TMS (hf-rTMS). The main finding is that hf-rTMS over the left IPL improves non-word reading accuracy (fewer errors), whereas hf-rTMS over the right STG selectively decreases text-reading accuracy (more errors). These results confirm the prevalent role of the left IPL in grapheme-to-phoneme conversion. The non-word reading improvement after Left-IPL stimulation provide a direct link between left IPL activation and advantages in sublexical procedures, mainly involved in non-word reading. Results indicate also the specific involvement of STG in reading morphologically complex words and in processing the representation of the text. The text reading impairment after stimulation of the right STG can be interpreted in light of an inhibitory influence on the homologous area. In sum, data document that hf-rTMS is effective in modulating the reading accuracy of expert readers and that the modulation is task related and site specific. These findings suggest new perspectives for the treatment of reading disorders.
Familiarity and recollection are thought to be separate processes underlying recognition memory. Event-related potentials (ERPs) dissociate these processes, with an early (approximately 300-500ms) frontal effect relating to familiarity (the FN400) and a later (500-800ms) parietal old/new effect relating to recollection. It has been debated whether source information for a studied item (i.e., contextual associations from when the item was previously encountered) is only accessible through recollection, or whether familiarity can contribute to successful source recognition. It has been shown that familiarity can assist in perceptual source monitoring when the source attribute is an intrinsic property of the item (e.g., an object's surface color), but few studies have examined its contribution to recognizing extrinsic source associations. Extrinsic source associations were examined in three experiments involving memory judgments for pictures of common objects. In Experiment 1, source information was spatial and results suggested that familiarity contributed to accurate source recognition: the FN400 ERP component showed a source accuracy effect, and source accuracy was above chance for items judged to only feel familiar. Source information in Experiment 2 was an extrinsic color association; source accuracy was at chance for familiar items and the FN400 did not differ between correct and incorrect source judgments. Experiment 3 replicated the results using a within-subjects manipulation of spatial vs. color source. Overall, the results suggest that familiarity's contribution to extrinsic source monitoring depends on the type of source information being remembered.

Suicide is a complex behaviour contributing to a significant number of unnecessary deaths worldwide. Accordingly, the quest for suicide risk factors is one of the most intensively developing issues of psychiatric research. In the last few decades a number of interesting results have been published about associations between season of birth (SOB) and several physiological and pathological aspects of human life, while, in regard to neuroscience, several investigations confirmed that SOB is associated with the risk of several major neuropsychiatric disorders and suicide as well. Research concerning the possible causative factors behind these associations were also performed suggesting that SOB-associated factors (including day length; seasonal changes in maternal nutritional status and vitamin D levels; seasonal alterations in incidence of some common infective disorders) contribute to neurochemical and consequentially temperament/personality trait alterations which may mediate the associations between SOB and psychiatric disorders. Other results indicate an uneven distribution of monoamine metabolism-related genotypes in different birth season cohorts possibly underpinning the effects of SOB. In our narrative review we summarize and discuss the available literature on the relevance of the most important findings concerning the above fields.
Schizophrenia is a complex and debilitating disorder, characterized by positive, negative, and cognitive symptoms. Among the cognitive deficits observed in patients with schizophrenia, recent work has indicated abnormalities in multisensory integration, a process that is important for the formation of comprehensive environmental percepts and for the appropriate guidance of behavior. Very little is known about the neural bases of such multisensory integration deficits, partly because of the lack of viable behavioral tasks to assess this process in animal models. In this study, we used our recently developed rodent cross-modal object recognition (CMOR) task to investigate multisensory integration functions in rats treated sub-chronically with one of two N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonists, MK-801, or ketamine; such treatment is known to produce schizophrenia-like symptoms. Rats treated with the NMDAR antagonists were impaired on the standard spontaneous object recognition (SOR) task, unimodal (tactile or visual only) versions of SOR, and the CMOR task with intermediate to long retention delays between acquisition and testing phases, but they displayed a selective CMOR task deficit when mnemonic demand was minimized. This selective impairment in multisensory information processing was dose-dependently reversed by acute systemic administration of nicotine. These findings suggest that persistent NMDAR hypofunction may contribute to the multisensory integration deficits observed in patients with schizophrenia and highlight the valuable potential of the CMOR task to facilitate further systematic investigation of the neural bases of, and potential treatments for, this hitherto overlooked aspect of cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia.
The effect of nicotine exposure on the subsequent self-administration of amphetamine, extinction of this behavior, and amphetamine-induced reinstatement of drug seeking was assessed with particular attention to the contribution of contextual stimuli paired or unpaired with nicotine during exposure. Rats were exposed to five injections, one injection every third day, of either saline or nicotine (0.4mg/kg, IP, base) in three experiments. In one, exposure injections were administered in the home cage. In another, they were administered in the self-administration chambers with the levers retracted. In a third, nicotine was administered either explicitly paired or unpaired with the self-administration chambers using a discrimination learning procedure. Starting 13-15 days later, rats were trained to self-administer amphetamine (100g/kg/infusion, IV), tested under a progressive ratio (PR) schedule for 6 days, subjected to up to 20 days of extinction training, and were then tested for reinstatement by non-contingent injections of amphetamine (0, 0.2, 0.4, and 0.75mg/kg, IP). Nicotine enhanced the self-administration of amphetamine under the PR schedule and amphetamine-induced reinstatement but only when rats were tested in the chamber in which they were previously exposed to nicotine. These effects were not observed in rats exposed to nicotine in the home cage or in rats exposed to nicotine explicitly unpaired with the self-administration chambers. Exposure to nicotine also rendered rats resistant to extinction when amphetamine was withheld but this effect was observed regardless of nicotine exposure context, suggesting a separate consequence of drug exposure. Together, these results show that previous exposure to nicotine can enhance the incentive motivational effects of other psychostimulants like amphetamine and indicate a critical role for nicotine-associated contextual stimuli in the mediation of this effect. These findings have important implications for the treatment of addictions in humans.
Calcifying pseudoneoplasm is rarely encountered along the neuraxis, and only few cases have been reported to involve the spine. Its exact pathogenesis is unknown, and has been regarded as an unusual reactive process which must be differentiated from infection or malignancy. This rare entity carries a good prognosis after surgical resection. We report on the computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging and diffusion-weighted features of calcifying pseudoneoplasm of the spine by describing two patients with involvement of the craniocervical junction, and thoracic spine.
The mesolimbic dopaminergic system (ML-DA) allows adapted interactions with the environment and is therefore of critical significance for the individual's survival. The ML-DA system is implicated in reward and emotional functions, and it is perturbed in schizophrenia, addiction, and depression. The ML-DA reward system is not only recruited during wakeful behaviors, it is also active during sleep. Here, we introduce the Reward Activation Model (RAM) for sleep and dreaming, according to which activation of the ML-DA reward system during sleep contributes to memory processes, to the regulation of rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep, and to the generation and motivational content of dreams. In particular, the engagement of ML-DA and associated limbic structures prioritizes information with high emotional or motivational relevance for (re)processing during sleep and dreaming. The RAM provides testable predictions and has clinical implications for our understanding of the pathogenesis of major depression and addiction.
Interoception refers to a collection of processes by which the state of the body is transmitted back to the brain, giving rise to awareness of the internal milieu, and motivating behavioural responses to homeostatically regulate internal state. Recent work has begun to explore the relevance of this construct to drug addiction: drugs of abuse and drug-related stimuli induce pronounced peripheral changes, and damage to a brain region known to support interoception (the insula) disrupts nicotine dependence. This article critically reviews existing accounts of addiction that suggest impaired interoception contributes to drug abuse. Conceptually, we argue that existing addiction interoception models could be usefully extended by considering (i) the multiple components of the bodily feedback system (signal, perception, and appraisal) and (ii) how individual differences in these three components impact on cognitive-affective processing in addiction. Empirically, whilst no studies have examined direct behavioural measures of interoception in addicted populations, several indirect lines of experimental work that pertain to this altered interoception hypothesis are presented. Clinical implications are discussed.
People with synaesthesia show an enhanced memory relative to demographically matched controls. The most obvious explanation for this is that the 'extra' perceptual experiences lead to richer encoding and retrieval opportunities of stimuli which induce synaesthesia (typically verbal stimuli). Although there is some evidence for this, it is unlikely to be the whole explanation. For instance, not all stimuli which trigger synaesthesia are better remembered (e.g., digit span) and some stimuli which do not trigger synaesthesia are better remembered. In fact, synaesthetes tend to have better visual memory than verbal memory. We suggest that enhanced memory in synaesthesia is linked to wider changes in cognitive systems at the interface of perception and memory and link this to recent findings in the neuroscience of memory.
A strong relationship between the clinical characteristics of epilepsy and the nature of cognitive impairments associated with the condition has been found, but the nature of this relationship appears to be quite complex and not well understood. This review presents a summary of the research on the interaction between cognition and epilepsy, surveyed from a mechanistic perspective with the aim of clarifying factors that contribute to the co-existence of both disorders. The physiological basis underpinning cognitive processing is first reviewed. The physiology of epilepsy is reviewed, with emphasis placed on interictal discharges and seizures. The nature of the impact of epilepsy on cognition is described, with transient and prolonged effects distinguished. Finally, the complexity of the co-morbidity between cognitive dysfunction and epilepsy is discussed in relation to childhood and adult-onset epilepsy syndromes and severe epileptic encephalopathies. Structural and functional abnormalities exist in patients with epilepsy that may underpin both the cognitive dysfunction and epilepsy, highlighting the complexity of the association. Research, possibly of a longitudinal nature, is needed to elucidate this multifactorial relationship between cognitive dysfunction and epilepsy.
Pilocarpine-induced seizures induce an ectopic projection of hippocampal mossy fibers (MFs). Here, the sprouting was directly examined using TV-42 mice that express synaptopHluorin (SpH) selectively in the MF boutons. The SpH was ectopically expressed in the inner molecular layer (IML) of the dentate gyrus in typical mice after seizures, but were not always accompanied by the zinc fluorescence. The expression of SpH also has a tendency to be enhanced in layers of the CA3a region. It is suggested that the abnormal connection of neurons is more widespread than expected based on the previous zinc-detecting methods.
It is well established that cholinergic modulation of functioning of neuronal networks is common in the central nervous system at all scales from neuronal columns to large nuclei. It is involved in various attentional, cognitive and behavioral performances. We have recently demonstrated that a frog retinotectal transmission exhibits after-burst (phasic) potentiation caused by activation of presynaptic nicotinic receptors. We show in the present study that the phasic potentiation of the retinotectal transmission enhances activity of the tectum column by increasing dendritic L-type calcium current, and excitation of recurrent pear-shaped neurons of the column. This enhancement lasts for tens of seconds and may provide the mechanism of animal alertness.
We examined behavioral features of isochronous repetitive movements in two macaques. The monkeys were required to press a button repetitively in response to external cues. If the cue-intervals were constant (isochronous) and sub-second, the reaction time was shorter than in random-interval condition. In contrast, in the supra-second isochronous conditions, the reaction time was not different from random-interval condition. The results suggest that the monkeys can acquire isochronous rhythms if the intervals are sub-second, probably depending on the automatic timing system. However, the conscious timing system for supra-second intervals is not well developed in monkeys, unlike humans.
Surgical removal remains one of the key treatment modalities for vestibular schwannomas. A team approach between a neurotologist and a neurosurgeon offers the patient the expertise of both specialties and maximizes the chances for an optimal outcome. Vestibular schwannomas can typically be resected through 1 of 3 main surgical approaches: the translabyrinthine, the retrosigmoid, or the middle fossa approaches. In this report and videos, the authors describe and illustrate the indications and surgical techniques for the removal of these tumors.
Avoidance of facial nerve injury is one of the major goals of vestibular schwannoma (VS) surgery because functional deficits of the facial nerve can lead to physical, cosmetic, and psychological consequences for patients. Clinically, facial nerve function is assessed using the House-Brackmann grading scale, which also allows physicians to track the progress of a patient's facial nerve recovery. Because the facial nerve is a peripheral nerve, it has the ability to regenerate, and the extent of its functional recovery depends largely on the location and nature of its injury. In this report, the authors first describe the facial nerve anatomy, the House-Brackmann grading system, and factors known to be predictors of postoperative facial nerve outcome. The mechanisms and pathophysiology of facial nerve injury during VS surgery are then discussed, as well as factors affecting facial nerve regeneration after surgery.



We report on two cases of spontaneous CSF otorrhea, which were considered to have been caused by enlarged arachnoid granulation with bone erosion of the posterior fossa. Both cases visited us complaining of severe headache, due to bacterial meningitis. In the first patient, a 68-year-old male, a high resolution CT scan showed a bony defect in the posterior fossa plate in the right temporal bone, where CSF leakage was confirmed during the operation. In the second patient, a 54-year-old female, a bony defect was located in the posterior fossa in the left temporal bone. In both cases, the bony defects were repaired by occlusion with the pedicled temporal muscles after the meningitis had been treated. CSF otorrhea disappeared after the surgery, and has not recurred during the postoperative observation period of 1 to 3 years.


Obesity has been associated with altered cerebral functions including cognitive control. The stop signal task (SST) has been widely used to study cognitive control by producing high conflict stop trials among many low conflict go trials. Contrasting these stop trials with go trials provides a measure of saliency processing and response inhibition. By comparing functional magnetic resonance images of obese (BMI &gt;30) and lean (BMI &lt;22) females performing the SST, we observed differences in regional brain activations despite similar behavioral performance between groups. Specifically, lean females had greater activations in the insula, inferior parietal cortex, cuneus, and supplementary motor area than obese females during stop as compared to go trials. This difference was caused by diminished brain activations in obese females in stop as compared to go trials. Furthermore, the brain activations in these regions inversely correlated to BMI across subjects. These preliminary findings suggest altered neural processes of cognitive control in obesity.
The incidence of oral tumors is increasing around the world and despite recent advances in early detection and diagnosis, current treatments are still unsatisfactory. Recent data suggest that tumor persistence and recurrence could be due to the presence of a rare cell population called cancer stem cells (CSCs), which are generally spared by traditional treatments. Therefore, identification and characterization of CSCs are extremely important to develop novel and effective treatment strategies for cancer. The aim of this study was to identify and isolate CSCs in an established murine head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) cell line and to investigate the influence of hypoxic conditions on the isolated cell popul-ation. Using the expression of the aldehyde dehydrogenase1 (ALDH1) enzymatic activity, which is now recognized as a CSC marker in various tumors, we isolated a cell population expressing high levels of ALDH1 (ALDH1high) representing 10.6% in the murine SCC-VII cell line. These cells were injected subcutaneously in syngeneic animals to evaluate their tumorigenic properties. For the lowest injected cell dose (250 injected cells), tumor occurrence and median tumor size were higher in ALDH1high injected mice than in ALDH1low injected mice. Following an invivo passage and culture in serum-free medium, the percentage of ALDH1high cells increased by 3fold in SCC-VII CSCs (oral spheres) compared to the SCC-VII cell line. This percentage was further increased when oral spheres were cultured under hypoxic conditions. In conclusion, this study reports for the first time the isolation of HNSCC CSCs in a syngeneic mouse model and the use of hypoxia as a method to further enrich the ALDH1high cell population.

Sensitization of dorsal horn neurons (DHNs) in the spinal cord is dependent on pain-related synaptic plasticity and causes persistent pain. The DHN sensitization is mediated by a signal transduction pathway initiated by the activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDA-Rs). Recent studies have shown that elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and phosphorylation-dependent trafficking of GluA2 subunit of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptors (AMPA-Rs) are a part of the signaling pathway for DHN sensitization. However, the relationship between ROS and AMPA-R phosphorylation and trafficking is not known. Thus, this study investigated the effects of ROS scavengers on the phosphorylation and cell-surface localization of GluA1 and GluA2. Intrathecal NMDA- and intradermal capsaicin-induced hyperalgesic mice were used for this study since both pain models share the NMDA-R activation-dependent DHN sensitization in the spinal cord. Our behavioral, biochemical, and immunohistochemical analyses demonstrated that: 1) NMDA-R activation in vivo increased the phosphorylation of AMPA-Rs at GluA1 (S818, S831, and S845) and GluA2 (S880) subunits; 2) NMDA-R activation in vivo increased cell-surface localization of GluA1 but decreased that of GluA2; and 3) reduction of ROS levels by ROS scavengers PBN (N-tert-butyl--phenylnitrone) or TEMPOL (4-hydroxy-2, 2, 6, 6-tetramethylpiperidin-1-oxyl) reversed these changes in AMPA-Rs, as well as pain-related behavior. Given that AMPA-R trafficking to the cell surface and synapse is regulated by NMDA-R activation-dependent phosphorylation of GluA1 and GluA2, our study suggests that the ROS-dependent changes in the phosphorylation and cell-surface localization of AMPA-Rs are necessary for DHN sensitization and thus, pain-related behavior. We further suggest that ROS reduction will ameliorate these molecular changes and pain.

Enterally administered levodopa/carbidopa gel (Duodopa) is used for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) in patients with motor fluctuations and dyskinesias. This review summarizes the current efficacy and safety data on this drug. Clinically important differences (CID) have been used to assess whether statistical improvements in symptoms translate into meaningful improvements for the patients. A PubMed search in February 2012 found 23 papers with efficacy data and 33 with safety data. Of 11 studies reporting Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) III scores, 10 found improvements that met the CID of 10.8 points. Of 7 studies reporting UPDRS IV scores, 5 found improvements meeting the CID of 2.3 points. Quality of life (QoL) was assessed in 6 studies using the 8- or 39-question version of the Parkinson's disease Questionnaire, and all reported improvements meeting the CID (10 points). Due to the nature of the data, it is not possible to give exact numbers for the frequency of adverse events. However, the findings seem to be in line with a previous report stating the majority of adverse events were related to the infusion system or surgical procedure rather than the drug. In conclusion, the large majority of studies have reported that Duodopa is clinically effective in relieving the symptoms of advanced PD and improving QoL in comparison with conventional therapy. High-quality randomized trials with larger patient numbers will yield greater insights into the efficacy and safety of this treatment.

Progressive myoclonus epilepsies are severe, intractable, and neurodegenerative. They afflict patients of all ages, but more commonly adolescents, and comprise the main differential diagnosis of common juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. Genetic or minimally invasive pathologic diagnoses are available for many but not all teenage-onset progressive myoclonus epilepsies. We describe a multiplex family with autosomal recessive teenage-onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy that had remained undiagnosed despite extensive genetic and pathologic testing. We describe whole exome sequencing combined with homozygosity mapping to identify the disease gene directly and diagnose the family. The affected gene is CLN6, previously known to underlie variant late-infantile and adult-onset neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses. Combined with other recent work, our results add CLN6 to the genetic mutations causing teenage-onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy, expand the group of teenage-onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy patients who can be diagnosed by genetic testing, and extend the clinical spectrum of CLN6 mutations to include teenage-onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy. This work also exemplifies the potentiality of next-generation sequencing in the genetic identification and diagnosis of patients with neurologic diseases of unknown cause.
Few reports address the role of decompressive craniectomy in children with space-occupying cerebral edema attributable to severe ischemic infarction of the posterior cerebral arterial circulation. We describe four children with posterior circulation arterial ischemic stroke who required decompressive craniectomy. These children accounted for 11% of all cases of posterior circulation ischemic stroke at our institution from 2002-2010. Three manifested large, cerebellar hemispheric infarcts, and one manifested a large, temporo-occipital posterior cerebral artery infarct. Deterioration occurred within 72 hours of stroke onset. Two patients demonstrated minimal functional deficits at follow-up, and two demonstrated moderate deficits with functional limitations. Because decompressive craniectomy can be lifesaving in children with severe posterior circulation arterial ischemic stroke, early neurosurgical referral should be considered.
We evaluated the effects of dipeptidyl peptidase-IV (DPPIV), and its inhibitor, vildagliptin, on adipogenesis and lipolysis in a pre-adipocyte murine cell line (3T3-L1). The exogenous rDPPIV increased lipid accumulation and PPAR- expression, whereas an inhibitor of DPPIV, the anti-diabetic drug vildagliptin, suppresses the stimulatory role of DPPIV on adipogenesis and lipid accumulation, but had no effect on lipolysis. NPY immunoneutralization or NPY Y(2) receptor blockage inhibited DPPIV stimulatory effects on lipid accumulation, collectively, indicating that DPPIV has an adipogenic effect through NPY cleavage and subsequent NPY Y(2) activation. Vildagliptin inhibits PPAR- expression and lipid accumulation without changing lipolysis, suggesting that this does not impair the ability of adipose tissue to store triglycerides inside lipid droplets. These data indicate that DPPIV and NPY interact on lipid metabolism to promote adipose tissue depot.

Natural phenomena are reducible to quantum events in principle, but quantum mechanics does not always provide the best level of analysis. The many-body problem, chaotic avalanches, materials properties, biological organisms, and weather systems are better addressed at higher levels. Animals are highly organized, goal-directed, adaptive, selectionist, information-preserving, functionally redundant, multicellular, quasi-autonomous, highly mobile, reproducing, dissipative systems that conserve many fundamental features over remarkably long periods of time at the species level. Animal brains consist of massive, layered networks of specialized signaling cells with 10,000 communication points per cell, and interacting up to 1000 Hz. Neurons begin to divide and differentiate very early in gestation, and continue to develop until middle age. Waking brains operate far from thermodynamic equilibrium under delicate homeostatic control, making them extremely sensitive to a range of physical and chemical stimuli, highly adaptive, and able to produce a remarkable range of goal-relevant actions. Consciousness is &quot;a difference that makes a difference&quot; at the level of massive neuronal interactions in the most parallel-interactive anatomical structure of the mammalian brain, the cortico-thalamic (C-T) system. Other brain structures are not established to result in direct conscious experiences, at least in humans. However, indirect extra-cortical influences on the C-T system are pervasive. Learning, brain plasticity and major life adaptations may require conscious cognition. While brains evolved over hundreds of millions of years, and individual brains grow over months, years and decades, conscious events appear to have a duty cycle of 100 ms, fading after a few seconds. They can of course be refreshed by inner rehearsal, re-visualization, or attending to recurrent stimulus sources. These very distinctive brain events are needed when animals seek out and cope with new, unpredictable and highly valued life events, such as evading predators, gathering critical information, seeking mates and hunting prey. Attentional selection of conscious events can be observed behaviorally in animals showing coordinated receptor orienting, flexible responding, alertness, emotional reactions, seeking, motivation and curiosity, as well as behavioral surprise and cortical and autonomic arousal. Brain events corresponding to attentional selection are prominent and widespread. Attention generally results in conscious experiences, which may be needed to recruit widespread processing resources in the brain. Many neuronal processes never become conscious, such as the balance system of the inner ear. An air traveler may &quot;see&quot; the passenger cabin tilt downward as the plane tilts to descend for a landing. That visual experience occurs even at night, when the traveler has no external frame of spatial reference. The passenger's body tilt with respect to gravity is detected unconsciously via the hair cells of the vestibular canals, which act as liquid accelerometers. However, that sensory activity is not experienced directly. It only becomes conscious via vision and the body senses. The vestibular sense is therefore quite different from visual perception, which &quot;reports&quot; accurately to a conscious field of experience, so that we can point accurately to a bright star on a dark night. Vestibular input is also precise but unconscious. Conscious cognition is therefore a distinct kind of brain event. Many of its features are well established, and must be accounted for by any adequate theory. No non-biological examples are known. Penrose and Hameroff have proposed that consciousness may be viewed as a fundamental problem in quantum physics. Specifically, their 'orchestrated objective reduction' (Orch-OR) hypothesis posits that conscious states arise from quantum computations in the microtubules of neurons. However, a number of microtubule-associated proteins are found in both plant and animal cells (like neurons) and plants are not generally considered to be conscious. Current quantum-level proposals do not explain the prominent empirical features of consciousness. Notably, they do not distinguish between closely matched conscious and unconscious brain events, as cognitive-biological theories must. About half of the human brain does not support conscious contents directly, yet neurons in these &quot;unconscious&quot; brain regions contain large numbers of microtubules. QM phenomena are famously observer-dependent, but to the best of our knowledge it has not been shown that they require a conscious observer, as opposed to a particle detector. Conscious humans cannot detect quantum events &quot;as such&quot; without the aid of special instrumentation. Instead, we categorize the wavelengths of light into conscious sensory events that neglect their quantum mechanical properties. In science the burden of proof is on the proposer, and this burden has not yet been met by quantum-level proposals. While in the future we may discover quantum effects that bear distinctively on conscious cognition 'as such,' we do not have such evidence today.

The cardioprotective and anti-aging effects of red wine phenols, especially resveratrol (RSV), are well known. One of the most interesting biological properties of RSV and other naturally occurring phenols is the regulation of the expression and activity of SIRT1 (silent mating type information regulation 2 homolog). In view of the role of SIRT1 in acute and chronic renal diseases, we decided to study the effects of RSV-poor red wines on the expression of SIRT1 and HIF-2 (hypoxia-inducible factor 2) to be compared with a nanomolar concentration of RSV or malvidin in proximal tubular cells of human kidneys (PTEC). Survival signaling systems activation (extracellular signal-regulated kinases, ERK and AMP-activated protein kinase, AMPK) was also investigated in PTEC incubated with wines. PTEC cells were incubated in the presence of RSV-poor wines diluted 1:1,000 for 30', 90', 120' and 24h. Expression of SIRT1 and HIF-2, and activation of ERK and AMPK were analyzed by Western Blot. The data obtained show that wine modulates the expression of anti-aging molecular systems even when RSV is present in very small amounts.
There is considerable debate over whether plants are conscious and this, indeed, is an important question. Here I look at developments in neuroscience, physics and mathematics that may impact on this question. Two major concomitants of consciousness in animals are microtubule function and electrical gamma wave synchrony. Both these factors may also play a role in plant consciousness. I show that plants possess aperiodic quasicrystal structures composed of ribosomes that may enable quantum computing, which has been suggested to lie at the core of animal consciousness. Finally I look at whether a microtubule fractal suggests that electric current plays a part in conventional neurocomputing processes in plants.
This selective review discusses the psychobiological mediation of nociception and pain. Summarizing literature from physiology and neuroscience, first an overview of the neuroanatomic and neurochemical systems underpinning pain perception and modulation is provided. Second, findings from psychological science are used to elucidate cognitive, emotional, and behavioral factors central to the pain experience. This review has implications for clinical practice with patients suffering from chronic pain, and provides strong rationale for assessing and treating pain from a biopsychosocial perspective.
Aberrant activation of Cdk5 has been implicated in the process of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). We recently reported that S-nitrosylation of Cdk5 (forming SNO-Cdk5) at specific cysteine residues results in excessive activation of Cdk5, contributing to mitochondrial dysfunction, synaptic damage, and neuronal cell death in models of AD. Furthermore, SNO-Cdk5 acts as a nascent S-nitrosylase, transnitrosylating the mitochondrial fission protein Drp1 and enhancing excessive mitochondrial fission in dendritic spines. However, a molecular mechanism that leads to the formation of SNO-Cdk5 in neuronal cells remained obscure. Here, we demonstrate that neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS1) interacts with Cdk5 and that the close proximity of the two proteins facilitates the formation of SNO-Cdk5. Interestingly, as a negative feedback mechanism, Cdk5 phosphorylates and suppresses NOS1 activity. Thus, together with our previous report, these findings delineate an S-nitrosylation pathway wherein Cdk5/NOS1 interaction enhances SNO-Cdk5 formation, mediating mitochondrial dysfunction and synaptic loss during the etiology of AD.
Human intracranial EEG (iEEG) recordings are primarily performed in epileptic patients for presurgical mapping. When patients perform cognitive tasks, iEEG signals reveal high-frequency neural activities (HFAs, between around 40 Hz and 150 Hz) with exquisite anatomical, functional and temporal specificity. Such HFAs were originally interpreted in the context of perceptual or motor binding, in line with animal studies on gamma-band ('40 Hz') neural synchronization. Today, our understanding of HFA has evolved into a more general index of cortical processing: task-induced HFA reveals, with excellent spatial and time resolution, the participation of local neural ensembles in the task-at-hand, and perhaps the neural communication mechanisms allowing them to do so. This review promotes the claim that studying HFA with iEEG provides insights into the neural bases of cognition that cannot be derived as easily from other approaches, such as fMRI. We provide a series of examples supporting that claim, drawn from studies on memory, language and default-mode networks, and successful attempts of real-time functional mapping. These examples are followed by several guidelines for HFA research, intended for new groups interested by this approach. Overall, iEEG research on HFA should play an increasing role in cognitive neuroscience in humans, because it can be explicitly linked to basic research in animals. We conclude by discussing the future evolution of this field, which might expand that role even further, for instance through the use of multi-scale electrodes and the fusion of iEEG with MEG and fMRI.
High frequency oscillations (HFOs) constitute a novel trend in neurophysiology that is fascinating neuroscientists in general, and epileptologists in particular. But what are HFOs? What is the frequency range of HFOs? Are there different types of HFOs, physiological and pathological? How are HFOs generated? Can HFOs represent temporal codes for cognitive processes? These questions are pressing and this symposium volume attempts to give constructive answers. As a prelude to this exciting discussion, we summarize the physiological high frequency patterns in the intact brain, concentrating mainly on hippocampal patterns, where the mechanisms of high frequency oscillations are perhaps best understood.
We review the cellular and physiological mechanisms responsible for the regulation of blood flow in the retina and choroid in health and disease. Due to the intrinsic light sensitivity of the retina and the direct visual accessibility of fundus blood vessels, the eye offers unique opportunities for the non-invasive investigation of mechanisms of blood flow regulation. The ability of the retinal vasculature to regulate its blood flow is contrasted with the far more restricted ability of the choroidal circulation to regulate its blood flow by virtue of the absence of glial cells, the markedly reduced pericyte ensheathment of the choroidal vasculature, and the lack of intermediate filaments in choroidal pericytes. We review the cellular and molecular components of the neurovascular unit in the retina and choroid, techniques for monitoring retinal and choroidal blood flow, responses of the retinal and choroidal circulation to light stimulation, the role of capillaries, astrocytes and pericytes in regulating blood flow, putative signaling mechanisms mediating neurovascular coupling in the retina, and changes that occur in the retinal and choroidal circulation during diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, glaucoma, and Alzheimer's disease. We close by discussing issues that remain to be explored.


This article discusses the measurement of cognition in schizophrenia, its role as a determinant of disability, and treatment efforts to date, including pharmacological and behavioral interventions as well as effective treatments that lead to improved outcomes. The measurement of functioning when patients with schizophrenia receive treatment in the office is addressed. The review focuses on new developments in the creation and adoption of a consensus method for the assessment of cognitive functioning in treatment studies, on the increased appreciation for assessment of functional skills in the prediction of everyday outcomes, and on developments in the basic neuroscience of cognition.
In the last years cognitive impairment in depression has been widely reported. It is clear that cognitive symptoms persist after remission of psychopathological symptoms but little is known about the pathophysiological events linking depression and cognitive impairment. Novel biological, structural and functional neuroimaging techniques have allowed a better definition of this relation. Depression and cognitive dysfunction share a common neuropathological platform in cortical and sub-cortical brain areas implicated in emotional and cognitive processing which may be under the control of genetic and environmental factors.
To review the literature related to recent temperamental and biological findings on borderline personality disorder (BPD) and major depression, the close link between the two disorders, and the latest therapeutical findings on BPD, focusing on the conditions of co-morbidity between depression and BPD. The National Institutes of Health's PubMed database was used to identify indexed studies on BPD, depression and the co-morbidity between the two. Only studies published between 2000 and 2011 were assessed. Similar temperamental features have been demonstrated in BPD and depression. The strong link between the two disorders seems to be widely recognized by scientific community. Psychotherapy and new antipsychotics are the topics of current major interest of research. The therapeutic targets in the case of co-morbidity are BPD features associated with depressive symptoms, thus influencing prognosis. A global assessment is, in fact, fundamental for a successful therapy for the treatment of the several aspects of a complex psychopathological phenomenon.

Several studies have demonstrated age-related declines in general executive function and memory. In this study, we examined cross-sectional and longitudinal age effects in more specific cognitive processes that constitute executive function and memory. We postulated that, whereas some components of executive and memory functions would show age differences and longitudinal declines, other specific abilities would be maintained or even improve with repeated testing. In a sample of individuals 55 years old from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging, we found longitudinal declines in inhibition, manipulation, semantic retrieval, phonological retrieval, switching, and long-term memory over a maximum of 14 years follow-up. In contrast, abstraction, capacity, chunking, discrimination, and short-term memory were maintained or even improved longitudinally, probably due in part to repeated testing. Moreover, whereas several different abilities were correlated across participants' cross-sectional performance, longitudinal changes in performance showed more heterogeneous trajectories. Finally, compared with cross-sectional performance, longitudinal trajectories showed better distinction between participants with and those without later cognitive impairment. These results show that longitudinal cognitive aging of executive and memory functions is not a uniform process but a heterogeneous one and suggest that certain executive and memory functions remain stable despite age-related declines in other component processes.


Responding to the color of a word is slower and less accurate if the word refers to a different color (incongruent condition) than if it refers to the same color (congruent condition). This phenomenon, known as the Stroop effect, is modulated by sequential effects: it is bigger when the current trial is preceded by a congruent condition than by an incongruent one in the previous trial. Whether this phenomenon is due to priming mechanisms or to cognitive control is still debated. To disentangle the contribution of priming with respect to conflict adaptation mechanisms in determining sequential effects, two experiments were designed here with a four-alternative forced choice (4-AFC) Stroop task: in the first one only trials with complete alternations of features were used, while in the second experiment all possible types of repetitions were presented. Both response times (RTs) and errors were evaluated. Conflict adaptation effects on RTs were limited to congruent trials and were exclusively due to priming: they disappeared in the priming-free experiment and, in the second experiment, they occurred in sequences with feature repetitions but not in complete alternation sequences. Error results, instead, support the presence of conflict adaptation effects in incongruent trials. In priming-free sequences (experiment 1 and complete alternation sequences of experiment 2) with incongruent previous trials there was no error Stroop effect, while this effect was significant with congruent previous trials. These results indicate that cognitive control may modulate performance above and beyond priming effects.
A brief wakeful rest after new verbal learning enhances memory for several minutes. In the research reported here, we explored the possibility of extending this rest-induced memory enhancement over much longer periods. Participants were presented with two stories; one story was followed by a 10-min period of wakeful resting, and the other was followed by a 10-min period during which participants played a spot-the-difference game. In Experiment 1, wakeful resting led to significant enhancement of memory after a 15- to 30-min period and also after 7 days. In experiment 2, this striking enhancement of memory 7 days after learning was demonstrated even when no retrievals were imposed in the interim. The degree to which people can remember prose after 7 days is significantly affected by the cognitive activity that they engage in shortly after new learning takes place. We propose that wakeful resting after new learning allows new memory traces to be consolidated better and hence to be retained for much longer.
Stress-induced eating disorders cause significant health problems and are often co-morbid with mood disorders. Emotional feeding, particularly in women, may be important for the development of obesity and failed attempts to lose weight. However, prospective studies assessing the effect of chronic psychosocial stress on appetite in different dietary environments in females are lacking. The present study tested the hypothesis that chronic psychosocial stress would increase consumption of high caloric diet and this emotional feeding would persist even when a healthier diet was available. Socially housed female rhesus monkeys were studied to address whether subordination increases caloric intake when a high fat and sugar diet (HFSD) was available concurrently with a low fat, high fiber diet (LCD). Cortisol responsivity and food intake were quantified during this choice phase and when only the LCD was available. The order of diet condition was counterbalanced to assess whether a history of HFSD would affect appetite. All females preferred the HFSD but subordinates consumed significantly more calories during the choice phase. The increased calorie intake was maintained in subordinate monkeys even after withdrawal of the HFSD. Subordinate females demonstrated reduced glucocorticoid negative feedback, with post dexamethasone serum cortisol levels significantly predicting intake of the HFSD but not the LCD during the choice condition. The cortisol response to an acute stressor significantly predicted subsequent intake of a HFSD in all females. Continual exposure to the psychosocial stress of subordination in female monkeys results in excess caloric intake of foods that mimic a western dietary environment. In addition, this social stressor interacts with a history of HFSD intake to promote increased feeding even in a healthy dietary environment.
Testosterone is a steroid hormone thought to influence both emotional and cognitive functions. It is unknown, however, if testosterone also affects the interaction between these two domains, such as the emotional arousal-induced enhancement of memory. Healthy subjects (N=234) encoded pictures taken from the International Affective Picture System (IAPS) during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and underwent a free recall test 10 min after memory encoding. We show that higher endogenous testosterone levels at encoding were associated with higher arousal ratings of neutral pictures in men. fMRI analysis revealed that higher testosterone levels were related to increased brain activation in the amygdala during encoding of neutral pictures. Moreover, endogenous testosterone levels were positively correlated with the number of freely recalled neutral pictures. No such relations were found in women. These findings point to a male-specific role for testosterone in enhancing memory by increasing the biological salience of incoming information.





The capacity to associate neutral stimuli with affective value is an important survival strategy that can be accomplished by cell assemblies obeying Hebbian learning principles. In the neuroscience laboratory, classical fear conditioning has been extensively used as a model to study learning-related changes in neural structure and function. Here, we review the effects of classical fear conditioning on electromagnetic brain activity in humans, focusing on how sensory systems adapt to changing fear-related contingencies. By considering spatiotemporal patterns of mass neuronal activity, we illustrate a range of cortical changes related to a retuning of neuronal sensitivity to amplify signals consistent with fear-associated stimuli at the cost of other sensory information. Putative mechanisms that may underlie fear-associated plasticity at the level of the sensory cortices are briefly considered, and several avenues for future work are outlined.

Somatoform pain is a highly prevalent, debilitating condition and a tremendous public health problem. Effective treatments for somatoform pain are urgently needed. The etiology of this condition is, however, still unknown. On the basis of a review of recent basic and clinical research, we propose one potential mechanism of symptom formation in somatoform pain and a developmental theory of its pathogenesis. Emerging evidence from animal and human studies in developmental neurobiology, cognitive-affective neuroscience, psychoneuroimmunology, genetics, and epigenetics, as well as that from clinical and treatment studies on somatoform pain, points to the existence of a shared neural system that underlies physical and social pain. Research findings also show that nonoptimal early experiences interact with genetic predispositions to influence the development of this shared system and the ability to regulate it effectively. Interpersonal affect regulation between infant and caregiver is crucial for the optimal development of these brain circuits. The aberrant development of this shared neural system during infancy, childhood, and adolescence may therefore ultimately lead to an increased sensitivity to physical and social pain and to problems with their regulation in adulthood. The authors critically review translational research findings that support this theory and discuss its clinical and research implications. Specifically, the proposed theory and research review suggest that psychotherapeutic and/or pharmacological interventions that foster the development of affect regulation capacities in an interpersonal context will also serve to more effectively modulate aberrantly activated neural pain circuits and thus be of particular benefit for the treatment of somatoform pain.



Ecto-nucleotidases play a pivotal role in purinergic signal transmission. They hydrolyze extracellular nucleotides and thus can control their availability at purinergic P2 receptors. They generate extracellular nucleosides for cellular reuptake and salvage via nucleoside transporters of the plasma membrane. The extracellular adenosine formed acts as an agonist of purinergic P1 receptors. They also can produce and hydrolyze extracellular inorganic pyrophosphate that is of major relevance in the control of bone mineralization. This review discusses and compares four major groups of ecto-nucleotidases: the ecto-nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolases, ecto-5'-nucleotidase, ecto-nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterases, and alkaline phosphatases. Only recently and based on crystal structures, detailed information regarding the spatial structures and catalytic mechanisms has become available for members of these four ecto-nucleotidase families. This permits detailed predictions of their catalytic mechanisms and a comparison between the individual enzyme groups. The review focuses on the principal biochemical, cell biological, catalytic, and structural properties of the enzymes and provides brief reference to tissue distribution, and physiological and pathophysiological functions.
ATP, acting via P2 purinergic receptors, is a known mediator of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. There is increasing evidence that the ATP-gated P2X4 receptor (P2X4R) subtype is a locus through which activity of spinal microglia and peripheral macrophages instigate pain hypersensitivity caused by inflammation or by injury to a peripheral nerve. The present article highlights the recent advances in our understanding of microglia-neuron interactions in neuropathic pain by focusing on the signaling and regulation of the P2X4R. We will also develop a framework for understanding converging lines of evidence for involvement of P2X4Rs expressed on macrophages in peripheral inflammatory pain.

The P2X7 receptor is widely recognized to mediate the proinflammatory effects of extracellular ATP. However this receptor in the absence of ATP may have a function unrelated to inflammation. Our data show that P2X7 expressed on the surface of monocyte/macrophages or on epithelial HEK-293 cells greatly augments the engulfment of latex beads and live and heat-killed bacteria by effector phagocyte in the absence of ATP and serum. The expression of P2X7 on the effector also confers the ability to phagocytose apoptotic target cells and an accumulation of P2X7 can be seen at the attachment point to the target. Activation of the P2X7 receptor by ATP causes a slow dissociation (over 10-15min) of nonmuscle myosin from the P2X7 membrane complex and abolishes further P2X7-mediated phagocytosis of these targets. The recent crystal structure of the homologous zebrafish P2X4 receptor shows an exposed &quot;nose&quot; of the ectodomain (residues 115-162) which contains three of the five disulfide bonds conserved in all P2X receptors. Three short biotin-labeled peptides mimicking sequence of this exposed region bound to apoptotic target cells but not to either viable cells or to other target particles. All three peptides contained one or two cysteine residues and their replacement by alanine abolished peptide binding. These data implicate thiol-disulfide exchange reactions in the initial tethering of apoptotic cells to macrophage and establish P2X7 as one of the scavenger receptors involved in the recognition and removal of apoptotic cells in the absence of extracellular ATP and serum.
The central objective in treating patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) is two-fold (i) to increase the striatal dopamine content and (ii) to prevent further degeneration of the surviving dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra region of the ventral midbrain. Most of the current PD drugs contribute to the former and provide symptomatic relief. Although compounds such as Levodopa (L-DOPA) improve the striatal dopamine content, their long-term usage is associated with progressive decrease in drug response, motor fluctuations, dyskinesias and drug-induced toxicity. In addition, these drugs fail to prevent the progression of the degenerative process. This has shifted the focus onto alternative therapeutic approaches involving natural products that could provide independent therapy or offer neuroprotective support to the existing drugs. The current review describes the neuroprotective and therapeutic utility of such natural products including herbal extracts, phytochemicals and bioactive ingredients from other natural sources either in isolation or in combination, with potential application in PD, highlighting the relevant patents.

The purpose of the present study was to conduct latent class analysis on the Hyperactivity scale of the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire in order to identify distinct subgroups of subclinical ADHD in a multi-informant framework. We hypothesized a similar structure between teachers and parents, and differences in symptom severity across latent classes. Data was collected from a non-referred sample of children aged 8-13 years. We performed latent class analyses on parent (n = 383) and teacher (n = 391) ratings of the Hyperactivity scale items from both versions of the questionnaire. Those children who had ratings from both informants (n = 272) were included in the cross-informant analyses, in which the similar or equivalent classes across raters were determined. A three-class solution for parent report and a five-class solution for teacher report emerged in the subsample of boys. For girls, a three-class structure for parents and a four-class structure for teachers were optimal. Besides non-symptomatic groups, mild and severe combined classes, mild inattentive-impulsive classes, and among boys, a mild hyperactive-impulsive class was obtained. The cross-informant analyses demonstrated that quite similar subgroups were detached regardless of informant; however, the teacher classes were somewhat more elaborated. The results are in line with the previous latent class analytic studies, and support the combination of dimensional and categorical approaches. The importance of milder symptoms and sub-threshold ADHD categories are emphasized for the fields of neuropsychology, neuroscience, and education, as well as for diagnosis and personalized treatment.
It is generally assumed that children with intellectual disabilities (ID) have an increased risk of impaired visual information processing due to brain damage or brain development disorder. So far little evidence has been presented to support this assumption. Abnormal visual orienting behavior is a sensitive tool to evaluate impaired visual information processing. Therefore, the main objective of this study was to investigate possible correlations between the children's characteristics (age, gender, level of ID, mobility, gestational age, cerebral palsy, Down syndrome, visual acuity, strabismus, nystagmus, and epilepsy), and abnormal visual orienting behavior. We quantified data on visual orienting behavior, in terms of visual processing time and ocular motor fixations, in 88 children with ID aged 4-14 years. These visual parameters were combined with data collected from the children's medical records (predictors) and were put in a Pearson bivariate correlation analysis. A predictor was included for multiple regression analysis if the Pearson's correlation coefficient had a level of significance of p&lt;0.05. As shown by multiple regression analysis, age, level of ID, and Down syndrome significantly affected visual processing time. Mobility, strabismus, and nystagmus significantly affected fixation quality. Using a systematic approach, we confirmed the hypothesis that children with ID have an increased risk of impaired visual information processing which is related to a low IQ.
Brain injury during development can have severe, long-term consequences. Using an array of animal models, we have an understanding of the etiology of perinatal brain injury. However, we have only recently begun to address the consequences of endogenous factors such as genetic sex and developmental steroid hormone milieu. Our limited understanding has sometimes led researchers to make over-generalizing and potentially dangerous statements regarding treatment for brain injury. Therefore this review acts as a cautionary tale, speaking to our need to understand the effects of sex and steroid hormone environment on the response to brain trauma in the neonate.

In 2011, nine brain and six nerve and muscle physiological examinations were covered by the national health insurance in Japan. The greatest recent change was the digitalization of electroencephalography in the neurophysiological laboratory. This change is good for hospital affairs both economically and ecologically. Board certified doctors or technologists by the Academic Society in Neurophysiology are increasing each year and are improving the clinical level in daily laboratory work. One problem is that the level of neurophysiological laboratory examinations differs among hospitals in Japan, but they are showing a gradual improvement. Future development is promising in this field. Technological progress in neurophysiological functions is remarkable, including magnetic methods. Magnetoencephalography has powerful spatiotemporal resolution and can analyze higher brain function such as language, memory, calculation and so on. Transcranial magnetic stimulation is also available for laboratory examination of the nervous system, including motor and higher brain functions. In this symposium we showed cerebellar-related motor potentials in the soleus muscle by transcranial magnetic stimulation of the posterior fossa. This report summarizes the present status and future development of the neurological field in physiological laboratory examinations.

Although glutamate was first hypothesized to be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia in the 1980s, it was the demonstration that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, the dissociative anesthetics, could replicate the full range of psychotic, negative, cognitive, and physiologic features of schizophrenia in normal subjects that placed the &quot;NMDA receptor hypofunction hypothesis&quot; on firm footing. Additional support came from the demonstration that a variety of agents that enhanced NMDA receptor function at the glycine modulatory site significantly reduced negative symptoms and variably improved cognition in patients with schizophrenia receiving antipsychotic drugs. Finally, persistent blockade of NMDA receptors recreates in experimental animals the critical pathologic features of schizophrenia including downregulation of parvalbumin-positive cortical GABAergic neurons, pyramidal neuron dendritic dysgenesis, and reduced spine density.
From the perspective of those of us working on the genetics of schizophrenia, recent progress in identifying specific genetic risk factors at highly robust levels of statistical significance has been striking. However, the prevailing response among other schizophrenia researchers and some funders, families, and sufferers is often one of disappointment. In particular, it is often claimed that these discoveries explain only a small proportion of the genetic risk and hence tell us little about the nature of schizophrenia. The purpose of this article is to persuade you that recent genetic findings, while only revealing the tip of a complex genetic iceberg, already have profound implications for our general understanding of the classification and pathogenesis of schizophrenia and related disorders and that these have implications for schizophrenia research of all kinds.
Here, we describe our collaborative efforts to use N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists as a translational tool to advance our understanding of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and identify potential new targets for treatment of schizophrenia. We began these efforts in the late 1980s with a keen sense that, in both human and animal studies, we needed to move beyond the dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia; if the dopamine hypothesis were correct, the existing dopamine antagonists should have cured the disease but they have not. We used NMDA receptor antagonists, not to produce schizophrenia, but as a tool to provide insights into effects of disturbances in glutamate synaptic function in schizophrenia. Our work has provided insights into potential mechanisms that may contribute to disrupted cortical function in schizophrenia and has helped identify potential treatment targets for the disorder. The translational nature of this study made the clinical testing of the first of these targets feasible. Advances in systems neuroscience approaches in animals and humans make new types of translational research possible; however, our concern is that the current obstacles facing translational research funding and academia-industry collaborations threaten the future progress in this field.
The history of the chemical synthesis and animal/human pharmacology of phencyclidine is documented. From its early use as a general anesthetic, chemical model of schizophrenia, and drug of abuse, phencyclidine has had a checkered history. Research with this agent and its chemical derivatives like ketamine have provided a solid foundation for just a beginning to understanding the neuropathology of schizophrenia.
Gamma oscillations appear to be dependent on inhibitory neurotransmission from parvalbumin (PV)-containing gamma-amino butyric acid neurons. Thus, the abnormalities in PV neurons found in schizophrenia may underlie the deficits of gamma-band synchrony in the illness. Because gamma-band synchrony is thought to be crucial for cognition, cognitive deficits in schizophrenia may reflect PV neuron dysfunction in cortical neural circuits. Interestingly, it has been suggested that PV alterations in schizophrenia are the consequence of a hypofunction of signaling through N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs). Here, we review recent findings that address the question of how NMDAR hypofunction might produce deficits of PV neuron-mediated inhibition in schizophrenia. We conclude that while dysregulation of NMDARs may play an important role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, additional research is required to determine the particular cell type(s) that mediate dysfunctional NMDAR signaling in the illness.
While auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) are most characteristic for schizophrenia, they also occur in nonpsychotic individuals in the absence of a psychiatric or neurological disorder and in the absence of substance abuse. At present, it is unclear if AVH in these nonpsychotic individuals constitute the same phenomenon as AVH in psychotic patients. Comparing brain activation during AVH between nonpsychotic and psychotic individuals could provide important clues regarding this question. 21 nonpsychotic subjects with AVH and 21 matched psychotic patients indicated the presence of AVH during 3T functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scanning. To identify common areas of activation during the experience of AVH in both groups, a conjunction analysis was performed. In addition, a 2-sample t-test was employed to discover possible differences in AVH-related activation between the groups. Several common areas of activation were observed for the psychotic and nonpsychotic subjects during the experience of AVH, consisting of the bilateral inferior frontal gyri, insula, superior temporal gyri, supramarginal gyri and postcentral gyri, left precentral gyrus, inferior parietal lobule, superior temporal pole, and right cerebellum. No significant differences in AVH-related brain activation were present between the groups. The presence of multiple common areas of AVH-related activation in psychotic and nonpsychotic individuals, in the absence of significant differences, implicates the involvement of the same cortical network in the experience of AVH in both groups.

In this study, we investigate whether aberrant integrity of white matter (WM) fiber tracts represents a genetically determined biological marker of schizophrenia (SZ), and its relation with clinical symptoms. We collected brain DTI data from 28 SZ patients, 18 first-degree relatives and 22 matched controls and used voxel-based analysis with tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) in order to compare fractional anisotropy (FA) between groups. Mean voxel-based FA values from the entire skeleton of each group were compared. We did a multiple regression analysis, followed by single post-hoc contrasts between groups. FA values were extracted from the statistically significant areas. The results showed significantly smaller FA values for SZ patients in comparison with controls in cortico-spinal tracts, in commissural fibers, in thalamic projections, in association fibers and in cingulum bundles. A significant increase of FA in SZ patients in comparison with healthy controls was only found in the arcuate fasciculus. Relatives had intermediate values between patients and controls which were deemed significant in the comparison to patients and controls in association fibers, arcuate fasciculus and cingulum bundles. Lower FA values in association fibers were significantly associated with predisposition toward hallucinations (in SZ patients and relatives), with higher PANSS scores of positive symptoms and with duration of illness (SZ patients). Our results suggest that clinical and subclinical presentations of psychotic symptoms are associated with aberrant integrity of multiple WM tracts. This association may represent an endophenotype of schizophrenia, since it is present in unaffected relatives as well. Such endophenotypes may serve as quantitative traits for future genetic studies and as candidate markers for early and preclinical identification of subjects at risk.




Advances in neuroscience continue to enhance understanding of the brain and provide new tools to take advantage of that understanding. These changes are poised to profoundly alter society. Given that the impact will be felt not only by neuroscientists, but by diverse members of society, it is imperative that conversations engage all stakeholders. Doing so will allow for the sharing of diverse views and perspectives to understand and frame the science, better educate and prepare the public for new developments, and provide a shared approach to identifying and resolving ethical challenges. These were the goals of Neuroethics Week, staged in 2007 by the Center for Ethics in Science and Technology in San Diego, and are the basis for the contributions to this special issue of Science and Engineering Ethics.
Scientific developments take place in a socio-political context but scientists often ignore the ways their innovations will be both interpreted by the media and used by policy makers. In the rush to neuroscientific discovery important questions are overlooked, such as the ways: (1) the brain, environment and behavior are related; (2) biological changes are mediated by social organization; (3) institutional bias in the application of technical procedures ignores race, class and gender dimensions of society; (4) knowledge is used to the advantage of the powerful; and (5) its applications may reinforce existing structures of power that pose ethical questions about distributive justice. The case of crime, deception and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) shows the complexity, and the political and ethical challenges that confront those who seek to use neuroscience to explain the etiology of crime, and who base policy on its findings. An ethically grounded neuroscience needs to take account of existing structures of power and difference, and to develop a public neuropolitical consciousness that ensures that those subject to risk by the application of science and technology are participants in the decision-making processes involving the implementation of policies that affect them.
Muslim ethics is cautiously engaging developments in neuroscience. In their encounters with developments in neuroscience such as brain death and functional magnetic resonance imaging procedures, Muslim ethicists might be on the cusp of spirited debates. Science and religion perform different kinds of work and ought not to be conflated. Cultural translation is central to negotiating the complex life worlds of religious communities, Muslims included. Cultural translation involves lived encounters with modernity and its byproduct, modern science. Serious ethical debate requires more than just a mere instrumental encounter with science. A robust Muslim approach to neuroethics might require an emulsion of religion and neuroscience, thought and body, and body and soul. Yet one must anticipate that Muslim debates in neuroethics will be inflected with Muslim values, symbols and the discrete faith perspectives of this tradition with meanings that are specific to people who share this worldview and their concerns.
The insanity defense presents many difficult questions for the legal system. It attracts attention beyond its practical significance (it is seldom used successfully) because it goes to the heart of the concept of legal responsibility. &quot;Not guilty by reason of insanity&quot; generally requires that as a result of mental illness the defendant was unable to distinguish right from wrong at the time of the crime. The many difficult and complex questions presented by the insanity defense have led some in the legal community to hope that neuroscience might help resolve some of these problems, but that hope is not likely to be realized.
Advances in the neurosciences have many implications for a collective understanding of what it means to be human, in particular, notions of the self, the concept of volition or agency, questions of individual responsibility, and the phenomenology of consciousness. As the ability to peer directly into the brain is scientifically honed, and conscious states can be correlated with patterns of neural processing, an easy--but premature--leap is to postulate a one-way, brain-based determinism. That leap is problematic, however, and emerging findings in neuroscience can even be seen as compatible with some of the basic tenets of existentialism. Given the compelling authority of modern &quot;science,&quot; it is especially important to question how the findings of neuroscience are framed, and how the articulation of research results challenge or change individuals' perceptions of themselves. Context plays an essential role in the emergence of human identity and in the sculpting of the human brain; for example, even a lack of stimuli (&quot;nothing&quot;) can lead to substantial consequences for brain, behavior, and experience. Conversely, advances in understanding the brain might contribute to more precise definitions of what it means to be human, including definitions of appropriate social and moral behavior. Put another way, the issue is not simply the ethics involved in framing neurotechnology, but also the incorporation of neuroscientific findings into a richer understanding of human ethical (and existential) functioning.
Neuroscience research, like all science, is vulnerable to the influence of extraneous values in the practice of research, whether in research design or the selection, analysis and interpretation of data. This is particularly problematic for research into the biological mechanisms that underlie behavior, and especially the neurobiological underpinnings of moral development and ethical reasoning, decision-making and behavior, and the other elements of what is often called the neuroscience of ethics. The problem arises because neuroscientists, like most everyone, bring to their work assumptions, preconceptions and values and other sources of potentially inappropriate bias of which they may be unaware. It is important that the training of neuroscientists, and research practice itself, include open and in-depth discussion and examination of the assumptions that underlie research. Further, policy makers, journalists, and the general public, that is, the consumers of neuroscience research findings (and by extension, neurotechnologies) should be made aware of the limitations as well as the strengths of the science, the evolving nature of scientific understanding, and the often invisible values inherent in science.
Neuroscience is clearly making enormous progress toward understanding how human brains work. The implications of this progress for ethics, law, society, and culture are much less clear. Some have argued that neuroscience will lead to vast changes, superseding much of law and ethics. The likely limits to the explanatory power of neuroscience argue against that position, as do the limits to the social relevance of what neuroscience will be able to explain. At the same time neuroscience is likely to change societies through increasing their abilities to predict future behavior, to infer subjective mental states by observing physical brain states (&quot;read minds&quot;), to provide evidence in some cases relevant to criminal responsibility, to provide new ways to intervene to &quot;treat antisocial brains,&quot; and to enhance healthy brains. Neuroscience should make important cultural changes in our special, and specially negative, views of &quot;mental&quot; versus &quot;physical&quot; illness by showing that mental illness is a dysfunction of a physical organ. It will not likely change our beliefs, implicit or explicit, in free will, or spark a new conflict between science and religion akin to the creationism controversy.
Catholic theology's traditional understanding of the spiritual nature of the human person begins with the idea of a rational soul and human mind that is made manifest in free will--the spiritual experience of the act of consciousness and cause of all human arts. The rationale for this religion-based idea of personhood is key to understanding ethical dilemmas posed by modern research that applies a more empirical methodology in its interpretations about the cause of human consciousness. Applications of these beliefs about the body/soul composite to the theory of evolution and to discoveries in neuroscience, paleoanthropology, as well as to recent animal intelligence studies, can be interpreted from this religious and philosophical perspective, which argues for the human soul as the unifying cause of the person's unique abilities. Free will and consciousness are at the nexus of the mutual influence of body and soul upon one another in the traditional Catholic view, that argues for a spiritual dimension to personality that is on a par with the physical metabolic processes at play. Therapies that affect consciousness are ethically problematic, because of their implications for free will and human dignity. Studies of resilience, as an example, argue for the greater, albeit limited, role of the soul's conscious choices in healing as opposed to metabolic or physical changes to the brain alone.
Metaphysical and epistemological dualism informs much contemporary discussion of the relationships of science and religion, in particular in relation to the neurosciences and the religious understanding of the human person. This dualism is a foundational artifact of modern culture; however, contemporary scientific research and historical theological scholarship encourage a more holistic view wherein human personhood is most fittingly understood as an emergent phenomenon of, but not simply reducible to, evolutionary and developmental neurobiology.
Neuroscience is advancing at a rapid pace, with new technologies and approaches that are creating ethical challenges not easily addressed by current ethical frameworks and guidelines. One fascinating technology is neuroimaging, especially functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI). Although still in its infancy, fMRI is breaking new ground in neuroscience, potentially offering increased understanding of brain function. Different populations and faith traditions will likely have different reactions to these new technologies and the ethical challenges they bring with them. Muslims are approximately one-fifth of world population and they have a specific and highly regulated ethical and moral code, which helps them deal with scientific advances and decision making processes in an Islamically ethical manner. From this ethical perspective, in light of the relevant tenets of Islam, neuroimaging poses various challenges. The privacy of spirituality and the thought process, the requirement to put community interest before individual interest, and emphasis on conscious confession in legal situations are Islamic concepts that can pose a challenge for the use of something intrusive such as an fMRI. Muslim moral concepts such as There shall be no harm inflicted or reciprocated in Islam and Necessities overrule prohibitions are some of the criteria that might appropriately be used to guide advancing neuroscience. Neuroscientists should be particularly prudent and well prepared in implementing neuroscience advances that are breaking new scientific and ethical ground. Neuroscientists should also be prepared to assist in setting the ethical frameworks in place in advance of what might be perceived as runaway applications of technology.
The well-established techniques of the professional storyteller not only have the potential to model complex &quot;truth&quot; but also to dig deeply into that complexity, thereby perhaps getting closer to that truth. This applies not only to fiction, but also to medicine and even science. Compelling storytelling ability may have conferred an evolutionary survival advantage and, if so, is likely represented in the neural circuitry of the human brain. Functional imaging will likely point to a neuroanatomical basis for compelling storytelling ability; this will presumably reflect underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms.
Interpreting the world through a social lens is a central characteristic of human cognition. Humans ascribe intentions to the behaviors of other individuals and groups. Humans also make inferences about others' emotional and mental states. This capacity for social attribution underlies many of the concepts at the core of legal and political systems. The developing scientific understanding of the neural mechanisms used in social attribution may alter many earlier suppositions. However, just as often, these new methods will lead back to old conundrums. Cognitive neuroscience will not dispel the hard problems of social judgment.
Reductionist explanations in biology generally assume that biological mechanisms are highly deterministic and basically similar between individuals. A contrasting view has emerged recently that takes into account the degeneracy of biological processes--the ability to arrive at a given endpoint by a variety of available paths, even within the same individual. This perspective casts significant doubt on the prospects for the ability to predict behavior accurately based on brain imaging or genotyping, and on the ability of neuroscience to stipulate ethics.
For centuries, religion and philosophy have been the primary basis for efforts to guide humans to be more ethical. However, training in ethics and religion and imparting positive values and morality tests such as those emanating from the categorical imperative and the Golden Rule have not been enough to protect humankind from its bad behaviors. To improve ethics education educators must better understand aspects of human nature such as those that lead to &quot;self-deception&quot; and &quot;personal bias.&quot; Through rationalizations, faulty reasoning and hidden bias, individuals trick themselves into believing there is little wrong with their own unethical behavior. The application of science to human nature offers the possibility of improving ethics education through better self-knowledge. The author recommends a new paradigm for ethics education in contemporary modern society. This includes the creation of a new field called &quot;applied evolutionary neuro-ethics&quot; which integrates science and social sciences to improve ethics education. The paradigm can merge traditional thinking about ethics from religious and philosophical perspectives with new ideas from applied evolutionary neuro-ethics.
The practice of reductionism in science and philosophy includes attempts to essentialize human persons, which can lead to serious social problems. Reductionism is not necessary, as comparative philosophers and alternative-thinking scientists have shown.
Despite the importance of scientific integrity to the well-being of society, recent findings suggest that training and mentoring in the responsible conduct of research are not very reliable or effective inhibitors of research misbehavior. Understanding how and why individual scientists decide to behave in ways that conform to or violate norms and standards of research is essential to the development of more effective training programs and the creation of more supportive environments. Scholars in business management, psychology, and other disciplines have identified many important factors that affect ethical behavior, including individual, contextual, and organizational factors. Surprisingly little research has been conducted to examine the role of these factors in either the development of ethical decision-making skills, or their applicability to ethical issues commonly encountered in research and other scholarly and professional activities. Interdisciplinary approaches combined with research and discipline relevant paradigms should greatly enhance understanding of the individual contextual and organizational factors involved in ethical and unethical research conduct. Such studies will inform and facilitate the development of more effective ethics education programs in the sciences and engineering professions.
As scientists advance knowledge of the brain and develop technologies to measure, evaluate, and manipulate brain function, numerous questions arise for religious adherents. If neuroscientists can conclusively establish that there is a functional network between neural impulses and an individual's capacity for moral evaluation of situations, this will naturally lead to questions about the relationship between such a network and constructions of moral value and ethical human behavior. For example, if cognitive neuroscience can show that there is a neurophysiological basis for the moral appraisal of situations, it may be argued that the world's religions, which have traditionally been the keepers and purveyors of ethical values, are rendered either spurious or irrelevant. The questions point up broader dilemmas in the interface between science and religion, and raise concerns about the ethics of neurological research and experimentation. Since human beings will still arbitrate what is &quot;moral&quot; or &quot;ethical,&quot; how can religious perspectives enrich the dialogue on neuroethical issues and how can neuroscience enrich dialogue on religion? Buddhist views on the nature of consciousness and methods of practice, especially meditation practice, may contribute to discussions on neuroscience and theories about the interrelationship between consciousness and ethical awareness by exploring the role that karma, intentionality, and compassion play in Buddhist understandings of the interrelationship between consciousness and ethics.
The readiness of Buddhists to dialogue with and embrace modern science has caused some to worry that this encounter will deform Buddhist traditions for the sake of acceptance by the West. But their strong tradition of epistemological skepticism and intellectual pluralism makes it unlikely that Buddhists will embrace scientific positivism. Given the tensions between religion and science in contemporary western society, it is perhaps this feature of Buddhism that can make the most fruitful contribution in its dialogue with science.
Advances in technology now make it possible to monitor the activity of the human brain in action, however crudely. As this emerging science continues to offer correlations between neural activity and mental functions, mind and brain may eventually prove to be one. If so, such a full comprehension of the electrochemical bases of mind may render current concepts of ethics, law, and even free will irrelevant.





Recent studies demonstrated that mature atrocytes have the capacity for de-differentiating into neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) in vitro and in vivo. However, it is still unknown what signals endow astroglial cells with a de-differentiation potential. Furthermore, the signaling molecules and underlying mechanism that confer astrocytes with the competence of NSPC phenotypes have not been completely elucidated. Here, we found that sonic hedgehog (Shh) production in astrocytes following mechanical injury was significantly elevated, and that incubation of astrocyes with the injured astrocyte conditioned medium (ACM) causes astrocytes to gradually lose their immunophenotypical profiles, and acquire NSPC characteristics, as demonstrated by down-regulation of typical astrocytic markers (GFAP and S100) and up-regulation of markers that are generally expressed in NSCs, (nestin, Sox2, and CD133). ACM treated astrocytes exhibit self-renewal capacity and multipotency similar to NSPCs. Concomitantly, in addition to Ptc, there was a significant up-regulation of the Shh downstream signal components Gli2 and Cyclin D1 which are involved in cell proliferation, dramatic changes in cell morphology, and the disruption of cell-cycle G1 arrest. Conversely, the depletion of Shh by administration of its neutralizing antibody (Shh n-Ab) effectively inhibited the de-differentiation process. Strikingly, Shh alone had little effect on astrocyte de-differentiation to NSPCs. These data above suggest that Shh is a key instructive molecule while other molecules secreted from insulted astrocytes may synergistically promote the de-differentiation event.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) display a remarkable ability to modulate the immune response and protect the central nervous system mainly through the release of soluble factors in a paracrine fashion, affecting the functional behavior of cells in the tissues. Here we investigated the effect of the interaction between MSC and microglia in vitro, and we dissected the molecular and cellular mechanisms of this crosstalk. We demonstrated that MSC impair microglia activation by inflammatory cues through the inhibition of the expression and release of inflammatory molecules and stress-associated proteins. We showed that MSC significantly increase microglial expression and release of molecules associated with a neuroprotective phenotype such as CX3CR1, nuclear receptor 4 family, CD200 receptor, and insulin growth factor 1. Interestingly, MSC can enhance functional changes on microglia as depicted by the increase of intracellular calcium concentration and phagocytic activity. This last event is associated with an increased expression of triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-2, an innate immune receptor involved in phagocytosis in the absence of inflammation. The observed effects on CX3CR1-expressing microglia are due to the release of CX3CL1 by MSC, driven by inflammatory signals, as demonstrated by the reversal of the observed results when CX3CL1 expression was silenced in MSC or its release was blocked. Finally, we showed that exogenous CX3CL1 induce phenotypic and functional changes of microglia similar to those induced by MSC. These findings demonstrate that MSC instruct, through the release of CX3CL1, microglia responsiveness to proinflammatory signals by modulating constitutive &quot;calming&quot; receptors, typically expressed by &quot;steady-state microglia&quot; thus switching microglia from a detrimental phenotype to a neuroprotective one.
Monoallelic gene expression, such as genomic imprinting, is well described. Less well-characterized are genes undergoing stochastic monoallelic expression (MA), where specific clones of cells express just one allele at a given locus. We performed genome-wide allelic expression assessment of human clonal neural stem cells derived from cerebral cortex, striatum, and spinal cord, each with differing genotypes. We assayed three separate clonal lines from each donor, distinguishing stochastic MA from genotypic effects. Roughly 2% of genes showed evidence for autosomal MA, and in about half of these, allelic expression was stochastic between different clones. Many of these loci were known neurodevelopmental genes, such as OTX2 and OLIG2. Monoallelic genes also showed increased levels of DNA methylation compared to hypomethylated biallelic loci. Identified monoallelic gene loci showed altered chromatin signatures in fetal brain, suggesting an in vivo correlate of this phenomenon. We conclude that stochastic allelic expression is prevalent in neural stem cells, providing clonal diversity to developing tissues such as the human brain.


In this paper, I evaluate recently defended mechanistic accounts of the unity of neuroscience from a metaphysical point of view. Considering the mechanistic framework in general (Sections 2 and 3), I argue that explanations of this kind are essentially reductive (Section 4). The reductive character of mechanistic explanations provides a sufficiency criterion, according to which the mechanism underlying a certain phenomenon is sufficient for the latter. Thus, the concept of supervenience can be used in order to describe the relation between mechanisms and phenomena (Section 5). Against this background, I show that the mechanistic framework is subject to the causal exclusion problem and faces the classical metaphysical options when it comes to the relations obtaining between different levels of mechanisms (Section 6). Finally, an attempt to improve the metaphysics of mechanisms is made (Section 7) and further difficulties are pointed out (Section 8).
In their theoretical and experimental reflections on the capacities and behaviours of living systems, neuroscientists often formulate generalizations about the behaviour of neural circuits. These generalizations are highly idealized, as they omit reference to the myriads of conditions that could perturb the behaviour of the modelled system in real-world settings. This article analyses an experimental investigation of the behaviour of place cells in the rat hippocampus, in which highly idealized generalizations were tested by comparing predictions flowing from them with real-world experimental results. The aim of the article is to identify (1) under what conditions even single prediction failures regarding the behaviour of single cells sufficed to reject highly idealized generalizations, and (2) under what conditions prima facie counter-examples were deemed to be irrelevant to the testing of highly idealized generalizations. The results of this analysis may contribute to understanding how idealized models are tested experimentally in neuroscience and used to make reliable predictions concerning living systems in real-world settings.
Within substance abuse, neuroimaging has experienced tremendous growth as both a research method and a clinical tool in the last decade. The application of functional imaging methods to cocaine dependent patients and individuals in treatment programs, has revealed that the effects of cocaine are not limited to dopamine-rich subcortical structures, but that the cortical projection areas are also disrupted in cocaine dependent patients. In this review, we will first describe several of the imaging methods that are actively being used to address functional and structural abnormalities in addiction. This will be followed by an overview of the cortical and subcortical brain regions that are most often cited as dysfunctional in cocaine users. We will also introduce functional connectivity analyses currently being used to investigate interactions between these cortical and subcortical areas in cocaine users and abstainers. Finally, this review will address recent research which demonstrates that alterations in the functional connectivity in cocaine users may be associated with structural pathology in these circuits, as demonstrated through diffusion tensor imaging. Through the use of these tools in both a basic science setting and as applied to treatment seeking individuals, we now have a greater understanding of the complex cortical and subcortical networks which contribute to the stages of initial craving, dependence, abstinence, and relapse. Although the ability to use neuroimaging to predict treatment response or identify vulnerable populations is still in its infancy, the next decade holds tremendous promise for using neuroimaging to tailor either behavioral or pharmacologic treatment interventions to the individual.
Interest is rising for animal modeling of impaired behavioral inhibition. Impulsivity and risk proneness, key symptoms of impulse-control disorders, are classically measured by Intolerance to Delay (ID) and Probabilistic Delivery (PD) tasks, requiring choice between a &quot;Small &amp; Soon&quot; or &quot;Sure&quot; (SS) versus a &quot;Large &amp; Late&quot; or &quot;Luck-Linked&quot; (LL or LLL, respectively) reinforcer. Several temporal parameters shall be set, which are not always explicit. Here, we focused on duration of timeout (TO; three groups: 15, 30, or 45 s; Exp. 1) and on session length (SL; three groups: 60, 90, or 120 min; Exp. 2) to determine whether these parameters may affect rats' performance in ID and PD tasks, respectively. In Exp. 1, rats' reaction to increasing experimental delays (absolute values 0-90 s, delay-equivalent odds 0 to 1.94  0.11) was critically affected by TO duration: a steeper impulsivity curve was found in subjects tested with the longest TO, while random performance was elicited with too short TO. In Exp. 2, a specific &quot;gambling&quot; part was presented (LLL probability lower than 20%). Subjects tested with the shortest session length (60 min), who had a low number of gambling opportunities (performed trials = 84.33  1.91), exhibited a profile of risk proneness, with sustained LLL preference despite high uncertainty and low payoff. Present data demonstrate that TO and SL crucially influence rats' performance in these operant tasks. Their methodological refinement is highly relevant to validate preclinical models for inhibitory-control impairments.
There is increasing data implicating neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the neurobiology of addiction. This study explored the possible role of NPY in cocaine-induced behavior using NPY knockout mice. The transgenic mice showed a hypersensitive response to cocaine in three animal models of cocaine addiction. Whether this is due to an observed compensatory increase in striatal dopamine transporter binding or an anxiogenic phenotype of the transgenic mice remains to be determined.
Two isolates, designated PRQ-67(T) and PRQ-68, with an optimum growth temperature of about 50C, growth range in medium containing between 1 and 9% NaCl and an optimum pH for growth between 7.5 and 8.0, were recovered from a shallow marine hot spring on a beach, Praia do Fogo, at Ribeira Quente, on the Island of So Miguel in the Azores. Comparisons of 16S rRNA gene sequences show these strains to be most closely related (93.1-94.7% similarity) to species of the genus Amaricoccus, within the family Rhodobacteraceae. Strains are non-pigmented and form non-motile pleomorphic cells that stain Gram-negative, are aerobic, oxidase and catalase positive. The major fatty acids are C(18:1)7c and C(18:1)7c 11-methyl. Ubiquinone 10 is the major respiratory quinone. Major polar lipids are phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylglycerol and one aminolipid. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, physiological and biochemical characteristics we describe a new species of a novel genus represented by strain PRQ-67(T) (=DSM 22673(T)=LMG 25334(T)) for which we propose the name Oceanicella actignis.
Two halophilic archaea, strains MDB25(T) and MDB20, were isolated from a sample of the brine from Lake Medee, at a depth of 3050 m, in the Mediterranean Sea. Cells of the organisms were Gram-negative, non-motile and pleomorphic, and colonies were red pigmented. Strains MDB25(T) and MDB20 showed optimum growth at 45C, in 2.6-3.4M NaCl and at pH 7.0-8.0. The major polar lipids of the two strains were phosphatidylglycerol (PG1 and PG2), phosphatidylglycerol phosphate methyl ester (PGP-Me) and mannose-2,6-dissulfate (12)-glucose glycerol diether (S(2)-DGD). Menaquinone MK-8 and MK-8(H(2)) were the major respiratory quinones. The DNA G+C content of strain MDB25(T) was 63.0%. The strains were facultatively anaerobic but grew better under aerobic conditions, nitrate served as electron acceptor. Analysis of the almost complete 16S rRNA gene sequence indicated that the strains MDB25(T) and MDB20 represented a member of the genus Natrinema in the family Halobacteriaceae. Both strains formed a distinct cluster and were most closely related to Natrinema ejinorense JCM 13890(T) and Haloterrigena longa JCM 13562(T) (98.0% and 97.9% sequence similarity, respectively). Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, DNA-DNA hybridization results, physiological and biochemical characteristics we describe a new species represented by strain MDB25(T) (=DSM 25055(T) =JCM 17869(T)) for which we propose the name Natrinema salaciae sp. nov.
Autonomous robots can generate exploratory behavior by self-organization of the sensorimotor loop. We show that the behavioral manifold that is covered in this way can be modified in a goal-dependent way without reducing the self-induced activity of the robot. We present three strategies for guided self-organization, namely by using external rewards, a problem-specific error function, or assumptions about the symmetries of the desired behavior. The strategies are analyzed for two different robots in a physically realistic simulation.
Central hypersomnias are diseases manifested in excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) not caused by disturbed nocturnal sleep or misaligned circadian rhythms. Central hypersomnias includes narcolepsy with and without cataplexy, recurrent hypersomnia, idiopathic hypersomnia, with and without long sleep time, behaviorally induced insufficient sleep syndrome, hypersomnia and narcolepsy due to medical conditions, and finally hypersomnia induced by substance intake. The Epworth Sleepiness Scale is a subjective tool mostly used for EDS assessment, while the Multiple Sleep Latency Test serves as an objective diagnostic method for narcolepsy and idiopathic hypersomnias. As for symptomatic therapy of EDS, the central nervous system stimulants modafinil and methylphenidate seem to work well in most cases and in narcolepsy and Parkinson's disease; sodium oxybate also has notable therapeutic value.
White matter dementia (WMD) is a syndrome introduced in 1988 to highlight the potential of cerebral white matter disorders to produce cognitive loss of sufficient severity to qualify as dementia. Neurologists have long understood that such a syndrome can occur, but the dominance of gray matter as the locus of higher function has strongly directed neurobehavioral inquiry to the cerebral cortex while white matter has received less attention. Contemporary neuroimaging has been crucial in enabling the recognition of white matter abnormalities in a host of disorders, and the correlation of these changes with cognitive performance. Comprising about half the brain, white matter is prominently or exclusively involved in well over 100 disorders, in each of which white matter dysfunction can potentially cause or contribute to dementia. Neuropsychological findings from ten categories of white matter disorder lead to a convergence of findings that document remarkable neurobehavioral commonality among the dementias produced. More recently, the syndrome of mild cognitive dysfunction (MCD) has been introduced to expand the concept of WMD by proposing a precursor syndrome related to early white matter neuropathology. WMD and MCD inform the understanding of how white matter contributes to normal and abnormal cognition, and the specific neuroanatomic focus of these syndromes may enhance the diagnosis and treatment of many disabling disorders that do not primarily implicate the cerebral cortex. Forming essential connections within widely distributed neural networks, white matter is critical for rapid and efficient information transfer that complements the information processing of gray matter. As neuroimaging continues to advance, further information on white matter structure can be expected, and behavioral neurology will play a central role in elucidating the functional significance of these emerging data. By emphasizing the contribution of myelinated systems to higher function, the study of white matter and cognition represents investigation of the basic neuroscience of human behavior.


Neurite outgrowth is an important aspect of neuronal plasticity and regeneration after neuronal injury. In this study we aimed to investigate the possible effect of 3-thiomethyl-5,6-dimethoxyphenyl-1,2,4-triazine (TDMT) on H(2)O(2)-induced impairment of neurite outgrowth. We found that TDMT could improve neurite outgrowth and neurite complexity in H(2)O(2)-exposed PC12 cells. Moreover, we found elevated levels of Hsp-70 and suppressed level of Hsp-90 in TDMT-treated cells in the presence of H(2)O(2). As another important signaling pathways that play role in neuritogenesis, as well as apoptosis, we measured the level of phosphorylated and total MAPKs proteins, JNK, ERK and p38 MAPK. We found that TDMT inhibits oxidative stress-induced phosphorylation of MAPKs. Since HSPs and MAPKs are both involved in coping with environmental changes, it will not be surprising if they can modify or augment each other's activity. Neuroprotective effect of this compound could represent a promising approach for treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.

Recent years have seen enormous demand amongst policy makers for new insights from the behavioural sciences, especially neuroscience. This demand is matched by an increasing willingness on behalf of behavioural scientists to translate the policy implications of their work. But can neuroscience really help shape the governance of a nation? Or does this represent growing misuse of neuroscience to attach scientific authority to policy, plus a clutch of neuroscientists trying to overstate their findings for a taste of power?

Human brain stimulation for therapeutic purposes has many short- and long-term limitations. The possibility of implanting magnetic, rather than electrical, stimulation devices would present a possible solution to some of the problems. The development of a new microscopic magnetic stimulation device provides a glimpse of the realisation.

The Brain Prize 2012 was awarded to two remarkable scientists, Christine Petit and Karen Steel, who have exploited the use of human and mouse genetics to revolutionize our understanding of the molecular and cellular basis of hearing and deafness, opening up what was previously an inaccessible, but highly important, end organ of the brain. The present article highlights their seminal contributions.
In most organisms, an intrinsic circadian (~24-h) timekeeping system drives rhythms of physiology and behavior. Within cells that contain a circadian clock, specific transcriptional activators and repressors reciprocally regulate each other to generate a basic molecular oscillator. A mismatch of the period generated by this oscillator with the external environment creates circadian disruption, which can have adverse effects on neural function. Although several clock genes have been extensively characterized, a fundamental question remains: how do these genes work together to generate a ~24-h period? Period-altering mutations in clock genes can affect any of multiple regulated steps in the molecular oscillator. In this review, we examine the regulatory mechanisms that contribute to setting the pace of the circadian oscillator.
A recent paradigm shift in systems neuroscience is the division of the human brain into functional networks. Functional networks are collections of brain regions with strongly correlated activity both at rest and during cognitive tasks, and each network is believed to implement a different aspect of cognition. We propose here that anxiety disorders and high trait anxiety are associated with a particular pattern of functional network dysfunction: increased functioning of the cingulo-opercular and ventral attention networks as well as decreased functioning of the fronto-parietal and default mode networks. This functional network model can be used to differentiate the pathology of anxiety disorders from other psychiatric illnesses such as major depression and provides targets for novel treatment strategies.
Sirtuins are highly conserved NAD(+)-dependent enzymes that have beneficial effects against age-related diseases. Aging is the major unifying risk factor for all neurodegenerative disorders. Sirtuins modulate major biological pathways, such as stress response, protein aggregation, and inflammatory processes, that are involved in age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, sirtuins have been widely studied in the context of the nervous system and neurodegeneration. They are especially interesting because it is possible to alter the activities of sirtuins using small molecules that could be developed into drugs. Indeed, it has been shown that manipulation of SIRT1 activity genetically or pharmacologically impacts neurodegenerative disease models. This review summarizes recent research in sirtuin neurobiology and neurodegenerative diseases and analyzes the potential of therapeutic applications based on sirtuin research.
Read any pharmacology textbook and the message is clear: nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) act by inhibiting the activity of cyclooxygenase (COX) and thereby the production of prostaglandins. However, evidence is accumulating that NSAIDs involve the endocannabinoid system in their actions, and that such effects may pave the way towards the design of new analgesics that are not plagued with the gastrointestinal and cardiovascular adverse actions that are associated with this class of drugs. In this Opinion article, our current understanding of the involvement of the endocannabinoid system in the actions of NSAIDs is described, and the ways in which this can lead to novel drug development is discussed.
The retina of the zebrafish (Danio rerio) provides an unusually favorable preparation for genetic and developmental studies of the retina. Although the retina has been studied extensively for two decades, the neuronal response of the inner retina is largely unknown. This report describes a prominent local field potential of the inner retina, the Proximal Negative Response (PNR). It is best evoked by small (100 m) precisely positioned spots of light and is exceedingly sensitive to negative luminance contrast. The polarity, waveform, and other properties of the PNR suggest that it arises primarily from ON-OFF neurons of the proximal retina. The dominant response to negative contrast and its enhancement by light adaptation is believed due to a dominant presynaptic input from OFF bipolar cells. Color contrast was investigated by analyzing responses to a green bar moving on green versus red backgrounds. Over an intermediate range of irradiance, the response to green on red was larger than the response to green on green, thereby providing evidence for the encoding of color contrast. The present findings complement the classic principle of color contrast for human vision known as Kirschmann's third law and bring to mind the view of Walls that color contrast may have been the driving force for the evolution of color vision in lower vertebrates. In sum, the PNR of zebrafish provides clear evidence for the encoding of color and luminance contrast in the inner retina. It exhibits the defining properties common to many other vertebrates, reinforcing the view that the zebrafish may further serve as a model for retinal function and that the PNR may provide a new approach for studies of development, genetics, and retinal degeneration in zebrafish.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been shown to be involved in the modulation of retinocollicular neurotransmission. In glaucoma, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) degenerate, which may have an implication on this transmission as the superior colliculus is their major central target in the much-used rodent models of the disease. We have investigated this using an in vitro slice preparation of the superior colliculus by eliciting field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) through optic tract stimulation in a rat ocular hypertension model of glaucoma. Application of the group III mGluR agonist L-AP4 reduced the peak amplitude of the fEPSP in superior colliculus slices through presynaptic mechanisms as previously shown in our lab. At 3 and 16 weeks after surgery, there were no significant differences in the effect of L-AP4 on fEPSP peak amplitude in the superior colliculus slices receiving input from the glaucomatous eyes [elevated intraocular pressure (IOP)] compared to those with input from the unoperated eyes (normal IOP). However, at 32 weeks, the fEPSP peak amplitude was reduced to a significantly greater degree during L-AP4 application in the elevated IOP slices compared to normal IOP slices. At all time points, there were no significant changes in the baseline amplitudes of fEPSPs or the stimulus intensities required to evoke fEPSPs. These results suggest that the modulation of synaptic transmission through group III mGluRs on RGC terminals to the superior colliculus is changed at later stages due to RGC degeneration through IOP elevation. These changes may be compensatory changes possibly through plasticity in the RGC terminals of surviving cells, which may be due to increases in the numbers of group III mGluRs. This result may have implications on further treatment studies carried out using these models of glaucoma as changes in the central visual system may need to be considered along with the retinal changes that occur.

The AU-rich element (ARE) was discovered in 1986 as a conserved mRNA sequence found in the 3' untranslated region of the TNF- transcript and other transcripts encoding cytokines and inflammatory mediators. Shortly thereafter, the ARE was shown to function as a regulator of mRNA degradation, and AREs were later shown to regulate other posttranscriptional mechanisms such as translation and mRNA localization. AREs coordinately regulate networks of chemokine, cytokine, and growth regulatory transcripts involved in cellular activation, proliferation, and inflammation. ARE-mediated regulation is carried out by a host of ARE-binding proteins, whose activity is regulated in a cell type and activation-dependent manner. The last 25 years of ARE research has offered insight into the mechanisms and regulation of ARE-mediated mRNA decay, and has provided a road map for the discovery of additional mRNA regulatory motifs. The future of ARE research will transition from a discovery phase to a phase focused on translating basic biological findings into novel therapeutic targets. Our understanding of ARE-mediated gene regulation and posttranscriptional control has implications for many fields of study including developmental biology, neuroscience, immunobiology, and cancer biology.




Most young researchers leaving the safe haven of postdoctoral life for the unchartered territory of a PI position are confronted with a multitude of new tasks. For those using fish as their favorite model system, this often includes the daunting task of setting up and running a fish facility. New PIs are expected to know everything about this, and are even asked in job interviews about the precise details of the facility they anticipate using. Consulting other laboratories, talking to experienced facility managers, and sifting through books and web material will certainly help but can be enormously time consuming and at times frustrating. You will likely receive conflicting advice or encounter information that is overcomplicated and out of date. In this report, we summarize our collective experience of five different fish facilities, and outline what we consider to be the essential steps for setting up and running a successful facility. We also include valuable tips and tricks such as an optimized protocol for brine shrimp hatching. Our aim is to help researchers spend less time worrying about the technical aspects of their facility so that they can focus on their main job--research.

p21-activated kinase 1 (PAK1) and PAK3 belong to group I of the PAK family and control cell movement and division. They also regulate dendritic spine formation and maturation in the brain, and play a role in synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity. PAK3, in particular, is known for its implication in X-linked intellectual disability. The pak3 gene is expressed in neurons as a GTPase-regulated PAK3a protein and also as three splice variants which display constitutive kinase activity. PAK1 regulation is based on its homodimerization, forming an inactive complex. Here, we analyze the PAK3 capacity to dimerize and show that although PAK3a is able to homodimerize, it is more likely to form heterodimeric complexes with PAK1. We further show that two intellectual disability mutations impair dimerization with PAK1. The b and c inserts present in the regulatory domain of PAK3 splice variants decrease the dimerization but retain the capacity to form heterodimers with PAK1. PAK1 and PAK3 are co-expressed in neurons, are colocalized within dendritic spines, co-purify with post-synaptic densities, and co-immunoprecipitate in brain lysates. Using kinase assays, we demonstrate that PAK1 inhibits the activity of PAK3a but not of the splice variant PAK3b in a trans-regulatory manner. Altogether, these results show that PAK3 and PAK1 signaling may be coordinated by heterodimerization.
The polarity protein PAR-1 plays an essential role in many cellular contexts, including embryogenesis, asymmetric cell division, directional migration, and epithelial morphogenesis. Despite its known importance in different cellular processes, the role of PAR-1 in neuronal morphogenesis is less well understood. In particular, its role in the morphogenesis of dendritic spines, which are sites of excitatory synaptic inputs, has been unclear. Here, we show that PAR-1 is required for normal spine morphogenesis in hippocampal neurons. We further show that PAR-1 functions through phosphorylating the synaptic scaffolding protein PSD-95 in this process. Phosphorylation at a conserved serine residue in the KXGS motif in PSD-95 regulates spine morphogenesis, and a phosphomimetic mutant of this site can rescue the defects of kinase-dead PAR-1. Together, our findings uncover a role of PAR-1 in spine morphogenesis in hippocampal neurons through phosphorylating PSD-95.
Several methods derived from nonlinear time series analysis have been suggested to quantify stability in human gait kinematics. One of these methods is the definition of the maximum finite time Lyapunov exponent () that quantifies how the system responds to infinitesimal perturbations. However, there are fundamental limitations to the conventional definition of  for gait kinematics. First, exponential increase in initial perturbations cannot be assumed since real-life perturbations of gait kinematics are finite sized. Second, the transitions between single and double support phase within each stride cycle define two distinct dynamical regimes that may not be captured by a single . The present article presents a new method to quantify intra-stride changes (t) in local dynamical stability and employs the method to 3D lower extremity gait kinematics in 10 healthy adults walking on a treadmill at 3 different speeds. All participants showed an intra-stride change in (t) in the transition between single and double support phase. The intra-stride change reflected an both a increase and decrease in (t) at heel strike and toe off, respectively, with increased gait speed. Furthermore, a close relationship was found between the intra-stride change in standard deviation of foot velocity in the anterior-posterior direction and the intra-stride change of the initial perturbations. The present results indicate that local dynamical stability has gait phase-dependent changes that are not identified by conventional computation of a single .
Transient global ischemia induces selective, delayed neuronal death of pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal CA1. Whereas long term treatment of middle-aged female rats with estradiol at physiological doses ameliorates neuronal death, the signaling pathways that mediate the neuroprotection are, as yet, unknown. Protein kinase B (Akt) and downstream transcription factors, the cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT3) are critical players in cellular survival following injury. The present study was undertaken to determine whether long term estradiol alters the phosphorylation status and activity of Akt, STAT3 and CREB in ovariohysterectomized, middle-aged and young female rats subjected to global ischemia. Irrespective of either hormone or ischemic condition, middle-aged females exhibited lower levels of p-CREB and higher levels of Akt and STAT3 in CA1 than young females, as assessed by Western blot. In middle-aged animals, ischemia increased the phosphorylation status/activity of Akt and STAT3, and decreased the phosphorylation status/activity of CREB in the hippocampal CA1. Whereas estradiol did not detectably alter the phosphorylation status/activity of Akt or STAT3, it prevented the ischemia-induced decrease in nuclear p-CREB. Similar results were observed for the young females. Collectively, these data demonstrate that CREB, STAT3, and Akt are involved in the molecular response to global ischemia and that age influences the status of CREB, STAT3 and Akt activity in CA1 under physiological as well as pathological conditions, further emphasizing the importance of including older rodents in neuroprotection studies.
Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) is the most common form of hereditary ataxia. In addition to proximal spinal cord and brain stem atrophy, mild to moderate atrophy of the cerebellum has been reported in advanced FRDA. The aim of this study was to examine dysfunction in motor-related areas involved in the execution of finger tapping tasks in individuals with FRDA, and to investigate functional re-organization of cortico-cerebellar, cortico-striatal and parieto-frontal loops as a result of the cerebellar pathology. Thirteen right-handed individuals with FRDA and fourteen right-handed controls participated. Functional MRI images were acquired during four different finger tapping tasks consisting of visually cued regular and irregular single finger tapping tasks, a self-paced regular finger tapping task, and a visually cued multi-finger tapping task. Both groups showed significant activation of the motor-related network including the pre-central cortex and supplementary motor area bilaterally; the left primary motor cortex, somatosensory cortex and putamen; and the right cerebellum. During the visually cued regular finger tapping task, the right hemisphere of the cerebellar cortex, bilateral supplementary motor areas and right inferior parietal cortex showed higher activation in the healthy control group, while in individuals with FRDA the left premotor cortex, left somatosensory cortex and left inferior parietal cortex were more active. In addition, during the visually cued irregular finger tapping task, the right middle temporal gyrus in the control group and the right superior parietal lobule and left superior and middle temporal gyri in the individuals with FRDA showed higher activation. During visually cued multi-finger tapping task, the control group showed higher activation in the bilateral middle frontal gyri, bilateral somatosensory cortices, bilateral inferior parietal lobules, left premotor cortex, left supplementary area, right superior frontal gyrus and right cerebellum, while individuals with FRDA showed increased activity in the left inferior parietal lobule, left primary motor cortex, left middle occipital gyrus, right somatosensory cortex and the left cerebellum. Only the right crus I/II of the cerebellum showed higher activation in individuals with FRDA during the self-paced regular finger tapping task, whereas wide-spread regions including the left superior frontal gyrus, left central opercular cortex, left somatosensory cortex, left putamen, right cerebellum, bilateral primary motor cortices, bilateral inferior parietal lobules and the left insula were more active in the control group. Although the pattern of the BOLD signal from the putamen was different during the self-paced regular finger tapping task to the other tasks in controls, in individuals with FRDA there was no distinction of the signal between the tasks suggesting that primary cerebellar pathology may cause secondary basal ganglia dysregulation. While individuals with FRDA tapped at a slightly lower rate (0.59Hz) compared with controls (0.74Hz) they showed significantly decreased activity of the SMA and the inferior parietal lobule, which may suggest disruption to the fronto-parietal connections. These findings suggest that the motor impairments in individuals with FRDA result from dysfunction extending beyond the spinal cord and cerebellum to include sub-cortical and cortical brain regions.
Previous studies showed the role of basolateral amygdala (BLA) in cannabinoid-induced antinociception. Furthermore, the nucleus accumbens (NAc) plays an important role in mediating the suppression of pain in animal models. The present study extended the role of dopamine receptors within the NAc in antinociceptive effect of cannabinoid receptor agonist, WIN55,212-2, microinjected into the BLA following the tail-flick and formalin tests in rats. In this study, 174 adult male albino Wistar rats were unilaterally implanted by two separate cannulae into the BLA and NAc. In two separated groups, rats received intra-NAc infusions of the D1 receptor antagonist, SCH-23390 (0.25, 1 and 4 g/0.5 l saline) or D2 receptor antagonist, sulpiride (0.25, 1 and 4 g/0.5 DMSO), and just 2 min later, WIN55,212-2 (15 g/rat) was microinjected into the BLA. In the tail-flick test, antinociceptive responses of drugs represented as maximal possible effect (%MPE) in 5, 15, 30, 45 and 60min after their administrations. Moreover, in the formalin test, pain related behaviors were monitored in 5-min blocks for 60 min test period. Our findings showed that intra-accumbal SCH-233909 dose-dependently prevented antinociception induced by intra-BLA administration of WIN55,212-2 (15 g/rat) in time set intervals in formalin, but not tail-flick test. Besides, administration of sulpiride in the NAc could affect WIN-induced analgesia in both models of pain. In conclusion, it seems that D2 receptors located in the NAc, in part, mediate the antinociceptive responses of cannabinoid within the BLA, while D1 receptors only are involved in modulation of persistent inflammatory model of pain.
Neuronal damage is a hallmark feature of HIV-associated neurological disorders (HANDs). Opiate drug abuse accelerates the incidence and progression of HAND; however, the mechanisms underlying the potentiation of neuropathogenesis by these drugs remain elusive. Opiates such as morphine have been shown to enhance HIV transactivation protein Tat-mediated toxicity in both human neurons and neuroblastoma cells. In the present study, we demonstrate reduced expression of the tropic factor platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-B with a concomitant increase in miR-29b in the basal ganglia region of the brains of morphine-dependent simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected macaques compared with the SIV-infected controls. In vitro relevance of these findings was corroborated in cultures of astrocytes exposed to morphine and HIV Tat that led to increased release of miR-29b in exosomes. Subsequent treatment of neuronal SH-SY5Y cell line with exosomes from treated astrocytes resulted in decreased expression of PDGF-B, with a concomitant decrease in viability of neurons. Furthermore, it was shown that PDGF-B was a target for miR-29b as evidenced by the fact that binding of miR-29 to the 3'-untranslated region of PDGF-B mRNA resulted in its translational repression in SH-SY5Y cells. Understanding the regulation of PDGF-B expression may provide insights into the development of potential therapeutic targets for neuronal loss in HIV-1-infected opiate abusers.
Optogenetics has been enthusiastically pursued in recent neuroscience research, and the causal relationship between neural activity and behavior is becoming ever more accessible. Here, we established knockin-mediated enhanced gene expression by improved tetracycline-controlled gene induction (KENGE-tet) and succeeded in generating transgenic mice expressing a highly light-sensitive channelrhodopsin-2 mutant at levels sufficient to drive the activities of multiple cell types. This method requires two lines of mice: one that controls the pattern of expression and another that determines the protein to be produced. The generation of new lines of either type readily expands the repertoire to choose from. In addition to neurons, we were able to manipulate the activity of nonexcitable glial cells in vivo. This shows that our system is applicable not only to neuroscience but also to any biomedical study that requires understanding of how the activity of a selected population of cells propagates through the intricate organic systems.

Ketoprofen and diclofenac are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) often used for similar indications, and both are frequently found in surface waters. Diclofenac affects organ histology and gene expression in fish at around 1 g/L. Here, we exposed rainbow trout to ketoprofen (1, 10 and 100 g/L) to investigate if this alternative causes less risk for pharmacological responses in fish. The bioconcentration factor from water to fish blood plasma was &lt;0.05 (4 for diclofenac based on previous studies). Ketoprofen only reached up to 0.6  of the human therapeutic plasma concentration, thus the probability of target-related effects was estimated to be fairly low. Accordingly, a comprehensive analysis of hepatic gene expression revealed no consistent responses. In some contrast, trout exposed to undiluted, treated sewage effluents bioconcentrated ketoprofen and other NSAIDs much more efficiently, according to a meta-analysis of recent studies. Neither of the setups is however an ideal representation of the field situation. If a controlled exposure system with a single chemical in pure water is a reasonable representation of the environment, then the use of ketoprofen is likely to pose a lower risk for wild fish than diclofenac, but if bioconcentration factors from effluent-exposed fish are applied, the risks may be more similar.
Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) is a chronic and often treatment-refractory brain disorder characterized by recurrent seizures originating from the hippocampus. The pathogenic mechanisms underlying mTLE remain largely unknown. Recent clinical and experimental evidence supports a role of various inflammatory mediators in mTLE. Here, we performed protein expression profiling of 40 inflammatory mediators in surgical resection material from mTLE patients with and without hippocampal sclerosis, and autopsy controls using a multiplex bead-based immunoassay. In mTLE patients we identified 21 upregulated inflammatory mediators, including 10 cytokines and 7 chemokines. Many of these upregulated mediators have not previously been implicated in mTLE (for example, CCL22, IL-7 and IL-25). Comparing the three patient groups, two main hippocampal expression patterns could be distinguished, pattern I (for example, IL-10 and IL-25) showing increased expression in mTLE+HS patients compared to mTLE-HS and controls, and pattern II (for example, CCL4 and IL-7) showing increased expression in both mTLE groups compared to controls. Upregulation of a subset of inflammatory mediators (for example, IL-25 and IL-7) could not only be detected in the hippocampus of mTLE patients, but also in the neocortex. Principle component analysis was used to cluster the inflammatory mediators into several components. Follow-up analyses of the identified components revealed that the three patient groups could be discriminated based on their unique expression profiles. Immunocytochemistry showed that IL-25 IR (pattern I) and CCL4 IR (pattern II) were localized in astrocytes and microglia, whereas IL-25 IR was also detected in neurons. Our data shows co-activation of multiple inflammatory mediators in hippocampus and neocortex of mTLE patients, indicating activation of multiple pro- and anti-epileptogenic immune pathways in this disease.
The epidermis is innervated by fine nerve endings that are important in mediating nociceptive stimuli. However, their precise role in neuropathic pain is still controversial. Here, we have studied the role of epidermal peptidergic nociceptive fibers that are located adjacent to injured fibers in a rat model of neuropathic pain. Using the Spared Nerve Injury (SNI) model, which involves complete transections of the tibial and common peroneal nerve while sparing the sural and saphenous branches, mechanical hypersensitivity was induced of the uninjured lateral (sural) and medial (saphenous) area of the foot sole. At different time points, a complete foot sole biopsy was taken from the injured paw and processed for Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide (CGRP) immunohistochemistry. Subsequently, a novel 2D-reconstruction model depicting the density of CGRP fibers was made to evaluate the course of denervation and re-innervation by uninjured CGRP fibers. The results show an increased density of uninjured CGRP-IR epidermal fibers on the lateral and medial side after a SNI procedure at 5 and 10 weeks. Furthermore, although in control animals the density of epidermal CGRP-IR fibers in the footpads was lower compared to the surrounding skin of the foot, 10 weeks after the SNI procedure, the initially denervated footpads displayed a hyper-innervation. These data support the idea that uninjured fibers may play a considerable role in development and maintenance of neuropathic pain and that it is important to take larger biopsies to test the relationship between innervation of injured and uninjured nerve areas.
Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-B) p50/RelA is a key molecule with a dual effect in the progression of ischemic stroke. In harmful ischemia, but not in preconditioning insult, neurotoxic activation of p50/RelA is characterized by RelA-specific acetylation at Lys310 (K310) and deacetylation at other Lys residues. The derangement of RelA acetylation is associated with activation of Bim promoter. OBJECTIVE: With the aim of producing neuroprotection by correcting altered acetylation of RelA in brain ischemia, we combined the pharmacological inhibition of histone deacetylase (HDAC) 1-3, the enzymes known to reduce global RelA acetylation, and the activation of sirtuin 1, endowed with a specific deacetylase activity on the K310 residue of RelA. To afford this aim, we tested the clinically used HDAC 1-3 inhibitor entinostat (MS-275) and the sirtuin 1 activator resveratrol. METHODS: We used the mouse model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and primary cortical neurons exposed to oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD). RESULTS: The combined use of MS-275 and resveratrol, by restoring normal RelA acetylation, elicited a synergistic neuroprotection in neurons exposed to OGD. This effect correlated with MS-275 capability to increase total RelA acetylation and resveratrol capability to reduce RelA K310 acetylation through the activation of an AMP-activated protein kinase-sirtuin 1 pathway. The synergistic treatment reproduced the acetylation state of RelA peculiar of preconditioning ischemia. Neurons exposed to the combined drugs totally recovered the optimal histone H3 acetylation. Neuroprotection was reproduced in mice subjected to MCAO and treated with MS-275 (20g/kg and 200g/kg) or resveratrol (6800g/kg) individually. However, the administration of lowest doses of MS-275 (2g/kg) and resveratrol (68g/kg) synergistically reduced infarct volume and neurological deficits. Importantly, the treatment was effective even when administered 7h after the stroke onset. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis of cortices harvested from treated mice showed that the RelA binding and histone acetylation increased at the Bcl-x(L) promoter and decreased at the Bim promoter. CONCLUSION: Our study reveals that epigenetic therapy shaping acetylation of both RelA and histones may be a promising strategy to limit post-ischemic injury with an extended therapeutic window.
The VESPA (visual-evoked spread spectrum analysis) method derives an impulse response function of the visual system from scalp electroencephalographic (EEG) data using the controlled modulation of some feature of a visual stimulus. Recent research using VESPA responses to modulations of stimulus contrast has provided new insights into both early visual attention mechanisms and the specificity of visual-processing deficits in schizophrenia. To allow a fuller interpretation of these and future findings, it is necessary to further characterize the VESPA in terms of its underlying cortical generators. To that end, we here examine spatio-temporal variations in the components of the VESPA as a function of stimulus location. We found that the first two VESPA components (C1/P1) each have a posterior dorsal midline focus and reverse in polarity across the horizontal meridian, consistent with retinotopic projections to calcarine cortex (V1) for the stimulus locations tested. Furthermore, the focal scalp topography of the VESPA was strikingly constant across the entire C1-P1 timeframe (50-120 ms) for each stimulus location, with negligible global scalp activity visible at the zero-crossing dividing the two. This indicates a common focal source underpinning both components, which was further supported by a significant correlation between C1 and P1 amplitudes across subjects (r=0.54; p&lt;0.05). These results, along with factors implicit in the method of derivation of the contrast-VESPA, lead us to conclude that these responses are dominated by activity from striate cortex. We discuss the implications of this finding for previous and future research using the VESPA.
Convergent evidence indicates that raphestriatal serotonin (5-HT) neurons can convert and release dopamine (DA) derived from exogenous administration of the pharmacotherapeutic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (L-DOPA) as a treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). While aspects of such neuroplasticity may be beneficial, chronic L-DOPA may also modify native 5-HT function, precipitating the appearance prevalent non-motor PD symptoms such as anxiety and depression. To examine this, male Sprague-Dawley rats were rendered parkinsonian with bilateral medial forebrain bundle 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) infusions and treated for at least 28 days with vehicle or L-DOPA. In the first experiment, striatal, hippocampal, amygdalar, and prefrontal cortex DA and 5-HT levels were examined at various post-treatment time-points. In experiment 2, L-DOPA's effects on DA and 5-HT cell bodies in the substantia nigra pars compacta and dorsal raphe, respectively, were examined. Finally, the effects of L-DOPA on affective behaviors were assessed in locomotor chambers, social interaction, forced swim, and elevated plus maze behavioral tests. Bilateral 6-OHDA lesion induced approximately 80% DA and 30% 5-HT depletion in the striatum compared to sham-lesioned controls, while monoamine levels remained largely unchanged in extrastriatal regions. Tissue levels of DA were increased at the expense of 5-HT levels in parkinsonian rats subjected to chronic L-DOPA injections in all regions sampled, though DA or 5-HT cell bodies were unaffected. Behaviorally, rats could only be tested 24h after their last L-DOPA injection due to severe dyskinesia. Despite this, prior exposure to chronic L-DOPA treatment exerted a pronounced anxiogenic phenotype. Collectively, these results suggest that chronic L-DOPA treatment may interfere with the balance of DA and 5-HT function in affect-related brain regions and could induce and/or exacerbate non-motor symptoms in PD.
Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a new member of the globin family and a novel endogenous neuroprotective molecule, but its neuroprotective mechanisms remain largely undefined. Previous studies suggest Ngb is both physically and functionally related to mitochondria, however without direct evidence. Our recent discovery has shown that Ngb can physically interact with a number of mitochondrial proteins. In this study we aimed to define the physical interaction between Ngb and mitochondria by determining whether there is a mitochondrial distribution of Ngb under both physiological-resting and pathological oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) conditions. Western blot for the first time revealed a small portion of Ngb was physically localized in mitochondria, and the relative mitochondrial Ngb level was significantly increased after OGD in primary-cultured mouse cortical neurons, indicating a translocation of Ngb into mitochondria. Complementary approaches including confocal imaging and immuno-electron microscopy confirmed Ngb distribution in mitochondria under both basal-resting condition and OGD. Inhibitors of mitochondria permeability transition pore (mPTP) and Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel (VDAC) blocked OGD-induced increase of mitochondrial Ngb level, demonstrating a possible role of mPTP in Ngb's mitochondrial translocation. We further found that Ngb overexpression-conferred neuroprotection was correlated with increased mitochondrial Ngb level, suggesting the mitochondria distribution of Ngb is clearly associated with and may contribute to Ngb's neuroprotection.
Perineuronal nets (PNNs) are lattice-like substructures of the neural extracellular matrix that enwrap particular populations of neurons throughout the central nervous system. Previous work suggests that this structure plays a major role in modulating developmental neural plasticity and brain maturation. Understanding the precise role of these structures has been hampered by incomplete comprehension of their molecular composition and cellular contributions to their formation, which is studied herein using primary cortical cell cultures. By defining culture conditions to reduce (cytosine--d-arabinofuranoside/AraC addition) or virtually eliminate (elevated potassium chloride (KCl) and AraC application) glia, PNN components impacted by this cell type were identified. Effects of depolarizing KCl concentrations alone were also assessed. Our work identified aggrecan as the primary neuronal component of the PNN and its expression was dramatically up-regulated by both depolarization and glial cell inhibition and additionally, the development of aggrecan-positive PNNs was accelerated. Surprisingly, most of the other PNN components tested were made in a glial-dependent manner in our culture system. Interestingly, in the absence of these glial-derived components, an aggrecan- and hyaluronan-reactive PNN developed, demonstrating that these two components are sufficient for base PNN assembly. Other components were expressed in a glial-dependent manner. Overall, this work provides deeper insight into the complex interplay between neurons and glia in the formation of the PNN and improves our understanding of the molecular composition of these structures.
This study was carried out on decerebrate, paralyzed and artificially ventilated cats to investigate the central regulatory mechanism for cough reflex. Fictive cough was induced by repetitive stimulation of the superior laryngeal nerve (SLN) or the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), and characterized by an increased inspiratory discharge in the phrenic nerve (stage 1 of cough; S1C) and large burst discharge in the iliohypogastric nerve (stage 2 of cough; S2C). Membrane potential was recorded from the neurons located in the cough-inducible sites of the NTS. Seven augmenting inspiratory (aug-I), 25 inspiratory-modulated (I-mod) and 16 non-respiratory (non-R) neurons were encountered, all of which showed short-latency (7.5  1.6 ms, n=48) waves of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs and IPSPs) in response to single pulse stimulation of the SLN. Out of these, all 7 aug-I and 12 I-mod neurons depolarized during the S1C and hyperpolarized during the S2C (DH-type response). Three I-mod and five non-R neurons showed membrane hyperpolarization during both stages (HH-type response). Ten I-mod and three non-R neurons displayed membrane depolarization during the S1C and S2C (DD-type response). The remaining eight non-R neurons showed no response during the fictive cough (NN-type response) but a long-lasting EPSP wave to single SLN stimulation. The NTS neurons recorded here were divided into three groups. Group I neurons with the NN-type response may be the second-order relay neurons. Group II neurons with the DD-type response may integrate the tussigenic afferent information and send a gate signal to the cough pattern generator. Group III neurons with either DH-type or HH-type response may constitute the network of cough pattern generation or modulatory circuits recruited during the cough reflex. The present study suggests that Group II neurons may play a gating role in generating the cough reflex.
Class A scavenger receptor (SR-A) is primarily expressed in microglia/macrophages and plays an important role in immune responses. However, whether SR-A can influence microglia/macrophage polarization in cerebral ischemic injury is not known. To this end we monitored the phenotypic alteration of microglia/macrophages in an animal model of cerebral ischemia injury. SR-A was up-regulated in mouse brains 24h after permanent occlusion of middle cerebral artery (MCAO). SR-A-deficient mice displayed reduced infarct size and improved neurological function compared with wild-type mice littermate controls. Furthermore, a decrease in inflammatory F4/80(+)CD11b(+)CD45(high)CD11c(+) microglia/macrophages and attenuated nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-B) activation was found in ischemic brains in the SR-A null mice. This was accompanied by alleviation of classically activated M1 macrophage markers and preservation of alternatively activated M2 macrophage markers. These data suggest that SR-A contributes to cerebral ischemic injury by pivoting the phenotype of microglia/macrophages to a skewed M1 polarization.
Ghrelin is an orexigenic stomach peptide previously found to be important for the full display of anticipatory locomotor activity and hypothalamic neuronal activation that precedes a daily scheduled meal in mice. Ghrelin is also important for food-related motivation and seems to have direct effects in the mesocorticolimbic dopamine reward system. Here we hypothesized that neuronal activation in reward-related areas in anticipation of a scheduled meal could be mediated by elevated ghrelin induced by scheduled feeding, and therefore this would be attenuated in ghrelin receptor knock-out (GHSR KO) animals. We found that this was indeed the case for the ventral tegmental area and the shell, but not the core, of the nucleus accumbens. In addition, our results show a reduction in the proportion of activated orexin-immunoreactive (IR) neurons in GHSR KO animals in anticipation of the scheduled meal in comparison to the proportion of activated orexin neurons in wild type (WT) mice. Interestingly we observed that both GHSR and ghrelin KO mice had fewer orexin-IR cells than their WT littermates suggesting that lack of ghrelin or sensitivity to ghrelin may play a role in the development of the orexin system. Our data also suggest that ghrelin may mediate food anticipation, in part, by stimulating both the orexin system and the mesolimbic reward system.
The parabrachial nucleus (PB) is a brainstem cell group that receives a strong input from the nucleus tractus solitarius regarding the physiological status of the internal organs and sends efferent projections throughout the forebrain. Since the neuroanatomical organization of the PB remains unclear, our first step was to use specific antibodies against two neural lineage transcription factors: Forkhead box protein2 (FoxP2) and LIM homeodomain transcription factor 1 beta (Lmx1b) to define the PB in adult rats. This allowed us to construct a cytoarchitectonic PB map based on the distribution of neurons that constitutively express these two transcription factors. Second, the in situ hybridization method combined with immunohistochemistry demonstrated that mRNA for glutamate vesicular transporter Vglut2 (Slc17a6) was present in most of the Lmx1b+ and FoxP2+ parabrachial neurons, indicating these neurons use glutamate as a transmitter. Third, conscious rats were maintained in a hypotensive or hypertensive state for 2h, and then, their brainstems were prepared by the standard c-Fos method which is a measure of neuronal activity. Both hypotension and hypertension resulted in c-Fos activation of Lmx1b+ neurons in the external lateral-outer subdivision of the PB (PBel-outer). Hypotension, but not hypertension, caused c-Fos activity in the FoxP2+ neurons of the central lateral PB (PBcl) subnucleus. The Klliker-Fuse nucleus as well as the lateral crescent PB and rostral-most part of the PBcl contain neurons that co-express FoxP2+ and Lmx1b+, but none of these were activated after blood pressure changes. Salt-sensitive FoxP2 neurons in the pre-locus coeruleus and PBel-inner were not c-Fos activated following blood pressure changes. In summary, the present study shows that the PBel-outer and PBcl subnuclei originate from two different neural progenitors, contain glutamatergic neurons, and are affected by blood pressure changes, with the PBel-outer reacting to both hypo- and hypertension, and the PBcl signaling only hypotensive changes.
Cholinergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus is involved in cognitive functions, including learning and memory. Strategies to enhance septohippocampal cholinergic neurotransmission may therefore be of therapeutic value to limit cognitive decline during cholinergic dysfunction. In addition to current strategies being developed, such as the use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, enhancing acetylcholine (ACh) release may be critical for optimal cholinergic neurotransmission. Vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) activity limits the rate of formation of the readily releasable ACh pool. As such, we sought to determine the influence of increased VAChT expression on the septohippocampal cholinergic system. To do this, we used the B6.eGFPChAT congenic mouse, which we show contains multiple gene copies of VAChT. In this transgenic mouse, the increased VAChT gene copy number led to an increase in VAChT gene expression in the septum and a corresponding enhancement of VAChT protein in the hippocampal formation. VAChT overexpression enhanced the release of ACh from ex vivo hippocampal slices. From these findings, we conclude that VAChT overexpression is sufficient to enhance ACh release in the hippocampal formation. It remains to be established whether, in cases of cholinergic deficits, increasing VAChT expression would re-establish adequate levels of cholinergic neurotransmission, thereby providing a valid therapeutic target.
Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S), an endogenous gasotransmitter, modulates various biological functions, including nociception. It is known that H(2)S causes neurogenic inflammation and elicits hyperalgesia. Here we show that H(2)S activates mouse transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) channels and elicits acute pain, using TRPA1-gene deficient mice (TRPA1(-/-)) and heterologous expression system. In wild-type mouse sensory neurons, H(2)S increased the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), which was inhibited by ruthenium red (a nonselective TRP channel blocker) and HC-030031 (a TRPA1 blocker). H(2)S-responsive neurons highly corresponded to TRPA1 agonist-sensitive ones. [Ca(2+)](i) responses to H(2)S were observed in neurons from transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1(-/-)) mice but not from TRPA1(-/-) mice. Heterologously expressed mouse TRPA1, but not mouse TRPV1, was activated by H(2)S. H(2)S-induced [Ca(2+)](i) responses were inhibited by dithiothreitol, a reducing agent. Analyses of the TRPA1 mutant channel revealed that two cysteine residues located in the N-terminal internal domain were responsible for the activation by H(2)S. Intraplantar injection of H(2)S into the mouse hind paw caused acute pain which was significantly less in TRPA1(-/-) mice. The [Ca(2+)](i) responses to H(2)S in sensory neurons and in heterologously expressed channels, and pain-related behavior induced by H(2)S were enhanced under acidic conditions. These results suggest that H(2)S functions as a nociceptive messenger through the activation of TRPA1 channels. TRPA1 may be a therapeutic target for H(2)S-related algesic action, especially under inflammatory conditions.
Food intake stimuli, including taste, somatosensory, and tactile stimuli, are received by receptors in the oral cavity, and this information is then transferred to the cerebral cortex. Signals from recently ingested food during the weaning period can affect synaptic transmission, resulting in biochemical changes in the cerebral cortex that modify gustatory and somatosensory nervous system plasticity. In this study, we investigated the expression patterns of molecular markers in mouse gustatory and somatosensory cortices during the weaning period. The expression of synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP25), a component of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex, was increased in the insular and somatosensory cortices at postnatal week 3 compared to postnatal week 2. Additionally, SNAP25 protein in the cerebral cortex accumulated in weaning mice fed solid food but not in mice fed only mother's milk at the weaning stage. Chemical stimulation by saccharin or capsaicin at the weaning stage also increased SNAP25 immunoreactivity in the insular or somatosensory cortical area, respectively. These results suggest that recently ingested chemical signals in the oral cavity during weaning increase the accumulation of SNAP25 in the gustatory and somatosensory cortices and promote neural plasticity during the development of the gustatory and somatosensory nervous systems.
Synapses are essential to neuronal functions. Synaptic changes occur under physiological and pathological conditions. Here we report the remodeling of synapses in the CA1 area of the hippocampus after transient global ischemia using electron microscopy. Much electron-dense material appeared in the cytoplasm of dendrites at 24h after ischemia. Many dark axons or terminals were found in the CA1 neuropil; some of which were phagocytized by dendrites. Interestingly autophagosomes appeared in many axons or dendrites at 48 h after ischemia. In addition, postsynaptic density (PSD) - like structures or synaptic - like structures were found inside spines and dendrites. Statistical analysis demonstrated that the thickness of PSDs in the CA1 neuropil increased from 12 to 48 h after ischemia. The frequency of autophagosomes appeared to escalate from 12 to 48 h after ischemia. The frequency of asymmetric synapses was significantly increased at 12h and 24h after ischemia in stratum oriens, proximal and distal stratum radiatum. Among asymmetric synapses, the number of perforated synapses consistently increased and reached a peak (approximately 10-fold increase) at 48 h after ischemia. On the other hand, the number of multiple synaptic boutons decreased after ischemia reaching a two to fourfold decrease at 48 h after ischemia. These results have shown that ischemia induces an increase of asymmetric synapses as well as synaptic autophagy, which may contribute to the neuronal death in the CA1 area after transient global ischemia.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies have shown that the motor system is facilitated when we imagine performing motor actions. However, it is not clear whether the individual's motor system modulates bilaterally and selectively for task parameters, such as movement direction and amplitude. To investigate this issue, we applied single-pulse TMS over the left and right primary motor cortex (M1) of healthy subjects, who had to imagine grasping and rotating a clock hour hand, having a starting position at noon, towards four different times: 2, 5, 7 and 10 o'clock. Rotations could be in clockwise (2 and 5 o'clock) or counter-clockwise (7 and 10 o'clock) directions and could require small (2 and 10 o'clock) or large (5 and 7 o'clock) rotation angle. TMS motor-evoked potentials were recorded for three muscles, and movements were imagined with the right and left hands. Results showed that during motor imagery a mirroring pattern was present between the right and the left motor cortices, showing selective activation of the hand-intrinsic muscles spatially close to the direction of the imagined movement. Overall a higher activation for large and a lower activation for small rotation angle were found, but no selective muscle activity was present within the hand-intrinsic muscles for this parameter. Following these results we propose that during action imagination an internally coded covariance between movement parameters is present with a muscle-specific activation for movement direction.
Rats repeatedly exposed to variable prenatal stress (PNS) exhibit schizophrenia-like behavioral signs such as social withdrawal, elevations in amphetamine-induced locomotor activity, deficits in sensory-motor gating, as well as impairments in memory-related task performance. However, to date there have been no studies designed to test the hypothesis that variable PNS would lead to disruptions in sustained attention and inhibitory response control (i.e., symptoms also commonly observed in schizophrenia and other neuropsychiatric disorders such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder). In the current study, the effects of variable PNS in rats were evaluated in fixed and variable stimulus duration (VSD) as well as variable intertrial interval (VITI) versions of a 5-choice serial reaction time task (5C-SRTT). In a separate series of experiments, the glutamate (N-methyl-d-aspartate [NMDA]) antagonist, MK-801 (0.025-0.05 mg/kg), and the norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, atomoxetine (0.30-3.0mg/kg), were administered acutely to assess the sensitivity of PNS subjects to glutamatergic and noradrenergic manipulations. The results indicated that exposure to variable PNS significantly impaired accuracy in the VSD version of the 5C-SRTT and increased premature and timeout responses in the VITI version. In addition, both doses of MK-801 impaired accuracy, increased premature and timeout responses in PNS, but not control subjects. In contrast, atomoxetine decreased premature and timeout responses in both PNS and control subjects in the VITI version of the task and improved accuracy in the PNS subjects. The results suggest that exposure to variable PNS in rats results in impairments of sustained attention and inhibitory response control and that these deficits can be exacerbated by NMDA antagonism and improved by a norepinephrine uptake inhibitor. Collectively, these data further support the premise that variable PNS in rats is a valid model system for the study of neuropsychiatric disorders and their treatment.
Evidence from clinical and experimental studies indicates that degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons is a pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). The present study was designed to investigate the neuroprotective potential of theaflavin (TF) on oxidative stress, monoamine transporters and behavioral abnormalities in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced neurodegeneration. TF, a black tea polyphenol, has been known to possess neuroprotective effects against ischemia, Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders, but the mechanisms underlying its beneficial effects on MPTP-induced dopaminergic neurodegeneration are poorly defined. Administration of MPTP (30 mg/kg bw for four consecutive days) led to increased oxidative stress and reduced behavior patterns (open field, rotarod and hang test), nigrostriatal dopamine transporter (DAT) (immunohistochemistry and Western blot) and vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) (Western blot) expressions. Pre-treatment with TF reduces oxidative stress, improves motor behavior and expression of DAT and VMAT2 in striatum and substantia nigra. These results indicate that TF might be beneficial in mitigating MPTP-induced damage of dopaminergic neurons, possibly via its neuroprotective and its antioxidant potential.
It is now well established that vestibular information plays an important role in spatial memory processes. Although vestibular lesions induce anxiety in humans, this finding remains controversial in rodents. However, it is possible that anxiety-related behavior is associated with spatial memory impairments after vestibular lesions. We aimed to evaluate anxiety-like behavior and the effect of an anxiolytic treatment during a complex spatial memory task in a rat model of compensated bilateral vestibular lesions. Adult rats were divided into four groups, with or without vestibular lesions and, treated or untreated by diazepam. The vestibular lesion was performed by transtympanic injection of arsanilate and compared to transtympanic saline injection. Diazepam or saline was administered 1h before each test or learning session. Vestibular-lesioned rats exhibited anxiety-like behavior which was decreased with diazepam. Spatial memory performance was similar in control-treated and untreated groups, suggesting no effect on memory at the dose of diazepam used. Spatial memory performances were not modified by anxiolytic drug treatment in vestibular-lesioned rats compared to vestibular-lesioned rats without drug treatment. We conclude that bilateral vestibular lesions in rats induced anxiety-like behavior which was unrelated to spatial memory impairment and was probably specifically related to the loss of vestibular information.
Anhedonia is a core symptom of clinical depression. Two brain neuropeptides that have been implicated in anhedonia symptomology in preclinical depression models are dynorphin and orexin; which are concentrated along lateral hypothalamic dopamine reward pathways. These affect regulating neuropeptides modulate each other's function, implicating an interactive dysfunction between them in anhedonia symptomology. But whether their influences are modified or imbalanced within the hypothalamus or dopamine system in anhedonic preclinical depression models is not yet clear. We used radioimmunoassay to determine this in the rat social defeat model of depression; at a time that anhedonic sexual disinterest was expressed. In tissue samples of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens, basal dynorphin levels were similar to normal animals. But orexin was reduced in the VTA and mPFC. Also, dynorphin and orexin were both diminished in the hypothalamus which is noteworthy since nearly all hypothalamic orexin cells co-express dynorphin. These findings suggest that orexin and dynorphin function may be imbalanced between the hypothalamus and mesocortical dopaminergic brain regions in depression.
About 860 G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) mediate their actions via heterotrimeric G-proteins. Their activation releases G from G subunits. The type of G subunit dictates the major signalling proteins involved: adenylyl cyclase, PLC and rhoGEF. The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), containing the rostral C1 (rC1) cell group, sets and maintains the tonic and reflex control of blood pressure and a plethora of inputs converge onto these neurons. We determined the relative abundance of 10 G subunit mRNAs, representing the four major families, within the RVLM, using quantitative RT-PCR. In situ hybridisation (ISH) combined with immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to quantify and compare this expression in rC1 with that in the A1 and A5 cell groups. The relative abundance of G subunit mRNAs and a comparison of gene expression levels were quantitatively determined in normotensive and hypertensive rat strains. All 10 G mRNAs were detected in the RVLM of Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats with relative abundance such that Gs&gt;Gi2&gt;Go&gt;Gq&gt;GL&gt;G11&gt;Gi3&gt;Gi1&gt;G12&gt;G13. The high abundance of G mRNAs signalling via adenylyl cyclase indicates the importance of associated GPCRs. Within the rC1 and A1 groups similar differential G mRNA expression profiles were seen with Gs being found in all rC1 cells, G11 absent and Gi3 rarely expressed. Thus functionally distinct subgroups exist within the rC1 and A1 cell groups as differing distributions of G subunits must reflect the array of GPCRs that influence their activity. In contrast, all A5 cells expressed all G mRNAs suggesting a functionally homogeneous group. When the 10 G mRNAs of the RVLM in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were compared quantitatively to Wistar-Kyoto (WKY), only Gs and G12 were significantly elevated. However when the expression in normotensive SD and WKY was compared with SHR no significant differences were evident. These findings demonstrate a range of GPCR signalling capabilities in brainstem neurons important for homeostasis and suggest a prominent role for signalling via adenylyl cyclase.
Synthetic glucocorticoid (dexamethasone; DEX) treatment during the neonatal stage is known to affect reproductive activity. However, it is still unknown whether neonatal stress activates gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH) synthesizing cells in the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH), which could have pronounced suppressive action on gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons, leading to delayed pubertal onset. This study was designed to determine the effect of neonatal DEX (1.0mg/kg) exposure on reproductive maturation. Therefore, GnRH, GnIH and GnIH receptors, G-protein coupled receptors (GPR) 147 and GPR74 mRNA levels were measured using quantitative real-time PCR in female mice at postnatal (P) days 21, 30 and in estrus stage mice, aged between P45-50. DEX-treated females of P45-50 had delayed vaginal opening, and irregular estrus cycles and lower GnRH expression in the preoptic area (POA) when compared with age-matched controls. The expression levels of GPR147 and GPR74 mRNA in the POA increased significantly in DEX-treated female mice of P21 and P45-50 compared to controls. In addition, GPR147 and GPR74 mRNA expression was observed in laser captured single GnRH neurons in the POA. Although there was no difference in GnIH mRNA expression in the DMH, immunostained GnIH cell numbers in the DMH increased in DEX-treated females of P45-50 compared to controls. Taken together, the results show that the delayed pubertal onset could be due to the inhibition of GnRH gene expression after neonatal DEX treatment, which may be accounted for in part by the inhibitory signals from the up-regulated GnIH-GnIH receptor pathway to the POA.
The aim of the present study was to test a new hypothesis that brain cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR) and CPR-dependent enzymes play important roles in behavioral performance. A mouse model with brain neuron-specific deletion of the Cpr gene (brain-Cpr-null) was recently generated. Brain-Cpr-null mice and wild-type (WT) littermates were compared in a variety of behavioral assays. Notable differences were found in the exploratory behavior assay: for both males and females, activity in the center of the chamber was significantly higher for brain-Cpr-null than for WT mice on days 2 and 3 of the assay, although no significant difference was found between the two groups in anxiety-like behavior in the elevated zero maze. Furthermore, in the fear-conditioning assay, brain-Cpr-null mice exhibited significantly less activity suppression than did WT controls. This deficit in activity suppression was not accompanied by any difference between WT and brain-Cpr-null mice in nociceptive responses to foot shocks. Abnormal activity suppression was also observed in both male and female brain-Cpr-null mice during the contextual memory test. However, in the Morris water maze assay, the brain-Cpr-null and WT mice were indistinguishable, indicating normal spatial memory in the mutant mice. These data collectively indicate a novel role of the Cpr gene in fear conditioning and memory.
In the present study, withdrawal symptoms induced by morphine or -endorphin administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) were compared in ICR mice. Naloxone (10mg/kg) was post-treated intraperitoneally (i.p.) 3h after either a single or repeated (1 time/day for 3 days) i.c.v. injections with opioids. Withdrawal symptoms such as jumping frequency, diarrhea, weight loss, rearing, penile licking and paw tremor were observed for 30 min immediately after naloxone treatment. Withdrawal symptoms (jumping, diarrhea, weight loss, rearing, penile licking and paw tremor) observed in the group treated with morphine was persistently increased during 3 days. On the other hand, withdrawal symptoms such as diarrhea, weight loss and rearing in -endorphin-treated group were increased after a single injection with -endorphin, but gradually decreased after the repeated injection. Furthermore, no jumping behavior, penile licking and paw tremor in -endorphin-treated group were observed throughout the whole period of time. In addition, the hypothalamic changes of several signal molecules such as pERK, pCaMK-II, c-FOS and pCREB expression were observed during the presence or absence of withdrawal responses induced by morphine or -endorphin administered once or repeatedly. Both hypothalamic pCaMK-II and c-FOS expressions were increased by naloxone treatment in acutely administered morphine group, whereas only pCaMK-II expression was elevated by naloxone treatment in repeatedly administered morphine group. In contrast with the findings in morphine-treated group, only pCaMK-II expression was decreased by naloxone treatment in repeatedly administered -endorphin group. Our results suggest that profiles of the withdrawal symptoms induced by morphine and -endorphin administered supraspinally appear to be differentially regulated. The pCaMK-II and the c-FOS protein expression may play important roles for the regulation of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal symptoms such as jumping, diarrhea, weight loss, rearing, penile licking and paw tremor induced by morphine-treated group, whereas the phosphorylation of hypothalamic pCaMK-II appears to be involved only in the regulation of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal symptoms such as diarrhea, weight loss and rearing in -endorphin-treated group.
It is well known that Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) plays an important role in signal transduction in the central nervous system. However, the function of GABA in the peripheral nervous system, including sensory ganglions, is still unclear. In this study we have characterized the expression, cellular distribution, and function of GABA(B) receptor subunits, and the recently discovered GABA(B) auxiliary subunits, K(+) channel tetramerization domain-containing (KCTD) proteins, in rat trigeminal ganglion (TG) neuronal cells, which are devoid of synapses. We found heterogeneous expression of both GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) subunits, and a near-plasma membrane localization of KCTD12. In addition, we found that GABA(B2) subunits correlated with KCTD16. Whole-cell current-clamp recordings showed that responses to the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, were variable and both increases and decreases in excitability were observed. This correlated with observed differences in voltage-dependent K(+) current responses to baclofen in voltage-clamped TG neuronal cells. The functional diversity of the GABA(B)ergic regulation on the excitability of the TG neuronal cell bodies could be due to the heterogenous expression of KCTD proteins, and subsequent regulation of plasma membrane K(+) channels. Taken together with our previous demonstration of a local GABA(A) receptor-mediated system in rat TG, we provide an updated GABAergic model in the rat TG that incorporates both GABA(A)- and GABA(B)-receptor systems.
For midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons to respond to sensory events, the presence of a stimulus must first be detected. Where is the signal that activates DA neurons coming from? Here we show that DA responses to a vibrotactile stimulus lag significantly behind those of the primary somatosensory cortex, but they arise with a latency that closely matches the onset of premotor neurons known to encode perceptual decisions. In agreement with previous findings, these data suggest that sensory evoked DA activity does not signal a stimulus physical presence but arises from the output of a perceptual decision.
The expression of Arc and Homer 1a (H1a) depends on neural activity. This study was designed to determine hippocampal Arc and H1a mRNA expression levels after spatial learning with differing behavioral task demands. Forty-four male rats were distributed into 11 groups of four. One group received no training or trial sessions. Of the ten remaining groups, three were tested on the 8-arm maze, three on the 12-arm maze, two on the 8-arm maze and then the 12-arm maze, and two on the 12-arm maze and then the 8-arm maze. Each animal was sacrificed 30 min after the last session of maze testing and its hippocampus was immediately dissected and stored at -80C. The level of mRNA expression at different stages of maze learning was determined using real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Significantly elevated expression of both Arc and H1a was observed. The orchestrated expression levels of both genes were correlated with the behavioral task demand level and behavioral performance.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is a neuropeptide widely distributed in the mammalian brain. This peptide regulates many physiological functions and behaviors, such as cardio-respiratory control, thermoregulation, nociception, feeding, memory processes and motivational responses, and plays a prominent role in emotional responses including anxiety and depression. CCK-expressing brain regions involved in these functions remain unclear and their identification represents an important step towards understanding CCK function in the brain. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is strongly involved in emotional processing and expresses high levels of CCK. In this study we examined the contribution of CCK expressed in this brain region to emotional responses in mice. To knockdown CCK specifically in the BLA, we used stereotaxic delivery of recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors expressing a CCK-targeted shRNA. This procedure efficiently reduced CCK levels locally. shCCK-treated animals showed reduced levels of anxiety in the elevated plus-maze, and lower despair-like behavior in the forced swim test. Our data demonstrate that CCK expressed in the BLA represents a key brain substrate for anxiogenic and depressant effects of the peptide. The study also suggests that elevated amygdalar CCK could contribute to panic and major depressive disorders that have been associated with CCK dysfunction in humans.
L-arginine, a semi-essential amino acid, can be metabolized to form a number of bioactive molecules. Nitric oxide (NO), generated by NO synthase (NOS) from L-arginine, has been strongly implicated in the aging process. Agmatine, decarboxylated arginine, regulates the production of NO and other metabolites of L-arginine, modulates behavioural function, and has anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects. The present study investigated whether agmatine supplementation could improve behavioural function in aged male Sprague-Dawley rats, and could attenuate age-related changes in NOS activity and protein expression in memory-related structures. Aged rats treated with saline displayed significantly reduced exploratory activity and impaired spatial reference and working memory and object recognition memory. Agmatine (40 mg/kg) administered intraperitoneally significantly improved spatial working memory and object recognition memory in aged rats, suppressed age-related elevation in total NOS activity, and restored endothelial NOS protein to the normal level. However, agmatine supplementation was unable to improve exploratory activity and spatial reference learning and memory in aged rats. These findings suggest that exogenous agmatine selectively improves behavioural function in aged rats under the present experimental condition, and merit future investigation of its therapeutic potential in cognitive decline during aging.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that application of inflammatory irritant mustard oil (MO) to the tooth pulp induces medullary glutamate release and central sensitization in the rat medullary dorsal horn (MDH), as well as nociceptive sensorimotor responses in craniofacial muscles in rats. There is recent evidence that anticonvulsant drugs such as pregabalin that influence glutamatergic neurotransmission are effective in several pain states. The aim of this study was to examine whether systemic administration of pregabalin attenuated glutamate release in the medulla as well as these nociceptive effects reflected in increased electromyographic (EMG) activity induced by MO application to the tooth pulp. Male adult rats were anesthetized with isofluorane (1.0-1.2%), and jaw and tongue muscle EMG activities were recorded by needle electrodes inserted bilaterally into masseter and anterior digastric muscles and into the genioglossus muscle, and also the medullary release of glutamate was assessed by in vivo microdialysis. Pregabalin or vehicle control (isotonic saline) was administered 30 min before the pulpal application of MO or vehicle control (mineral oil). Application of mineral oil to the maxillary first molar tooth pulp produced no change in baseline EMG activity and glutamate release. However, application of MO to the pulp significantly increased both the medullary release of glutamate and EMG activity in the jaw and tongue muscles for several minutes. In contrast, pre-medication with pregabalin, but not vehicle control, significantly and dose-dependently attenuated the medullary glutamate release and EMG activity in these muscles after MO application to the tooth pulp (analysis of variance (ANOVA), p&lt;0.05). These results suggest that pregabalin may attenuate the medullary release of glutamate and associated nociceptive sensorimotor responses in this acute inflammatory pulpal pain model, and that it may prove useful for the treatment of orofacial inflammatory pain states.
The hippocampus is required for short-term memory and contains both excitatory pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons. These cells exhibit various forms of synaptic plasticity, the mechanism underlying learning and memory. More recently, endocannabinoids were identified to be involved in synaptic plasticity. Our goal was to describe the distribution of endocannabinoid biosynthetic enzymes within CA1 stratum radiatum interneurons and CA3/CA1 pyramidal cells. We extracted mRNA from single interneurons and pyramidal cells and used real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to detect the presence of 12-lipoxygenase, N-acyl-phosphatidylethanolamine-specific phospholipase D, diacylglycerol lipase , and type I metabotropic glutamate receptors, all known to be involved in endocannabinoid production and plasticity. We observed that the expression of endocannabinoid biosynthetic enzyme mRNA does occur within interneurons and that it is coexpressed with type I metabotropic glutamate receptors, suggesting interneurons have the potential to produce endocannabinoids. We also identified that CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells express endocannabinoid biosynthetic enzyme mRNA. Our data provide the first molecular biological evidence for putative endocannabinoid production in interneurons, suggesting their potential ability to regulate endocannabinoid-mediated processes, such as synaptic plasticity.
Prostaglandin (PG) F(2) is one of the major prostanoids biosynthesized by cyclooxygenases (COXs) from arachidonic acid. Although it has been reported that there is a selective surge in PGF(2) production in the hippocampus during kainic acid (KA)-induced seizure activity, the precise intra-hippocampal distribution of PGF(2) has not been elucidated due to the paucity of effective histological techniques for detecting PGs in tissues. We investigated the tissue distribution of PGF(2) in the rat hippocampus 30 min after KA injection by developing fixation and immunohistological-staining methods. To detect PGF(2) directly on histological sections, we used systemic perfusion fixation with water-soluble carbodiimide fixative, followed by immersion of the brains in Zamboni's fixative. We then performed immunofluorescence staining with anti-PGF(2) antibody, with negative control experiments used to confirm the staining specificity. Definitive immunolabeling for PGF(2) was evident most markedly in pyramidal cells of the hippocampal cornu Ammonis (CA) 3 sector and neurons of the hilus in KA-treated rats. Immunolabeling for PGF(2) was also evident in granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Double immunfluorescence staining revealed that PGF(2)-immunopositive neurons expressed cytosolic phospholipases A(2), COX-2, and FP receptor. These results suggest that the major source of PGF(2) production immediately after KA injection was neurons of the hippocampal CA3 sector, hilus and dentate gyrus. These neurons exert PGF(2)-mediated functions via FP receptors in an autocrine/paracrine manner and may play pathophysiological roles in the acute phase (30 min) of excitotoxicity.
Status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine or kainate is associated with yet not systemically investigated astrocytic and vascular injuries. To investigate their possible association with neuronal damage, the changes in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), laminin and neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN) immunoreactivities were analyzed in rats treated with pilocarpine (380 mg/kg) or kainate (15 mg/kg), and receiving diazepam (20mg/kg) after 10 min of SE. A different group of rats was injected with endothelin-1 (ET-1) in the caudate putamen to reproduce the changes in GFAP and laminin immunoreactivities associated with ischemia. Focal loss of GFAP immunostaining was accompanied by increased laminin immunoreactivity in blood vessels, in all the examined groups. Regression analysis revealed a significant (P&lt;0.01) relationship between astrocytic lesion and increased laminin immunoreactivity in the piriform cortex (Pir) of both pilocarpine (R(2)=0.88) and kainate (R(2)=0.94) groups of treatment. A significant relationship (P&lt;0.01; R(2)=0.81) was also present in the cornu Ammonis 3 (CA3) hippocampal region of pilocarpine-treated rats. At variance, neuronal and glial lesions were significantly related (P&lt;0.05, R(2)=0.74) only in the substantia nigra of pilocarpine-treated rats. The ratio between areas of GFAP and laminin changes of immunoreactivity in the ET-1 group was similar to those found in pilocarpine- and kainate-treated rats in specific brain regions, such as the hippocampal CA3 subfield, Pir and the anterior olfactory nucleus. The amygdala and submedius thalamic nucleus in the pilocarpine group, and the perirhinal and entorhinal cortices in the kainate group, also presented ischemic-like changes. These results indicate that laminin immunoreactivity is upregulated in the basal lamina of blood vessels after SE induced by pilocarpine or kainate. This phenomenon is significantly associated with lesions involving more glial than neuronal cells, in specific cerebral regions.
In teleost fish, sex differences in several behavioral and physiological traits have been assumed to reflect underlying sex differences in the central expression of neurotransmitter/neuromodulator-related molecules, including vasotocin (VT)/isotocin (IT), gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), and tyrosine and tryptophan hydroxylases (TH and TPH). However, the sex-dependent expression patterns of these molecules have not been fully characterized in the teleost brain. In the present study, we therefore systematically evaluated sex differences in their expression in the medaka (Oryzias latipes) brain. The most prominent sex difference was observed in vt expression in the nucleus posterior tuberis (NPT) and the posterior part of the nucleus ventral tuberis (NVT) in the hypothalamus, where the expression was completely male-specific. Male-biased expression of gnrh1, tph1, and tph2 was also evident in the supracommissural and posterior nuclei of the ventral telencephalic area (Vs/Vp), medial nucleus of the dorsal telencephalic area (Dm), and thalamic dorsal posterior nucleus (DP), respectively. In contrast, the overall expression levels of it and gnrh3 were higher in the female brain than in the male brain. Equally importantly, no conspicuous sex differences were observed in the expression of gnrh2, th1, and th2, despite several previous reports of their sex-biased expression in the brains of other teleost species. Taken together, these data have uncovered previously unidentified sex differences in the expression of VT/IT, GnRH, and TPH in the teleost brain, which may possibly be relevant to sexual dimorphism in some behavioral and/or physiological traits, and have simultaneously highlighted potential species differences in the roles of these molecules.
Studies have shown a few cerebral metabolites modified by cocaine in brain regions; however, endogenous metabolic profiling has been lacking. Ex vivo (1)H NMR (hydrogen-1 nuclear magnetic resonance) spectroscopy-based metabonomic approach coupled with partial least squares was applied to investigate the changes of cerebral metabolites in nucleus accumbens (NAc) and striatum of rats subjected to cocaine treatment. Our results showed that both single and repeated cocaine treatment can induce significant changes in a couple of cerebral metabolites. The increase of neurotransmitters glutamate and gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) were observed in NAc and striatum from the rats repeatedly treated with cocaine. Creatine and taurine increased in NAc whereas taurine increased and creatine decreased in striatum after repeated cocaine treatment. Elevation of N-acetylaspartate in NAc and striatum and decrease of lactate in striatum were observed, which may reflect the mitochondria dysregulation caused by cocaine; moreover, alterations of choline, phosphocholine and glycerol in NAc and striatum could be related to membrane disruption. Moreover, groups of rats with and without conditioned place preference (CPP) apparatus are presenting difference in metabolites. Collectively, our results provide the first evidence of metabonomic profiling of NAc and striatum in response to cocaine, exhibiting a regionally-specific alteration patterns. We find that repeated cocaine administration leads to significant metabolite alterations, which are involved in neurotransmitter disturbance, oxidative stress, mitochondria dysregulation and membrane disruption in brain.
Brain edema is an important complication of acute hepatic encephalopathy (AHE), and astrocyte swelling is largely responsible for its development. Elevated blood and brain ammonia levels have been considered as major etiological factors in this edema. In addition to ammonia, recent studies have suggested that systemic infection, inflammation (and associated cytokines (CKs)), as well as endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide (LPS)) are also involved in AHE-associated brain edema. As endothelial cells (ECs) are the first resident brain cells exposed to blood-borne &quot;noxious agents&quot; (i.e., ammonia, CKs, LPS) that are present in AHE, these cells may be in a critical position to react to these agents and trigger a process resulting in astrocyte swelling/brain edema. We therefore examined the effect of conditioned media (CM) from ammonia, LPS and cytokine-treated cultured brain ECs on cell swelling in cultured astrocytes. CM from ammonia-treated ECs when added to astrocytes caused significant cell swelling, and such swelling was potentiated when astrocytes were exposed to CM from ECs treated with a combination of ammonia, LPS and CKs. We also found an additive effect when astrocytes were exposed to ammonia along with CM from ammonia-treated ECs. Additionally, ECs treated with ammonia showed a significant increase in the production of oxy-radicals, nitric oxide (NO), as well as evidence of oxidative/nitrative stress and activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B). CM derived from ECs treated with ammonia, along with antioxidants (AOs) or the NF-B inhibitor BAY 11-7082, when added to astrocytes resulted in a significant reduction in cell swelling, as compared to the effect of CM from ECs-treated only with ammonia. We also identified increased nuclear NF-B expression in rat brain cortical ECs in the thioacetamide (TAA) model of AHE. These studies suggest that ECs significantly contribute to the astrocyte swelling/brain edema in AHE, likely as a consequence of oxidative/nitrative stress and activation of NF-B.
Synaptotagmin (syt) I is a Ca(2+) sensor that has been thought to trigger all vesicle secretion with similar mechanisms. However, given the calcium and stimulation requirements of small clear, and large dense core vesicles, we hypothesized that syt I expression differentially regulates vesicle release. Therefore, in this study, we generated multiple stable cell lines of PC12 cells that each had a different and stable level of syt I expression. We determined the functional effects of titrated syt I expression on transmitter release from the two vesicle types, and showed that the transmitters, norepinephrine (NE) and neuropeptide Y (NPY), each have a threshold level of syt I expression required for their release that is different for the two transmitter types. We used carbon fiber amperometry to measure release of NE from single vesicles, and found that release ranged from 50% to 100% in the syt I-targeted cells compared to release from control cells. We used an immunoassay to measure NPY release and found that NPY release was abolished in cells that had abolished syt I expression, but cell lines that expressed 50-60% of control levels of syt I exhibited NPY release levels comparable to release of NPY from control cells. Furthermore, the vesicle fusion pore exhibited a reduced open duration when syt I was abolished, but a longer open duration time for 50% syt I expression than control cells. Therefore, vesicles have a threshold for syt I that is required to control opening of the fusion pore, expansion, and full fusion to release large dense core proteins, but not for full fusion of the small molecules like NE.
Reactive gliosis has been implicated in injury and recovery patterns associated with hydrocephalus. The roles that these mechanisms play in the pathophysiology of hydrocephalus are still not clear in terms of cytopathology and gene expression. In this paper, we investigated the relationship between reactive gliosis and neuroinflammation of hydrocephalic rats of different severity at both cellular and molecular levels. Therefore 35 adult SD (standard deviation) rats were randomly divided into the normal group (n=5), the sham operation group (n=5) and the model group (n=25). Hydrocephalic rat models were induced by intraventricular injections of 3% kaolin, and the ventricular dilatation was examined by MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) at 2-week postoperation. Then the model group was subdivided into the mild group (n=5), the moderate group (n=7) and the severe group (n=9) according to the degree of ventricular dilatation. While IL-18 (interlukin 18), GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein), and Iba-1 (ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule-1) were detected by ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay), RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, Western blot and correlation analysis were conducted at the same time. According to the result comparison between the normal group and the sham operation group, the ventricle of model group was obviously enlarged (P&lt;0.01). The expression of GFAP and Iba-1 was increased (P&lt;0.05) in brain tissue of the model group and IL-18 was also increased in CSF (cerebrosinal fluid) sample of model group. It was revealed by correlation analysis that the increase was positively correlated with the severity of ventricular dilatation. Conclusion: These results indicate that gliosis and inflammation continue to rise dramatically in experimental hydrocephalus and can be regarded as the main factors of hydrocephalus. Regulating the level of gliosis and alleviating inflammation may provide new therapeutic methods of hydrocephalus.
Many motor and cognitive alterations in schizophrenia suggest the involvement of the cerebellum. Neurological soft signs (NSS) are frequent in patients with schizophrenia and reductions in cerebellar volume have been associated with high NSS scores. In this study, we tested saccadic adaptation, a well-characterised oculomotor paradigm involving the cerebellum, in schizophrenic patients with high NSS scores. We used a backward reactive saccade adaptation task, in which the target moves intrasaccadically toward initial fixation, causing the saccade to complete with an endpoint error. A group of 12 schizophrenic patients (SZ; DSM IV) with high NSS scores was compared to a group of 13 matched healthy controls (HC). SZ patients showed lower saccade adaptation than HC. Nevertheless, the time course of adaptation was similar for both groups. This study indicates cerebellar dysfunction in patients with schizophrenia and high NSS scores. Part of the deficit seen in schizophrenia may have a cerebellar origin.


This study investigated the interaction between top-down attentional control and multisensory processing in humans. Using semantically congruent and incongruent audiovisual stimulus streams, we found target detection to be consistently improved in the setting of distributed audiovisual attention versus focused visual attention. This performance benefit was manifested as faster reaction times for congruent audiovisual stimuli and as accuracy improvements for incongruent stimuli, resulting in a resolution of stimulus interference. Electrophysiological recordings revealed that these behavioral enhancements were associated with reduced neural processing of both auditory and visual components of the audiovisual stimuli under distributed versus focused visual attention. These neural changes were observed at early processing latencies, within 100-300 ms poststimulus onset, and localized to auditory, visual, and polysensory temporal cortices. These results highlight a novel neural mechanism for top-down driven performance benefits via enhanced efficacy of sensory neural processing during distributed audiovisual attention relative to focused visual attention.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies on humans have identified a region in the left middle fusiform gyrus consistently activated by written words. This region is called the visual word form area (VWFA). Recently, a hypothesis, called the interactive account, is proposed that to effectively analyze the bottom-up visual properties of words, the VWFA receives predictive feedback from higher-order regions engaged in processing sounds, meanings, or actions associated with words. Further, this top-down influence on the VWFA is independent of stimulus formats. To test this hypothesis, we used fMRI to examine whether a symbolic nonword object (e.g., the Eiffel Tower) intended to represent something other than itself (i.e., Paris) could activate the VWFA. We found that scenes associated with symbolic meanings elicited a higher VWFA response than those not associated with symbolic meanings, and such top-down modulation on the VWFA can be established through short-term associative learning, even across modalities. In addition, the magnitude of the symbolic effect observed in the VWFA was positively correlated with the subjective experience on the strength of symbol-referent association across individuals. Therefore, the VWFA is likely a neural substrate for the interaction of the top-down processing of symbolic meanings with the analysis of bottom-up visual properties of sensory inputs, making the VWFA the location where the symbolic meaning of both words and nonword objects is represented.
The thalamic output during different behavioral states is strictly controlled by the firing modes of thalamocortical neurons. During sleep, their hyperpolarized membrane potential allows activation of the T-type calcium channels, promoting rhythmic high-frequency burst firing that reduces sensory information transfer. In contrast, in the waking state thalamic neurons mostly exhibit action potentials at low frequency (i.e., tonic firing), enabling the reliable transfer of incoming sensory inputs to cortex. Because of their nearly complete inactivation at the depolarized potentials that are experienced during the wake state, T-channels are not believed to modulate tonic action potential discharges. Here, we demonstrate using mice brain slices that activation of T-channels in thalamocortical neurons maintained in the depolarized/wake-like state is critical for the reliable expression of tonic firing, securing their excitability over changes in membrane potential that occur in the depolarized state. Our results establish a novel mechanism for the integration of sensory information by thalamocortical neurons and point to an unexpected role for T-channels in the early stage of information processing.
The neocortex depends upon a relative balance of recurrent excitation and inhibition for its operation. During spontaneous Up states, cortical pyramidal cells receive proportional barrages of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic potentials. Many of these synaptic potentials arise from the activity of nearby neurons, although the identity of these cells is relatively unknown, especially for those underlying the generation of inhibitory synaptic events. To address these fundamental questions, we developed an in vitro submerged slice preparation of the mouse entorhinal cortex that generates robust and regular spontaneous recurrent network activity in the form of the slow oscillation. By performing whole-cell recordings from multiple cell types identified with green fluorescent protein expression and electrophysiological and/or morphological properties, we show that distinct functional subpopulations of neurons exist in the entorhinal cortex, with large variations in contribution to the generation of balanced excitation and inhibition during the slow oscillation. The most active neurons during the slow oscillation are excitatory pyramidal and inhibitory fast spiking interneurons, receiving robust barrages of both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic potentials. Weak action potential activity was observed in stellate excitatory neurons and somatostatin-containing interneurons. In contrast, interneurons containing neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal peptide, or the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) 3a receptor, were silent. Our data demonstrate remarkable functional specificity in the interactions between different excitatory and inhibitory cortical neuronal subtypes, and suggest that it is the large recurrent interaction between pyramidal neurons and fast spiking interneurons that is responsible for the generation of persistent activity that characterizes the depolarized states of the cortex.
Reactivation of recently acquired information can strengthen memory storage and likely contributes to memory consolidation. Retrieval (generating information about prior events) may improve memory storage because it entails reactivation. Alternatively, retrieval may promote storage of retrieved information, and, if retrieval is inaccurate, subsequent recall could be distorted by the retrieved information. If retrieval modifies memory storage, as hypothesized, neural signals associated with accurate retrieval at that time may be distinct from neural signals associated with the degree of repeated retrieval error evident at some later time. We tested this prediction using a 3-session protocol. During session 1, people learned object-location associations to criterion and completed a cued-recall test in which locations were recalled upon viewing objects. During session 2, an electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded during cued recall for a subset of the associations. During session 3, cued recall was tested for all associations. Retrieval improved storage, in that recall at session 3 was superior for objects tested in session 2 compared with those not tested. Retrieval-induced distortion was revealed in session 3 for those objects tested in session 2, in that those objects were generally placed closer to locations retrieved at session 2 relative to original study locations. EEG analyses revealed positive potentials (400-700 ms) associated with relatively accurate recall at session 2. Memory updating was reflected in positive potentials after 700 ms that differentially predicted the degree to which recall promoted storage of the session-2-retrieved location. These findings demonstrate unique neurocognitive processing whereby memories are updated with information produced during retrieval.
The red nucleus (RN) is a midbrain premotor center that has been suggested as being involved in the acquisition and/or performance of classically conditioned nictitating membrane/eyelid responses. We recorded in rabbits the activity of RN and pararubral neurons during classical eyeblink conditioning using a delay paradigm. Neurons were identified by their antidromic activation from contralateral facial and accessory abducens nuclei and by their synaptic activation from the ipsilateral motor cortex (MC) and the contralateral cerebellar interpositus (IP) nucleus. For conditioning, we used a tone as a conditioned stimulus (CS) followed 250 ms later by a 100 ms air puff as an unconditioned stimulus (US) coterminating with it. Conditioned responses (CRs) were determined from the evoked changes in the electromyographic activity of the orbicularis oculi (OO) muscle. Recorded neurons were classified by their antidromic activation and by their changes in firing rate during the CS-US interval. Identified neurons increased their firing rates in relation to the successive conditioning sessions, but their discharge rates were related more to the EMG activity of the OO muscle than to the learning curves. Reversible inactivation of the IP nucleus with lidocaine during conditioning evoked a complete disappearance of both conditioned and unconditioned eyelid responses, and a progressive decrease in CR-related activity of RN neurons. In contrast, MC inactivation evoked a decrease in the acquisition process and an initial disfacilitation of neuronal firing (which was later recovered), together with the late appearance of CRs. Thus, RN neurons presented learning-dependent changes in activity following MC inactivation.
Projections from thalamic intralaminar nuclei convey sensory signals to striatal cholinergic interneurons. These neurons respond with a pause in their pacemaking activity, enabling synaptic integration with cortical inputs to medium spiny neurons (MSNs), thus playing a crucial role in motor function. In mice with the DYT1 dystonia mutation, stimulation of thalamostriatal axons, mimicking a response to salient events, evoked a shortened pause and triggered an abnormal spiking activity in interneurons. This altered pattern caused a significant rearrangement of the temporal sequence of synaptic activity mediated by M(1) and M(2) muscarinic receptors in MSNs, consisting of an increase in postsynaptic currents and a decrease of presynaptic inhibition, respectively. Consistent with a major role of acetylcholine, either lowering cholinergic tone or antagonizing postsynaptic M(1) muscarinic receptors normalized synaptic activity. Our data demonstrate an abnormal time window for synaptic integration between thalamostriatal and corticostriatal inputs, which might alter the action selection process, thereby predisposing DYT1 gene mutation carriers to develop dystonic movements.
Decisions based on sensory evaluation during single trials may depend on the collective activity of neurons distributed across brain circuits. Previous studies have deepened our understanding of how the activity of individual neurons relates to the formation of a decision and its storage for later report. However, little is known about how decision-making and decision maintenance processes evolve in single trials. We addressed this problem by studying the activity of simultaneously recorded neurons from different somatosensory and frontal lobe cortices of monkeys performing a vibrotactile discrimination task. We used the hidden Markov model to describe the spatiotemporal pattern of activity in single trials as a sequence of firing rate states. We show that the animal's decision was reliably maintained in frontal lobe activity through a selective state sequence, initiated by an abrupt state transition, during which many neurons changed their activity in a concomitant way, and for which both latency and variability depended on task difficulty. Indeed, transitions were more delayed and more variable for difficult trials compared with easy trials. In contrast, state sequences in somatosensory cortices were weakly decision related, had less variable transitions, and were not affected by the difficulty of the task. In summary, our results suggest that the decision process and its subsequent maintenance are dynamically linked by a cascade of transient events in frontal lobe cortices.
Neuroscientists claim that thoughts and intentions result only from brain activity. It is illustrated by the ability to control a robotic arm only by thought. However although they have a biological support, emotions, ideas and intentions are perceived at another level of reality than synapses and neurotransmitters. The reduction of mind to brain (called monism) represents a categorical error. Psychiatric praxis relies on a dualistic (complementary) position regarding e.g. depression treatment. Antidepressants and psychotherapy have distinct impacts on cerebral metabolism measured by fMRI and different ways to modify emotions. The combination of these two therapies is indicated in case of severe depression.
It is always challenging to construct a smart functional nanostructure with specific physicochemical properties to real time detect biointeresting molecules released from live-cells. We report here a new approach to build a free-standing biomimetic sensor by covalently bonding RGD-peptide on the surface of pyrenebutyric acid functionalized graphene film. The resulted graphene biofilm sensor comprises a well-packed layered nanostructure, in which the RGD-peptide component provides desired biomimetic properties for superior human cell attachment and growth on the film surface to allow real-time detection of nitric oxide, an important signal yet short-life molecule released from the attached human endothelial cells under drug stimulations. The film sensor exhibits good flexibility and stability by retaining its original response after 45 bending/relaxing cycles and high reproducibility from its almost unchanged current responses after 15 repeated measurements, while possessing high sensitivity, good selectivity against interferences often existing in biological systems, and demonstrating real time quantitative detection capability toward nitric oxide molecule released from living cells. This study not only demonstrates a facial approach to fabricate a smart nanostructured graphene-based functional biofilm, but also provides a powerful and reliable platform to the real-time study of biointeresting molecules released from living cells, thus rendering potential broad applications in neuroscience, screening drug therapy effect, and live-cell assays.

Personalized treatments have become a primary goal in translational psychiatric research. They include the identification of neural circuits associated with psychiatric disorders and definition of treatment according to individual characteristics. Many new tools and technologies have been developed but further efforts are required to provide clues on how these scientific advances in psychiatry may be translated into more effective therapeutic approaches. Obstacles to the progress of translational psychiatry also involve numerous scientific, financial, ethical, logistics and regulatory aspects. Also, the goal of DSM-5 to expand &quot;signs and symptoms&quot; classification to incorporate biological measures may help the development of new multifactorial and dimensional models able to better understand the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders and develop improved treatments. Finally, a better understanding on the significant response variability, cognitive functioning, role of comorbidities and treatment-resistant cases are critical for the development of prevention and intervention strategies that are more effective.

Phosphoinositides (PIs) are lipid components of cell membranes that regulate a wide variety of cellular functions. Here we exploited the blue light-induced dimerization between two plant proteins, cryptochrome 2 (CRY2) and the transcription factor CIBN, to control plasma membrane PI levels rapidly, locally, and reversibly. The inositol 5-phosphatase domain of OCRL (5-ptase(OCRL)), which acts on PI(4,5)P(2) and PI(3,4,5)P(3), was fused to the photolyase homology region domain of CRY2, and the CRY2-binding domain, CIBN, was fused to plasma membrane-targeting motifs. Blue-light illumination (458-488 nm) of mammalian cells expressing these constructs resulted in nearly instantaneous recruitment of 5-ptase(OCRL) to the plasma membrane, where it caused rapid (within seconds) and reversible (within minutes) dephosphorylation of its targets as revealed by diverse cellular assays: dissociation of PI(4,5)P(2) and PI(3,4,5)P(3) biosensors, disappearance of endocytic clathrin-coated pits, nearly complete inhibition of KCNQ2/3 channel currents, and loss of membrane ruffling. Focal illumination resulted in local and transient 5-ptase(OCRL) recruitment and PI(4,5)P(2) dephosphorylation, causing not only local collapse and retraction of the cell edge or process but also compensatory accumulation of the PI(4,5)P(2) biosensor and membrane ruffling at the opposite side of the cells. Using the same approach for the recruitment of PI3K, local PI(3,4,5)P(3) synthesis and membrane ruffling could be induced, with corresponding loss of ruffling distally to the illuminated region. This technique provides a powerful tool for dissecting with high spatial-temporal kinetics the cellular functions of various PIs and reversibly controlling the functions of downstream effectors of these signaling lipids.
Multiple neurotransmitter systems in the striatum converge to regulate the excitability of striatal neurons by activating several heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that signal to the type 5 adenylyl cyclase (AC5), the key effector enzyme that produces the intracellular second messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Plasticity of cAMP signaling in the striatum is thought to play an essential role in the development of drug addiction. We showed that the complex of the ninth regulator of G protein signaling (RGS9-2) with the G protein  subunit (G(5)) critically controlled signaling from dopamine and opioid GPCRs to AC5 in the striatum. RGS9-2/G(5) directly interacted with and suppressed the basal activity of AC5. In addition, the RGS9-2/G(5) complex attenuated the stimulatory action of G on AC5 by facilitating the GTPase (guanosine triphosphatase) activity of G(o), thus promoting the formation of the inactive heterotrimer and inhibiting G. Furthermore, by increasing the deactivation rate of G(i), RGS9-2/G(5) facilitated the recovery of AC5 from inhibition. Mice lacking RGS9 showed increased cAMP production and, upon withdrawal from opioid administration, enhanced sensitization of AC5. Our findings establish RGS9-2/G(5) complexes as regulators of three key aspects of cAMP signaling: basal activity, sensitization, and temporal kinetics of AC5, thus highlighting the role of this complex in regulating both inhibitory and stimulatory GPCRs that shape cAMP signaling in the striatum.
Preventing neuronal death is a priority for treating neurological diseases. However, therapies that inhibit pathological neuron loss could promote tumorigenesis by preventing the physiological death of cancerous cells. To avert this, we targeted the transcriptional upregulation of p21(waf1/cip1) (p21), an endogenous tumor suppressor with neuroprotective and pro-regenerative activity. We identified potential p21 indcuers by screening a FDA-approved drug and natural product small molecule library against hippocampal HT22 cells stably expressing a luciferase reporter driven by the proximal 60bp of the p21 promoter, and tested them for neuroprotection from glutathione depletion mediated oxidative stress, and cytotoxicity to cancer cell lines (DLD-1, Neuro-2A, SH-SY5Y, NGP, CHLA15, CHP212, and SK-N-SH) in vitro. Of the p21 inducers identified, only ciclopirox, a hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl-4-hydroxylase (HIF-PHD) inhibitor, simultaneously protected neurons from glutathione depletion and decreased cancer cell proliferation at concentrations that were not basally toxic to neurons. We found that other structurally distinct HIF-PHD inhibitors (desferrioxamine, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate, and dimethyloxalyl glycine) also protected neurons at concentrations that killed cancer cells. HIF-PHD inhibitors stabilize HIF transcription factors, mediating genetic adaptation to hypoxia. While augmenting HIF stability is believed to promote tumorigenesis, we found that chronic HIF-PHD inhibition killed cancer cells, suggesting a protumorigenic role for these enzymes. Moreover, our findings suggest that PHD inhibitors can be used to treat neurological disease without significant concern for cell-autonomous tumor promotion.
Elucidating the neural pathways that underlie brain function is one of the greatest challenges in neuroscience. Light sheet based microscopy is a cutting edge method to map cerebral circuitry through optical sectioning of cleared mouse brains. However, the image contrast provided by this method is not sufficient to resolve and reconstruct the entire neuronal network. Here we combined the advantages of light sheet illumination and confocal slit detection to increase the image contrast in real time, with a frame rate of 10 Hz. In fact, in confocal light sheet microscopy (CLSM), the out-of-focus and scattered light is filtered out before detection, without multiple acquisitions or any post-processing of the acquired data. The background rejection capabilities of CLSM were validated in cleared mouse brains by comparison with a structured illumination approach. We show that CLSM allows reconstructing macroscopic brain volumes with sub-cellular resolution. We obtained a comprehensive map of Purkinje cells in the cerebellum of L7-GFP transgenic mice. Further, we were able to trace neuronal projections across brain of thy1-GFP-M transgenic mice. The whole-brain high-resolution fluorescence imaging assured by CLSM may represent a powerful tool to navigate the brain through neuronal pathways. Although this work is focused on brain imaging, the macro-scale high-resolution tomographies affordable with CLSM are ideally suited to explore, at micron-scale resolution, the anatomy of different specimens like murine organs, embryos or flies.


Revealing the neurobiological mechanism of depression has always been a big challenge in the field of neuroscience. Not only are depressive syndromes heterogeneous and their aetiologies diverse, but also some symptoms are impossible to reproduce in animal models. Nevertheless, great progress has been made on the understanding and treatment of depression in recent years. In this review, we focus on key leading hypotheses in the neurobiological mechanism of depression, examine their strengths and weaknesses critically, and also highlight new insights that promise to extend the understanding of depression and its treatment.
Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is mediated by neuroantigen-specific pro-inflammatory T cells of the Th1 and Th17 effector class. Th-17 cells can be clearly defined by expression of IL-17, but not IFN-, IL-2 or IL-3. Th1 cells do not express IL-17, but it is unclear presently to what extent they co-express the cytokines canonically assigned to Th1 immunity (i.e., IFN-, IL-2 and IL-3) and whether CD4 cells producing these cytokines indeed belong to a single Th1 lineage. It is also unclear to what extent the Th1 response in EAE entails polyfunctional T cells that co-express IFN- and IL-2. Therefore, we dissected the Th1 cytokine signature of neuroantigen-specific CD4 cells studying at single cell resolution co-expression of IFN-, IL-2 and IL-3 using dual color cytokine ELISPOT analysis. Shortly after immunization, in the draining lymph nodes (dLN), the overall cytokine signature of the neuroantigen-specific CD4 cells was highly type 1-polarized, but IFN-, IL-2, and IL-3 were each secreted by different CD4 cells in a mutually exclusive manner. This single cell - single cytokine profile was stable through the course of chronic EAE-polyfunctional CD4 cells co-expressing IL-2 and IFN- presented less than 5% of the neuroantigen-specific T cells, even in the inflamed CNS itself. The neuroantigen-specific CD4 cells that expressed IFN-, IL-2 and IL-3 in a mutually exclusive manner exhibited similar functional avidities and kinetics of cytokine production, but showed different tissue distributions. These data suggest that Th1 cells do not belong to a single lineage, but different Th1 subpopulations jointly mediate Th1 immunity.
Huntington disease (HD) is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive cognitive, psychiatric, and motor symptoms. The disease is caused by abnormal expansion of CAG repeats in the gene encoding huntingtin, but how mutant huntingtin leads to early cognitive deficits in HD is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that the ubiquitin ligase Ube3a, which is implicated in synaptic plasticity and involved in the clearance of misfolded polyglutamine protein, is strongly recruited to the mutant huntingtin nuclear aggregates, resulting in significant loss of its functional pool in different regions of HD mouse brain. Interestingly, Arc, one of the substrates of Ube3a linked with synaptic plasticity, is also associated with nuclear aggregates, although its synaptic level is increased in the hippocampus and cortex of HD mouse brain. Different regions of HD mouse brain also exhibit decreased levels of AMPA receptors and various pre- and postsynaptic proteins, which could be due to the partial loss of function of Ube3a. Transient expression of mutant huntingtin in mouse primary cortical neurons further demonstrates recruitment of Ube3a into mutant huntingtin aggregates, increased accumulation of Arc, and decreased numbers of GluR1 puncta in the neuronal processes. Altogether, our results suggest that the loss of function of Ube3a might be associated with the synaptic abnormalities observed in HD.
Neprilysin is one of the major amyloid- peptide (A)-degrading enzymes, the expression of which declines in the brain during aging. The decrease in neprilysin leads to a metabolic A imbalance, which can induce the amyloidosis underlying Alzheimer disease. Pharmacological activation of neprilysin during aging therefore represents a potential strategy to prevent the development of Alzheimer disease. However, the regulatory mechanisms mediating neprilysin activity in the brain remain unclear. To address this issue, we screened for pharmacological regulators of neprilysin activity and found that the neurotrophic factors brain-derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, and neurotrophins 3 and 4 reduce cell surface neprilysin activity. This decrease was mediated by MEK/ERK signaling, which enhanced phosphorylation at serine 6 in the neprilysin intracellular domain (S6-NEP-ICD). Increased phosphorylation of S6-NEP-ICD in primary neurons reduced the levels of cell surface neprilysin and led to a subsequent increase in extracellular A levels. Furthermore, a specific inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1a, tautomycetin, induced extensive phosphorylation of the S6-NEP-ICD, resulting in reduced cell surface neprilysin activity. In contrast, activation of protein phosphatase-1a increased cell surface neprilysin activity and lowered A levels. Taken together, these results indicate that the phosphorylation status of S6-NEP-ICD influences the localization of neprilysin and affects extracellular A levels. Therefore, maintaining S6-NEP-ICD in a dephosphorylated state, either by inhibition of protein kinases involved in its phosphorylation or by activation of phosphatases catalyzing its dephosphorylation, may represent a new approach to prevent reduction of cell surface neprilysin activity during aging and to maintain physiological levels of A in the brain.
Intensive insulin therapy can prevent or slow the progression of long-term diabetes complications but, at the same time, it increases the risk for episodes of severe hypoglycemia. In our study, we used a protocol intended to mimic the levels of blood glucose that occur in type 1 diabetic patients under an intensive insulin therapy. Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats were treated subcutaneously with twice-daily insulin injections for 2weeks to induce hypoglycemic episodes. Brain cortical and hippocampal mitochondria were isolated and mitochondrial bioenergetics (respiratory chain and phosphorylation system) and oxidative status parameters (malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, mitochondrial aconitase activity and enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant defenses) were analyzed. The protein levels of synaptophysin, a marker of synaptic integrity, and caspase 9 activity were also evaluated in cortical and hippocampal homogenates. Brain cortical mitochondria isolated from hyper- and recurrent hypoglycemic animals presented higher levels of MDA and -tocopherol together with an increased glutathione disulfide reductase activity, lower manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activity and glutathione-to-glutathione disulfide (GSH/GSSG) ratio. No significant alterations were found in cortical mitochondrial respiratory chain and oxidative phosphorylation system. Hippocampal mitochondria from both experimental groups presented an impaired oxidative phosphorylation system characterized by a decreased mitochondrial energization potential and ATP levels and higher repolarization lag phase. In addition, higher MDA levels and decreased GSH/GSSG, -tocopherol levels, and aconitase, glutathione peroxidase and MnSOD activities were observed in both groups of animals. Hippocampal mitochondria from recurrent hypoglycemic animals also showed an impairment of the respiratory chain characterized by a lower state 3 of respiration, respiratory control ratio and ADP/O index, and a higher state 4 of respiration. Additionally, a non-statistically significant decrease in synaptophysin protein levels was observed in cortical homogenates from recurrent hypoglycemic rats as well as in hippocampal homogenates from hyperglycemic and recurrent hypoglycemic rats. An increase in caspase 9 activity was also observed in hippocampal homogenates from hyperglycemic and recurrent hypoglycemic animals. Our results show that mitochondrial dysfunction induced by long-term hyperglycemic effects is exacerbated by recurrent hypoglycemia, which may compromise the function and integrity of brain cells.
A long-standing heuristic in visual neuroscience holds that extrastriate visual cortex is parceled into a dorsal &quot;where&quot; pathway concerned with stimulus position and motion and a ventral &quot;what&quot; pathway concerned with stimulus form. Several recent studies using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), however, have shown that small changes in the position of a single object can produce reliable changes in activity patterns in object-selective lateral occipital complex (LOC). Although these data demonstrate that information about both object form and position is present at the region level in LOC, the extent to which they reflect joint neuronal tuning to these dimensions is unclear. To measure joint tuning for form and position, we used fMRI to record patterns of activity evoked in LOC and other visual areas while subjects viewed pairs of objects that varied in category content, overall position, and relative object position. Consistent with previous results, multivoxel activity patterns in LOC varied reliably with the category content and position of object pairs. Moreover, activity patterns in the lateral occipital (LO) subregion of LOC varied significantly with the relative positions of objects within pairs, even when absolute pair position was constant. This result provides strong evidence for the existence of neuronal populations in LO which are jointly tuned for both object form (i.e., category) and position.
Both field and laboratory studies demonstrate that hummingbirds (Apodiformes, Trochilidae) have exceptional spatial memory. The complexity of spatial-temporal information that hummingbirds must retain and use daily is probably subserved by the hippocampal formation (HF), and therefore, hummingbirds should have a greatly expanded HF. Here, we compare the relative size of the HF in several hummingbird species with that of other birds. Our analyses reveal that the HF in hummingbirds is significantly larger, relative to telencephalic volume, than any bird examined to date. When expressed as a percentage of telencephalic volume, the hummingbird HF is two to five times larger than that of caching and non-caching songbirds, seabirds and woodpeckers. This HF expansion in hummingbirds probably underlies their ability to remember the location, distribution and nectar content of flowers, but more detailed analyses are required to determine the extent to which this arises from an expansion of HF or a decrease in size of other brain regions.
To through light on the mechanisms underlying the stimulation and persistence of glial cell activation in Parkinsonism, we investigate the function of IFN- and TNF- in experimental models of Parkinsons disease and analyze their relation with local glial cell activation. It was found that IFN- and TNF- remained higher over the years in the serum and CNS of chronic Parkinsonian macaques than in untreated animals, accompanied by sustained glial activation (microglia and astroglia) in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Importantly, Parkinsonian monkeys showed persistent and increasing levels of IFN-R signaling in both microglial and astroglial cells. In addition, experiments performed in IFN- and TNF- KO mice treated with MPTP revealed that, even before dopaminergic cell death can be observed, the presence of IFN- and TNF- is crucial for microglial and astroglial activation, and, together, they have an important synergistic role. Both cytokines were necessary for the full level of activation to be attained in both microglial and astroglial cells. These results demonstrate that IFN- signaling, together with the contribution of TNF-, have a critical and cell-specific role in stimulating and maintaining glial cell activation in Parkinsonism.
The replay of previously stored memories during hippocampal sharp wave ripples (SWRs) is thought to support both memory retrieval and consolidation in distributed hippocampal-neocortical circuits. Replay events consist of precisely timed sequences of spikes from CA3 and CA1 neurons that are coordinated both within and across hemispheres. The mechanism of this coordination is not understood. Here, we show that during SWRs in both awake and quiescent states there are transient increases in slow gamma (20-50 Hz) power and synchrony across dorsal CA3 and CA1 networks of both hemispheres. These gamma oscillations entrain CA3 and CA1 spiking. Moreover, during awake SWRs, higher levels of slow gamma synchrony are predictive of higher quality replay of past experiences. Our results indicate that CA3-CA1 gamma synchronization is a central component of awake memory replay and suggest that transient gamma synchronization serves as a clocking mechanism to enable coordinated memory reactivation across the hippocampal network.
Visual cues often modulate auditory signal processing, leading to improved sound detection. However, the synaptic and circuit mechanism underlying this cross-modal modulation remains poorly understood. Using larval zebrafish, we first established a cross-modal behavioral paradigm in which a preceding flash enhances sound-evoked escape behavior, which is known to be executed through auditory afferents (VIII(th) nerves) and command-like neurons (Mauthner cells). In vivo recording revealed that the visual enhancement of auditory escape is achieved by increasing sound-evoked Mauthner cell responses. This increase in Mauthner cell responses is accounted for by the increase in the signal-to-noise ratio of sound-evoked VIII(th) nerve spiking and efficacy of VIII(th) nerve-Mauthner cell synapses. Furthermore, the visual enhancement of Mauthner cell response and escape behavior requires light-responsive dopaminergic neurons in the caudal hypothalamus and D1 dopamine receptor activation. Our findings illustrate a cooperative neural mechanism for visual modulation of audiomotor processing that involves dopaminergic neuromodulation.
In the CNS, activity of individual neurons has a small but quantifiable relationship to sensory representations and motor outputs. Coactivation of a few 10s to 100s of neurons can code sensory inputs and behavioral task performance within psychophysical limits. However, in a sea of sensory inputs and demand for complex motor outputs how is the activity of such small subpopulations of neurons organized? Two theories dominate in this respect: increases in spike rate (rate coding) and sharpening of the coincidence of spiking in active neurons (temporal coding). Both have computational advantages and are far from mutually exclusive. Here, we review evidence for a bias in neuronal circuits toward temporal coding and the coexistence of rate and temporal coding during population rhythm generation. The coincident expression of multiple types of gamma rhythm in sensory cortex suggests a mechanistic substrate for combining rate and temporal codes on the basis of stimulus strength.
In spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP), the order and precise temporal interval between presynaptic and postsynaptic spikes determine the sign and magnitude of long-term potentiation (LTP) or depression (LTD). STDP is widely utilized in models of circuit-level plasticity, development, and learning. However, spike timing is just one of several factors (including firing rate, synaptic cooperativity, and depolarization) that govern plasticity induction, and its relative importance varies across synapses and activity regimes. This review summarizes this broader view of plasticity, including the forms and cellular mechanisms for the spike-timing dependence of plasticity, and, the evidence that spike timing is an important determinant of plasticity in vivo.
Higher-order thalamic nuclei, like the pulvinar, have extensive connections with cortex, suggesting a role inthe coordination of cortical communication. A recent study in Science by Saalmann etal. (2012) implicates the pulvinar in promoting cortical alpha-band synchronization that subserves communication of attended information.
Trimeric sodium channels of the DEG/ENaC family have important roles in neurons, but the specific functions of different subunits present in heteromeric channels are poorly understood. We previously reported that the Drosophila DEG/ENaC subunit Ppk25 is essential in a small subset of gustatory neurons for activation of male courtship behavior, likely through detection of female pheromones. Here we show that, like mutations in ppk25, mutations in another Drosophila DEG/ENaC subunit gene, nope, specifically impair male courtship of females. nope regulatory sequences drive reporter gene expression in gustatory neurons of the labellum wings, and legs, including all gustatory neurons in which ppk25 function is required for male courtship of females. In addition, gustatory-specific knockdown of nope impairs male courtship. Further, the impaired courtship response of nope mutant males to females is rescued by targeted expression of nope in the subset of gustatory neurons in which ppk25 functions. However, nope and ppk25 have nonredundant functions, as targeted expression of ppk25 does not compensate for the lack of nope and vice versa. Moreover, Nope and Ppk25 form specific complexes when coexpressed in cultured cells. Together, these data indicate that the Nope and Ppk25 polypeptides have specific, nonredundant functions in a subset of gustatory neurons required for activation of male courtship in response to females, and suggest the hypothesis that Nope and Ppk25 function as subunits of a heteromeric DEG/ENaC channel required for gustatory detection of female pheromones.
Large projection neurons in lamina III of the rat spinal cord that express the neurokinin 1 receptor are densely innervated by peptidergic primary afferent nociceptors and more sparsely by low-threshold myelinated afferents. However, we know little about their input from other glutamatergic neurons. Here we show that these cells receive numerous contacts from nonprimary boutons that express the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2), and form asymmetrical synapses on their dendrites and cell bodies. These synapses are significantly smaller than those formed by peptidergic afferents, but provide a substantial proportion of the glutamatergic synapses that the cells receive (over a third of those in laminae I-II and half of those in deeper laminae). Surprisingly, although the dynorphin precursor preprodynorphin (PPD) was only present in 4-7% of VGLUT2 boutons in laminae I-IV, it was found in 58% of the VGLUT2 boutons that contacted these cells. This indicates a highly selective targeting of the lamina III projection cells by glutamatergic neurons that express PPD, and these are likely to correspond to local neurons (interneurons and possibly projection cells). Since many PPD-expressing dorsal horn neurons respond to noxious stimulation, this suggests that the lamina III projection cells receive powerful monosynaptic and polysynaptic nociceptive input. Excitatory interneurons in the dorsal horn have been shown to possess I(A) currents, which limit their excitability and can underlie a form of activity-dependent intrinsic plasticity. It is therefore likely that polysynaptic inputs to the lamina III projection neurons are recruited during the development of chronic pain states.
The coordination of locomotion and respiration is widespread among mammals, although the underlying neural mechanisms are still only partially understood. It was previously found in neonatal rat that cyclic electrical stimulation of spinal cervical and lumbar dorsal roots (DRs) can fully entrain (1:1 coupling) spontaneous respiratory activity expressed by the isolated brainstem/spinal cord. Here, we used a variety of preparations to determine the type of spinal sensory inputs responsible for this respiratory rhythm entrainment, and to establish the extent to which limb movement-activated feedback influences the medullary respiratory networks via direct or relayed ascending pathways. During in vivo overground locomotion, respiratory rhythm slowed and became coupled 1:1 with locomotion. In hindlimb-attached semi-isolated preparations, passive flexion-extension movements applied to a single hindlimb led to entrainment of fictive respiratory rhythmicity recorded in phrenic motoneurons, indicating that the recruitment of limb proprioceptive afferents could participate in the locomotor-respiratory coupling. Furthermore, in correspondence with the regionalization of spinal locomotor rhythm-generating circuitry, the stimulation of DRs at different segmental levels in isolated preparations revealed that cervical and lumbosacral proprioceptive inputs are more effective in this entraining influence than thoracic afferent pathways. Finally, blocking spinal synaptic transmission and using a combination of electrophysiology, calcium imaging and specific brainstem lesioning indicated that the ascending entraining signals from the cervical or lumbar limb afferents are transmitted across first-order synapses, probably monosynaptic, in the spinal cord. They are then conveyed to the brainstem respiratory centers via a brainstem pontine relay located in the parabrachial/Klliker-Fuse nuclear complex.
Selecting visual information from cluttered real-world scenes involves the matching of visual input to the observer's attentional set--an internal representation of objects that are relevant for current behavioral goals. When goals change, a new attentional set needs to be instantiated, requiring the suppression of the previous set to prevent distraction by objects that are no longer relevant. In the present fMRI study, we investigated how such suppression is implemented at the neural level. We measured human brain activity in response to natural scene photographs that could contain objects from (1) a currently relevant (target) category, (2) a previously but not presently relevant (distracter) category, and/or (3) a never relevant (neutral) category. Across conditions, multivoxel response patterns in object-selective cortex carried information about objects present in the scenes. However, this information strongly depended on the task relevance of the objects. As expected, information about the target category was significantly increased relative to the neutral category, indicating top-down enhancement of task-relevant information. Importantly, information about the distracter category was significantly reduced relative to the neutral category, indicating that the processing of previously relevant objects was suppressed. Such active suppression at the level of high-order visual cortex may serve to prevent the erroneous selection of, or interference from, objects that are no longer relevant to ongoing behavior. We conclude that the enhancement of relevant information and the suppression of distracting information both contribute to the efficient selection of visual information from cluttered real-world scenes.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common representative of a group of disorders known as synucleinopathies, in which misfolding and aggregation of -synuclein (a-syn) in various brain regions is the major pathological hallmark. Indeed, the motor symptoms in PD are caused by a heterogeneous degeneration of brain neurons not only in substantia nigra pars compacta but also in other extrastriatal areas of the brain. In addition to the well known motor dysfunction in PD patients, cognitive deficits and memory impairment are also an important part of the disorder, probably due to disruption of synaptic transmission and plasticity in extrastriatal areas, including the hippocampus. Here, we investigated the impact of a-syn aggregation on AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated rat hippocampal (CA3-CA1) synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation (LTP), the neurophysiological basis for learning and memory. Our data show that prolonged exposure to a-syn oligomers, but not monomers or fibrils, increases basal synaptic transmission through NMDA receptor activation, triggering enhanced contribution of calcium-permeable AMPA receptors. Slices treated with a-syn oligomers were unable to respond with further potentiation to theta-burst stimulation, leading to impaired LTP. Prior delivery of a low-frequency train reinstated the ability to express LTP, implying that exposure to a-syn oligomers drives the increase of glutamatergic synaptic transmission, preventing further potentiation by physiological stimuli. Our novel findings provide mechanistic insight on how a-syn oligomers may trigger neuronal dysfunction and toxicity in PD and other synucleinopathies.
Intraperitoneal injection of the Gram-negative bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) elicits a rapid innate immune response. While this systemic inflammatory response can be destructive, tolerable low doses of LPS render the brain transiently resistant to subsequent injuries. However, the mechanism by which microglia respond to LPS stimulation and participate in subsequent neuroprotection has not been documented. In this study, we first established a novel LPS treatment paradigm where mice were injected intraperitoneally with 1.0 mg/kg LPS for four consecutive days to globally activate CNS microglia. By using a reciprocal bone marrow transplantation procedure between wild-type and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) mutant mice, we demonstrated that the presence of LPS receptor (TLR4) is not required on hematogenous immune cells but is required on cells that are not replaced by bone marrow transplantation, such as vascular endothelia and microglia, to transduce microglial activation and neuroprotection. Furthermore, we showed that activated microglia physically ensheathe cortical projection neurons, which have reduced axosomatic inhibitory synapses from the neuronal perikarya. In line with previous reports that inhibitory synapse reduction protects neurons from degeneration and injury, we show here that neuronal cell death and lesion volumes are significantly reduced in LPS-treated animals following experimental brain injury. Together, our results suggest that activated microglia participate in neuroprotection and that this neuroprotection is likely achieved through reduction of inhibitory axosomatic synapses. The therapeutic significance of these findings rests not only in identifying neuroprotective functions of microglia, but also in establishing the CNS location of TLR4 activation.
Preclinical animal models have provided strong evidence that estrogen (E) therapy (ET) enhances cognition and induces spinogenesis in neuronal circuits. However, clinical studies have been inconsistent, with some studies revealing adverse effects of ET, including an increased risk of dementia. In an effort to bridge this disconnect between the preclinical and clinical data, we have developed a nonhuman primate (NHP) model of ET combined with high-resolution dendritic spine analysis of dorsolateral prefrontal cortical (dlPFC) neurons. Previously, we reported cyclic ET in aged, ovariectomized NHPs increased spine density on dlPFC neurons. Here, we report that monkeys treated with cyclic E treatment paired with cyclic progesterone (P), continuous E combined with P (either cyclic or continuous), or unopposed continuous E failed to increase spines on dlPFC neurons. Given that the most prevalent form of ET prescribed to women is a combined and continuous E and P, these data bring into convergence the human neuropsychological findings and preclinical neurobiological evidence that standard hormone therapy in women is unlikely to yield the synaptic benefit presumed to underlie the cognitive enhancement reported in animal models.
In humans, exposure to cues previously associated with heroin use often provokes relapse after prolonged withdrawal periods. In rats, cue-induced heroin seeking progressively increases after withdrawal (incubation of heroin craving). Here, we examined the role of orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) neuronal ensembles in the enhanced response to heroin cues after prolonged withdrawal or the expression of incubation of heroin craving. We trained rats to self-administer heroin (6 h/d for 10 d) and assessed cue-induced heroin seeking in extinction tests after 1 or 14 withdrawal days. Cue-induced heroin seeking increased from 1 to 14 d and was accompanied by increased Fos expression in 12% of OFC neurons. Nonselective inactivation of OFC neurons with the GABA agonists baclofen + muscimol decreased cue-induced heroin seeking on withdrawal day 14 but not day 1. We then used the Daun02 inactivation procedure to assess a causal role of the minority of selectively activated Fos-expressing OFC neurons (that presumably form cue-encoding neuronal ensembles) in cue-induced heroin seeking after 14 withdrawal days. We trained c-fos-lacZ transgenic rats to self-administer heroin and 11 d later reexposed them to heroin-associated cues or novel cues for 15 min (induction day), followed by OFC Daun02 or vehicle injections 90 min later; we then tested the rats in extinction tests 3 d later. Daun02 selectively decreased cue-induced heroin seeking in rats previously reexposed to the heroin-associated cues on induction day but not in rats exposed previously to novel cues. Results suggest that heroin-cue-activated OFC neuronal ensembles contribute to the expression of incubation of heroin craving.
Hippocampal place cells convey spatial information through a combination of spatially selective firing and theta phase precession. The way in which this information influences regions like the subiculum that receive input from the hippocampus remains unclear. The subiculum receives direct inputs from area CA1 of the hippocampus and sends divergent output projections to many other parts of the brain, so we examined the firing patterns of rat subicular neurons. We found a substantial transformation in the subicular code for space from sparse to dense firing rate representations along a proximal-distal anatomical gradient: neurons in the proximal subiculum are more similar to canonical, sparsely firing hippocampal place cells, whereas neurons in the distal subiculum have higher firing rates and more distributed spatial firing patterns. Using information theory, we found that the more distributed spatial representation in the subiculum carries, on average, more information about spatial location and context than the sparse spatial representation in CA1. Remarkably, despite the disparate firing rate properties of subicular neurons, we found that neurons at all proximal-distal locations exhibit robust theta phase precession, with similar spiking oscillation frequencies as neurons in area CA1. Our findings suggest that the subiculum is specialized to compress sparse hippocampal spatial codes into highly informative distributed codes suitable for efficient communication to other brain regions. Moreover, despite this substantial compression, the subiculum maintains finer scale temporal properties that may allow it to participate in oscillatory phase coding and spike timing-dependent plasticity in coordination with other regions of the hippocampal circuit.
Inflexible cognition and behavior are prominent features of prefrontal cortex damage and several neuropsychiatric disorders. The ability to flexibly adapt cognitive processing and behavior to dynamically changing environmental contingencies has been studied using the reversal learning paradigm in mammals, but the complexity of the brain circuits precludes a detailed analysis of the underlying neural mechanism. Here we study the neural circuitry mechanism supporting flexible behavior in a genetically tractable model organism, Drosophila melanogaster. Combining quantitative behavior analysis and genetic manipulation, we found that inhibition from a single pair of giant GABAergic neurons, the anterior paired lateral (APL) neurons, onto the mushroom bodies (MBs) selectively facilitates behavioral flexibility during visual reversal learning. This effect was mediated by ionotropic GABA(A) receptors in the MB. Moreover, flies with perturbed MB output recapitulated the poor reversal performance of flies with dysfunctional APL neurons. Importantly, we observed that flies with dysfunctional APL-MB circuit performed normally in simple forms of visual learning, including initial learning, extinction, and differential conditioning. Finally, we showed that acute disruption of the APL-MB circuit is sufficient to impair visual reversal learning. Together, these data suggest that the APL-MB circuit plays an essential role in the resolution of conflicting reinforcement contingencies and reveals an inhibitory neural mechanism underlying flexible behavior in Drosophila.
Playing a musical instrument changes the anatomy and function of the brain. But do these changes persist after music training stops? We probed this question by measuring auditory brainstem responses in a cohort of healthy young human adults with varying amounts of past musical training. We show that adults who received formal music instruction as children have more robust brainstem responses to sound than peers who never participated in music lessons and that the magnitude of the response correlates with how recently training ceased. Our results suggest that neural changes accompanying musical training during childhood are retained in adulthood. These findings advance our understanding of long-term neuroplasticity and have general implications for the development of effective auditory training programs.
Amphetamine is a psychostimulant drug that produces long-lasting neurotoxic effects on the central nervous system. Recent studies suggested that glia might contribute to amphetamine-induced neuropathy. Excessive activation of astrocytes can be deleterious to the neuron. Amphetamine-induced lesions during development have the potential to produce numerous permanent abnormalities in neural circuitry and function, including memory deficit. In the present study, postnatal rats were injected with either saline or d-amphetamine for 7 consecutive days, starting on postnatal day 4 (P4). Our results found that d-amphetamine caused a marked increase in glia fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), an astroglia marker, expression that implicated astrogliosis in both hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. The effect of d-amphetamine on hippocampal and prefrontal cortex neurons was also investigated, and we detected a downregulation of III-tubulin, a marker of premature neuron expression. Furthermore, we found that pretreatment with melatonin, a major hormone secreted from the pineal gland, prevented glial cell activation and III-tubulin reduction, caused by d-amphetamine in both hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. The present study suggests that melatonin can attenuate the detrimental effect of d-amphetamine on glial and neuronal cells.
Oscillations in brain activity have long been known, but many fundamental aspects of such brain rhythms, particularly their functional importance, have been unclear. As we review here, new insights into these issues are emerging from the application of intervention approaches. In these approaches, the timing of brain oscillations is manipulated by non-invasive brain stimulation, either through sensory input or transcranially, and the behavioural consequence then monitored. Notably, such manipulations have led to rapid, periodic fluctuations in behavioural performance, which co-cycle with underlying brain oscillations. Such findings establish a causal relationship between brain oscillations and behaviour, and are allowing novel tests of longstanding models about the functions of brain oscillations.
Spikes of single cortical neurons can exert powerful effects even though most cortical synapses are too weak to fire postsynaptic neurons. A recent study combining single-cell stimulation with population imaging has visualized in vivo postsynaptic firing in genetically identified target cells. The results confirm predictions from in vitro work and might help to understand how the brain reads single-neuron activity.



Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), the commonest form of muscular dystrophy, is caused by lack of dystrophin. One of the most promising therapeutic approaches is antisense-mediated elimination of frame-disrupting mutations by exon skipping. However, this approach faces two major hurdles: limited applicability of each individual target exon and uncertain function and stability of each resulting truncated dystrophin. Skipping of exons 45-55 at the mutation hotspot of the DMD gene would address both issues. Theoretically it could rescue more than 60% of patients with deletion mutations. Moreover, spontaneous deletions of this specific region are associated with asymptomatic or exceptionally mild phenotypes. However, such multiple exon skipping of exons 45-55 has proved technically challenging. We have therefore designed antisense oligo (AO) morpholino mixtures to minimize self- or heteroduplex formation. These were tested as conjugates with cell-penetrating moieties (vivo-morpholinos). We have tested the feasibility of skipping exons 45-55 in H2K-mdx52 myotubes and in mdx52 mice, which lack exon 52. Encouragingly, with mixtures of 10 AOs, we demonstrated skipping of all 10 exons in vitro, in H2K-mdx52 myotubes and on intramuscular injection into mdx52 mice. Moreover, in mdx52 mice in vivo, systemic injections of 10 AOs induced extensive dystrophin expression at the subsarcolemma in skeletal muscles throughout the body, producing up to 15% of wild-type dystrophin protein levels, accompanied by improved muscle strength and histopathology without any detectable toxicity. This is a unique successful demonstration of effective rescue by exon 45-55 skipping in a dystrophin-deficient animal model.



Identifying the kinesin motors that interact with different vesicle populations is a longstanding and challenging problem with implications for many aspects of cell biology. Here we introduce a new live-cell assay to assess kinesin-vesicle interactions and use it to identify kinesins that bind to vesicles undergoing dendrite-selective transport in cultured hippocampal neurons. We prepared a library of &quot;split kinesins,&quot; comprising an axon-selective kinesin motor domain and a series of kinesin tail domains that can attach to their native vesicles; when the split kinesins were assembled by chemical dimerization, bound vesicles were misdirected into the axon. This method provided highly specific results, showing that three Kinesin-3 family members-KIF1A, KIF13A, and KIF13B-interacted with dendritic vesicle populations. This experimental paradigm allows a systematic approach to evaluate motor-vesicle interactions in living cells.
Previous work has shown that the protein kinase A (PKA)-regulated phosphodiesterase (PDE) 4D3 binds to A kinase-anchoring proteins (AKAPs). One such protein, AKAP9, localizes to the centrosome. In this paper, we investigate whether a PKA-PDE4D3-AKAP9 complex can generate spatial compartmentalization of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling at the centrosome. Real-time imaging of fluorescence resonance energy transfer reporters shows that centrosomal PDE4D3 modulated a dynamic microdomain within which cAMP concentration selectively changed over the cell cycle. AKAP9-anchored, centrosomal PKA showed a reduced activation threshold as a consequence of increased autophosphorylation of its regulatory subunit at S114. Finally, disruption of the centrosomal cAMP microdomain by local displacement of PDE4D3 impaired cell cycle progression as a result of accumulation of cells in prophase. Our findings describe a novel mechanism of PKA activity regulation that relies on binding to AKAPs and consequent modulation of the enzyme activation threshold rather than on overall changes in cAMP levels. Further, we provide for the first time direct evidence that control of cell cycle progression relies on unique regulation of centrosomal cAMP/PKA signals.

Following an acute stressor, pre-adolescent rats exhibit a protracted hormonal response compared to adults, while after repeated exposure to the same stressor (i.e., homotypic stress) prepubertal males fail to habituate like adults. Though the neurobehavioral implications of these changes are unknown, studying pubertal shifts in stress reactivity may help elucidate the mechanisms that underlie the increase in stress-related psychological and physiological disorders often observed during adolescence. Here, we investigated hormonal, behavioral, and neural responses of prepubertal (30d) and adult (77d) male rats before, during, or after acute stress (restraint), homotypic stress (repeated restraint) or heterotypic stress (repeated cold exposure followed by restraint). We found that prepubertal males exhibit prolonged corticosterone responses following acute and heterotypic stress, and higher adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone responses after homotypic stress, compared to adults. Despite these significant age-dependent changes in hormonal responsiveness, we found that struggling behavior during restraint was similar at both ages, such that both prepubertal and adult animals exposed to homotypic stress struggled less than animals exposed to either acute or heterotypic stress. Across these different stress paradigms, we found greater neural activation, as indexed by FOS immunostaining, in the prepubertal compared to adult paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, a nucleus integral for initiating the hormonal stress response. Interestingly, however, we did not find any influence of pubertal development on stress-induced activation of the posterior paraventricular thalamic nucleus, a brain region involved in experience-dependent changes in stress reactivity. Collectively, our data indicate that prepubertal and adult males display divergent hormonal, behavioral, and neural responses following a variety of stressful experiences, as well as a distinct dissociation between hormonal and behavioral reactivity in prepubertal males under homotypic conditions.
Hormones associated with pregnancy and parturition have been implicated in facilitating the onset of maternal behavior via reductions in neophobia, anxiety, and stress responsiveness. To determine whether the onset of paternal behavior has similar associations in biparental male California mice (Peromyscus californicus), we compared paternal responsiveness, neophobia (novel-object test), and anxiety-like behavior (elevated plus maze, EPM) in isolated virgins (housed alone), paired virgins (housed with another male), expectant fathers (housed with pregnant pairmate), and new fathers (housed with pairmate and pups). Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and Fos immunoreactivity (IR) were quantified in brain tissues following exposure to a predator-odor stressor or under baseline conditions. New fathers showed lower anxiety-like behavior than expectant fathers and isolated virgins in EPM tests. In all housing conditions, stress elevated Fos-IR in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Social isolation reduced overall (baseline and stress-induced) Fos- and colocalized Fos/CRH-IR, and increased overall CRH-IR, in the PVN. In the central nucleus of the amygdala, social isolation increased stress-induced CRH-IR and decreased stress-induced activation of CRH neurons. Across all housing conditions, paternally behaving males displayed more anxiety-related behavior than nonpaternal males in the EPM, but showed no differences in CRH- or Fos-IR. Finally, the latency to engage in paternal behavior was positively correlated with the latency to approach a novel object. These results suggest that being a new father does not reduce anxiety, neophobia, or neural stress responsiveness. Low levels of neophobia, however, were associated with, but not necessary for paternal responsiveness.
The rapid increase in the prevalence of obesity is a priority for investigators from across numerous disciplines, including biology, nutritional science, and public health and policy. In this paper, we systematically examine the premise that common dietary obesity is an addictive disorder, based on the criteria for addiction described in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) of Mental Disorders of the American Psychiatric Association, version IV, and consider the consequences of such a reclassification of obesity for public policy. Specifically, we discuss evidence from both human and animal studies investigating the effects of various types and amounts of food and the food environment in obese individuals. Neurobiological studies have shown that the hedonic brain pathways activated by palatable food overlap considerably with those activated by drugs of abuse and suffer significant deficits after chronic exposure to high-energy diets. Furthermore, food as a stimulus can induce the sensitization, compulsion and relapse patterns observed in individuals who are addicted to illicit drugs. The current food environment encourages these addictive-like behaviors where increased exposure through advertisements, proximity and increased portion sizes are routine. Taking lessons from the tobacco experience, it is clear that reclassifying common dietary obesity as an addictive disorder would necessitate policy changes (e.g., regulatory efforts, economic strategies, and educational approaches). These policies could be instrumental in addressing the obesity epidemic, by encouraging the food industry and the political leadership to collaborate with the scientific and medical community in establishing new and more effective therapeutic approaches.
The effect of NERP-1 and NERP-2, two recently discovered VGF-derived peptides, on feeding and penile erection was studied after injection into the lateral ventricles, the lateral hypothalamus, the arcuate nucleus or the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. NERP-2 (1-5 nmol), but not NERP-1 (2-4 nmol), increased feeding in a dose-dependent manner when injected into the lateral ventricles or bilaterally into the lateral hypothalamus but not into the arcuate or the paraventricular nucleus. The effect of NERP-2 given into the lateral ventricles was found in the first, but not in the second 60 min after treatment, and was antagonized by SB-408124, an orexin-1 receptor antagonist given into the lateral ventricles or the arcuate nucleus, but not into the paraventricular nucleus. However, SB-408124 was unable to reduce NERP-2-induced feeding when injected bilaterally into the lateral hypothalamus before NERP-2 given also bilaterally into the lateral hypothalamus. In contrast, NERP-1, but not NERP-2, induced penile erection in a dose-dependent manner when injected into the lateral ventricles or the arcuate nucleus, but not into the paraventricular nucleus or the lateral hypothalamus. The pro-erectile effect of NERP-1 was not prevented by the prior injection of d(CH(2))(5)Tyr (Me)(2)-Orn(8)-oxytocin or SB-408124 into the lateral ventricles. The present results suggest that while NERP-2 facilitates feeding by acting in the lateral hypothalamus, possibly by increasing orexin activity in the arcuate nucleus, NERP-1 facilitates penile erection by acting in the arcuate nucleus with a mechanism not related to orexin or oxytocin.
Curcumin,a natural polyphenol obtained from turmeric,has been implicated to be neuroprotective in a variety of neurodegenerative disorders although the mechanism remains poorly understood. The results of our recent experiments indicated that curcumin could protect dopaminergic neurons from apoptosis in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD). The death of dopaminergic neurons and the loss of dopaminergic axon in the striatum were significantly suppressed by curcumin in MPTP mouse model. Further studies showed that curcumin inhibited JNKs hyperphosphorylation induced by MPTP treatment. JNKs phosphorylation can cause translocation of Bax to mitochondria and the release of cytochrome c which both ultimately contribute to mitochondria-mediated apoptosis. These pro-apoptosis effect can be diminished by curcumin. Our experiments demonstrated that curcumin can prevent nigrostriatal degeneration by inhibiting the dysfunction of mitochondrial through suppressing hyperphosphorylation of JNKs induced by MPTP. Our results suggested that JNKs/mitochondria pathway may be a novel target in the treatment of PD patients.
The AMPA receptor (AMPA-R) is a major excitatory neurotransmitter receptor in the brain. Identifying and characterizing the neuronal proteins interacting with AMPA-Rs have provided important information about the molecular mechanisms underlying synaptic transmission and plasticity. In this study, to identify more AMPA-R interactors in vivo, we performed proteomic analyses of AMPA-R complexes from the brain. AMPA-R complexes were isolated from the brain through various combinations of biochemical techniques for solubilization, enrichment, and immunoprecipitation. Mass spectrometry analyses of these isolated complexes identified several novel components of the AMPA-R complexes as well as some previously identified components. The identification of these novel components helps to further define the complex mechanisms involved in the regulation of AMPA receptor function and synaptic plasticity.
Small GTPase Rab functions as a molecular switch that drives membrane trafficking through specific interaction with its effector molecule. Thus, identification of its specific effector domain is crucial to revealing the molecular mechanism that underlies Rab-mediated membrane trafficking. Because of the large numbers of Rab isoforms in higher eukaryotes, however, the effector domains of most of the vertebrate- or mammalian-specific Rabs have yet to be determined. In this study we screened for effector molecules of Rab36, a previously uncharacterized Rab isoform that is largely conserved in vertebrates, and we succeeded in identifying nine Rab36-binding proteins, including RILP (Rab interacting lysosomal protein) family members. Sequence comparison revealed that five of nine Rab36-binding proteins, i.e. RILP, RILP-L1, RILP-L2, and JIP3/4, contain a conserved coiled-coil domain. We identified the coiled-coil domain as a RILP homology domain (RHD) and characterized it as a common Rab36-binding site. Site-directed mutagenesis of the RHD of RILP revealed the different contributions by amino acids in the RHD to binding activity toward Rab7 and Rab36. Expression of RILP in melanocytes, but not expression of its Rab36 binding-deficient mutants, induced perinuclear aggregation of melanosomes, and this effect was clearly attenuated by knockdown of endogenous Rab36 protein. Moreover, knockdown of Rab36 in Rab27A-deficient melanocytes, which normally exhibit perinuclear melanosome aggregation because of increased retrograde melanosome transport activity, caused dispersion of melanosomes from the perinucleus to the cell periphery, but knockdown of Rab7 did not. Our findings indicated that Rab36 mediates retrograde melanosome transport in melanocytes through interaction with RILP.



In the late 19th Century, Sigmund Freud described the phenomenon in which people are unable to recall events from early childhood as infantile amnesia. Although universally observed, infantile amnesia is a paradox; adults have surprisingly few memories of early childhood despite the seemingly exuberant learning capacity of young children. How can these findings be reconciled? The mechanisms underlying this form of amnesia are the subject of much debate. Psychological/cognitive theories assert that the ability to maintain detailed, declarative-like memories in the long term correlates with the development of language, theory of mind, and/or sense of &quot;self.&quot; However, the finding that experimental animals also show infantile amnesia suggests that this phenomenon cannot be explained fully in purely human terms. Biological explanations of infantile amnesia suggest that protracted postnatal development of key brain regions important for memory interferes with stable long-term memory storage, yet they do not clearly specify which particular aspects of brain maturation are causally related to infantile amnesia. Here, we propose a hypothesis of infantile amnesia that focuses on one specific aspect of postnatal brain development--the continued addition of new neurons to the hippocampus. Infants (humans, nonhuman primates, and rodents) exhibit high levels of hippocampal neurogenesis and an inability to form lasting memories. Interestingly, the decline of postnatal neurogenesis levels corresponds to the emergence of the ability to form stable long-term memory. We propose that high neurogenesis levels negatively regulate the ability to form enduring memories, most likely by replacing synaptic connections in preexisting hippocampal memory circuits.
Memory reactivation is an important process resulting from reexposure to salient training-related information whereby a memory is brought from an inactive to an active state. Reactivation is the first stage of memory retrieval but can result from the exposure to salient cues without any behavioral output. Such cue-induced reactivation, although frequently used by neuroscientists to study reconsolidation, has seldom been considered as a process in its own right and studied as such. This review presents arguments indicating that memory reactivation has two main consequences: (1) to enhance the accessibility of the target memory and (2) to make the memory malleable. Accordingly, reactivation creates a transient state during which the content of the memory is easily accessible and can be modified and/or updated. As both of these aspects can be observed shortly after memory reactivation, this review emphasizes that reconsolidation is not necessarily required for these processes and calls attention to reactivation as a factor in the dynamics of the memory.
A fundamental goal of neuroscience is to understand how the brain represents the world. If we consider the neurons of the brain to be one system and the external world to be another system, how do the two systems interact, and by what translational code does the former represent the latter? Recent advances in imaging neural activity, genetically altering specific neural circuits, and genetic tools for the direct manipulation of neural activity are beginning to shed light on this critical question. We review recent advances in these areas that illustrate a path to addressing this fundamental question.
Major brain functions depend on neuronal processes that favor the plasticity of neuronal circuits while at the same time maintaining their stability. The mechanisms that regulate brain plasticity are complex and engage multiple cascades of molecular components that modulate synaptic efficacy. Protein kinases (PKs) and phosphatases (PPs) are among the most important of these components that act as positive and negative regulators of neuronal signaling and plasticity, respectively. In these cascades, the PP protein phosphatase 2B or calcineurin (CaN) is of particular interest because it is the only Ca(2+)-activated PP in the brain and a major regulator of key proteins essential for synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability. This review describes the primary properties of CaN and illustrates its functions and modes of action by focusing on several representative targets, in particular glutamate receptors, striatal enriched protein phosphatase (STEP), and neuromodulin (GAP43), and their functional significance for synaptic plasticity and memory.

Inhibitory interneurons are essential components of the neural circuits underlying various brain functions. In the neocortex, a large diversity of GABA (-aminobutyric acid) interneurons has been identified on the basis of their morphology, molecular markers, biophysical properties and innervation pattern. However, how the activity of each subtype of interneurons contributes to sensory processing remains unclear. Here we show that optogenetic activation of parvalbumin-positive (PV+) interneurons in the mouse primary visual cortex (V1) sharpens neuronal feature selectivity and improves perceptual discrimination. Using multichannel recording with silicon probes and channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2)-mediated optical activation, we found that increased spiking of PV+ interneurons markedly sharpened orientation tuning and enhanced direction selectivity of nearby neurons. These effects were caused by the activation of inhibitory neurons rather than a decreased spiking of excitatory neurons, as archaerhodopsin-3 (Arch)-mediated optical silencing of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMKII)-positive excitatory neurons caused no significant change in V1 stimulus selectivity. Moreover, the improved selectivity specifically required PV+ neuron activation, as activating somatostatin or vasointestinal peptide interneurons had no significant effect. Notably, PV+ neuron activation in awake mice caused a significant improvement in their orientation discrimination, mirroring the sharpened V1 orientation tuning. Together, these results provide the first demonstration that visual coding and perception can be improved by increased spiking of a specific subtype of cortical inhibitory interneurons.
One defining characteristic of the mammalian brain is its neuronal diversity. For a given region, substructure, layer or even cell type, variability in neuronal morphology and connectivity persists. Although it is well known that such cellular properties vary considerably according to neuronal type, the substantial biophysical diversity of neurons of the same morphological class is typically averaged out and ignored. Here we show that the amplitude of hyperpolarization-evoked sag of membrane potential recorded in olfactory bulb mitral cells is an emergent, homotypic property of local networks and sensory information processing. Simultaneous whole-cell recordings from pairs of cells show that the amount of hyperpolarization-evoked sag potential and current (Ih) is stereotypic for mitral cells belonging to the same glomerular circuit. This is corroborated by a mosaic, glomerulus-based pattern of expression of the HCN2 (hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel 2) subunit of the Ih channel. Furthermore, inter-glomerular differences in both membrane potential sag and HCN2 protein are diminished when sensory input to glomeruli is genetically and globally altered so that only one type of odorant receptor is universally expressed. Population diversity in this intrinsic property therefore reflects differential expression between local mitral cell networks processing distinct odour-related information.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) in the central nervous system actively orchestrates and modulates changes in neural structure and function in response to experience, after injury, during disease, and with changes in neuronal activity. A component of the multi-protein, ECM aggregate in brain, the chondroitin sulfate (CS)-bearing proteoglycans (PGs) known as lecticans, inhibit neurite outgrowth, alter dendritic spine shape, elicit closure of critical period plasticity, and block target reinnervation and functional recovery after injury as the major component of a glial scar. While removal of the CS chains from lecticans with chondroitinase ABC improves plasticity, proteolytic cleavage of the lectican core protein may change the conformation of the matrix aggregate and also modulate neural plasticity. This review centers on the roles of the lecticans and the endogenous metalloproteinase families that proteolytically cleave lectican core proteins, the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs (ADAMTSs), in neural plasticity. These extracellular metalloproteinases modulate structural neural plasticity-including changes in neurite outgrowth and dendritic spine remodeling-and synaptic plasticity. Some of these actions have been demonstrated to occur via cleavage of the PG core protein. Other actions of the proteases include cleavage of non-matrix substrate proteins, whereas still other actions may occur directly at the cell surface without proteolytic cleavage. The data convincingly demonstrate that metalloproteinases modulate physiological and pathophysiological neural plasticity.
Absence seizures are common in the stargazer mutant mouse. The mutation underlying the epileptic phenotype in stargazers is a defect in the gene encoding the normal expression of the protein stargazin. Stargazin is involved in the membrane trafficking and synaptic targeting of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs) at excitatory glutamatergic synapses. Thus, the genetic defect in the stargazer results in a loss of AMPARs and consequently, excitation at glutamatergic synapses. Absence seizures are known to arise in thalamocortical networks. In the present study we show for the first time, using Western blot analysis and quantitative immunogold cytochemistry, that in the epileptic stargazer mouse, there is a global loss of AMPAR protein in nucleus reticularis (RTN) and a selective loss of AMPARs at corticothalamic synapses in inhibitory neurons of the RTN thalamus. In contrast, there is no significant loss of AMPARs at corticothalamic synapses in excitatory relay neurons in the thalamic ventral posterior (VP) region. The findings of this study thus provide cellular and molecular evidence for a selective regional loss of synaptic AMPAR within the RTN that could account for the loss of function at these inhibitory neuron synapses, which has previously been reported from electrophysiological studies. The specific loss of AMPARs at RTN but not relay synapses in the thalamus of the stargazer, could contribute to the absence epilepsy phenotype by altering thalamocortical network oscillations. This is supported by recent evidence that loss of glutamate receptor subunit 4 (GluA4) (the predominant AMPAR-subtype in the thalamus), also leads to a specific reduction in strength in the cortico-RTN pathway and enhanced thalamocortical oscillations, in the Gria4(-/-) model of absence epilepsy. Thus further study of thalamic changes in these models could be important for future development of drugs targeted to absence epilepsy.
Several lines of evidence indicate group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have systemic anti-hyperalgesic effects. We hypothesized this could occur through modulation of transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) receptors on nociceptors. To address this question we performed anatomical studies to determine if group III mGluRs were expressed on cutaneous axons and if they co-localized with TRPV1. Immunostaining at the electron microscopic level demonstrated that 22% of unmyelinated axons labeled for mGluR8. Immunostaining at the light microscopic level in lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) demonstrated that 80% and 28% of neurons labeled for mGluR8 or TRPV1, respectively. Of those neurons labeled for mGluR8, 25% labeled for TRPV1; of those labeled for TRPV1, 71% labeled for mGluR8. In behavior studies intraplantar injection of the group III mGluR agonist, L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP-4: 0.1, 1.0, and 10.0 M) had no effect on paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to heat in nave rats but administration of 10 M L-AP-4 prior to 0.05% capsaicin (CAP), significantly attenuated CAP-induced lifting/licking and reduced flinching behavior. The L-AP-4 effect was specific since administration of a group III antagonist -methyl-3-methyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (UBP1112) (100M) blocked the L-AP-4 effect on CAP, resulting in behaviors similar to CAP alone. Intraplantar injection of UBP1112 alone did not result in nociceptive behaviors, indicating group III mGluRs are not tonically active. Finally, the anti-hyperalgesic effect of group III in this paradigm was local and not systemic since intraplantar administration of L-AP-4 in one hind paw did not attenuate nociceptive behaviors following CAP injection in the contralateral hind paw. Adenyl cyclase/cyclic AMP/PKA may be the second messenger pathway linking these two receptor families because intraplantar injection of forskolin (FSK, 10 M) reduced PWL to heat and L-AP-4 reversed this FSK effect. Taken together, these results suggest group III mGluRs can negatively modulate TRPV1 through inhibition of adenyl cyclase and downstream intracellular activity, blocking TRPV1-induced activation of nociceptors.
The temporal lobe plays a major role in anxiety and depression disorders and is also of importance for trait anxiety in the non-pathological range. The present study investigates self-report data of personality dimensions linked to trait anxiety in the context of white matter tract integrity in the temporal lobes of the human brain in a large sample of N=110 healthy participants. The results show that especially in men values for fractional anisotropy of several white matter tracts in the temporal lobe of the left hemisphere correlate substantially with individual differences in trait anxiety (depending on the tract investigated between .40 and .49). The present study shows that not only data from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), but also from structural diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) provide interesting insights into the biological foundation of human personality traits.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an emerging treatment of epilepsy. Anterior nucleus of the thalamus (ANT) is considered to be an attractive target due to its close connection to the limbic structures and wide regions of neocortex. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of high frequency stimulation (HFS) targeting the ANT on amygdala-kindled seizures in Wistar rats in two different stimulation modes i.e. pre-treatment and post-treatment stimulations, mimicking the scheduled and responsive stimulations in clinical use respectively. When fully-kindled seizures were achieved by daily amygdala kindling (1 s train of 1 ms pulses at 60 Hz), HFS (15 min train of 100 s pulses at 150 Hz and 450-800 A) was applied in two modes for 10 days. Bilateral post-treatment with HFS reduced the incidence of generalized seizures and the mean behavioral seizure stage and shortened average afterdischarge duration (ADD) and generalized seizure duration (GSD), while bilateral pre-treatment with HFS resulted in a similar but much weaker inhibition of seizures. On the other hand, we also found the two stimulation modes both increased the afterdischarge threshold (ADT) and the differences of current intensity between ADT and generalized seizure threshold (GST) i.e. (GST-ADT). However, (GST-ADT) increased by at least 20 A in bilateral post-treatment group, while less in bilateral pre-treatment group. Additionally, unilateral post-treatment with HFS failed to inhibit seizures. Our data show that anti-epileptic effect of bilateral post-treatment with HFS of ANT is much stronger than that of bilateral pre-treatment HFS, indicating bilateral responsive stimulation might be more appropriate for clinical anti-epileptic treatment of ANT HFS.
More than 125 years ago, Santiago Ramn y Cajal was able to draft and prove the neuron doctrine, and later, to develop prophetic theories about neural function and plasticity, many of which have been proven by current neuroscience. It was chance that made Cajal, during his doctorate studies, have his first contact with histology and force him to study the then current theories about pathogenesis of inflammation. Thus, he gained knowledge of the vascular hypothesis, by Julius Cohnheim, a German pathologist who, opposing the opinion of his teacher and father of cellular pathology, Rudolf Virchow, made leukocytes the protagonists of inflammation, given their ability to develop ameboid movements directed by chemical signals. Cohnheim's chemotactic theory deeply influenced Cajal's conception of biology. So, the basic postulates of chemotaxis can be identified at different moments in Cajal's research, from the description of the &quot;growth cone&quot; in embryonic neuroblasts, the origin of the neurotrophic theory, to the proposal of the pathophysiological mechanisms of neuronal plasticity. From Cajal's point of view, the neurons move during their development and also adapt to different external circumstances. Chemical endogenous substances can stimulate this movement in a similar way to leukocytes during the process of inflammation.
The olfactory bulb (OB) of mammals contains the major endogenous dopamine-producing system in the forebrain. The vast majority of dopaminergic neurons consists of juxtaglomerular cells, which innervate the olfactory glomeruli and modulate the entrance of sensory information to the OB. Although dopaminergic juxtaglomerular cells have been widely investigated, the presence of dopaminergic interneurons other than juxtaglomerular cells has been largely unexplored. In this study, we analyze a population of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-containing interneurons located in the external plexiform layer (EPL) of the rat OB. These interneurons are GABAergic and morphologically heterogeneous. They have an axon and two to four dendrites running throughout the EPL. Frequently, they have appendages similar to spines in the dendrites and, sometimes, the distal portions of the dendritic branches show enlargements or swellings similar to varicosities. Contrary to other interneurons of the EPL, the TH-containing ones do not form dendro-dendritic synapses on principal cells and do not receive dendro-dendritic synapses from them. In fact, no synapses were found from the dendrites of these interneurons. When their dendrites are involved in synaptic contacts, they are always the postsynaptic element. They receive symmetrical and asymmetrical synapses from GABAergic and non-GABAergic axons of unidentified origin. Our data indicate that the local circuits of the EPL are more complex than previously thought. Although most of the interneurons of this layer establish dendro-dendritic synaptic relationships with principal cells, the TH-containing interneurons constitute an exception to this rule, resembling interneurons from other cortical areas.
Sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) in the intermediolateral (IML) and dorsal commissural nucleus (DCN) of the thoracolumbar segments of the spinal cord contribute to the autonomic control of the pelvic visceral organs. We examined the morphology of these neurons at the light and electron microscopic level and quantified the boutons apposing the soma and proximal dendrites of the SPNs innervating the major pelvic ganglion (MPG) in female rats. The majority of these cells resided in the DCN (61.66.2%) and IML (33.24.4%) nuclei. Measurements of cell volume and shape revealed no differences between SPNs sampled from the DCN and IML populations. Ultrastructural studies of DCN and IML SPNs revealed that coverage of SPNs by synaptic inputs is sparse, with an average of 11.602.41% of the soma membrane and 16.336.18% of proximal dendrites apposed by boutons, though some somata exhibited no synaptic coverage. Three distinct types of boutons were found to appose the SPN somata and dendrites. The putatively inhibitory F-type bouton covered a significantly greater percentage of membrane on the soma (8.482.12%) and dendrites (12.654.34%), than the S-type bouton, a putatively excitatory bouton, which only covered 2.940.70% of the somatic and 3.682.98% of the dendritic membranes. Boutons with dense-core vesicles were rare. Our results demonstrate that SPNs of the DCN and IML of female rats are similar morphologically, and that synaptic input on these cells, though sparse, is predominantly inhibitory.
Histamine acts centrally to increase energy expenditure and reduce body weight by mechanisms not fully understood. It has been suggested that in the obese state hypothalamic histamine signaling is altered. Previous studies have also shown that histamine acting in the preoptic area controls thermoregulation. We aimed to study the influence of preoptic histamine on body temperature and energy homeostasis in control and obese mice. Activating histamine receptors in the preoptic area by increasing the concentration of endogenous histamine or by local injection of specific agonists induced an elevation of core body temperature and decreased respiratory exchange ratio (RER). In addition, the food intake was significantly decreased. The hyperthermic effect was associated with a rapid increase in mRNA expression of uncoupling proteins in thermogenic tissues, the most pronounced being that of uncoupling protein (UCP) 1 in brown adipose tissue and of UCP2 in white adipose tissue. In diet-induced obese mice histamine had much diminished hyperthermic effects as well as reduced effect on RER. Similarly, the ability of preoptic histamine signaling to increase the expression of uncoupling proteins was abolished. We also found that the expression of mRNA encoding the H1 receptor subtype in the preoptic area was significantly lower in obese animals. These results indicate that histamine signaling in the preoptic area modulates energy homeostasis by regulating body temperature, metabolic parameters and food intake and that the obese state is associated with a decrease in neurotransmitter's influence.
An altered one carbon cycle (folic acid, vitamin B(12)) and omega 3 fatty acid metabolism during pregnancy can increase the risk for neurodevelopmental disorders in the offspring. Our earlier studies have shown that a maternal diet imbalanced with micronutrients like folic acid, vitamin B(12) reduces levels of brain docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and neurotrophins in the offspring at birth. The present study examines whether these effects can be reversed by a postnatal diet. Pregnant female rats were divided into six treatment groups at two levels of folic acid both in the presence and absence of vitamin B(12). Omega 3 fatty acid supplementation was given to the vitamin B(12)-deficient groups. Following delivery, eight dams from each group were randomly shifted back to control and remaining eight continued on the same treatment diet. Plasma homocysteine levels could be normalized by a postnatal control diet. Brain DHA levels were similar in all the groups irrespective of the diet consumed during lactation. Brain-derived nerve growth factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) levels were lower in both the vitamin B(12)-deficient groups even after consuming a diet with normal levels of vitamin B(12) during lactation (p&lt;0.05 for all) indicating that the effects of maternal programing with respect to neurotrophins cannot be reversed by a postnatal diet. Our findings for the first time suggest that omega 3 fatty acid supplementation to a micronutrient-imbalanced diet, during pregnancy and lactation protects the levels of BDNF and NGF. This may have significant implications in the development of psychiatric disorders/cognitive deficits in later life.
Sensory perception can be influenced by cognitive functions like attention and expectation. An emblematic case of this is the placebo effect, where a reduction in pain perception can be obtained by inducing expectation of benefit following a treatment. The current study assessed the behavioural and brain activity correlates of a placebo procedure inducing an enhancement of non-noxious somatic sensation. An experimental group was verbally suggested and surreptitiously conditioned about the effect of an inert cream in enhancing tactile perception, while a control group was informed about the actual inefficacy of the cream. Both groups received non-noxious electric shocks activating A-Beta fibres on the right index finger, before and after application of the cream in the same site. The behavioural and neurophysiological effects of this procedure were measured by a numerical rating scale of subjective perception and by recording cortical and subcortical somatosensory-evoked potentials (SEPs). Although the intensity of stimulation was physically identical in the two sessions, the experimental group reported stronger tactile sensation after cream treatment than before. In parallel, the experimental group showed enhanced somatosensory cortical responses (N140, P200) after treatment, whereas subcortical and early-cortical SEP components did not change. We suggest that these findings reflect top-down modulation on tactile perception probably due to an interplay between expectation and attention and might rely on interactions between prefrontal and parietal brain regions.
This study examined responsiveness to acoustic stimuli among neurons of the basolateral amygdala. While recording from single neurons in awake mustached bats (Pteronotus parnellii), we presented a wide range of acoustic stimuli including tonal, noise, and vocal signals. While many neurons displayed phasic or sustained responses locked to effective auditory stimuli, the majority of neurons (n=58) displayed a persistent excitatory discharge that lasted well beyond stimulus duration and filled the interval between successive stimuli. Persistent firing usually began seconds (median value, 5.4 s) after the initiation of a train of repeated stimuli and lasted, in the majority of neurons, for at least 2 min after the end of the stimulus train. Auditory-responsive amygdalar neurons were generally excited by one stimulus or very few stimuli. Most neurons did not respond well to synthetic stimuli including tones, noise bursts or frequency-modulated sweeps, but instead responded only to vocal stimuli (82 of 87 neurons). Furthermore, most neurons were highly selective among vocal stimuli. On average, neurons responded to 1.7 of 15 different syllables or syllable sequences. The largest percentage of neurons responded to a hiss-like rectangular broadband noise burst (rBNB) call associated with aggressive interactions. Responsiveness to effective vocal stimuli was reduced or eliminated when the spectrotemporal features of the stimuli were altered in a subset of neurons. Chemical activation of the medial geniculate body (MG) increased both background and evoked firing. Among 39 histologically localized recording sites, we saw no evidence of topographic organization in terms of temporal response pattern, habituation, or the affect of calls to which neurons responded. Overall, these studies demonstrate that amygdalar neurons in the mustached bat show high selectivity to vocal stimuli, and suggest that persistent firing may be an important feature of amygdalar responses to social vocalizations.
Studies of puberty have focused primarily on changes in hormones and on observable physical bodily characteristics. Little is known, however, about the nature of the relation between pubertal status and brain physiology. This is particularly important given findings that have linked the onset of puberty with both changes in cognitive functioning and increases in the incidence of depression and anxiety. The present study examined relations between pubertal stage, as assessed by Tanner staging, and brain anatomy in a sample of 54 girls aged 9-15 years. Brain morphometric analysis was conducted using high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The hippocampus and amygdala were manually traced on MRI scans in all participants. Stepwise regression analyses were conducted with total intracranial volume (ICV), age, and pubertal status as the predictor variables and hippocampus and amygdala volumes as outcome variables. Pubertal status was significantly associated with left amygdala volume, after controlling for both age and ICV. In addition, puberty was related to right hippocampus and amygdala volumes, after controlling for ICV. In contrast, no significant associations were found between age and hippocampal and amygdala volumes after controlling for pubertal status and ICV. These findings highlight the importance of the relation between pubertal status and morphometry of the hippocampus and amygdala, and of limbic and subcortical structures that have been implicated in emotional and social behaviors.
Cancer pain, especially cancer-induced bone pain, affects the quality of life of cancer patients, and current treatments for this pain are limited. The present study demonstrates that spinal extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation in glial cells plays a crucial role in cancer-induced bone pain. From day 4 to day 21 after the intra-tibia inoculation with Walker 256 mammary gland carcinoma cells, significant mechanical allodynia was observed as indicated by the decrease of mechanical withdrawal thresholds in the von Frey hair test. Intra-tibia inoculation with carcinoma cells induced a vast and persistent (&gt;21 D) activation of ERK in the bilateral L2-L3 and L4-L5 spinal dorsal horn. The increased pERK1/2-immunoreactivity was observed in both Iba-1-expressing microglia and GFAP-expressing astrocytes but not in NeuN-expressing neurons. A single intrathecal injection of the selective MEK (ERK kinase) inhibitors PD98059 (10 g) on day 12 and U0126 (1.25 and 3 g) on day 14, attenuated the bilateral mechanical allodynia in the von Frey hair test. Altogether, our results suggest that ERK activation in spinal microglia and astrocytes is correlated with the onset of allodynia and is important for allodynia maintenance in the cancer pain model. This study indicated that inhibition of the ERK pathway may provide a new therapy for cancer-induced bone pain.
The delayed rectifier voltage-gated potassium channel Kv2.1 underlies a majority of the somatic K(+) current in neurons and is particularly important for regulating intrinsic neuronal excitability. Various stimuli alter Kv2.1 channel gating as well as localization of the channel to cell-surface cluster domains. It has been postulated that specific domains within the C-terminus of Kv2.1 are critical for channel gating and sub-cellular localization; however, the distinct regions that govern these processes remain elusive. Here we show that the soluble C-terminal fragment of the closely related channel Kv2.2 displaces Kv2.1 from clusters in both rat hippocampal neurons and HEK293 cells, however neither steady-state activity nor N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-dependent modulation is altered in spite of this non-clustered localization. Further, we demonstrate that the C-terminus of Kv2.1 is not necessary for steady-state gating, sensitivity to intracellular phosphatase or NMDA-dependent modulation, though this region is required for localization of Kv2.1 to clusters. Thus, the molecular determinants of Kv2.1 localization and modulation are distinct regions of the channel that function independently.
The firing properties of dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) pars compacta are strongly influenced by the activity of apamin-sensitive small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (SK) channels. Of the three SK channel genes expressed in central neurons, only SK3 expression has been identified in DA neurons. The present findings show that SK2 was also expressed in DA neurons. Immuno-electron microscopy (iEM) showed that SK2 was primarily expressed in the distal dendrites, while SK3 was heavily expressed in the soma and, to a lesser extent, throughout the dendritic arbor. Electrophysiological recordings of the effects of the SK channel blocker apamin on DA neurons from wild type and SK(-/-) mice show that SK2-containing channels contributed to the precision of action potential (AP) timing, while SK3-containing channels influenced AP frequency. The expression of SK2 in DA neurons may endow distinct signaling and subcellular localization to SK2-containing channels.


One of the central tensions within the literature on body studies concerns the degree to which the physical body is constituted by or through language, knowledges, and practices and the degree to which the body has foundational, purely material, or essential attributes. Three theoretical approaches have been at the heart of this debate: social constructionism, phenomenology, and structuration theory. Recently, body studies theorists have challenged scholars to move beyond the widely recognised limitations of dominant theorising by taking into account all three perspectives and conceptualising the body as surface, vehicle, and circuit. Because they embrace agnosticism and relational materialism, science and technology studies scholars are in a distinctive position to answer this call. Proponents fully acknowledge the materiality of the body without espousing essentialist claims by effacing the analytic division between agency and structure. Starting from this perspective, I use the concept of corporeal transgression and the phenomenon of phantom limb to reveal how 'immaterial'- indeed, at times, fictive and fanciful - body parts became socially and materially substantive, engendering transformations within the bodies, minds, and brains of amputees, as well as within the field of neuroscience.
On June 10th, 2011, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Potiga (ezogabine) as an add-on medication for the treatment of seizures in adults, and it is being developed by Valeant Pharmaceuticals.
Studying the functional architecture of the brain requires technologies to precisely measure and perturb the activity of specific neural cells and circuits in live animals. Substantial progress has been made in recent years to develop and apply such tools. In particular, technologies that provide precise control of activity in genetically defined populations of neurons have enabled the study of causal relationships between and among neural circuit elements and behavioral outputs. Here, we review an important subset of such technologies, in which neurons are genetically engineered to respond to specific chemical ligands that have no interfering pharmacological effect in the central nervous system. A rapidly expanding set of these &quot;orthogonal pharmacogenetic&quot; tools provides a unique combination of genetic specificity, functional diversity, spatiotemporal precision, and potential for multiplexing. We review the main classes of orthogonal pharmacogenetic technologies, including neuroreceptors to control neuronal excitability, systems to control gene transcription and translation, and general constructs to control protein-protein interactions, enzymatic function, and protein stability. We describe the key performance characteristics informing the use of these technologies in the brain, and potential directions for improvement and expansion of the orthogonal pharmacogenetics toolkit to enable more sophisticated systems neuroscience.
In the past decade, nanotechnology applications to the nervous system have often involved the study and the use of novel nanomaterials to improve the diagnosis and therapy of neurological diseases. In the field of nanomedicine, carbon nanotubes are evaluated as promising materials for diverse therapeutic and diagnostic applications. Besides, carbon nanotubes are increasingly employed in basic neuroscience approaches, and they have been used in the design of neuronal interfaces or in that of scaffolds promoting neuronal growth in vitro. Ultimately, carbon nanotubes are thought to hold the potential for the development of innovative neurological implants. In this framework, it is particularly relevant to document the impact of interfacing such materials with nerve cells. Carbon nanotubes were shown, when modified with biologically active compounds or functionalized in order to alter their charge, to affect neurite outgrowth and branching. Notably, purified carbon nanotubes used as scaffolds can promote the formation of nanotube-neuron hybrid networks, able per se to affect neuron integrative abilities, network connectivity, and synaptic plasticity. We focus this review on our work over several years directed to investigate the ability of carbon nanotube platforms in providing a new tool for nongenetic manipulations of neuronal performance and network signaling.
The development of molecular imaging probes has changed the nature of neurobiological research. Some of the most notable successes have involved the use of biological engineering techniques for the creation of fluorescent protein derivatives for optical imaging, but recent work has also led to a number of bioengineered probes for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the preeminent technique for noninvasive investigation of brain structure and function. Molecular MRI agents are beginning to be applied for experiments in the nervous system, where they have the potential to bridge from molecular to systems or organismic levels of analysis. Compared with canonical synthetic small molecule agents, biomolecular or semibiosynthetic MRI contrast agents offer special advantages due to their amenability to molecular engineering approaches, their properties in some cases as catalysts, and their specificity in targeting and ligand binding. Here, we discuss an expanding list of instances where biological engineering techniques have aided in the design of MRI contrast agents and reporter systems, examining both advantages and limitations of these types of probes for studies in the central nervous system.
Fluorescent membrane voltage indicators that enable optical imaging of neuronal circuit operations in the living mammalian brain are powerful tools for biology and particularly neuroscience. Classical voltage-sensitive dyes, typically low molecular-weight organic compounds, have been in widespread use for decades but are limited by issues related to optical noise, the lack of generally applicable procedures that enable staining of specific cell populations, and difficulties in performing imaging experiments over days and weeks. Genetically encoded voltage indicators (GEVIs) represent a newer alternative that overcomes several of the limitations inherent to classical voltage-sensitive dyes. We critically review the fundamental concepts of this approach, the variety of available probes and their state of development.

Western blot analysis is a commonly used technique for determining specific protein levels in clinical samples. For normalization of protein levels in Western blot, a suitable loading control is required. On account of its relatively high and constant expression, -actin has been widely employed in Western blot of cell cultures and tissue extracts. However, -actin's presence in human plasma and this protein's putative role as a plasma-based loading control for Western blot analysis remain unknown. In this study, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to determine the concentration of -actin in human plasma, which is 6.290.54 ng/ml. In addition, the linearity of -actin immunostaining and loaded protein amount was evaluated by Western blot, and a fine linearity (R=0.9740.012) was observed. Furthermore, the expression of plasma -actin in major depressive disorder subjects and healthy controls was compared. The data revealed no statistically significant difference between these two groups. Moreover, the total coefficient of variation for -actin expression in the two groups was 9.21.2%. These findings demonstrate that -actin is present in human plasma and may possibly be used as a suitable loading control for plasma-based Western blot analysis in major depressive disorder.
Meso-diencephalic dopaminergic (mdDA) neurons are critical for motor control and cognitive functioning and their loss or dysfunction is associated with disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD), schizophrenia and addiction. However, relatively little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying mdDA neuron development and maintenance. Here, we determined the spatiotemporal map of genes involved in the development of mdDA neurons to gain further insight into their molecular programming. Genome-wide gene expression profiles of the developing ventral mesencephalon (VM) were compared at different developmental stages leading to the identification of novel regulatory roles of neuronal signaling through nicotinic acthylcholine receptors (Chrna6 and Chrnb3 subunits) and the identification of novel transcription factors (Oc2 and 3) involved in the generation of the mdDA neuronal field. We show here that Pitx3, in cooperation with Nurr1, is the critical component in the activation of the Chrna6 and Chrnb3 subunits in mdDA neurons. Furthermore, we provide evidence of two divergent regulatory pathways resulting in the expression of Chrna6 and Chrnb3 respectively.



Recent studies report that the occipito-temporal N170 component of the ERP is enhanced by letter strings, relative to non-linguistic strings of similar visual complexity, with a left-lateralized distribution. This finding is consistent with underlying mechanisms that serve visual word recognition. Conclusions about the level of analysis reflected within the N170 effects, and therefore the timecourse of word recognition, have been mixed. Here, we investigated the timing and nature of brain responses to putatively low- and high-level processing difficulty. Low-level processing difficulty was modulated by manipulating letter-rotation parametrically at 0, 22.5, 45, 67.5, and 90. Higher-level processing difficulty was modulated by manipulating lexical status (words vs. word-like pseudowords). Increasing letter-rotation enhanced the N170 led to monotonic increases in P1 and N170 amplitude up to 67.5 but then decreased amplitude at 90. Pseudowords enhanced the N170 over left occipital-temporal sites, relative to words. These combined findings are compatible with a cascaded, interactive architecture in which lower-level analysis (e.g., word-form feature extraction) leads higher-level analysis (e.g., lexical access) in time, but that by approximately 170 ms, the brain's response to a visual word includes parallel, interactive processing at both low-level feature extraction and higher-order lexical access levels of analysis.
The default-mode network (DMN) has become a well accepted concept in cognitive and clinical neuroscience over the last decade, and perusal of the recent literature attests to a stimulating research field of cognitive and diagnostic applications (for example, (Andrews-Hanna et al., 2010; Koch et al., 2010; Sheline et al., 2009a; Sheline et al., 2009b; Uddin et al., 2008; Uddin et al., 2009; Weng et al., 2009; Yan et al., 2009)). However, a formal definition of what exactly constitutes a functional brain network is difficult to come by. In recent contributions, some researchers argue that the DMN is best understood as multiple interacting subsystems (Buckner et al., 2008) and have explored modular components of the DMN that have different functional specialization and could to some extent be identified separately (Fox et al., 2005; Uddin et al., 2009). Such conception of modularity seems to imply an opposite construct of a 'unified whole', but it is difficult to locate proponents of the idea of a DMN who are supplying constraints that can be brought to bear on data in rigorous tests. Our aim in this paper is to present a principled way of deriving a single covariance pattern as the neural substrate of the DMN, test to what extent its behavior tracks the coupling strength between critical seed regions, and investigate to what extent our stricter concept of a network is consistent with the already established findings about the DMN in the literature. We show that our approach leads to a functional covariance pattern whose pattern scores are a good proxy for the integrity of the connections between a medioprefrontal, posterior cingulate and parietal seed regions. Our derived DMN network thus has potential for diagnostic applications that are simpler to perform than computation of pairwise correlational strengths or seed maps.
The involvement of parkin, PINK1, and DJ1 in mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative injury, and impaired functioning of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) has been intensively investigated in light of Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. However, these pathological mechanisms are not restricted to PD, but are common denominators of various neurodegenerative and neuroinflammatory disorders. It is therefore conceivable that parkin, PINK1, and DJ1 are also linked to the pathogenesis of other neurological diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and multiple sclerosis (MS). The importance of these proteins in mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration is reflected by the neuroprotective properties of parkin, DJ1, and PINK1 in counteracting oxidative stress and improvement of mitochondrial and UPS functioning. This review provides a concise overview on the cellular functions of the E3 ubiquitin ligase parkin, the mitochondrial kinase PINK1, and the cytoprotective protein DJ1 and their involvement and interplay in processes underlying neurodegeneration in common neurological disorders.
The plantarflexors of the lower limb are often assumed to act as independent actuators, but the validity of this assumption is the subject of considerable debate. This study aims to determine the degree to which passive changes in gastrocnemius muscle length, induced by knee motion, affect the tension in the adjacent soleus muscle. A second aim is to quantify the magnitude of myofascial passive force transmission between gastrocnemius and adjacent soleus. Fifteen healthy volunteers participated. Simultaneous ultrasound images of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles were obtained during passive knee flexion (0-90), while keeping the ankle angle fixed at either 70 or 115. Image correlation analysis was used to quantify muscle fascicle lengths in both muscles. The data show that the soleus muscle fascicles elongate significantly during gastrocnemius shortening. The approximate change in passive soleus force as a result of the observed change in fascicle length was estimated and appears to be &lt;5 N, but this estimate is sensitive to the assumed slack length of soleus.
Several mechanisms have been hypothesized to contribute to the rapid hyperemia at the onset of exercise. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role played by the mechanosensitivity of the vascular network. In 12 anesthetized rabbits blood flow was recorded from the exclusively muscular masseteric artery in response to brief spontaneous contractions (BSC) of the masseter muscle, artery occlusion (AO), muscle compression (MC), and muscle stretch (MS). Activation of masseter muscle was monitored by electromyography (EMG). Responses to AO were also recorded from the mostly cutaneous facial and the central ear arteries. Five animals were also tested in the awake condition. The hyperemic response to BSC (peak amplitude of 394  82%; time to peak of 1.8  0.8 s) developed with a latency of 300-400 ms from the beginning of the EMG burst and 200-300 ms from the contraction-induced transient flow reduction. This response was neither different from the response to AO (peak amplitude = 426  158%), MC, and MS (P = 0.23), nor from the BSC response in the awake condition. Compared with the masseteric artery, the response to AO was markedly smaller both in the facial (83  18%,) and in the central ear artery (68  20%) (P &lt; 0.01). In conclusion, the rapid contraction-induced hyperemia can be replicated by a variety of stimuli affecting transmural pressure in muscle blood vessels and is thus compatible with the Bayliss effect. This prominent mechanosensitivity appears to be a characteristic of muscle and not cutaneous vascular beds.
Cardiac development requires interplay between the regulation of gene expression and the assembly of functional sarcomeric proteins. We report that UNC-45b recessive loss-of-function mutations in C3H and C57BL/6 inbred mouse strains cause arrest of cardiac morphogenesis at the formation of right heart structures and failure of contractile function. Wild-type C3H and C57BL/6 embryos at the same stage, E9.5, form actively contracting right and left atria and ventricles. The known interactions of UNC-45b as a molecular chaperone are consistent with diminished accumulation of the sarcomeric myosins, but not their mRNAs, and the resulting decreased contraction of homozygous mutant embryonic hearts. The novel finding that GATA4 accumulation is similarly decreased at the protein but not mRNA levels is also consistent with the function of UNC-45b as a chaperone. The mRNAs of known downstream targets of GATA4 during secondary cardiac field development, the cardiogenic factors Hand1, Hand2 and Nkx-2.5, are also decreased, consistent with the reduced GATA4 protein accumulation. Direct binding studies show that the UNC-45b chaperone forms physical complexes with both the alpha and beta cardiac myosins and the cardiogenic transcription factor GATA4. Co-expression of UNC-45b with GATA4 led to enhanced transcription from GATA promoters in nave cells. These novel results suggest that the heart-specific UNC-45b isoform functions as a molecular chaperone mediating contractile function of the sarcomere and gene expression in cardiac development.

In mammalian peripheral nerves, unmyelinated C-fibers usually outnumber myelinated A-fibers. By using transmission electron microscopy, we recently showed that the saphenous nerve of the naked mole-rat (Heterocephalus glaber) has a C-fiber deficit manifested as a substantially lower C:A-fiber ratio compared with other mammals. Here we determined the uniqueness of this C-fiber deficit by performing a quantitative anatomical analysis of several peripheral nerves in five further members of the Bathyergidae mole-rat family: silvery (Heliophobius argenteocinereus), giant (Fukomys mechowii), Damaraland (Fukomys damarensis), Mashona (Fukomys darlingi), and Natal (Cryptomys hottentotus natalensis) mole-rats. In the largely cutaneous saphenous and sural nerves, the naked mole-rat had the lowest C:A-fiber ratio (1.5:1 compared with 3:1), whereas, in nerves innervating both skin and muscle (common peroneal and tibial) or just muscle (lateral/medial gastrocnemius), this pattern was mostly absent. We asked whether lack of hair follicles alone accounts for the C-fiber paucity by using as a model a mouse that loses virtually all its hair as a consequence of conditional deletion of the -catenin gene in the skin. These -catenin loss-of function mice (-cat LOF mice) displayed only a mild decrease in C:A-fiber ratio compared with wild-type mice (4.42 compared with 3.81). We suggest that the selective cutaneous C-fiber deficit in the cutaneous nerves of naked mole-rats is unlikely to be due primarily to lack of skin hair follicles. Possible mechanisms contributing to this unique peripheral nerve anatomy are discussed.
Mouse mutants with paranodal junctional (PNJ) defects display variable degrees of neurological impairment. In this study we compare control paranodes with those from three mouse mutants that differ with respect to a conspicuous PNJ component, the transverse bands (TBs). We hypothesize that TBs link the apposed junctional membranes together at a fixed distance and thereby determine the width of the junctional gap, which may in turn determine the extent to which nodal action currents can be short-circuited underneath the myelin sheath. Electron micrographs of aldehyde-fixed control PNJs, in which TBs are abundant, show a consistent junctional gap of 3.5 nm. In Caspr-null PNJs, which lack TBs entirely, the gap is wider (6-7 nm) and more variable. In CST-null PNJs, which have only occasional TBs, the mean PNJ gap width is comparable to that in Caspr-null mice. In the shaking mutant, in contrast, which has approximately 60% of the normal complement of TBs, mean PNJ gap width is not significantly different from that in controls. Correspondingly, shaking mice are much less impaired neurologically than either Caspr-null or CST-null mice. We conclude that in the absence or gross diminution of TBs, mean PNJ gap width increases significantly and suggest that this difference could underlie some of the neurological impairment seen in those mutants. Surprisingly, even in the absence of TBs, paranodes are to some extent maintained in their usual form, implying that in addition to TBs, other factors govern the formation and maintenance of overall paranodal structure.
The CD200/CD200R inhibitory immune ligand-receptor system regulates microglial activation/quiescence in adult brain. Here, we investigated CD200/CD200R at different stages of postnatal development, when microglial maturation takes place. We characterized the spatiotemporal, cellular, and quantitative expression pattern of CD200 and CD200R in the developing and adult C57/BL6 mice brain by immunofluorescent labeling and Western blotting. CD200 expression increased from postnatal day 1 (P1) to P5-P7, when maximum levels were found, and decreased to adulthood. CD200 was located surrounding neuronal bodies, and very prominently in cortical layer I, where CD200(+) structures included glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)(+) astrocytes until P7. In the hippocampus, CD200 was mainly observed in the hippocampal fissure, where GFAP(+) /CD200(+) astrocytes were also found until P7. CD200(+) endothelium was seen in the hippocampal fissure and cortical blood vessels, notably from P14, showing maximum vascular CD200 in adults. CD200R(+) cells were a population of ameboid/pseudopodic Iba1(+) microglia/macrophages observed at all ages, but significantly decreasing with increasing age. CD200R(+) /Iba1(+) macrophages were prominent in the pial meninges and ventricle lining, mainly at P1-P5. CD200R(+) /Iba1(+) perivascular macrophages were observed in cortical and hippocampal fissure blood vessels, showing maximum density at P7, but being prominent until adulthood. CD200R(+) /Iba1(+) ameboid microglia in the cingulum at P1-P5 were the only CD200R(+) cells in the nervous tissue. In conclusion, the main sites of CD200/CD200R interaction seem to include the molecular layer and pial surface in neonates and blood vessels from P7 until adulthood, highlighting the possible role of the CD200/CD200R system in microglial development and renewal.
The chorda tympani (CT) nerve innervates lingual taste buds and is susceptible to damage during dental and inner ear procedures. Interruption of the CT results in a disappearance of taste buds, which can be accompanied by taste disturbances. Because the CT usually regenerates to reinnervate taste buds successfully within a few weeks, a persistence of taste disturbances may indicate alterations in central nervous function. Peripheral injury to other sensory nerves leads to glial responses at central terminals, which actively contribute to abnormal sensations arising from nerve damage. Therefore, the current study examined microglial and astrocytic responses in the first central gustatory relay, the nucleus of the solitary tract (nTS), after transection of the CT. Damage to the CT resulted in significant microglial responses in terms of morphological reactivity and an increased density of microglial cells from 2 to 20 days after injury. This increased microglial population resulted primarily from microglial proliferation from 1.5 to 3 days, which was supplemented by microglial migration within subdivisions of the nTS between days 2 and 3. Unlike other nerve injuries, CT injury did not result in recruitment of bone marrow-derived precursors. Astrocytes also reacted in the nTS with increased levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) by 3 days, although none showed evidence of cell division. GFAP levels remained increased at 30 days, by which time microglial responses had resolved. These results show that nerve damage to the CT results in central glial responses, which may participate in long-lasting taste alterations following CT lesion.
Treatment with testosterone is neuroprotective/neurotherapeutic after a variety of motoneuron injuries. Here we assessed whether testosterone might have similar beneficial effects after spinal cord injury (SCI). Young adult female rats received either sham or T9 spinal cord contusion injuries and were implanted with blank or testosterone-filled Silastic capsules. Four weeks later, motoneurons innervating the vastus lateralis muscle of the quadriceps were labeled with cholera toxin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase, and dendritic arbors were reconstructed in three dimensions. Soma volume, motoneuron number, lesion volume, and tissue sparing were also assessed, as were muscle weight, fiber cross-sectional area, and motor endplate size and density. Contusion injury resulted in large lesions, with no significant differences in lesion volume, percent total volume of lesion, or spared white or gray matter between SCI groups. SCI with or without testosterone treatment also had no effect on the number or soma volume of quadriceps motoneurons. However, SCI resulted in a decrease in dendritic length of quadriceps motoneurons in untreated animals, and this decrease was completely prevented by treatment with testosterone. Similarly, the vastus lateralis muscle weights and fiber cross-sectional areas of untreated SCI animals were smaller than those of sham-surgery controls, and these reductions were both prevented by testosterone treatment. No effects on motor endplate area or density were observed across treatment groups. These findings suggest that regressive changes in motoneuron and muscle morphology seen after SCI can be prevented by testosterone treatment, further supporting a role for testosterone as a neurotherapeutic agent in the injured nervous system.
G-protein-regulated inward-rectifier potassium channel 2 (GIRK2) is reported to be expressed only within certain dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra (SN), although very limited data are available in humans. We examined the localization of GIRK2 in the SN and adjacent ventral tegmental area (VTA) of humans and mice by using either neuromelanin pigment or immunolabeling with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or calbindin. GIRK2 immunoreactivity was found in nearly every human pigmented neuron or mouse TH-immunoreactive neuron in both the SN and VTA, although considerable variability in the intensity of GIRK2 staining was observed. The relative intensity of GIRK2 immunoreactivity in TH-immunoreactive neurons was determined; in both species nearly all SN TH-immunoreactive neurons had strong GIRK2 immunoreactivity compared with only 50-60% of VTA neurons. Most paranigral VTA neurons also contained calbindin immunoreactivity, and approximately 25% of these and nearby VTA neurons also had strong GIRK2 immunoreactivity. These data show that high amounts of GIRK2 protein are found in most SN neurons as well as in a proportion of nearby VTA neurons. The single previous human study may have been compromised by the fixation method used and the postmortem delay of their controls, whereas other studies suggesting that GIRK2 is located only in limited neuronal groups within the SN have erroneously included VTA regions as part of the SN. In particular, the dorsal layer of dopamine neurons directly underneath the red nucleus is considered a VTA region in humans but is commonly considered the dorsal tier of the SN in laboratory species.
The therapeutic benefits associated with mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) largely result from their immunomodulatory and neurotrophic properties. In this study, we evaluated the effects of MSCs on astrocyte cultures exposed to lipopolysaccharide. In response to this inflammatory trigger, astrocytes showed an increased expression of pro-inflammatory genes (IL-1, TNF, IL-6), which was attenuated by pre-exposure to MSC conditioned medium. Furthermore, mediators released by MSCs increased cell proliferation and altered the regulation of intermediate filaments (GFAP, vimentin), pro-inflammatory enzymes (iNOS, COX-2) and receptors (TLR4, CD14, mGluR3, mGluR5). These data demonstrate that MSCs influence diverse cell types participating in the response to neuroinflammation.
Familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) with V180I shows different clinical characteristics from classical CJD and is difficult to diagnose in the early stage. We report a CJD180 patient in whom results of diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) led us to suspect CJD before symptoms started. A 68-year-old woman presented to our hospital with headache and nausea and underwent magnetic resonance imaging. DWI showed cortical hyperintensity. Three months later, cognitive function started to decline and CJD180 was diagnosed following genetic examination. In the early stage, ADC values were not decreased and single positron emission computed tomography demonstrated a decreased pattern like Alzheimer disease.
Canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC3) nonselective cation channels are effectors of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), activated via phospholipase C-diacylglycerol signaling. In cerebellar Purkinje cells, TRPC3 channels cause the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated slow EPSC (sEPSC). TRPC3 channels also provide negative feedback regulation of cytosolic Ca(2+), mediated by a C terminus &quot;calmodulin and inositol trisphosphate receptor binding&quot; (CIRB) domain. Here we report the alternative splicing of the TRPC3 mRNA transcript (designated TRPC3c), resulting in omission of exon 9 (approximately half of the CIRB domain) in mice, rats, and guinea pigs. TRPC3c expression is brain region specific, with prevalence in the cerebellum and brainstem. The TRPC3c channels expressed in HEK293 cells exhibit increased basal and GPCR-activated channel currents, and increased Ca(2+) fluorescence responses, compared with the previously characterized (TRPC3b) isoform when activated via either the endogenous M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor, or via coexpressed mGluR1. GPCR-induced TRPC3c channel opening rate (cell-attached patch) matched the maximum activation achieved with inside-out patches with zero cytosolic Ca(2+), whereas the GPCR-induced TRPC3b activation frequency was significantly less. Both TRPC3 channel isoforms were blocked with 2 mm Ca(2+), attributable to CIRB domain regulation. In addition, genistein blocked Purkinje cell (S)-2-amino-2-(3,5-dihydroxyphenyl) acetic acid (mGluR1)-activated TPRC3 current as for recombinant TRPC3c current. This novel TRPC3c ion channel therefore has enhanced efficacy as a neuronal GPCR-Ca(2+) signaling effector, and is associated with sensorimotor coordination, neuronal development, and brain injury.
The K-Cl cotransporter KCC2 plays a crucial role in neuronal chloride regulation. In mature central neurons, KCC2 is responsible for the low intracellular Cl(-) concentration ([Cl(-)](i)) that forms the basis for hyperpolarizing GABA(A) receptor-mediated responses. Fast changes in KCC2 function and expression have been observed under various physiological and pathophysiological conditions. Here, we show that the application of protein synthesis inhibitors cycloheximide and emetine to acute rat hippocampal slices have no effect on total KCC2 protein level and K-Cl cotransporter function. Furthermore, blocking constitutive lysosomal degradation with leupeptin did not induce significant changes in KCC2 protein levels. These findings indicate a low basal turnover rate of the total KCC2 protein pool. In the presence of the glutamate receptor agonist NMDA, the total KCC2 protein level decreased to about 30% within 4 h, and this effect was blocked by calpeptin and MDL-28170, inhibitors of the calcium-activated protease calpain. Interictal-like activity induced by incubation of hippocampal slices in an Mg(2+)-free solution led to a fast reduction in KCC2-mediated Cl(-) transport efficacy in CA1 pyramidal neurons, which was paralleled by a decrease in both total and plasmalemmal KCC2 protein. These effects were blocked by the calpain inhibitor MDL-28170. Taken together, these findings show that calpain activation leads to cleavage of KCC2, thereby modulating GABAergic signaling.
Heterotrimeric G-proteins, comprising G and G subunits, couple metabotropic receptors to various downstream effectors and contribute to assembling and trafficking receptor-based signaling complexes. A G-protein  subunit, G(3), plays a critical role in several physiological processes, as a polymorphism in its gene is associated with a risk factor for several disorders. Retinal ON bipolar cells express G(3), and they provide an excellent system to study its role. In the ON bipolar cells, mGluR6 inverts the photoreceptor's signal via a cascade in which glutamate released from photoreceptors closes the TRPM1 channel. This cascade is essential for vision since deficiencies in its proteins lead to complete congenital stationary night blindness. Here we report that G(3) participates in the G-protein heterotrimer that couples mGluR6 to TRPM1. G(3) deletion in mouse greatly reduces the light response under both scotopic and photopic conditions, but it does not eliminate it. In addition, G(3) deletion causes mislocalization and downregulation of most cascade elements and modulators. Furthermore, G(3) may play a role in synaptic maintenance since in its absence, the number of invaginating rod bipolar dendrites is greatly reduced, a deficit that was not observed at 3 weeks, the end of the developmental period.
Respiratory activity is most fragile during sleep, in particular during paradoxical [or rapid eye movement (REM)] sleep and sleep state transitions. Rats are commonly used to study respiratory neuromodulation, but rodent sleep is characterized by a highly fragmented sleep pattern, thus making it very challenging to examine different sleep states and potential pharmacological manipulations within them. Sleep-like brain-state alternations occur in rats under urethane anesthesia and may be an effective and efficient model for sleep itself. The present study assessed state-dependent changes in breathing and respiratory muscle modulation under urethane anesthesia to determine their similarity to those occurring during natural sleep. Rats were anesthetized with urethane and respiratory airflow, as well as electromyographic activity in respiratory muscles were recorded in combination with local field potentials in neocortex and hippocampus to determine how breathing pattern and muscle activity are modulated with brain state. Measurements were made in normoxic, hypoxic, and hypercapnic conditions. Results were compared with recordings made from rats during natural sleep. Brain-state alternations under urethane anesthesia were closely correlated with changes in breathing rate and variability and with modulation of respiratory muscle tone. These changes closely mimicked those observed in natural sleep. Of great interest was that, during both REM and REM-like states, genioglossus muscle activity was strongly depressed and abdominal muscle activity showed potent expiratory modulation. We demonstrate that, in urethane-anesthetized rats, respiratory airflow and muscle activity are closely correlated with brain-state transitions and parallel those shown in natural sleep, providing a useful model to systematically study sleep-related changes in respiratory control.
Recent behavioral studies have given rise to two contrasting models for limited working memory capacity: a &quot;discrete-slot&quot; model in which memory items are stored in a limited number of slots, and a &quot;shared-resource&quot; model in which the neural representation of items is distributed across a limited pool of resources. To elucidate the underlying neural processes, we investigated a continuous network model for working memory of an analog feature. Our model network fundamentally operates with a shared resource mechanism, and stimuli in cue arrays are encoded by a distributed neural population. On the other hand, the network dynamics and performance are also consistent with the discrete-slot model, because multiple objects are maintained by distinct localized population persistent activity patterns (bump attractors). We identified two phenomena of recurrent circuit dynamics that give rise to limited working memory capacity. As the working memory load increases, a localized persistent activity bump may either fade out (so the memory of the corresponding item is lost) or merge with another nearby bump (hence the resolution of mnemonic representation for the merged items becomes blurred). We identified specific dependences of these two phenomena on the strength and tuning of recurrent synaptic excitation, as well as network normalization: the overall population activity is invariant to set size and delay duration; therefore, a constant neural resource is shared by and dynamically allocated to the memorized items. We demonstrate that the model reproduces salient observations predicted by both discrete-slot and shared-resource models, and propose testable predictions of the merging phenomenon.
Opioid action was thought to exert reinforcing effects solely via the initial agonism of opioid receptors. Here, we present evidence for an additional novel contributor to opioid reward: the innate immune pattern-recognition receptor, toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), and its MyD88-dependent signaling. Blockade of TLR4/MD2 by administration of the nonopioid, unnatural isomer of naloxone, (+)-naloxone (rats), or two independent genetic knock-outs of MyD88-TLR4-dependent signaling (mice), suppressed opioid-induced conditioned place preference. (+)-Naloxone also reduced opioid (remifentanil) self-administration (rats), another commonly used behavioral measure of drug reward. Moreover, pharmacological blockade of morphine-TLR4/MD2 activity potently reduced morphine-induced elevations of extracellular dopamine in rat nucleus accumbens, a region critical for opioid reinforcement. Importantly, opioid-TLR4 actions are not a unidirectional influence on opioid pharmacodynamics, since TLR4(-/-) mice had reduced oxycodone-induced p38 and JNK phosphorylation, while displaying potentiated analgesia. Similar to our recent reports of morphine-TLR4/MD2 binding, here we provide a combination of in silico and biophysical data to support (+)-naloxone and remifentanil binding to TLR4/MD2. Collectively, these data indicate that the actions of opioids at classical opioid receptors, together with their newly identified TLR4/MD2 actions, affect the mesolimbic dopamine system that amplifies opioid-induced elevations in extracellular dopamine levels, therefore possibly explaining altered opioid reward behaviors. Thus, the discovery of TLR4/MD2 recognition of opioids as foreign xenobiotic substances adds to the existing hypothesized neuronal reinforcement mechanisms, identifies a new drug target in TLR4/MD2 for the treatment of addictions, and provides further evidence supporting a role for central proinflammatory immune signaling in drug reward.
Component analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is frequently required to probe the cause of disease, pathologic mechanisms and effective drugs in the experimental study of central nervous system. An ideal way of drawing CFS is very important for the successful analysis. However, pros and cons of types of CSF drawing have never been analyzed and compared. The purpose of this study was to choose an ideal method of obtaining CSF in rabbits by comparing the three usual ones: skull drilling, lumbar puncture and atlanto-occipital membrane puncture. In the study, the rabbits were randomly divided into three groups: skull drilling group, lumbar puncture group and atlanto-occipital membrane puncture group, and our modified puncture needles were used. The rates of success, operating time and repeatability, etc. of the three methods were compared. The results suggest that the atlanto-occipital membrane puncture method is the best. The method was the simplest, fastest, and most repeatable of the three, furthermore, with this method, the most CSF was drawn and achieved the highest success rate.
FluoroMyelin Red is a commercially available water-soluble fluorescent dye that has selectivity for myelin. This dye is marketed for the visualization of myelin in brain cryosections, though it is also used widely to stain myelin in chemically fixed tissue. Here we have investigated the suitability of FluoroMyelin Red as a vital stain for live imaging of myelin in myelinating co-cultures of Schwann cells and dorsal root ganglion neurons. We show that addition of FluoroMyelin Red to the culture medium results in selective staining of myelin sheaths, with an optimal staining time of 2h, and has no apparent adverse effect on the neurons, their axons, or the myelinating cells at the light microscopic level. The fluorescence is bright and photostable, permitting long-term time-lapse imaging. After rinsing the cultures with medium lacking FluoroMyelin Red, the dye diffuses out of the myelin with a half life of about 130 min resulting in negligible fluorescence remaining after 18-24h. In addition, the large Stokes shift exhibited by FluoroMyelin Red makes it possible to readily distinguish it from popular and widely used green and red fluorescent probes such as GFP and mCherry. Thus FluoroMyelin Red is a useful reagent for live fluorescence imaging studies on myelinated axons.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of cerebral cortex is a popular technique for the non-invasive investigation of motor function. TMS is often assumed to influence spinal circuits solely via the corticospinal tract. We were interested in possible trans-synaptic effects of cortical TMS on the ponto-medullary reticular formation in the brainstem, which is the source of the reticulospinal tract and could also generate spinal motor output. We recorded from 210 single units in the reticular formation of three anaesthetized macaque monkeys whilst TMS was performed over primary motor cortex. Short latency responses were observed consistent with activation of a cortico-reticular pathway. However, we also demonstrated surprisingly powerful responses at longer latency, which often appeared at lower threshold than the earlier effects. These late responses seemed to be generated partly as a consequence of the sound click made by coil discharge, and changed little with coil location. This novel finding has implications for the design of future studies using TMS, as well as suggesting a means of non-invasively probing an otherwise inaccessible important motor centre.
The hypothalamus is a critical controller of homeostatic responses and plays a fundamental role in reward-seeking behaviour. Recently, hypothalamic neurones in the perifornical/lateral hypothalamic area (PF/LHA) have also been implicated in drug-seeking behaviour through projections to extra-hypothalamic sites such as the ventral tegmental area. For example, a population of neurones that expresses the peptide orexin has been strongly implicated in addiction-relevant behaviours. To date, the effect of addictive drugs on synaptic properties in the hypothalamus remains largely unexplored. Previous studies focusing on the PF/LHA neurones, however, have shown that the orexin system exhibits significant plasticity in response to food or sleep restriction. This neuroadaptive ability suggests that PF/LHA neurones could be highly susceptible to modifications by drug exposure. Here, we sought to determine whether cocaine produces synaptic plasticity in PF/LHA neurones. Whole-cell patch-clamp techniques were used to examine the effects of experimenter-administered (passive) or self-administered (SA) cocaine on glutamatergic synaptic transmission in PF/LHA neurones. These experiments demonstrate that both passive and SA cocaine exposure increases miniature excitatory postsynaptic current (mEPSC) frequency in PF/LHA neurones. In addition, SA cocaine reduced the paired-pulse ratio but the AMPA/NMDA ratio of evoked excitatory inputs was unchanged, indicative of a presynaptic locus for synaptic plasticity. Dual-labelling for orexin and excitatory inputs using the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT2), showed that passive cocaine exposure increased VGLUT2-positive appositions onto orexin neurones. Further, a population of recorded neurones that were filled with neurobiotin and immunolabelled for orexin confirmed that increased excitatory drive occurs in this PF/LHA population. Given the importance of the PF/LHA and the orexin system in modulating drug addiction, we suggest that these cocaine-induced excitatory synapse-remodelling events within the hypothalamus may contribute to persistence in drug-seeking behaviour and relapse.
The physiological responses of dendrites to dopaminergic inputs are poorly understood and controversial. We applied dopamine on one dendritic branch while simultaneously monitoring action potentials (APs) from multiple dendrites using either calcium-sensitive dye, voltage-sensitive dye or both. Dopaminergic suppression of dendritic calcium transients was rapid (&lt;0.5 s) and restricted to the site of dopamine application. Voltage waveforms of backpropagating APs were minimally altered in the same dendrites where dopamine was confirmed to cause large suppression of calcium signals, as determined by dual voltage and calcium imaging. The dopamine effects on dendritic calcium transients were fully mimicked by D1 agonists, partially reduced by D1 antagonist and completely insensitive to protein kinase blockade; consistent with a membrane delimited mechanism. This dopamine effect was unaltered in the presence of L-, R- and T-type calcium channel blockers. The somatic excitability (i.e. AP firing) was not affected by strong dopaminergic stimulation of dendrites. Dopamine and GABA were then sequentially applied on the same dendrite. In contrast to dopamine, the pulses of GABA prohibited AP backpropagation distally from the application site, even in neurons with natural Cl concentration (patch pipette removed). Thus, the neocortex employs at least two distinct mechanisms (dopamine and GABA) for rapid modulation of dendritic calcium influx. The spatio-temporal pattern of dendritic calcium suppression described in this paper is expected to occur during phasic dopaminergic signalling, when midbrain dopaminergic neurons generate a transient (0.5 s) burst of APs in response to a salient event.
The signature of slow-wave sleep in the electroencephalogram (EEG) is large-amplitude fluctuation of the field potential, which reflects synchronous alternation of activity and silence across cortical neurons. While initiation of the active cortical states during sleep slow oscillation has been intensively studied, the biological mechanisms which drive the network transition from an active state to silence remain poorly understood. In the current study, using a combination of in vivo electrophysiology and thalamocortical network simulation, we explored the impact of intrinsic and synaptic inhibition on state transition during sleep slow oscillation. We found that in normal physiological conditions, synaptic inhibition controls the duration and the synchrony of active state termination. The decline of interneuron-mediated inhibition led to asynchronous downward transition across the cortical network and broke the regular slow oscillation pattern. Furthermore, in both in vivo experiment and computational modelling, we revealed that when the level of synaptic inhibition was reduced significantly, it led to a recovery of synchronized oscillations in the form of seizure-like bursting activity. In this condition, the fast active state termination was mediated by intrinsic hyperpolarizing conductances. Our study highlights the significance of both intrinsic and synaptic inhibition in manipulating sleep slow rhythms.
Recent work has shown that the primate reticulospinal tract can influence spinal interneurons and motoneurons involved in control of the hand. However, demonstrating connectivity does not reveal whether reticular outputs are modulated during the control of different types of hand movement. Here, we investigated how single unit discharge in the pontomedullary reticular formation (PMRF) modulated during performance of a slow finger movement task in macaque monkeys. Two animals performed an index finger flexionextension task to track a target presented on a computer screen; single units were recorded both from ipsilateral PMRF (115 cells) and contralateral primary motor cortex (M1, 210 cells). Cells in both areas modulated their activity with the task (M1: 87%, PMRF: 86%). Some cells (18/115 in PMRF; 96/210 in M1) received sensory input from the hand, showing a short-latency modulation in their discharge following a rapid passive extension movement of the index finger. Effects in ipsilateral electromyogram to trains of stimuli were recorded at 45 sites in the PMRF. These responses involved muscles controlling the digits in 13/45 sites (including intrinsic hand muscles, 5/45 sites). We conclude that PMRF may contribute to the control of fine finger movements, in addition to its established role in control of more proximal limb and trunk movements. This finding may be especially important in understanding functional recovery after brain lesions such as stroke.
The distribution of T-type Ca2+ channels along the entire somatodendritic axis of sensory thalamocortical (TC) neurons permits regenerative propagation of low threshold spikes (LTS) accompanied by global dendritic Ca2+ influx. Furthermore, T-type Ca2+ channels play an integral role in low frequency oscillatory activity (&lt;14 Hz) that is a defining feature of TC neurons. Nonetheless, the dynamics of T-type Ca2+ channel-dependent dendritic Ca2+ signalling during slow sleep-associated oscillations remains unknown. Here we demonstrate using patch clamp recording and two-photon Ca2+ imaging of dendrites from cat TC neurons undergoing spontaneous slow oscillatory activity that somatically recorded  (14 Hz) and slow (&lt;1 Hz) oscillations are associated with rhythmic and sustained global oscillations in dendritic Ca2+. In addition, our data reveal the presence of LTS-dependent Ca2+ transients ([Ca2+]) in dendritic spine-like structures on proximal TC neuron dendrites during slow (&lt;1 Hz) oscillations whose amplitudes are similar to those observed in the dendritic shaft. We find that the amplitude of oscillation associated [Ca2+] do not vary significantly with distance from the soma whereas the decay time constant (decay) of [Ca2+] decreases significantly in more distal dendrites. Furthermore, decay of dendritic [Ca2+] increases significantly as oscillation frequency decreases from  to slow frequencies where pronounced depolarised UP states are observed. Such rhythmic dendritic Ca2+ entry in TC neurons during sleep-related firing patterns could be an important factor in maintaining the oscillatory activity and associated biochemical signalling processes, such as synaptic downscaling, that occur in non-REM sleep.
Microglia account for approximately 12% of the total cellular population in the mammalian brain. While neurons and astrocytes are considered the major cell types of the nervous system, microglia play a significant role in normal brain physiology by monitoring tissue for debris and pathogens and maintaining homeostasis in the parenchyma via phagocytic activity. Microglia are activated during a number of injury and disease conditions, including neurodegenerative disease, traumatic brain injury, and nervous system infection. Under these activating conditions, microglia increase their phagocytic activity, undergo morpohological and proliferative change, and actively secrete reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, pro-inflammatory chemokines and cytokines, often activating a paracrine or autocrine loop. As these microglial responses contribute to disease pathogenesis in neurological conditions, research focused on microglia is warranted. Due to the cellular heterogeneity of the brain, it is technically difficult to obtain sufficient microglial sample material with high purity during in vivo experiments. Current research on the neuroprotective and neurotoxic functions of microglia require a routine technical method to consistently generate pure and healthy microglia with sufficient yield for study. We present, in text and video, a protocol to isolate pure primary microglia from mixed glia cultures for a variety of downstream applications. Briefly, this technique utilizes dissociated brain tissue from neonatal rat pups to produce mixed glial cell cultures. After the mixed glial cultures reach confluency, primary microglia are mechanically isolated from the culture by a brief duration of shaking. The microglia are then plated at high purity for experimental study. The principle and protocol of this methodology have been described in the literature. Additionally, alternate methodologies to isolate primary microglia are well described. Homogenized brain tissue may be separated by density gradient centrifugation to yield primary microglia. However, the centrifugation is of moderate length (45 min) and may cause cellular damage and activation, as well as, cause enriched microglia and other cellular populations. Another protocol has been utilized to isolate primary microglia in a variety of organisms by prolonged (16 hr) shaking while in culture. After shaking, the media supernatant is centrifuged to isolate microglia. This longer two-step isolation method may also perturb microglial function and activation. We chiefly utilize the following microglia isolation protocol in our laboratory for a number of reasons: (1) primary microglia simulate in vivo biology more faithfully than immortalized rodent microglia cell lines, (2) nominal mechanical disruption minimizes potential cellular dysfunction or activation, and (3) sufficient yield can be obtained without passage of the mixed glial cell cultures. It is important to note that this protocol uses brain tissue from neonatal rat pups to isolate microglia and that using older rats to isolate microglia can significantly impact the yield, activation status, and functional properties of isolated microglia. There is evidence that aging is linked with microglia dysfunction, increased neuroinflammation and neurodegenerative pathologies, so previous studies have used ex vivo adult microglia to better understand the role of microglia in neurodegenerative diseases where aging is important parameter. However, ex vivo microglia cannot be kept in culture for prolonged periods of time. Therefore, while this protocol extends the life of primary microglia in culture, it should be noted that the microglia behave differently from adult microglia and in vitro studies should be carefully considered when translated to an in vivo setting.

The discovery of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has greatly impacted neuroscience. The blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal, using deoxyhemoglobin as an endogenous paramagnetic contrast agent, exposes regions of interest in task-based and resting-state paradigms. However the BOLD contrast is at best a partial measure of neuronal activity, because the functional maps obtained by differencing or correlations ignore the total neuronal activity in the baseline state. Here we describe how studies of brain energy metabolism at Yale, especially with (13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy and related techniques, contributed to development of quantitative functional brain imaging with fMRI by providing a reliable measurement of baseline energy. This narrative takes us on a journey, from molecules to mind, with illuminating insights about neuronal-glial activities in relation to energy demand of synaptic activity. These results, along with key contributions from laboratories worldwide, comprise the energetic basis for quantitative interpretation of fMRI data.
The prevalence of fMRI in cognitive neuroscience research is clear, but the overall impact of the associated research in the broader scope of our scientific community, and of society, is less obvious. The first reports of fMRI garnered huge interest in many areas, giving rise to a wide range of applications and technical developments over the past 20 years. Using five primary areas, i.e. scientific impact, clinical practice, cognitive neuroscience, mental illness, and society-this essay examines the question: Has fMRI changed the world?
Over the past 20 years much attention has been given to characterizing the spatial accuracy of fMRI based signals and to techniques that improve on its co-localization with neuronal activity. While the vast majority of fMRI studies have always used the conventional positive BOLD signal, alternative contrast options have demonstrated superior spatial specificity. One of these options surfaced shortly after the initial BOLD fMRI demonstrations and was motivated by optical imaging studies which revealed an early signal change that was much smaller but spatially more specific than the delayed positive response. This early signal change was attributed to oxygenation changes prior to any subsequent blood flow increases. After observation of this biphasic hemodynamic response in fMRI, because this early response resulted in a small MR signal decrease prior to the onset of the large signal increase, it became known as the &quot;initial dip&quot;. While the initial dip in fMRI was subsequently reported by many studies, including those in humans, monkeys, and cats, there were conflicting views about the associated mechanisms and whether it could be generalized across brain regions or species, in addition to whether or not it would prove fruitful for neuroscience. These discrepancies, along with the implications that the initial dip might increase the spatial specificity of BOLD fMRI from 2 to 3mm to something more closely associated with neural activity, resulted in lot of buzz and controversy in the community for many years. In this review, the authors provide an account of the story of the initial dip in MR based functional imaging from the Minnesota perspective, where the first demonstrations, characterizations, and applications of the initial dip commenced.
In 2001, we published a paper on the representation of faces and objects in ventral temporal cortex that introduced a new method for fMRI analysis, which subsequently came to be called multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA). MVPA now refers to a diverse set of methods that analyze neural responses as patterns of activity that reflect the varying brain states that a cortical field or system can produce. This paper recounts the circumstances and events that led to the original study and later developments and innovations that have greatly expanded this approach to fMRI data analysis, leading to its widespread application.
Pattern-information fMRI (pi-fMRI) has become a popular method in neuroscience. The technique is motivated by the idea that spatial patterns of fMRI activity reflect the neuronal population codes of perception, cognition, and action. In this commentary, we discuss three fundamental outstanding questions: (1) What is the relationship between neuronal patterns and fMRI patterns? (2) Does pattern-information fMRI benefit from hyperacuity, enabling the investigation of columnar-level neuronal information, even at low resolution? (3) Do high-resolution and high-field fMRI increase sensitivity to pattern information? The empirical answers will enable us to optimize pi-fMRI data acquisition and to understand the ultimate potential and appropriate interpretation of pi-fMRI results. Furthermore, considering the relationship between neuronal activity and fMRI at the level of spatiotemporal patterns provides a novel and important perspective on the basis of the fMRI signal.
Independent Component Analysis (ICA) is a computational technique for identifying hidden statistically independent sources from multivariate data. In its basic form, ICA decomposes a 2D data matrix (e.g. time  voxels) into separate components that have distinct characteristics. In FMRI it is used to identify hidden FMRI signals (such as activations). Since the first application of ICA to Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (FMRI) in 1998, this technique has developed into a powerful tool for data exploration in cognitive and clinical neurosciences. In this contribution to the commemorative issue 20 years of FMRI I will briefly describe the basic principles behind ICA, discuss the probabilistic extension to ICA and touch on what I think are some of the most notorious loose ends. Further, I will describe some of the most powerful 'killer' applications and finally share some thoughts on where I believe the most promising future developments will lie.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging with blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) contrast has had a tremendous influence on human neuroscience in the last twenty years, providing a non-invasive means of mapping human brain function with often exquisite sensitivity and detail. However the BOLD method remains a largely qualitative approach. While the same can be said of anatomic MRI techniques, whose clinical and research impact has not been diminished in the slightest by the lack of a quantitative interpretation of their image intensity, the quantitative expression of BOLD responses as a percent of the baseline T2*- weighted signal has been viewed as necessary since the earliest days of fMRI. Calibrated MRI attempts to dissociate changes in oxygen metabolism from changes in blood flow and volume, the latter three quantities contributing jointly to determine the physiologically ambiguous percent BOLD change. This dissociation is typically performed using a &quot;calibration&quot; procedure in which subjects inhale a gas mixture containing small amounts of carbon dioxide or enriched oxygen to produce changes in blood flow and BOLD signal which can be measured under well-defined hemodynamic conditions. The outcome is a calibration parameter M which can then be substituted into an expression providing the fractional change in oxygen metabolism given changes in blood flow and BOLD signal during a task. The latest generation of calibrated MRI methods goes beyond fractional changes to provide absolute quantification of resting-state oxygen consumption in micromolar units, in addition to absolute measures of evoked metabolic response. This review discusses the history, challenges, and advances in calibrated MRI, from the personal perspective of the author.
Human neuroscience research has changed dramatically with the proliferation and refinement of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) technologies. The early years of the technique were largely devoted to methods development and validation, and to the coarse-grained mapping of functional topographies. This paper will cover three emerging trends that we believe will be central to fMRI research in the coming decade. In the first section of this paper, we argue in favor of a shift from fine-grained functional labeling toward the characterization of underlying neural processes. In the second section, we examine three methodological developments that have improved our ability to characterize these neural processes using fMRI. In the last section, we highlight the trend towards more ecologically valid fMRI experiments, which engage neural circuits in real life conditions. We note that many of our cognitive faculties emerge from interpersonal interactions, and that a complete understanding of the cognitive processes within a single individual's brain cannot be achieved without understanding the interactions among individuals. Looking forward to the future of human fMRI, we conclude that the major constraint on new discoveries will not be related to the spatiotemporal resolution of the BOLD signal, which is constantly improving, but rather to the precision of our hypotheses and the creativity of our methods for testing them.
BrainVoyager started as a simple fMRI analysis tool in the mid 1990s; the software was primarily created to fulfill the needs of its author and his colleagues to analyze anatomical and functional MRI data in a way that would be most appropriate for their research questions in visual and auditory perception. More specifically, the software was designed with three major goals in mind. First, it should allow analyses that would exploit optimally the high-resolution information available in fMRI data. Second, it should integrate volume-based analysis and cortex-based analysis including the possibility to visualize topographic activation data on flattened cortex representations. Third, it should combine hypothesis testing with data-driven analysis including interactive visualization tools that would make it as easy as possible to look at and explore data. A fourth guiding principle was to develop a software package that fulfilled the author's preference for elegant user interfaces, beautiful visualizations and high-performance computing. These major guiding principles from the beginning of BrainVoyager development are still noticeable in the most recent incarnations of the software that has grown from a small fMRI analysis tool on the Windows platform to a comprehensive cross-platform multi-modal software package integrating (real-time) fMRI, DWI/DTI, (i)EEG, MEG, TMS and fNIRS analyses.
During the past 20 years, BOLD fMRI has developed towards a central and fundamental tool in neuroscience. It has been shown that the BOLD response provides an indicator of neuronal activity in the brain. Consequently, for an accurate interpretation of findings in BOLD MRI experiments and to draw meaningful conclusions about the temporal evolution of neural events, a deep understanding of the nature of the BOLD contrast has become of essential importance. Since the dynamics of the major direct determinants of the BOLD signal (CBF, CBV and CMRO(2)) range between seconds and minutes, long duration stimulation was an early key strategy needed to study and understand the BOLD characteristics. This paper summarizes and discusses the thoughts and rationales of the long duration stimulation studies.
In this personalized review, the history of EEG recorded simultaneously with functional MRI (EEG-fMRI) is summarized. A brief overview is given of the hardware development followed by a discussion of EEG-fMRI applications. The technique's development was clinically motivated in the context of epilepsy. Accordingly, the evolution of studies trying to identify with EEG-fMRI the origin of individual epileptiform discharges up to those revealing general mechanisms of epilepsy syndromes is sketched. In epilepsy centers experienced with the methodology, EEG-fMRI has found its place in the presurgical evaluation of patients. In cognitive neuroscience, the multimodal technique has significantly contributed to the understanding of phenomena of the resting state and neuronal oscillations. While most of the studies discussed relate EEG to fMRI by means of prediction, the development of forward models facilitating the symmetrical 'fusion' of EEG and fMRI data is the subject of current neuro-computational research. Recently, intracranial EEG has been safely recorded during (functional) MRI broadly extending the perspectives for epilepsy and research into neurovascular coupling. EEG-fMRI has evolved into a mature, generally accessible and in principle easily applicable technique, which is a great achievement. Because this at the same time bears the risk of unreflected use, EEG-fMRI safety issues are also highlighted.
In the last 20 years or so, functional MRI has matured very rapidly from being an experimental imaging method in the hands of a few labs to being a very widely available and widely used workhorse of cognitive neuroscience and clinical neuroscience research internationally. FMRI studies have had a considerable impact on our understanding of brain system phenotypes of neurological and psychiatric disorders; and some impact already on development of new therapeutics. However, the direct benefit of fMRI to individual patients with brain disorders has so far been minimal. Here I provide a personal perspective on what has already been achieved, and imagine how the further development of fMRI over the medium term might lead to even greater engagement with clinical medicine.
Brain's electrical activity correlates strongly to changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)). Subthreshold synaptic processes correlate better than the spike rates of principal neurons to CBF, CMRO(2) and positive BOLD signals. Stimulation-induced rises in CMRO(2) are controlled by the ATP turnover, which depends on the energy used to fuel the Na,K-ATPase to reestablish ionic gradients, while stimulation-induced CBF responses to a large extent are controlled by mechanisms that depend on Ca(2+) rises in neurons and astrocytes. This dichotomy of metabolic and vascular control explains the gap between the stimulation-induced rises in CMRO(2) and CBF, and in turn the BOLD signal. Activity-dependent rises in CBF and CMRO(2) vary within and between brain regions due to differences in ATP turnover and Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms. Nerve cells produce and release vasodilators that evoke positive BOLD signals, while the mechanisms that control negative BOLD signals by activity-dependent vasoconstriction are less well understood. Activation of both excitatory and inhibitory neurons produces rises in CBF and positive BOLD signals, while negative BOLD signals under most conditions correlate to excitation of inhibitory interneurons, but there are important exceptions to that rule as described in this paper. Thus, variations in the balance between synaptic excitation and inhibition contribute dynamically to the control of metabolic and hemodynamic responses, and in turn the amplitude and polarity of the BOLD signal. Therefore, it is not possible based on a negative or positive BOLD signal alone to decide whether the underlying activity goes on in principal or inhibitory neurons.
Vascular-Space-Occupancy (VASO) fMRI is a non-invasive technique to detect brain activation based on changes in Cerebral Blood Volume (CBV), as opposed to conventional BOLD fMRI, which is based on changes in blood oxygenation. This technique takes advantage of the T1 difference between blood and surrounding tissue, and uses an inversion recovery pulse sequence to null blood signal while maintaining part of the tissue signal. The VASO signal intensity can thus be considered proportional to 1-CBV. When neural activation causes CBV to increase, the VASO signal will show a decrease, allowing the detection of activated regions in the brain. Activation-induced changes in VASO signal, S/S, are in the order of -1%. Absolute quantification of CBV requires additional assumptions on baseline CBV and water contents of the parenchyma and blood. The first VASO experiment was conducted approximately 10 years ago. The original goal of nulling the blood signal was to isolate and measure extravascular BOLD effects, thus a long TE of 50 ms was used in the inversion recovery experiment. Instead of a positive signal change, a slight decrease in signal was observed, which became more pronounced when TE was shortened to 10 ms. These findings led to the hypothesis of a CBV signal mechanism and the development of VASO fMRI. Since its discovery, VASO has been validated by comparison with MION-CBV studies in animals and has been used in humans and animals to understand metabolic and hemodynamic changes during brain activation and physiologic challenges. With recent development of more sensitive VASO acquisitions, the availability of arterial-based VASO sequences, and improvement in spatial coverage, this technique is finding its place in neuroscience and clinical studies.
The 1990s were designated &quot;The Decade of the Brain&quot; by U.S. Congress, perhaps in great anticipation of the impact that functional neuroimaging techniques would have on advancing our understanding of how the brain is functionally organized. While it is impossible to overestimate the impact of functional MRI in neuroscience, many aspects of the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) contrast remain poorly understood, in great part due to the complex relationship between neural activity and hemodynamic changes. To better understand such relationship, it is important to probe neural activity independently. Manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI), when used to monitor neural activity, is a technique that uses the divalent manganese ion, Mn(2+), as a surrogate measure of calcium influx. A major advantage of using Mn(2+) as a functional marker is that the contrast obtained is directly related to the accumulation of the ion in excitable cells in an activity dependent manner. As such, the contrast in MEMRI is more directly related to neural activity then hemodynamic-based fMRI techniques. In the present work, the early conceptualization of MEMRI is reviewed, and the comparative experiments that have helped provide a better understanding of the spatial specificity of BOLD signal changes in the cortex is discussed.
In the early years of fMRI research, the auditory neuroscience community sought to expand its knowledge of the underlying physiology of hearing, while also seeking to come to grips with the inherent acoustic disadvantages of working in the fMRI environment. Early collaborative efforts between prominent auditory research laboratories and prominent fMRI centers led to development of a number of key technical advances that have subsequently been widely used to elucidate principles of auditory neurophysiology. Perhaps the key imaging advance was the simultaneous and parallel development of strategies to use pulse sequences in which the volume acquisitions were &quot;clustered,&quot; providing gaps in which stimuli could be presented without direct masking. Such sequences have become widespread in fMRI studies using auditory stimuli and also in a range of translational research domains. This review presents the parallel stories of the people and the auditory neurophysiology research that led to these sequences.
Bayesian inference has taken FMRI methods research into areas that frequentist statistics have struggled to reach. In this article we will consider some of the early forays into Bayes and what motivated its use. We shall see the impact that Bayes has had on haemodynamic modelling, spatial modelling, group analysis, model selection and brain connectivity analysis; and consider how these advancements have spun-off into related areas of neuroscience and some of the challenges that remain. Bayes has brought to the table inference flexibility, incorporation of prior information, adaptive regularisation and model selection. But perhaps more important than these things, is the ability of Bayes to empower the methods researcher with a mathematically principled framework for inferring on any model.
The brain is continually changing its function and structure in response to changing environmental demands. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) methods can be used to repeatedly scan the same individuals over time and in this way have provided powerful tools for assessing such brain change. Functional MRI has provided important insights into changes that occur with learning or recovery but this review will focus on the complementary information that can be provided by structural MRI methods. Structural methods have been powerful in indicating when and where changes occur in both gray and white matter with learning and recovery. However, the measures that we derive from structural MRI are typically ambiguous in biological terms. An important future challenge is to develop methods that will allow us to determine precisely what has changed.
Since its inception 20 years ago, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the human brain based on the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) contrast phenomenon has proliferated and matured. Today it is the predominant functional brain imaging modality with the majority of applications being in basic cognitive neuroscience where it has primarily been used as a tool to localize brain activity. While the magnitude of the BOLD response is often used in these studies as a surrogate for the level of neuronal activity, the link between the two is, in fact, quite indirect. The BOLD response is dependent upon hemodynamic (blood flow and volume) and metabolic (oxygen consumption) responses as well as acquisition details. Furthermore, the relationship between neuronal activity and the hemodynamic response, termed neurovascular coupling, is itself complex and incompletely understood. Quantitative fMRI techniques have therefore been developed to measure the hemodynamic and metabolic responses to modulations in brain activity. These methods have not only helped clarify the behaviour and origins of the BOLD signal under normal physiological conditions but they have also provided a potentially valuable set of tools for exploring pathophysiological conditions. Such quantitative methods will be critical to realize the potential of fMRI in a clinical context, where simple BOLD measurements cannot be uniquely interpreted, and to enhance the power of fMRI in basic neuroscience research. In this article, recent advances in human quantitative fMRI methods are reviewed, outstanding issues discussed and future challenges and opportunities highlighted.
The diversity of experimental designs that can be used with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has played a key role in its widespread application to studies of human cognition. This flexibility is possible because the fMRI response to external stimuli is remarkably well approximated as the response of a linear time variant system. The experimental demonstration of this property provided the foundation for the development of event-related designs, in which the fMRI response is modeled as the linear summation of the hemodynamic response to discrete events. Building upon prior work from the fields of engineering, neuroscience, and statistics, researchers in the field have created a rich collection of event-related designs and developed a rigorous theoretical framework for characterizing and optimizing the performance of designs. Ongoing challenges include the optimization of designs in the presence of experimental constraints and the development of more time-efficient optimization algorithms.
The slight perversion of the original title of this piece (The Future of the Bayesian Brain) reflects my attempt to write prospectively about 'Science and Stories' over the past 20 years. I will meet this challenge by dealing with the future and then turning to its history. The future of the Bayesian brain (in neuroimaging) is clear: it is the application of dynamic causal modeling to understand how the brain conforms to the free energy principle. In this context, the Bayesian brain is a corollary of the free energy principle, which says that any self organizing system (like a brain or neuroimaging community) must maximize the evidence for its own existence, which means it must minimize its free energy using a model of its world. Dynamic causal modeling involves finding models of the brain that have the greatest evidence or the lowest free energy. In short, the future of imaging neuroscience is to refine models of the brain to minimize free energy, where the brain refines models of the world to minimize free energy. This endeavor itself minimizes free energy because our community is itself a self organizing system. I cannot imagine an alternative future that has the same beautiful self consistency as mine. Having dispensed with the future, we can now focus on the past, which is much more interesting:
FSL (the FMRIB Software Library) is a comprehensive library of analysis tools for functional, structural and diffusion MRI brain imaging data, written mainly by members of the Analysis Group, FMRIB, Oxford. For this NeuroImage special issue on &quot;20 years of fMRI&quot; we have been asked to write about the history, developments and current status of FSL. We also include some descriptions of parts of FSL that are not well covered in the existing literature. We hope that some of this content might be of interest to users of FSL, and also maybe to new research groups considering creating, releasing and supporting new software packages for brain image analysis.
Connectivity is fundamental for understanding the nature of brain function. The intricate web of synaptic connections among neurons is critically important for shaping neural responses, representing statistical features of the sensory environment, coordinating distributed resources for brain-wide processing, and retaining a structural record of the past in order to anticipate future events and infer their relations. The importance of brain connectivity naturally leads to the adoption of the theoretical framework of networks and graphs. Network science approaches have been productively deployed in other domains of science and technology and are now beginning to make contributions across many areas of neuroscience. This article offers a personal perspective on the confluence of networks and neuroimaging, charting the origins of some of its major intellectual themes.
A primary advantage of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) over other techniques in neuroscience is its flexibility. Researchers have used fMRI to study a remarkable diversity of topics, from basic processes of perception and memory, to the complex mechanisms of economic decision making and moral cognition. The chief contributor to this experimental flexibility-indeed, to the growth of fMRI itself-has been the development of event-related experimental designs and associated analyses. The core idea of an event-related design, as first articulated in the late 1990s, is the separation of cognitive processes into discrete points in time (i.e., &quot;events&quot;) allowing differentiation of their associated fMRI signals. By modeling brain function as a series of transient changes, rather than as an ongoing state, event-related fMRI allowed researchers to create much more complex paradigms and more dynamic analysis methods. Yet, this flexibility came with a cost. As the complexity of experimental designs increased, fMRI analyses became increasingly abstracted from the original data, which in turn has had consequences both positive (e.g., greater use of model-based fMRI) and negative (e.g., fewer articles plot the timing of activation). And, as event-related methods have become ubiquitous, they no longer represent a distinct category of fMRI research. In a real sense, event-related fMRI has now become, simply, fMRI.
The early functional MRI research programme at the National Institutes of Health, described by Robert Turner in an accompanying article in this volume, was the first to combine echo planar imaging (EPI) and high field in the pursuit of fMRI. As such, it soon became apparent that one of the obstacles to interpreting fMRI data using EPI was the presence of geometric distortions caused by static field inhomogeneities. This meant that EPI data did not properly align spatially with conventionally acquired MRI scans that showed structural information. This article describes some of the approaches that have been adopted to ensure that spatial warping caused by field inhomogeneities can be corrected so that functional and structural information can be co-aligned.
Over the last 20 years, fMRI has revolutionized cognitive neuroscience. Here I outline a vision for what the next 20 years of fMRI in cognitive neuroscience might look like. Some developments that I hope for include increased methodological rigor, an increasing focus on connectivity and pattern analysis as opposed to &quot;blobology&quot;, a greater focus on selective inference powered by open databases, and increased use of ontologies and computational models to describe underlying processes.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) upregulation and consequent NO formation are well-recognized neuroinflammatory responses associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). These contribute to nitrosative protein modifications affecting neuronal injury and cell death. Indeed, a pathobiologic signature for PD is Lewy body formation containing misfolded and aggregated forms of alpha-synuclein (-syn). Moreover, nitration of -syn promotes protein aggregation in disease. To model such pathological events, we constructed controllable iNOS and bicistronic -syn-IRES-tTA adeno-associated virus (AAV) expression vectors. Transduction of iNOS and -syn AAV constructs led to nitration of -syn in neurons and overexpression of iNOS promoted protein aggregation. We posit that this AAV system mimics critical protein misfolding events associated with the pathogenesis of PD.
Malaria is the most important human parasitic disease and cerebral malaria (CM), its main neurological complication, is characterized by neurological and cognitive damage in both human and animal survivors. The brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) appears to be involved with activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. There is great interest regarding its role in learning and memory as well as acetylcholinesterase activity (AChE) that is implicated in many cognitive functions and probably plays important roles in neurodegenerative disorders. In the present work, we evaluated BDNF protein levels and AChE activity in the hippocampus and habituation in an animal model of CM using C57BL/6 mice after fifteen days of the induction. The results demonstrated that there was a decrease in BDNF levels in the hippocampus of C57BL/6 mice infected with PbA when compared with C57BL/6 non-infected mice and C57BL/6 non-infected mice that received treatment with chloroquine. However, no difference was observed in AChE activity in the hippocampus. When habituation was evaluated there was memory impairment in the C57BL/6 mice infected with Plasmodium berghei ANKA (PbA). In conclusion, we believe that the decreased BDNF levels in the hippocampus may be related with memory impairment without alterations on AChE activity.
Opiate, cholinergic, glutamatergic and beta-adrenergic neurotransmitters play key roles in learning and memory in humans and animals. Dysfunction of the interactions between these neurotransmitters may induce human diseases. In the present study, the interactions of morphine and acetylcholine (ACh), NMDA, and beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist (scopolamine, MK-801, and propanolol) were evaluated in a single-blind design by co-administrations of morphine and these drugs in a delayed response in rhesus monkeys. The results indicated that: (1) Co-administration of morphine and scopolamine deteriorated spatial working memory. (2) Co-treatment of morphine and MK-801 restored impairment caused by morphine and MK-801 in a dose-depending pattern. (3) Morphine plus propranolol impaired spatial working memory. High dose of morphine (0.01 mg/kg) reversed impaired spatial working memory induced by single propranolol and morphine treatment. These data suggested that the interactions of morphine and AChergic, NMDAergic and beta-adrenergic compounds were involved in spatial working memory in rhesus monkeys.
In the last years our research group has studied and validated the animal model of mania induced by dextroamphetamine (d-AMPH). Considering the lack of animal models of mania reported in the literature; this study evaluated the possibilities to validate the animal model induced by methamphetamine (m-AMPH). Then, we evaluated the effects of lithium (Li), valproate (VPA) on the behavior and parameters of oxidative damage in rat brain after administration of m-AMPH. In the prevention treatment, Wistar rats were pretreated with Li, VPA or saline (Sal) for 14 days, and then, between days 8 and 14, rats were treated with m-AMPH (1, 0.5 or 0.25 mg/kg) or Sal. In the reversal treatment, rats were first given m-AMPH (0.25 mg/kg) or Sal. Locomotor behavior was assessed using the open-field task and parameters of oxidative damage were measured in brain structures. Our results show that the hyperactivity was prevented and reverted by Li and VPA only when m-AMPH was administered in the dose of 0.25mg/kg. In addition, the m-AMPH in all doses administrated induced oxidative damage in both structures tested in two models. Li and VPA reversed and prevented this impairment, however in a way dependent of cerebral area, the dose of m-AMPH and technique.
Impairments in social cognition are critical predictors of social functioning in patients with schizophrenia. Emotion processing (EP) and theory of mind (ToM) are hypothesized to influence real-world behavior more directly than basic cognition and represent important targets of intervention. The use of video scenes depicting human interactions could constitute an appropriate tool to enhance understanding of the characters' behavior and stimulate inferences on mental states. The aim of our pilot study was to evaluate longitudinally, with a controlled trial, the feasibility and the efficacy of a single-paradigm emotion recognition and ToM training designed for outpatients affected by schizophrenia, with the goal to create an ecological treatment, overcoming artificial laboratory biases, by the use of specific videotaped material. Fifty-two outpatients were randomly assigned to an EP and ToM video-based training (n=27) or to a standard social cognitive rehabilitation treatment (n=24). They were assessed before and after 12 weeks of intervention and compared to a time-matched control group (n=24). Our results show a statistically significant improvement in ToM abilities, confirming the hypothesis of the enhancing potential of social cognitive interventions, but no changes with respect to EP; despite the need for a deeper examination, these data support further development of this treatment approach.
The present study investigated emotional face processing in neurotypicals selected for autistic traits (AT). Participants (N=81), who obtained scores one standard deviation above or below average on the Autism Spectrum Quotient, were tested using observational fear conditioning (FC), a face version of the attention probe task, and the &quot;Reading the Mind in the Eyes&quot; test. The results indicated that high AT participants displayed enhanced observational FC, no attentional bias to fearful faces, and increased latency (but normal accuracy) to recognizing the mental state of another. To a certain extent, this pattern resembles the social-emotional phenotype that was previously described in autism spectrum disorders. Therefore, these results may contribute to the broad autism phenotype perspective.
The development of a methodology for testing the time response, linearity and performance characteristics of ultra fast fibre optic oxygen sensors in the liquid phase is presented. Two standard medical paediatric oxygenators are arranged to provide two independent extracorporeal circuits. Flow from either circuit can be diverted over the sensor under test by means of a system of rapid cross-over solenoid valves exposing the sensor to an abrupt change in oxygen partial pressure, P O2. The system is also capable of testing the oxygen sensor responses to changes in temperature, carbon dioxide partial pressure P CO2 and pH in situ. Results are presented for a miniature fibre optic oxygen sensor constructed in-house with a response time  50 ms and a commercial fibre optic sensor (Ocean Optics Foxy), when tested in flowing saline and stored blood.
The predominant working hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease is that the proximate pathologic agents are oligomers of the amyloid -protein (A). &quot;Oligomer&quot; is an ill-defined term. Many different types of oligomers have been reported, and they often exist in rapid equilibrium with monomers and higher-order assemblies. This has made formal structure-activity determinations difficult. Recently, Ono et al. [Ono, K., et al. (2009) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 106, 14745-14750] used rapid, zero-length, in situ chemical cross-linking to stabilize the oligomer state, allowing the isolation and study of pure populations of oligomers of a specific order (number of A monomers per assembly). This approach was successful but highly laborious and time-consuming, precluding general application of the method. To overcome these difficulties, we developed a &quot;continuous flow reactor&quot; with the ability to produce theoretically unlimited quantities of chemically stabilized A oligomers. We show, in addition to its utility for A, that this method can be applied to a wide range of other amyloid-forming proteins.







The pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) to an amyloidogenic peptide termed A. Although mutations in APP and the secretase enzymes that mediate its processing are known to result in familial forms of AD, the mechanisms underlying the more common sporadic forms of the disease are still unclear. Evidence suggests that the susceptibility of APP to amyloidogenic processing is related to its intracellular localization, and that secretase-independent degradation may prevent the formation of cytotoxic peptide fragments. Recently, single nucleotide polymorphisms in the UBQLN1 gene have been linked to late-onset AD, and its protein product, ubiquilin-1, may regulate the maturation of full-length APP. Here we show that ubiquilin-1 inhibits the maturation of APP by sequestering it in the early secretory pathway, primarily within the Golgi apparatus. This sequestration significantly delayed the proteolytic processing of APP by secretases and the proteasome. These effects were mediated by ubiquilin-1-stimulated K63-linked polyubiquitination of lysine 688 in the APP intracellular domain. Our results reveal the mechanistic basis by which ubiquilin-1 regulates APP maturation, with important consequences for the pathogenesis of late-onset AD.
Some chemoreceptors of the trace amine-associated receptor (TAAR) family detect innately aversive odors and are proposed to activate hardwired olfactory circuits. However, the wiring of TAAR neurons, the regulatory mechanisms of Taar gene choice, and the subcellular localization of TAAR proteins remain unknown. Here, we reveal similarities between neurons expressing TAARs and odorant receptors (ORs), but also unexpected differences. Like ORs, TAARs seem to be monoallelically expressed and localized both in cilia, the site of odor detection, and in axons, where they may participate in guidance. TAAR neurons project to discrete glomeruli predominantly localized to a confined bulb region. Taar expression involves different regulatory logic than OR expression, as neurons choosing a Taar5 knockout allele frequently express a second Taar without silencing the deleted allele. Moreover, the epigenetic signature of OR gene choice is absent from Taar genes. The unique molecular and anatomical features of the TAAR neurons suggest that they constitute a distinct olfactory subsystem.

Calcium signaling resulting from depolarization of neurons can trigger changes in transcription, and this response has been called excitation-transcription (E-T) coupling. In neurons, voltage-gated and ligand-gated calcium-permeable channels contribute to the increase in intracellular calcium. It appears that calcium signals mediated by specific voltage-gated calcium channels may have distinct roles in E-T coupling.
High total plasma homocysteine (tHcy) is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events and depression. Consumption of B-vitamins (B6, B9 and B12) reduces tHcy by about 15%, but has equivocal effects on these health outcomes, suggesting that this relationship is either not causal or is confounded by other factors. The results of recent randomized trials suggest that antiplatelet therapy may confound these associations. This cross-sectional study assessed 3687 men aged 69-87 years for history of clinically significant depression (Geriatric Depression Scale 15 items 7) or a recorded diagnosis of depression in the Western Australian Data Linkage System, and collected information on the use of aspirin, B-vitamins and antidepressant medication, along with age, education, living arrangements, smoking history and medical comorbidity as assessed by the Charlson index. Participants donated a blood sample for the measurement of tHcy, and concentrations15moll(-1) were considered high. Five hundred and thirteen (13.9%) men showed evidence of depression, and of those 31.4% had high tHcy, 41.5% were using aspirin, 6.8% were consuming B-vitamins. Multivariate logistic regression showed that high tHcy was associated with increased odds of depression (odds ratio (OR)=1.60, 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.20-2.14), as was the use of B-vitamins (OR=1.95, 95% CI=1.21-3.13). There was a significant interaction between high tHcy and aspirin use (OR=0.57, 95% CI=0.36-0.91), but not between high tHcy and B-vitamin use (OR=0.80, 95% CI=0.26-2.46). The analyses were adjusted for smoking status, Charlson index and use of antidepressants. The results of this study indicate that older men with high tHcy who use aspirin have lower risk of depression, and suggest that antiplatelet therapy may be an effective preventive or management strategy for these cases. Randomized trials are required to confirm the antidepressant effect of aspirin in people with high tHcy.
This paper reviews the published literature on the hyperscanning methodologies using hemodynamic or neuro-electric modalities. In particular, we describe how different brain recording devices have been employed in different experimental paradigms to gain information about the subtle nature of human interactions. This review also included papers based on single-subject recordings in which a correlation was found between the activities of different (non-simultaneously recorded) participants in the experiment. The descriptions begin with the methodological issues related to the simultaneous measurements and the descriptions of the results generated by such approaches will follow. Finally, a discussion of the possible future uses of such new approaches to explore human social interactions will be presented.
Essential tremor (ET) is a common neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by a postural or motion tremor. Despite a strong genetic basis, a gene with rare pathogenic mutations that cause ET has not yet been reported. We used exome sequencing to implement a simple approach to control for misdiagnosis of ET, as well as phenocopies involving sporadic and senile ET cases. We studied a large ET-affected family and identified a FUS p.Gln290() mutation as the cause of ET in this family. Further screening of 270 ET cases identified two additional rare missense FUS variants. Functional considerations suggest that the pathogenic effects of ET-specific FUS mutations are different from the effects observed when FUS is mutated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases; we have shown that the ET FUS nonsense mutation is degraded by the nonsense-mediated-decay pathway, whereas amyotrophic lateral sclerosis FUS mutant transcripts are not.
Congenital myopathies are clinically and genetically heterogeneous diseases that typically present in childhood with hypotonia and weakness and are most commonly defined by changes observed in muscle biopsy. Approximately 40% of congenital myopathies are currently genetically unresolved. We identified a family with dominantly inherited congenital myopathy characterized by distal weakness and biopsy changes that included core-like areas and increased internalized nuclei. To identify the causative genetic abnormality in this family, we performed linkage analysis followed by whole-exome capture and next-generation sequencing. A splice-acceptor variant in previously uncharacterized CCDC78 was detected in affected individuals and absent in unaffected family members and &gt; 10,000 controls. This variant alters RNA-transcript processing and results in a 222bp in-frame insertion. CCDC78 is expressed in skeletal muscle, enriched in the perinuclear region and the triad, and found in intracellular aggregates in patient muscle. Modeling of the CCDC78 mutation in zebrafish resulted in changes mirroring the human disease that included altered motor function and abnormal muscle ultrastructure. Using a combination of linkage analysis, next-generation sequencing, and modeling in the zebrafish, we have identified a CCDC78 mutation associated with a unique myopathy with prominent internal nuclei and atypical cores.
The extracellular senile plaques observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients are mainly composed of amyloid peptides produced from the -amyloid precursor protein (APP) by - and -secretases. A third non-amyloidogenic -secretase activity performed by the disintegrins ADAM10 and ADAM17 occurs in the middle of the amyloid- peptide A and liberates the large sAPP neuroprotective fragment. Since the activation of -secretase recently emerged as a promising therapeutic approach to treat AD, the identification of natural compounds able to trigger this cleavage is highly required. Here we describe new curcumin-based modified compounds as -secretase activators. We established that the aminoacid conjugates curcumin-isoleucine, curcumin-phenylalanine and curcumin-valine promote the constitutive -secretase activity and increase ADAM10 immunoreactivity. Strickingly, experiments carried out under conditions mimicking the PKC/muscarinic receptor-regulated pathway display different patterns of activation by these compounds. Altogether, our data identified new lead natural compounds for the future development of powerful and stable -secretase activators and established that some of these molecules are able to discriminate between the constitutive and regulated -secretase pathways.


Dyskinesia, a motor complication caused by prolonged administration of the antiparkinsonian drug l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA), is accompanied by activation of cAMP signaling and hyperphosphorylation of the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32). Here, we show that the abnormal phosphorylation of DARPP-32 occurs specifically in medium spiny neurons (MSNs) expressing dopamine D1 receptors (D1R). Using mice in which DARPP-32 is selectively deleted in D1R-expressing MSNs, we demonstrate that this protein is required for l-DOPA-induced activation of the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 and the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) pathways, which are implicated in dyskinesia. We also show that mutation of the phosphorylation site for cAMP-dependent protein kinase on DARPP-32 attenuates l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and reduces the concomitant activations of ERK and mTORC1 signaling. These studies demonstrate that, in D1R-expressing MSNs, l-DOPA-induced activation of ERK and mTORC1 requires DARPP-32 and indicates the importance of the cAMP/DARPP-32 signaling cascade in dyskinesia.
Dimethyl fumarate (DMF) is an effective novel treatment for multiple sclerosis in clinical trials. A reduction of IFN--producing CD4(+) T cells is observed in DMF-treated patients and may contribute to its clinical efficacy. However, the cellular and molecular mechanisms behind this clinical observation are unclear. In this study, we investigated the effects of DMF on dendritic cell (DC) maturation and subsequent DC-mediated T cell responses. We show that DMF inhibits DC maturation by reducing inflammatory cytokine production (IL-12 and IL-6) and the expression of MHC class II, CD80, and CD86. Importantly, this immature DC phenotype generated fewer activated T cells that were characterized by decreased IFN- and IL-17 production. Further molecular studies demonstrated that DMF impaired nuclear factor B (NF-B) signaling via reduced p65 nuclear translocalization and phosphorylation. NF-B signaling was further decreased by DMF-mediated suppression of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) and its downstream kinase mitogen stress-activated kinase 1 (MSK1). MSK1 suppression resulted in decreased p65 phosphorylation at serine 276 and reduced histone phosphorylation at serine 10. As a consequence, DMF appears to reduce p65 transcriptional activity both directly and indirectly by promoting a silent chromatin environment. Finally, treatment of DCs with the MSK1 inhibitor H89 partially mimicked the effects of DMF on the DC signaling pathway and impaired DC maturation. Taken together, these studies indicate that by suppression of both NF-B and ERK1/2-MSK1 signaling, DMF inhibits maturation of DCs and subsequently Th1 and Th17 cell differentiation.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is a key mediator of inflammation and oxidative stress produced during pathological conditions, including neurodegenerative diseases and central nervous system (CNS) injury. iNOS is responsible for the formation of high levels of nitric oxide (NO). The production of highly reactive and cytotoxic NO species, such as peroxynitrite, plays an important role in secondary tissue damage. We have previously demonstrated that acute administration of iNOS antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) 3h after moderate contusive spinal cord injury (SCI) potently inhibits iNOS-mediated increases in NO levels, leading to reduced blood-spinal cord barrier permeability, decreased neutrophil accumulation, and less neuronal cell death. In the current study we investigated if iNOS ASOs could also provide long-term (10-week) histological and behavioral improvements after moderate thoracic T8 contusive SCI. Adult rats were randomly assigned to three groups (n=10/group): SCI alone, SCI and mixed base control oligonucleotides (MBOs), or SCI and iNOS ASOs (200nM). Oligonucleotides were administered by spinal superfusion 3h after injury. Behavioral analysis (Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan [BBB] score and subscore) was employed weekly for 10 weeks post-SCI. Although animals treated with iNOS ASOs demonstrated no significant differences in BBB scores compared to controls, subscore analysis revealed a significant improvement in foot positioning, trunk stability, and tail clearance. Histologically, while no gross improvement in preserved white and gray matter was observed, greater numbers of surviving neurons were present adjacent to the lesion site in iNOS ASO-treated animals than controls. These results support the effectiveness of targeting iNOS acutely as a therapeutic approach after SCI.

Selective attention mechanisms route behaviorally relevant information through large-scale cortical networks. Although evidence suggests that populations of cortical neurons synchronize their activity to preferentially transmit information about attentional priorities, it is unclear how cortical synchrony across a network is accomplished. Based on its anatomical connectivity with the cortex, we hypothesized that the pulvinar, a thalamic nucleus, regulates cortical synchrony. We mapped pulvino-cortical networks within the visual system, using diffusion tensor imaging, and simultaneously recorded spikes and field potentials from these interconnected network sites in monkeys performing a visuospatial attention task. The pulvinar synchronized activity between interconnected cortical areas according to attentional allocation, suggesting a critical role for the thalamus not only in attentional selection but more generally in regulating information transmission across the visual cortex.
During development of the mammalian cerebral cortex, radial glial cells (RGCs) generate layer-specific subtypes of excitatory neurons in a defined temporal sequence, in which lower-layer neurons are formed before upper-layer neurons. It has been proposed that neuronal subtype fate is determined by birthdate through progressive restriction of the neurogenic potential of a common RGC progenitor. Here, we demonstrate that the murine cerebral cortex contains RGC sublineages with distinct fate potentials. Using in vivo genetic fate mapping and in vitro clonal analysis, we identified an RGC lineage that is intrinsically specified to generate only upper-layer neurons, independently of niche and birthdate. Because upper cortical layers were expanded during primate evolution, amplification of this RGC pool may have facilitated human brain evolution.
Many neurological and psychiatric diseases are associated with clinically detectable, altered brain dynamics. The aberrant brain activity, in principle, can be restored through electrical stimulation. In epilepsies, abnormal patterns emerge intermittently, and therefore, a closed-loop feedback brain control that leaves other aspects of brain functions unaffected is desirable. Here, we demonstrate that seizure-triggered, feedback transcranial electrical stimulation (TES) can dramatically reduce spike-and-wave episodes in a rodent model of generalized epilepsy. Closed-loop TES can be an effective clinical tool to reduce pathological brain patterns in drug-resistant patients.
Development of the nervous system is finely regulated by consecutive expression of cell-specific transcription factors. Here we show that Helios, a member of the Ikaros transcription factor family, is expressed in ectodermal and neuroectodermal-derived tissues. During embryonic development, Helios is expressed by several brain structures including the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE, the striatal anlage); the cingulated, insular and retrosplenial cortex; the hippocampus; and the accessory olfactory bulb. Moreover, Helios is also expressed by Purkinje neurons during postnatal cerebellar development. Within the LGE, Helios expression follows a dynamic spatio-temporal pattern starting at embryonic stages (E14.5), peaking at E18.5, and completely disappearing during postnatal development. Helios is expressed by a small population of nestin-positive neural progenitor cells located in the subventricular zone as well as by a larger population of immature neurons distributed throughout the mantle zone. In the later, Helios is preferentially expressed in the matrix compartment, where it colocalizes with Bcl11b and Foxp1, well-known markers of striatal projection neurons. In addition, we observed that Helios expression is not detected in Dlx1/2 and Gsx2 null mutants, while its expression is maintained in Ascl1 mutants. These findings allow us to introduce a new transcription factor in the cascade of events that take part of striatal development postulating the existence of at least 4 different neural progenitors in the LGE. An Ascl1-independent but Gsx2- &amp; Dlx1/2-dependent precursor will express Helios defining a new lineage for a subset of matrix striatal neurons.
Cellular transplantation strategies for repairing the injured spinal cord have shown consistent benefit in preclinical models, and human clinical trials have begun. Interactions between transplanted cells and host tissue remain poorly understood. Trophic factor secretion is postulated a primary or supplementary mechanism of action for many transplanted cells, however, there is little direct evidence to support trophin production by transplanted cells in situ. In the present study, trophic factor expression was characterized in uninjured, injured-untreated, injured-treated with transplanted cells, and corresponding control tissue from the adult rat spinal cord. Candidate trophic factors were identified in a literature search, and primers were designed for these genes. We examined in vivo trophin expression in 3 paradigms involving transplantation of either brain or spinal cord-derived neural precursor cells (NPCs) or bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). Injury without further treatment led to a significant elevation of nerve growth factor (NGF), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and transforming growth factor-1 (TGF-1), and lower expression of vascular endothelial growth factor isoform A (VEGF-A) and platelet-derived growth factor-A (PDGF-A). Transplantation of NPCs led to modest changes in trophin expression, and the co-administration of intrathecal trophins resulted in significant elevation of the neurotrophins, glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), LIF, and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). BMSCs transplantation upregulated NGF, LIF, and IGF-1. NPCs isolated after transplantation into the injured spinal cord expressed the neurotrophins, ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), and bFGF at higher levels than host cord. These data show that trophin expression in the spinal cord is influenced by injury and cell transplantation, particularly when combined with intrathecal trophin infusion. Trophins may contribute to the benefits associated with cell-based repair strategies for spinal cord injury.

The role of T lymphocytes in central nervous system (CNS) injuries is controversial, with inconsistent results reported concerning the effects of T-lymphocyte transfer on spinal cord injury (SCI). Here, we demonstrate that a specific T-lymphocyte subset enhances functional recovery after contusion SCI in mice. Intraperitoneal adoptive transfer of type 1 helper T (Th1)-conditioned cells 4 days after SCI promoted recovery of locomotor activity and tactile sensation and concomitantly induced regrowth of corticospinal tract and serotonergic fibers. However, neither type 2 helper T (Th2)- nor IL-17-producing helper T (Th17)-conditioned cells had such effects. Activation of microglia and macrophages were observed in the spinal cords of Th1-transfered mice after SCI. Specifically, M2 subtype of microglia/macrophages was upregulated after Th1 cell transfer. Neutralization of interleukin 10 secreted by Th1-conditioned cells significantly attenuated the beneficial effects by Th1-conditioned lymphocytes after SCI. We also found that Th1-conditioned lymphocytes secreted significantly higher levels of neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin 3 (NT-3), than Th2- or Th17-conditioned cells. Thus, adoptive transfer of pro-inflammatory Th1-conditioned cells has neuroprotective effects after SCI, with prospective implications in immunomodulatory treatment of CNS injury.

Humans are metacognitive: they monitor and control their cognition. Our hypothesis was that neuronal correlates of metacognition reside in the same brain areas responsible for cognition, including frontal cortex. Recent work demonstrated that nonhuman primates are capable of metacognition, so we recorded from single neurons in the frontal eye field, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and supplementary eye field of monkeys (Macaca mulatta) that performed a metacognitive visual-oculomotor task. The animals made a decision and reported it with a saccade, but received no immediate reward or feedback. Instead, they had to monitor their decision and bet whether it was correct. Activity was correlated with decisions and bets in all three brain areas, but putative metacognitive activity that linked decisions to appropriate bets occurred exclusively in the SEF. Our results offer a survey of neuronal correlates of metacognition and implicate the SEF in linking cognitive functions over short periods of time.
The hippocampus is an integral brain region for affective disorders. TRIP8b knockout mice lacking functional HCN channels as well as both HCN1 and HCN2 knockout mice have been shown to display antidepressant-like behaviors. The mechanisms or brain regions involved in these alterations in behavior, however, are not clear. We developed a lentiviral shRNA system to examine whether knockdown of HCN1 protein in the dorsal hippocampal CA1 region is sufficient to produce antidepressant-like effects. We found that knockdown of HCN1 channels increased cellular excitability and resulted in physiological changes consistent with a reduction of I(h). Rats infused with lentiviral shRNA-HCN1 in the dorsal hippocampal CA1 region displayed antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like behaviors associated with widespread enhancement of hippocampal activity and upregulation of BDNF-mTOR signaling pathways. Our results suggest that HCN1 protein could be a potential target for treatment of anxiety and depression disorders.
Functional maps in the cerebral cortex reorganize in response to changes in experience, but the synaptic underpinnings remain uncertain. Here, we demonstrate that layer (L) 2/3 pyramidal cell synapses in mouse barrel cortex can be potentiated upon pairing of whisker-evoked postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) with action potentials (APs). This spike-timing-dependent long-term potentiation (STD-LTP) was only effective for PSPs evoked by deflections of a whisker in the neuron's receptive field center, and not its surround. Trimming of all except two whiskers rapidly opened the possibility to drive STD-LTP by the spared surround whisker. This facilitated STD-LTP was associated with a strong decrease in the surrounding whisker-evoked inhibitory conductance and partially occluded picrotoxin-mediated LTP facilitation. Taken together, our data demonstrate that sensory deprivation-mediated disinhibition facilitates STD-LTP from the sensory surround, which may promote correlation- and experience-dependent expansion of receptive fields.
Neural activity-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission is believed to be one of the cellular mechanisms underlying experience-dependent developmental refinement of neural circuits. Although it is well established that visual experience and neural activity are critical for the refinement of retinal circuits, whether and how LTP occurs in the retina remain unknown. Using in vivo perforated whole-cell recording and two-photon calcium imaging, we find that both repeated electrical and visual stimulations can induce LTP at excitatory synapses formed by bipolar cells on retinal ganglion cells in larval but not juvenile zebrafish. LTP induction requires the activation of postsynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and its expression involves arachidonic acid-dependent presynaptic changes in calcium dynamics and neurotransmitter release. Physiologically, both electrical and visual stimulation-induced LTP can enhance visual responses of retinal ganglion cells. Thus, LTP exists in developing retinae with a presynaptic locus and may serve for visual experience-dependent refinement of retinal circuits.
Light-evoked responses of all three major classes of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are mediated by NMDA receptors (NMDARs) and AMPA receptors (AMPARs). Although synaptic activity at RGC synapses is highly dynamic, synaptic plasticity has not been observed in adult RGCs. Here, using patch-clamp recordings in dark-adapted mouse retina, we report a retina-specific form of AMPAR plasticity. Both chemical and light activation of NMDARs caused the selective endocytosis of GluA2-containing, Ca(2+)-impermeable AMPARs on RGCs and replacement with GluA2-lacking, Ca(2+)-permeable AMPARs. The plasticity was expressed in ON but not OFF RGCs and was restricted solely to the ON responses in ON-OFF RGCs. Finally, the plasticity resulted in a shift in the light responsiveness of ON RGCs. Thus, physiologically relevant light stimuli can induce a change in synaptic receptor composition of ON RGCs, providing a mechanism by which the sensitivity of RGC responses may be modified under scotopic conditions.
Traditionally, NMDA receptors are located postsynaptically; yet, putatively presynaptic NMDA receptors (preNMDARs) have been reported. Although implicated in controlling synaptic plasticity, their function is not well understood and their expression patterns are debated. We demonstrate that, in layer 5 of developing mouse visual cortex, preNMDARs specifically control synaptic transmission at pyramidal cell inputs to other pyramidal cells and to Martinotti cells, while leaving those to basket cells unaffected. We also reveal a type of interneuron that mediates ascending inhibition. In agreement with synapse-specific expression, we find preNMDAR-mediated calcium signals in a subset of pyramidal cell terminals. A tuned network model predicts that preNMDARs specifically reroute information flow in local circuits during high-frequency firing, in particular by impacting frequency-dependent disynaptic inhibition mediated by Martinotti cells, a finding that we experimentally verify. We conclude that postsynaptic cell type determines presynaptic terminal molecular identity and that preNMDARs govern information processing in neocortical columns.
A topographical relationship exists between the hippocampus-entorhinal cortex and the neocortex. However, it is not known how these anatomical connections are utilized during information exchange and behavior. We recorded theta oscillations along the entire extent of the septotemporal axis of the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal layer. While the frequency of theta oscillation remained same along the entire long axis, the amplitude and coherence between recording sites decreased from dorsal to ventral hippocampus (VH). Theta phase shifted monotonically with distance along the longitudinal axis, reaching 180 between the septal and temporal poles. The majority of concurrently recorded units were phase-locked to the local field theta at all dorsoventral segments. The power of VH theta had only a weak correlation with locomotion velocity, and its amplitude varied largely independently from theta in the dorsal part. Thus, theta oscillations can temporally combine or segregate neocortical representations along the septotemporal axis of the hippocampus.
The nervous system equips us with capability to adapt to many conditions and circumstances. We rely on an armamentarium of intricately formed neural circuits for many of our adaptive strategies. However, this capability also depends on a well-conserved toolkit of different molecular mechanisms that offer not only compensatory responses to a changing world, but also provide plasticity to achieve changes in cellular state that underlie a broad range of processes from early developmental transitions to life-long memory. Among the molecular tools that mediate changes in cellular state, our understanding of posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression is expanding rapidly. Part of the &quot;epigenetic landscape&quot; that shapes the deployment and robust regulation of gene networks during the construction and the remodeling of the brain is the microRNA system controlling both levels and translation of messenger RNA. Here we consider recent advances in the study of microRNA-mediated regulation of synaptic form and function.



Tonic inhibition is a key regulator of neuronal excitability and network function in the brain, but its role in sensory information processing remains poorly understood. The cerebellum is a favorable model system for addressing this question as granule cells, which form the input layer of the cerebellar cortex, permit high-resolution patch-clamp recordings in vivo, and are the only neurons in the cerebellar cortex that express the 6-containing GABA(A) receptors mediating tonic inhibition. We investigated how tonic inhibition regulates sensory information transmission in the rat cerebellum by using a combination of intracellular recordings from granule cells and molecular layer interneurons in vivo, selective pharmacology, and in vitro dynamic clamp experiments. We show that blocking tonic inhibition significantly increases the spontaneous firing rate of granule cells while only moderately increasing sensory-evoked spike output. In contrast, enhancing tonic inhibition reduces the spike probability in response to sensory stimulation with minimal effect on the spontaneous spike rate. Both manipulations result in a reduction in the signal-to-noise ratio of sensory transmission in granule cells and of parallel fiber synaptic input to downstream molecular layer interneurons. These results suggest that under basal conditions the level of tonic inhibition in vivo enhances the fidelity of sensory information transmission through the input layer of the cerebellar cortex.
The transfer of visual information from the primary visual cortex (V1) to higher order visual cortices is an essential step in visual processing. However, the dynamics of activation of visual cortices is poorly understood. In mice, several extrastriate areas surrounding V1 have been described. Using voltage-sensitive dye imaging in vivo, we determined the spatiotemporal dynamics of the activity evoked in the visual cortex by simple stimuli. Independently of precise areal boundaries, we found that V1 activation is rapidly followed by the depolarization of three functional groups of higher order visual areas organized retinotopically. After this sequential activation, all four regions were simultaneously active for most of the response. Concomitantly with the parallel processing of the visual input, the activity initiated retinotopically and propagated quickly and isotropically within each region. The size of this activation by local recurrent activity, which extended beyond the initial retinotopic response, was dependent on the intensity of the stimulus. Moreover the difference in the spatiotemporal dynamic of the response to dark and bright stimuli suggested the dominance in the mouse of the ON pathway. Our results suggest that the cortex integrates visual information simultaneously through across-area parallel and within-area serial processing.
We compared neuronal activity in the dorsolateral (PFdl), orbital (PFo), and polar (PFp) prefrontal cortex as monkeys performed three tasks. In two tasks, a cue instructed one of two strategies: stay with the previous response or shift to the alternative. Visual stimuli served as cues in one of these tasks; in the other, fluid rewards did so. In the third task, visuospatial cues instructed each response. A delay period followed each cue. As reported previously, PFdl encoded strategies (stay or shift) and responses (left or right) during the cue and delay periods, while PFo encoded strategies and PFp encoded neither strategies nor responses; during the feedback period, all three areas encoded responses, but not strategies. Four novel findings emerged from the present analysis. (1) The strategy encoded by PFdl and PFo cells during the cue and delay periods was modality specific. (2) The response encoded by PFdl cells was task and modality specific during the cue period, but during the delay and feedback periods it became task and modality general. (3) Although some PFdl and PFo cells responded to or anticipated rewards, we could rule out reward effects for most strategy- and response-related activity. (4) Immediately before feedback, only PFp signaled responses that were correct according to the cued strategy; after feedback, only PFo signaled the response that had been made, whether correct or incorrect. These signals support a role in generating responses by PFdl, assigning outcomes to choices by PFo, and assigning outcomes to cognitive processes by PFp.
Neural activity is integral to the development of the enteric nervous system (ENS). A subpopulation of neural crest-derived cells expresses pan-neuronal markers at early stages of ENS development (at E10.5 in the mouse). However, the electrical activity of these cells has not been previously characterized, and it is not known whether all cells expressing neuronal markers are capable of firing action potentials (APs). In this study, we examined the activity of &quot;neuron&quot;-like cells (expressing pan-neuronal markers or with neuronal morphology) in the gut of E11.5 and E12.5 mice using whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology and compared them to the activity of neonatal and adult enteric neurons. Around 30-40% of neuron-like cells at E11.5 and E12.5 fired APs, some of which were very similar to those of adult enteric neurons. All APs were sensitive to tetrodotoxin (TTX), indicating that they were driven by voltage-gated Na+ currents. Expression of mRNA encoding several voltage-gated Na+ channels by the E11.5 gut was detected using RT-PCR. The density of voltage-gated Na+ currents increased from E11.5 to neonates. Immature active responses, mediated in part by TTX- and lidocaine-insensitive channels, were observed in most cells at E11.5 and E12.5, but not in P0/P1 or adult neurons. However, some cells expressing neuronal markers at E11.5 or E12.5 did not exhibit an active response to depolarization. Spontaneous depolarizations resembling excitatory postsynaptic potentials were observed at E12.5. The ENS is one of the earliest parts of the developing nervous system to exhibit mature forms of electrical activity.
The cerebrocerebellar connection makes use of two of the largest fiber tracts in the mammalian brain, i.e., the cerebral and medial cerebellar peduncles. Neuroanatomical approaches aimed to elucidate the organization of this important connection have been hindered by its multisynaptic nature, the complex organization of its components, and the dependency of conventional tracers on precisely placed injections. To overcome these problems, we used rabies virus (RV) as a retrograde transneuronal tracer. RV was injected simultaneously with cholera toxin  subunit (CTb) into selected areas of the cerebellar cortex of 18 male Wistar rats. A survival time of 48-50 h resulted in first- and second-order labeling of RV in combination with first-order labeling of CTb. The distribution of CTb-labeled neurons in the inferior olive established the zonal identity of the injection site. In this way, it was possible to examine the cortical distribution of neurons from which disynaptic cerebrocerebellar projections to specific cerebellar loci originate. The results show that this distribution covaries with the identity of the injected cerebellar lobule. More subtle changes were present when different zones of the same lobule were injected. The C1 zone of lobule VIII receives a more prominent projection from the somatosensory cortex compared with the C2/D zones. The laterally positioned D zones receive information from more rostral regions of the cerebral cortex. The vermis of lobule VII receives a prominent input from the retrosplenial and orbitofrontal cortices. Different injection sites also result in differences in laterality of the connections.
Studies with animal models have suggested that reaction of glia, including microglia and astrocytes, critically contributes to the development and maintenance of chronic pain. However, the involvement of glial reaction in human chronic pain is unclear. We performed analyses to compare the glial reaction profiles in the spinal dorsal horn (SDH) from three cohorts of sex- and age-matched human postmortem tissues: (1) HIV-negative patients, (2) HIV-positive patients without chronic pain, and (3) HIV patients with chronic pain. Our results indicate that the expression levels of CD11b and Iba1, commonly used for labeling microglial cells, did not differ in the three patient groups. However, GFAP and S100, often used for labeling astrocytes, were specifically upregulated in the SDH of the &quot;pain-positive&quot; HIV patients but not in the &quot;pain-negative&quot; HIV patients. In addition, proinflammatory cytokines, TNF and IL-1, were specifically increased in the SDH of pain-positive HIV patients. Furthermore, proteins in the MAPK signaling pathway, including pERK, pCREB and c-Fos, were also upregulated in the SDH of pain-positive HIV patients. Our findings suggest that reaction of astrocytes in the SDH may play a role during the maintenance phase of HIV-associated chronic pain.
Marked hypersensitivity to heat and mechanical (pressure) stimuli develop after a burn injury, but the neural mechanisms underlying these effects are poorly understood. In this study, we establish a new mouse model of focal second-degree burn injury to investigate the molecular and cellular basis for burn injury-induced pain. This model features robust injury-induced behavioral effects and tissue-specific altered cytokine profile, but absence of glial activation in spinal dorsal horn. Three voltage-gated sodium channels, Na(v)1.7, Na(v)1.8, and Na(v)1.9, are preferentially expressed in peripheral somatosensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and have been implicated in injury-induced neuronal hyperexcitability. Using knock-out mice, we provide evidence that Na(v)1.7 selectively contributes to burn-induced hypersensitivity to heat, but not mechanical, stimuli. After burn model injury, wild-type mice display increased sensitivity to heat stimuli, and a normally non-noxious warm stimulus induces activity-dependent Fos expression in spinal dorsal horn neurons. Strikingly, both effects are absent in Na(v)1.7 conditional knock-out (cKO) mice. Furthermore, burn injury increases density and shifts activation of tetrodotoxin-sensitive currents in a hyperpolarized direction, both pro-excitatory properties, in DRG neurons from wild-type but not Na(v)1.7 cKO mice. We propose that, in sensory neurons damaged by burn injury to the hindpaw, Na(v)1.7 currents contribute to the hyperexcitability of sensory neurons, their communication with postsynaptic spinal pain pathways, and behavioral thresholds to heat stimuli. Our results offer insights into the molecular and cellular mechanisms of modality-specific pain signaling, and suggest Na(v)1.7-blocking drugs may be effective in burn patients.

Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is organized into globular tetramers (G(4)) by a structural protein called proline-rich membrane anchor (PRiMA), anchoring it into the cell membrane of neurons in the brain. The assembly of AChE tetramers with PRiMA requires the presence of a C-terminal &quot;t-peptide&quot; in the AChE catalytic subunit (AChE(T)). The glycosylation of AChE(T) is known to be required for its proper assembly and trafficking; however, the role of PRiMA glycosylation in the oligomer assembly has not been revealed. PRiMA is a glycoprotein containing two putative N-linked glycosylation sites. By using site-directed mutagenesis, the asparagine-43 was identified to be the N-linked glycosylation site of PRiMA. Abolishing glycosylation on mouse PRiMA appeared not to affect its assembly with AChE(T), the enzymatic properties of AChE, and the membrane trafficking of PRiMA-linked AChE tetramers. This result is contrary to the reports that glycosylation is essential for conformation and trafficking of membrane glycoproteins.

Nonconscious [1-6], rapid [7, 8], or coarse [9] visual processing of emotional stimuli induces functional activity ina subcortical pathway to the amygdala involving the superior colliculus and pulvinar. Despite evidence in lower mammals [10, 11] and nonhuman primates [12], it remains speculative whether anatomical connections between these structures exist in the human brain [13-15]. It is also unknown whether destruction of the visual cortex, which provides a major input to the amygdala, induces modifications in anatomical connections along this subcortical pathway. We used diffusion tensor imaging to investigate invivo anatomical connections between human amygdala and subcortical visual structures in ten age-matched controls and in one patient with early unilateral destruction of the visual cortex. We found fiber connections between pulvinar and amygdala and also between superior colliculus and amygdala via the pulvinar in the controls as well as in the patient. Destruction of the visual cortex led to qualitative and quantitative modifications along the pathways connecting these three structures and the changes were confined to the patient's damaged hemisphere. The present findings thus show extensive neural plasticity in the anatomical connections between subcortical visual structures of old evolutionary origin involved in the processing of emotional stimuli.
Anecdotally, middle-aged listeners report difficulty conversing in social settings, even when they have normal audiometric thresholds [1-3]. Moreover, young adult listeners with &quot;normal&quot; hearing vary in their ability to selectively attend to speech amid similar streams of speech. Ignoring age, these individual differences correlate with physiological differences in temporal coding precision present in the auditory brainstem, suggesting that the fidelity of encoding of suprathreshold sound helps explain individual differences [4]. Here, we revisit the conundrum of whether early aging influences an individual's ability to communicate in everyday settings. Although absolute selective attention ability is not predicted by age, reverberant energy interferes more with selective attention as age increases. Breaking the brainstem response down into components corresponding to coding of stimulus fine structure and envelope, we find that age alters which brainstem component predicts performance. Specifically, middle-aged listeners appear to rely heavily on temporal fine structure, which is more disrupted by reverberant energy than temporal envelope structure is. In contrast, the fidelity of envelope cues predicts performance in younger adults. These results hint that temporal envelope cues influence spatial hearing in reverberant settings more than is commonly appreciated and help explain why middle-aged listeners have particular difficulty communicating in daily life.



For an efficient use of multichannel MEG systems, an accurate sensor calibration is extremely important. This includes the knowledge of both channel sensitivities and channel arrangement, which can deviate from original system plans, e.g., because of thermal stresses. In this paper, we propose a new solution to the calibration of a multichannel MEG sensor array based on the signal space separation (SSS) method. It has been shown that an inaccurate knowledge of sensor calibration limits the performances of the SSS method, resulting in a mismatch between the measured neuromagnetic field and its SSS reconstruction. Given a set of known magnetic sources, we show that an objective function, which strongly depends on sensor geometry, can be derived from the principal angle between the measured vector signal and the SSS basis. Hence, the MEG sensor array calibration is carried out by minimizing the objective function through a standard large-scale optimization technique. Details on the magnetic sources and calibration process are presented here. Finally, an application to the calibration of the 153-channel whole-head MEG system installed at the University of Chieti is discussed.
We used structural MRI and EEG to examine brain structure and function in typically developing children in Romania (n = 20), children exposed to institutional rearing (n = 29), and children previously exposed to institutional rearing but then randomized to a high-quality foster care intervention (n = 25). In so doing, we provide a unique evaluation of whether placement in an improved environment mitigates the effects of institutional rearing on neural structure, using data from the only existing randomized controlled trial of foster care for institutionalized children. Children enrolled in the Bucharest Early Intervention Project underwent a T1-weighted MRI protocol. Children with histories of institutional rearing had significantly smaller cortical gray matter volume than never-institutionalized children. Cortical white matter was no different for children placed in foster care than never-institutionalized children but was significantly smaller for children not randomized to foster care. We were also able to explain previously reported reductions in EEG -power among institutionally reared children compared with children raised in families using these MRI data. As hypothesized, the association between institutionalization and EEG -power was partially mediated by cortical white matter volume for children not randomized to foster care. The increase in white matter among children randomized to an improved rearing environment relative to children who remained in institutional care suggests the potential for developmental &quot;catch up&quot; in white matter growth, even following extreme environmental deprivation.


Theory of mind (ToM) is a great evolutionary achievement. It is a special intelligence that can assess not only one's own desires and beliefs, but also those of others. Whether it is uniquely human or not is controversial, but it is clear that humans are, at least, significantly better at ToM than any other animal. Economists and game theorists have developed sophisticated and powerful models of ToM and we provide a detailed summary of this here. This economic ToM entails a hierarchy of beliefs. I know my preferences, and I have beliefs (a probabilistic distribution) about your preferences, beliefs about your beliefs about my preferences, and so on. We then contrast this economic ToM with the theoretical approaches of neuroscience and with empirical data in general. Although this economic view provides a benchmark and makes useful suggestions about empirical tendencies, it does not always generate a close fit with the data. This provides an opportunity for a synergistic interdisciplinary production of a falsifiable theory of bounded rationality. In particular, a ToM that is founded on evolutionary biology might well be sufficiently structured to have predictive power, while remaining quite general. We sketch two papers that represent preliminary steps in this direction.
Cumulative cultural evolution is what 'makes us odd'; our capacity to learn facts and techniques from others, and to refine them over generations, plays a major role in making human minds and lives radically different from those of other animals. In this article, I discuss cognitive processes that are known collectively as 'cultural learning' because they enable cumulative cultural evolution. These cognitive processes include reading, social learning, imitation, teaching, social motivation and theory of mind. Taking the first of these three types of cultural learning as examples, I ask whether and to what extent these cognitive processes have been adapted genetically or culturally to enable cumulative cultural evolution. I find that recent empirical work in comparative psychology, developmental psychology and cognitive neuroscience provides surprisingly little evidence of genetic adaptation, and ample evidence of cultural adaptation. This raises the possibility that it is not only 'grist' but also 'mills' that are culturally inherited; through social interaction in the course of development, we not only acquire facts about the world and how to deal with it (grist), we also build the cognitive processes that make 'fact inheritance' possible (mills).
Much attention has focused on the dramatic expansion of the forebrain, particularly the neocortex, as the neural substrate of cognitive evolution. However, though relatively small, the cerebellum contains about four times more neurons than the neocortex. I show that commonly used comparative measures such as neocortex ratio underestimate the contribution of the cerebellum to brain evolution. Once differences in the scaling of connectivity in neocortex and cerebellum are accounted for, a marked and general pattern of correlated evolution of the two structures is apparent. One deviation from this general pattern is a relative expansion of the cerebellum in apes and other extractive foragers. The confluence of these comparative patterns, studies of ape foraging skills and social learning, and recent evidence on the cognitive neuroscience of the cerebellum, suggest an important role for the cerebellum in the evolution of the capacity for planning, execution and understanding of complex behavioural sequences--including tool use and language. There is no clear separation between sensory-motor and cognitive specializations underpinning such skills, undermining the notion of executive control as a distinct process. Instead, I argue that cognitive evolution is most effectively understood as the elaboration of specialized systems for embodied adaptive control.
Humans are animals that specialize in thinking and knowing, and our extraordinary cognitive abilities have transformed every aspect of our lives. In contrast to our chimpanzee cousins and Stone Age ancestors, we are complex political, economic, scientific and artistic creatures, living in a vast range of habitats, many of which are our own creation. Research on the evolution of human cognition asks what types of thinking make us such peculiar animals, and how they have been generated by evolutionary processes. New research in this field looks deeper into the evolutionary history of human cognition, and adopts a more multi-disciplinary approach than earlier 'Evolutionary Psychology'. It is informed by comparisons between humans and a range of primate and non-primate species, and integrates findings from anthropology, archaeology, economics, evolutionary biology, neuroscience, philosophy and psychology. Using these methods, recent research reveals profound commonalities, as well striking differences, between human and non-human minds, and suggests that the evolution of human cognition has been much more gradual and incremental than previously assumed. It accords crucial roles to cultural evolution, techno-social co-evolution and gene-culture co-evolution. These have produced domain-general developmental processes with extraordinary power-power that makes human cognition, and human lives, unique.

In mouse skeletal muscles, Pax7 uniquely marks muscle satellite cells and plays some important yet unknown functions at the perinatal stage. To elucidate its in vivo functions, we initiated a yeast two-hybrid screening to look for Pax7-interacting proteins and identified a previously uncharacterized Pax7- and Pax3-binding protein (Pax3/7BP). Pax3/7BP is a ubiquitously expressed nuclear protein, enriched in Pax7+ muscle precursor cells (MPCs), and serves as an indispensable adaptor for Pax7 to recruit the histone 3 lysine 4 (H3K4) methyltransferase (HMT) complex by bridging Pax7 and Wdr5. Knockdown of Pax3/7BP abolished the Pax3/7-associated H3K4 HMT activity and inhibited the proliferation of Pax7+ MPCs from young mice both in culture and in vivo. Id3 and Cdc20 were direct target genes of Pax7 and Pax3/7BP involved in the proliferation of Pax7+ MPCs. Collectively, our work establishes Pax3/7BP as an essential adaptor linking Pax3/7 with the H3K4 HMT to regulate the proliferation of MPCs.
The large amounts of data from molecular biology and neuroscience have lead to a renewed interest in the inverse Ising problem: how to reconstruct parameters of the Ising model (couplings between spins and external fields) from a number of spin configurations sampled from the Boltzmann measure. To invert the relationship between model parameters and observables (magnetizations and correlations), mean-field approximations are often used, allowing the determination of model parameters from data. However, all known mean-field methods fail at low temperatures with the emergence of multiple thermodynamic states. Here, we show how clustering spin configurations can approximate these thermodynamic states and how mean-field methods applied to thermodynamic states allow an efficient reconstruction of Ising models also at low temperatures.
The precise mechanisms by which microRNAs (miRNAs) contribute to the dynamic regulation of gene expression during the forebrain development are still partly elusive. Here we show that the depletion of miRNAs in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, via genetic inactivation of Dicer after the onset of forebrain neurogenesis, profoundly impairs the morphological and proliferative characteristics of neural stem and progenitor cells. The cytoarchitecture and self-renewal potential of radial glial (RG) cells located within the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus were profoundly altered, thus causing a significant derangement of both the post natal dorsal sub-ventricular zone and the dentate gyrus. This effect was attributed to the High-temperature requirement A serine peptidase 1 (HtrA1) gene product whose overexpression in the developing forebrain recapitulated some of the aspects of the Dicer(-/-) phenotype. MiR-30e and miR-181d were identified as posttranscriptional negative regulators of HtrA1 by binding to its 3' untranslated region. In vivo overexpression of miR-30e and miR-181d in Dicer(-/-) forebrain rescued RG proliferation defects.
The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a widely used model organism, and yeast genetic methods are powerful tools for discovery of novel functions of genes. Recent advancements in chemical-genetics and chemical-genomics have opened new avenues for development of clinically relevant drug treatments. Systematic mapping of genetic networks by high-throughput chemical-genetic screens have given extensive insight in connections between genetic pathways. Here, I review some of the recent developments in chemical-genetic techniques in budding yeast.

The angiotensin II receptor subtype 2 (AT2-R) has been proposed to mediate protective vascular actions after brain injury. In this study we investigated the participation of this peptide in the tolerance to cellular damage induced by preconditioning in a rat model of neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI). We found that injured animals present a decreased number of microvessels in the ipsilateral (IPLT) side of the brain while in the contralateral (CNLT) side the microvessel number is increased. On the contrary, in the preconditioned animals the microvessels maintained the same number as in control animals. However these vessels show a remarkable increase of the fluorescent signal when they are labeled with antiFlk-1 (VEGFR2), while the Flt-1 (VEGFR1) signal faded in both the injured and the preconditioned animals. The pharmacological blockade of the AT2-R by the drug PD123319 (1.69 mM in the lateral ventricle) diminished the resilience of the microvasculature to HI injury provided by preconditioning and also the Flk-1 increase that occurred in these animals. In conclusion these results suggest an interaction of the AT2-R with VEGFR2 in the neonatal brain microvasculature that produces protective effects which are associated with injury tolerance.
The transition to parenthood is generally associated with a reduction in anxiety or anxiety-like behavior across a wide range of species. In some species, juveniles provide supplementary parental care for younger siblings, a behavior known as alloparenting. Although the fitness consequences of alloparenting behavior have been a focus of evolutionary research, less is known about how alloparenting behavior impacts affective states. In the socially monogamous prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster), most juveniles exhibit alloparenting behavior, making the species an ideal model for examining the effects of alloparenting on future behavioral outcomes. We randomly assigned juvenile voles to alloparenting (AL) or no alloparenting (NoAL) groups and behaviorally phenotyped them for anxiety-like and social behaviors using the elevated plus maze (EPM), open field test (OFT), startle box, social interaction test, juvenile affiliation test, and partner preference test. AL voles displayed more anxiety-like and less exploratory behaviors than NoAL voles, spending significantly less time in the open arms of the EPM and center of an open field. We dissected the CA1 region of the hippocampus and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) from brains of behaviorally phenotyped voles and nontested siblings as well. Decreased brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in CA1 has generally been associated with increased anxiety-like behavior in other rodents, while an anxiogenic role for BDNF in BNST is less established. Western blot analyses showed that alloparenting experience increased expression of BDNF in the BNST but decreased BDNF expression in the CA1 region of hippocampus (CA1) of nontested voles. There were similar differences in BNST BDNF of behaviorally phenotyped voles, and BDNF levels within this region were negatively correlated with exploratory behavior (i.e. time in center of OFT). Our results suggest that BDNF signaling in BNST and CA1 fluctuate with alloparenting experience, and they contribute to an increasingly complex &quot;BDNF hypothesis&quot; in which behavioral effects of this molecule are region-specific.
The cortical cholinergic innervation, which is important for memory and cognition, has been implicated in schizophrenia. To experimentally analyze such a possible role of the cholinergic system, we have used the dissociative drug phencyclidine (PCP), known to produce schizophrenia-like psychosis in humans, to model aspects of schizophrenia in rats. We previously showed that induced cortical cholinergic hypofunction leads to enhanced PCP-induced locomotor activity and attenuated social interaction. After PCP, rats lacking cortical cholinergic innervation also show impaired declarative memory. To directly study the role of the basalo-cortical cholinergic projections for PCP-induced neural activation in different cortical areas, we have now monitored the rapid (30 and 60 min) effects of low doses of PCP (2 and 3mg/kg) on neural activation as reflected by transcriptional activation of c-fos in cortical areas, using quantitative in situ hybridization. We find an almost pan-cortical neural induction of c-fos mRNA with doses of PCP low enough not to alter levels of either BDNF or Nogo receptor mRNA levels. Specific unilateral lesioning of the uncrossed cholinergic projections to the cortical mantle by 192-IgG-saporin immunotoxin delivery to nc basalis (NBM) caused a striking ipsilateral decrease of the PCP-induced cortical c-fos mRNA induction, restricted to areas which had become effectively denervated. Because PCP at low doses is unlikely to directly influence cortical neurons, we suggest that it acts by activation of the cholinergic input, which in turn leads to cortical c-fos mRNA increases. Our results are compatible with a role for the cholinergic system in symptoms of schizophrenia, by showing that the basalo-cortical cholinergic projections are needed in order for PCP to have full activating effects on cortical neurons.
Sensory-evoked propagating waves are frequently observed in sensory cortex. However, it is largely unknown how an evoked propagating wave affects the activity evoked by subsequent sensory inputs, or how two propagating waves interact when evoked by simultaneous sensory inputs. Using voltage-sensitive dye imaging, we investigated the interactions between two evoked waves in rat visual cortex, and the spatiotemporal patterns of depolarization in the neuronal population due to wave-to-wave interactions. We have found that visually-evoked propagating waves have a refractory period of about 300 ms, within which the response to a subsequent visual stimulus is suppressed. Simultaneous presentation of two visual stimuli at different locations can evoke two waves propagating toward each other, and these two waves fuse. Fusion significantly shortens the latency and half-width of the response, leading to changes in the spatial profile of evoked population activity. The visually-evoked propagating wave may also be suppressed by a preceding spontaneous wave. The refractory period following a propagating wave and the fusion between two waves may contribute to visual sensory processing by modifying the spatiotemporal profile of population neuronal activity evoked by sensory events.
The sleep electroencephalogram (EEG) undergoes many changes during adolescence. We assessed whether sleep homeostasis is altered across adolescent development using two measures: the dissipation of slow-wave activity (SWA, 0.6-4.6Hz) across the night and the rate of build-up of SWA in the first non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep episode. Furthermore, we examined the association between homeostatic and circadian measures, by correlating the build-up of SWA in the first non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep episode with circadian phase. Finally, we compared the dissipation of SWA in individuals with (PH+) and without (PH-) a parental history of alcohol abuse/dependence. Twenty children (8 PH+) and 25 teens (10 PH+) underwent two consecutive polysomnographic recordings at ages 9/10 and 15/16 years and again 1.5-3 years later. Thirteen young adults (ages 20-23 years; no PH+) were assessed one time. The decay of Process S was modeled for each individual at each assessment using data from both recordings. Four parameters of Process S were derived for EEG derivation C3/A2: time constant of the decay, lower asymptote (LA), the level of S at sleep onset (S(SO)), and S(SO) minus LA. We found no change in these parameters between assessments for the children and teen cohorts. Between-subject analysis of the follow-up assessment for children (ages 11-13 years) and the initial assessment for teens (ages 15/16 years) showed no difference in these parameters, nor did follow-up assessment of teens (ages 17-19 years) compared to the single assessment of young adults (ages 20-23 years). Similarly, we observed no developmental changes in the rate of the build-up of SWA in the first NREM sleep episode for our within- and between-subject analyses, or a correlation between this measure and circadian phase for either cohort. With regard to parental alcohol history, we found no difference in the dissipation of sleep pressure between PH+ and PH- children and teens. These results indicate that the dissipation of sleep pressure does not change across adolescent development, is not correlated with circadian phase, and does not differ between PH+ and PH- children and teens.
Akt has been demonstrated as a survival kinase in brain after hypoxia-ischemia (HI). Previous studies have shown that glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3)/collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP-2) signaling pathway could be regulated by Akt for axonal-dendritic polarity. CRMP-2 is associated also with microtubule-mediated trafficking. However, whether Akt could regulate GSK-3/CRMP-2 pathway and the possible effects of this regulation is unclear in developing brain after HI. In this study, we detected the expression of total and phosphorylated Akt, GSK-3, and CRMP-2, as well as the axonal injury marker amyloid precursor protein (APP) by utilizing an HI model in postnatal 10-day rats. Axonal loss was determined by Bielschowsky silver impregnation, and histological injury was evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E) staining. We found that the phosphorylation of Akt was accompanied by phosphorylation of GSK-3 and dephosphorylation of CRMP-2 after HI. Furthermore, Akt inhibition significantly decreased the phosphorylation of GSK-3 and dephosphorylation of CRMP-2. Moreover, the down-regulation of dephosphorylated CRMP-2 was associated with increased axonal injury (increased APP expression and axonal loss). Our findings suggest that the Akt/GSK-3/CRMP-2 pathway mediates axonal injury in neonatal rat brain after HI.
Chronic systemic inflammation induces age-dependent differential phenotypic changes in microglia and astrocytes, yielding an anti-inflammatory cell phenotype in young rats and a proinflammatory cell phenotype in middle-aged rats. These observations prompted further investigation of the functional outcomes of the resultant differential microglial phenotypic changes. The present study examined the effects of age-dependent differential microglial phenotypic changes following chronic systemic inflammation on the formation of the post-tetanic potentiation (PTP) and long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. Microglia formed a proinflammatory cell phenotype to express ED1 and interleukin-1 (IL-1) in the hippocampal CA1 region of middle-aged rats, but not in young rats following the establishment of adjuvant arthritis (AA). Furthermore, AA induced deficits in the formation of LTP in the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses of middle-aged rats, but not in young rats. On the other hand, the formation of PTP was impaired in both young and middle-aged AA rats. Minocycline, a known inhibitor of microglial activation, was systemically administered to middle-aged AA rats significantly restoring the mean magnitudes of both PTP and LTP. The mean expression levels of ED1 and IL-1 were significantly suppressed. These observations strongly suggest that chronic systemic inflammation induces deficits in the hippocampal LTP in middle-aged rats through neuroinflammation mainly induced by microglia.
Histamine in the adult central nervous system (CNS) acts as a neurotransmitter. This amine is one of the first neurotransmitters to appear during development reaching its maximum concentration simultaneously with neuron differentiation peak. This suggests that HA plays an important role in neurogenesis. We have previously shown that HA is able to increase neuronal differentiation of neural stem cells (NSCs) in vitro, by activating the histamine type 1 receptor. However the mechanism(s) by which HA has a neurogenic effect on NSCs has not been explored. Here we explore how HA is able to increase neuron phenotype. Cortex neuroepithelium progenitors were cultured and at passage two treatments with 100 M HA were given during cell proliferation and differentiation or only during differentiation. Immunocytochemistry was performed on differentiated cultures to detect mature neurons. To explore the expression of certain important transcriptional factors involved on asymmetric cell division and commitment, RT-PCR and qRT-PCR were performed. Results indicate that HA is required during cell proliferation in order to increase neuron differentiation and suggest that this amine increases neuron commitment during the proliferative phase probably by rising prospero1 and neurogenin1 expression.
The underlying mechanisms and involved brain areas in sensory gating of repetitive auditory stimuli remain unclear. Especially, the influence of the auditory cortex and the role of temporal precision are under debate. Our first objective was to analyze gating dynamics of local field potentials in the primary auditory cortex and the ventral striatum in an animal experiment, particularly, assessing the influence of the cortex. The second aim was to follow the hypothesis that auditory gating results from phase de-synchronization of evoked potentials in response to the second auditory stimulus. Local field potentials were recorded simultaneously in the auditory cortex and ventral striatum of awake Mongolian gerbils (n=15) during stimulation with trains of frequency-modulated tones. Gating was analyzed by amplitude ratios of the auditory potentials evoked by the first two stimuli in a train, as well as by time-frequency analyses and between-area phase coupling. The strength of auditory gating in the striatum was found to exceed that in the primary auditory cortex by more than 50%. While total-signal-power was comparable between areas, energy in the striatum was primarily expressed in the non-phase-locked fraction. At the same time, energy in the auditory cortex remained phase-locked to the stimuli. Furthermore, we also observed a between-area phase unlocking during sound presentations. Phase de-synchronization appears to be the candidate mechanism behind attenuation of responses to identical repetitive stimuli in the ventral striatum. We conclude that a direct inhibitory response suppression by the auditory cortex plays a minor role in this process.
How can we investigate the brain mechanisms underlying self-consciousness? Recent behavioural studies on multisensory bodily perception have shown that multisensory conflicts can alter bodily self-consciousness such as in the &quot;full body illusion&quot; (FBI) in which changes in self-identification with a virtual body and tactile perception are induced. Here we investigated whether experimental changes in self-identification during the FBI are accompanied by activity changes in somatosensory cortex by recording somatosensory-evoked potentials (SEPs). To modulate self-identification, participants were filmed by a video camera from behind while their backs were stroked, either synchronously (illusion condition) or asynchronously (control condition) with respect to the stroking seen on their virtual body. Tibial nerve SEPs were recorded during the FBI and analysed using evoked potential (EP) mapping. Tactile mislocalisation was measured using the crossmodal congruency task. SEP mapping revealed five sequential periods of brain activation during the FBI, of which two differed between the illusion condition and the control condition. Activation at 30-50 ms (corresponding to the P40 component) in primary somatosensory cortex was stronger in the illusion condition. A later activation at 110-200 ms, likely originating in higher-tier somatosensory regions in parietal cortex, was stronger and lasted longer in the control condition. These data show that changes in bodily self-consciousness modulate activity in primary and higher-tier somatosensory cortex at two distinct processing steps. We argue that early modulations of primary somatosensory cortex may be a consequence of (1) multisensory integration of synchronous vs. asynchronous visuo-tactile stimuli and/or (2) differences in spatial attention (to near or far space) between the conditions. The later activation in higher-tier parietal cortex (and potentially other regions in temporo-parietal and frontal cortex) likely reflects the detection of visuo-tactile conflicts in the asynchronous condition.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) plays an important role in reward and motivational processes that facilitate the development of drug addiction. Glutamatergic inputs into the VTA contribute to dopamine (DA) neuronal activation related to reward and response-initiating effects in drug abuse. Previous investigations indicate that alpha1-adrenoreceptors (1-ARs) are primarily localized at presynaptic elements in the ventral midbrain. Studies from several brain regions have shown that presynaptic 1-AR activation enhances glutamate release. Therefore, we hypothesized that glutamate released onto VTA-DA neurons is modulated by pre-synaptic 1-AR. Recordings were obtained from putative VTA-DA cells of male Sprague-Dawley rats (28-50 days postnatal) using voltage clamp techniques. Phenylephrine (10 M) and methoxamine (80M), both 1-AR agonists, increased AMPA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents' (EPSCs) amplitude evoked by electrical stimulation of afferent fibers (p&lt;0.05). This effect was blocked by the 1-AR antagonist prazosin (1 M). Phenylephrine decreased the paired-pulse ratio (PPR) and increased spontaneous EPSCs' frequencies but not their amplitudes suggesting a presynaptic locus of action. No changes in miniature EPSCs (0.5M, tetrodotoxin [TTX]) were observed after phenylephrine's application which suggests that 1-AR effect was action potential dependent. Normal extra- and intracellular Ca(2+) concentration seems necessary for the 1-AR effect since phenylephrine in low Ca(2+) artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) and depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) stores with thapsigargin (10 M) failed to increase the AMPA EPSCs' amplitude. Chelerythrine (1M, protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor) but not Rp-cAMPS (11 M, PKA inhibitor) blocked the 1-AR activation effect on AMPA EPSCs, indicating that a PKC intracellular pathway is required. These results demonstrated that presynaptic 1-AR activation modulates glutamatergic inputs that affect VTA-DA neuronal excitability. 1-AR action might be heterosynaptically localized at glutamatergic fibers terminating onto VTA-DA neurons. It is suggested that drug-induced changes in 1-AR could be part of the neuroadaptations occurring in the mesocorticolimbic circuitry during the addiction process.
The locus coeruleus (LC) is the major loci of noradrenergic innervation to the forebrain. Due to the extensive central nervous system innervation of the LC noradrenergic system, a reduction in the number of LC neurons could result in significant changes in noradrenergic function in many forebrain regions. LC noradrenergic neurons were lesioned in adult male C57Bl/6 mice with the unilateral administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (6OHDA) (vehicle on the alternate side). Noradrenergic markers were measured 3 weeks later to determine the consequence of LC loss in the forebrain. Direct administration of 6OHDA into the LC results in the specific reduction of noradrenergic neurons in the LC (as measured by electrophysiology, immunoreactivity and in situ hybridization), the lateral tegmental neurons and dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmental region were unaffected. The loss of LC noradrenergic neurons did not result in compensatory changes in the expression of mRNA for norepinephrine (NE)-synthesizing enzymes. The loss of LC noradrenergic neurons is associated with reduced NE tissue concentration and NE transporter (NET) binding sites in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, as well as other forebrain regions such as the amygdala and SN. Adrenoreceptor (AR) binding sites ((1)- and (2)-AR) were not significantly affected on the 6OHDA-treated side compared to the vehicle-treated side, although there is a reduction of AR binding sites on both the vehicle- and 6OHDA-treated side in specific forebrain regions. These studies indicate that unilateral stereotaxic injection of 6OHDA into mice reduces noradrenergic LC neurons and reduces noradrenergic innervation to many forebrain regions, including the contralateral side.
Here we examined how mu-opioid receptor signaling in the periaqueductal gray (PAG) mediates conditional and unconditional responses to aversive stimuli. The mu-opioid agonist morphine (MOR) and/or the partially mu-selective antagonist naltrexone (NAL) were infused into dorsolateral PAG (dlPAG) during a fear conditioning task, in which rats were trained to fear an auditory conditional stimulus (CS) by pairing it with a unilateral eyelid shock unconditional stimulus (US). During drug-free test sessions, the CS elicited movement suppression responses (indicative of freezing) from trained rats that had not recently encountered the US. In trained rats that had recently encountered the US, the CS elicited flight behavior characterized by turning in the direction away from the eyelid where US delivery was anticipated. Infusions of MOR (30 nmol/side) into dlPAG prior to the test session did not impair CS-evoked movement suppression, but did impair CS-evoked turning behaviors. MOR infusions also reduced baseline motor movement, but US-evoked reflex movements remained largely intact. NAL was infused at two dosages, denoted 1x (26 nmol/side) and 10x (260 nmol/side). Infusions of NAL into dlPAG did not affect CS- or US-evoked behavioral responses at the 1x dosage, but impaired CS-evoked movement suppression at the 10x dosage, both in the presence and absence of MOR. When rats were co-infused with MOR and NAL, MOR-induced effects were not reversed by either dosage of NAL, and some measures of MOR-induced movement suppression were enhanced by NAL at the 1x dosage. Based on these findings, we conclude that mu-opioid receptors in dlPAG may selectively regulate descending supraspinal motor pathways that drive active movement behaviors, and that interactions between MOR and NAL in dlPAG may be more complex than simple competition for binding at the mu receptor.
The cerebral cortex is often described as a composite of repeated units or columns, integrating the same basic circuit. The 'ice-cube' model of cortical organization, and 'canonical' circuit, born from insights into functional architecture, still require systematic comparative data. Here we probed the anatomy of an individual neuronal type within V1 to determine whether or not its dendritic trees are consistent with the 'ice-cube' model and theories of canonical circuits. In a previous report we studied the morphometric variability of NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) neurons in the rat auditory, visual and somatosensory primary cortical areas. Our results suggested that the nitrergic cortical circuitry of primary sensory areas are differentially specialized, probably reflecting peculiarities of both habit and behavior of the species. In the present report we specifically quantified the dendritic trees of NADPH-d type I neurons as a function of eccentricity within V1. Individual neurons were reconstructed in 3D, and the size, branching and space-filling of their dendritic trees were correlated with their location within the visuotopic map. We found that NADPH-d neurons became progressively smaller and less branched with progression from the central visual representation to the intermediate and peripheral visual representation. This finding suggests that aspects of cortical circuitry may vary across the cortical mantle to a greater extent that envisaged as natural variation among columns in the 'ice-cube' model. The systematic variation in neuronal structure as a function of eccentricity warrants further investigation to probe the general applicability of columnar models of cortical organization and canonical circuits.
The long-term effects of stress during development have been well characterized. However, the effects of developmental stress on the underlying neurological mechanisms related to the reward system are not well understood. The present report studied the long term effects of stress during development on the structural plasticity in the cortical and subcortical regions. Rats exposed to stress during embryonic development (prenatal stress; PS) or soon after birth (maternal separation; MS) were studied for structural alteration at the neuronal level in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), orbital frontal cortex (OFC), and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). The findings show that stress during development increased dendritic branching, length, and spine density in the NAc, and subregions of the PFC. PS experience increased dendritic branching and length in the mPFC apical and basilar dendrites. In contrast, a PS-associated decrease in dendritic branching and length was observed in the basilar branches of the OFC. MS resulted in an increase in dendritic growth and spine density in the subregions of the PFC. The effect of PS on neuroanatomy was more robust than MS despite the shorter duration and intensity. The altered dendritic growth and spine density associated with stress during development could have potential impact on NAc and PFC related behaviors.
Abnormal brain development in a compromised prenatal and/or early postnatal environment is thought to be a risk factor for several neurobehavioural disorders. However, the mechanisms underlying these are not well understood. We have earlier reported reduced placental docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) levels in preterm deliveries. We have hypothesized that increased oxidative stress and reduced DHA levels may lead to changes in the circulating levels of maternal and cord brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) levels. A total number of 96 women delivering preterm and 95 women delivering at term were recruited. Plasma BDNF levels were measured in both mother and cord blood plasma using the BDNF Immuno Assay kit. Placental TrkB levels were analysed using sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Maternal plasma BDNF levels and placental TrkB levels were higher (p&lt;0.05) while cord plasma BDNF levels were lower (p&lt;0.01) in women delivering preterm as compared to term. There was a negative association between levels of placental TrkB and DHA (p=0.034). A negative association between maternal plasma BDNF levels and placental weight (p=0.001) was observed while a positive association was seen between cord plasma BDNF levels and gestation (p=0.025). The reduction in cord BDNF levels may have implications for altered neurodevelopment in childhood and later life. Studies need to be undertaken to follow up children born preterm for risk of neurobehavioural disorders like attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) to understand the effect of altered BDNF at birth on neurodevelopment.
The spinal Neuropeptide Y (NPY) system is a potential target for development of new pain therapeutics. NPY and two of its receptors (Y1 and Y2) are found in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord, a key area of nociceptive gating and modulation. Lumbar intrathecal injection of (NPY) is antinociceptive, reducing hyper-reflexia to thermal and mechanical stimulation, particularly after nerve injury and inflammation. We have also shown that intrathecal injection of the targeted cytotoxin, Neuropeptide Y-sap (NPY-sap), is also antinociceptive, reducing nocifensive reflex responses to noxious heat and formalin. In the present study, we sought to determine the role of dorsal horn Y1R-expressing neurons in pain by destroying them with NPY-sap and testing the rats on three operant tasks. Lumbar intrathecal NPY-sap (1) reduced Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA)-induced hyper-reflexia on the 10C cold plate, (2) reduced cold aversion on the thermal preference and escape tasks, (3) was analgesic to noxious heat on the escape task, (4) reduced the CFA-induced allodynia to cold temperatures experienced on the thermal preference, feeding interference, and escape tasks, and (5) did not inhibit or interfere with morphine analgesia.
The purpose of this study was to induce the differentiation of neural stem/precursor cells (NSPC) more towards neurons than glial cells by the combination of media, biomaterials and extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Considering the role of serum, 10% fetal bovine serum or its fractions were added to DMEM/F12 medium to examine the effect of the differentiation-promoting potential on cultured NSPC isolated from embryonic rat cerebral cortex. The NSPC were cultured for 7 days, after which differentiation was assayed using immunocytochemistry for lineage specific markers. It was demonstrated that molecules promoting neuron differentiation were present in serum with molecular weight &lt;100 kDa, which could dominate the differentiation of NSPC principally into neurons in the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor. In contrast, NSPC were induced to differentiate predominantly into glial cell phenotypes in the presence of whole serum components. Based on medium containing serum fraction, semi-quantification showed that the MAP2-positive percentage of the immunoreactive ratio within migrated cells could be promoted over 85% by combining poly(ethylene-co-vinyl alcohol) biomaterial and fibronectin matrix protein. These results are very encouraging, since an environment favorable for neuronal differentiation should be useful in the development of strategies for controlling the behavior of NSPC in neuroscience research.







This review addresses the complex and often controversial anatomy of the anterior bundle of the OR, also known as the Meyer loop. Before the advent of MR imaging, 2 main types of studies attempted to ascertain the &quot;safe&quot; distance for anterior temporal lobe resection to avoid postsurgical VFDs. There were those based first on postoperative VFD correlation and second on anatomic dissection studies. In the past decade, noninvasive diffusion MR imaging-based tractography techniques have been developed in an attempt to elucidate white matter connectivity. Although many of these techniques are still experimental, there are some clinical situations for which they may prove to be very helpful if properly performed and validated. The motivation for this review was to improve the outcome of patients with TLE undergoing temporal lobectomy: Would having anatomic information about the OR available to the neurosurgeon decrease the risk of postsurgical VFDs?
Alcohol consumption and exposure to stressful life events activate similar neural pathways and thus result in several comparable physiological and behavioral effects. Alcoholics in treatment claim that life stressors are the leading cause of continued drinking or relapse. However, few studies have investigated the interactive effects of stress and alcohol on cognitive behavior. The effects of restraint stress, alcohol, and stress in combination with alcohol were examined on a spatial memory test, the object placement (OP) task. In addition, intake levels were measured to determine if stress altered general consumption of alcohol. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to one of four conditions: no alcohol/no stress control (CON), stress alone (STR), alcohol alone (ALC), and STR+alcohol (STR+ALC). Following each restraint stress bout, the STR+ALC and the ALC groups were given access to 8% alcohol for 1h using the two-bottle choice limited access paradigm. As predicted, the STR+ALC group significantly increased alcohol consumption, while the ALC group had consistent drinking over the 10-day treatment. On the OP task, STR and ALC groups performed at chance levels, whereas the CON and STR+ALC groups significantly discriminated between objects in the new and old locations. These data show that stress increases alcohol intake and the intake of alcohol is associated with reduction of the stress-induced impairment of spatial memory. The data have important implications for the development of alcohol abuse and its treatment.



IDH1 mutations are frequent genetic alterations in low-grade diffuse gliomas and secondary glioblastoma (GBM). To validate mutation frequency, IDH1 gene at codon 132 was sequenced in 74 diffusely infiltrating astrocytomas: diffuse astrocytoma (DA; World Health Organization [WHO] grade II), anaplastic astrocytoma (AA; WHO grade III), and GBM (WHO grade IV). All cases were immunostained with IDH1-R132H monoclonal antibody. Mutational status was correlated with mutant protein expression, patient age, duration of symptoms, and prognosis of patients with GBM. We detected 31 (41.9%) heterozygous IDH1 mutations resulting in arginine-to-histidine substitution (R132H;CGT-CAT). All 12 DAs (100%), 13 of 14 AAs (92.9%), and 6 of 48 GBMs (12.5%) (5/6 [83.3%] secondary, and 1/42 [2.4%] primary) harbored IDH1 mutations. The correlation between mutational status and protein expression was significant (P &lt; . 001). IDH1 mutation status, though not associated with prognosis of patients with GBM, showed significant association with younger age and longer duration of symptoms in the whole cohort (P &lt; .001). Our study validates IDH1 mutant protein expression across various grades of astrocytoma, and demonstrates a high incidence of IDH1 mutations in DA, AA, and secondary GBM.
Smoking has been posited as a possible risk factor for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), but large population-based studies of patients with incident disease are still needed. The authors performed a population-based case-control study in the Netherlands between 2006 and 2009, including 494 patients with incident ALS and 1,599 controls. To prove the relevance of population-based incidence cohorts in case-control studies, the authors compared results with those from cohorts including patients with prevalent ALS and referral patients. Subjects were sent a questionnaire. Multivariate analyses showed an increased risk of ALS among current smokers (odds ratio = 1.38, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.02, 1.88) in the incident patient group only. Cox regression models showed that current smoking was also independently associated with shorter survival (hazard ratio = 1.51, 95% CI: 1.07, 2.15), explaining the lack of association in the prevalent and referral patient groups. Current alcohol consumption was associated with a reduced risk of ALS (incident patient group: odds ratio = 0.52, 95% CI: 0.40, 0.75). These findings indicate that current smoking is associated with an increased risk of ALS, as well as a worse prognosis, and alcohol consumption is associated with a reduced risk of ALS, further corroborating the role of lifestyle factors in the pathogenesis of ALS. The importance of population-based incident patient cohorts in identifying risk factors is highlighted by this study.
Individuals with cystinosis exhibit specific cognitive deficits in visual spatial function. The purpose of the current study was to examine if obligate heterozygotes of the CTNS mutation have the same pattern of cognitive functioning seen in homozygotes, namely aberrant visual-spatial functioning against a background of relatively intact visual-perceptual functioning and overall cognitive ability. Study participants were 254 adults (100 heterozygotes and 154 controls), ages 17 years 10 months through 74 years 9 months. Tests of intelligence, visual perceptual, and visual spatial functioning were administered. Our results showed that cystinosis heterozygotes demonstrated intelligence within the normal range, and performed similarly to controls on tests of visual-perceptual ability. In contrast, the heterozygotes performed significantly more poorly on each of the visual-spatial tests when compared to controls. Obligate heterozygotes for the CTNS mutation display a similar pattern of visual processing decrements as do individuals with cystinosis. Namely, carriers demonstrate relative weaknesses in visual-spatial processing, while maintaining normal visual perceptual ability and intelligence in the normal range. The visual spatial decrements in heterozygotes were not as marked as those found in individuals with cystinosis, suggesting a gene dosing effect. This study provides an impetus for other studies of gene-behavior relationships in recessive disorders, and may stimulate further interest in the role of aberrant genes on &quot;individual differences&quot; in behavior.
Purinergic and nitrergic neurotransmission predominantly mediate inhibitory neuromuscular transmission in the rat colon. We studied the sensitivity of both purinergic and nitrergic pathways to spadin, a TWIK-related potassium channel 1 (TREK1) inhibitor, apamin, a small-conductance calcium-activated potassium channel blocker and 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), a specific inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase. TREK1 expression was detected by RT-PCR in the rat colon. Patch-clamp experiments were performed on cells expressing hTREK1 channels. Spadin (1 M) reduced currents 1) in basal conditions 2) activated by stretch, and 3) with arachidonic acid (AA; 10 M). l-Methionine (1 mM) or l-cysteine (1 mM) did not modify currents activated by AA. Microelectrode and muscle bath studies were performed on rat colon samples. l-Methionine (2 mM), apamin (1 M), ODQ (10 M), and N()-nitro-l-arginine (l-NNA; 1 mM) depolarized smooth muscle cells and increased motility. These effects were not observed with spadin (1 M). Purinergic and nitrergic inhibitory junction potentials (IJP) were studied by incubating the tissue with l-NNA (1 mM) or MRS2500 (1 M). Both purinergic and nitrergic IJP were unaffected by spadin. Apamin reduced both IJP with a different potency and maximal effect for each. ODQ concentration dependently abolished nitrergic IJP without affecting purinergic IJP. Similar effects were observed in hyperpolarizations induced by sodium nitroprusside (1 M) and nitrergic relaxations induced by electrical stimulation. We propose a pharmacological approach to characterize the pathways and function of purinergic and nitrergic neurotransmission. Nitrergic neurotransmission, which is mediated by cyclic guanosine monophosphate, is insensitive to spadin, an effective TREK1 channel inhibitor. Both purinergic and nitrergic neurotransmission are inhibited by apamin but with different relative sensitivity.
The functional role of the different classes of visceral afferents that innervate the large intestine is poorly understood. Recent evidence suggests that low-threshold, wide-dynamic-range rectal afferents play an important role in the detection and transmission of visceral pain induced by noxious colorectal distension in mice. However, it is not clear which classes of spinal afferents are activated during naturally occurring colonic motor patterns or during intense contractions of the gut smooth muscle. We developed an in vitro colorectum preparation to test how the major classes of rectal afferents are activated during spontaneous colonic migrating motor complex (CMMC) or pharmacologically induced contraction. During CMMCs, circular muscle contractions increased firing in low-threshold, wide-dynamic-range muscular afferents and muscular-mucosal afferents, which generated a mean firing rate of 1.53  0.23 Hz (n = 8) under isotonic conditions and 2.52  0.36 Hz (n = 17) under isometric conditions. These low-threshold rectal afferents were reliably activated by low levels of circumferential stretch induced by increases in length (1-2 mm) or load (1-3 g). In a small proportion of cases (5 of 34 units), some low-threshold muscular and muscular-mucosal afferents decreased their firing rate during the peak of the CMMC contractions. High-threshold afferents were never activated during spontaneous CMMC contractions or tonic contractions induced by bethanechol (100 M). High-threshold rectal afferents were only activated by intense levels of circumferential stretch (10-20 g). These results show that, in the rectal nerves of mice, low-threshold, wide-dynamic-range muscular and muscular-mucosal afferents are excited during contraction of the circular muscle that occurs during spontaneous CMMCs. No activation of high-threshold rectal afferents was detected during CMMCs or intense contractile activity in nave mouse colorectum.

Reverse transcription quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) uses threshold cycles (Ct values) for measuring relative gene expression. Ct values are signal-to-noise data composed of target gene expression and multiple sources of confounding variations. Data analysis is to minimize technical noises, evaluate biological variances, and estimate treatment-attributable expression changes of particular genes. However, this function is not sufficiently fulfilled in current analytic methods. An important but unrecognizable problem is that Ct values from all biological replicates and technical repeats are pooled across genes and treatment types. This violates the sample-specific association between target and reference genes, leading to inefficient removal of technical noises. To resolve this problem, here we propose to separate Ct values into replicate-specific data subsets and iteratively analyze expression ratios for individual data subsets. The individual expression ratios, rather than the raw Ct values, are pooled to determine the final expression change. The variances of all biological replicates and technical repeats across all target and reference genes are summed up. Our results from example data demonstrate that this separated method can substantially minimize RT-qPCR variance compared with the traditional methods using pooled Ct profiles. This analytic strategy is more effective in control of technical noises and improves the fidelity of RT-qPCR quantification.
This review considers the challenges ahead for developing a generalizable strategy for the use of central thalamic deep brain stimulation (CT/DBS) to support arousal regulation mechanisms in the severely injured brain. Historical efforts to apply CT/DBS to patients with severe brain injuries and a proof-of-concept result from a single-subject study are discussed. Circuit and cellular mechanisms underlying the recovery of consciousness are considered for their relevance to the application of CT/DBS, to improve consciousness and cognition in nonprogressive brain injuries. Finally, directions for development, and testing of generalizable criteria for CT/DBS are suggested, which aim to identify neuronal substrates and behavioral profiles that may optimally benefit from support of arousal regulation mechanisms.
Feedback control of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in Parkinson's disease has great potential to improve efficacy, reduce side effects, and decrease the cost of treatment. In this, the timing and intensity of stimulation are titrated according to biomarkers that capture current clinical state. Stimulation may be at standard high frequency or intelligently patterned to directly modify specific pathological rhythms. The search for and validation of appropriate feedback signals are therefore crucial. Signals recorded from the DBS electrode currently appear to be the most promising source of feedback. In particular, beta-frequency band oscillations in the local field potential recorded at the stimulation target may capture variation in bradykinesia and rigidity across patients, but this remains to be confirmed within patients. Biomarkers that reliably reflect other impairments, such as tremor, also need to be established. Finally, whether brain signals are causally important needs to be established before stimulation can be specifically patterned rather than delivered at empirically defined high frequency.
Overweight sedentary individuals are at increased risk for cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and some neurological disorders. Beneficial effects of dietary energy restriction (DER) and exercise on brain structural plasticity and behaviors have been demonstrated in animal models of aging and acute (stroke and trauma) and chronic (Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases) neurological disorders. The findings described later, and evolutionary considerations, suggest brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a critical role in the integration and optimization of behavioral and metabolic responses to environments with limited energy resources and intense competition. In particular, BDNF signaling mediates adaptive responses of the central, autonomic, and peripheral nervous systems from exercise and DER. In the hypothalamus, BDNF inhibits food intake and increases energy expenditure. By promoting synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis in the hippocampus, BDNF mediates exercise- and DER-induced improvements in cognitive function and neuroprotection. DER improves cardiovascular stress adaptation by a mechanism involving enhancement of brainstem cholinergic activity. Collectively, findings reviewed in this paper provide a rationale for targeting BDNF signaling for novel therapeutic interventions in a range of metabolic and neurological disorders.


Significant facial emotion recognition (FER) deficits have been observed in participants exhibiting high levels of eating psychopathology. The current study aimed to determine if the pattern of FER deficits is influenced by intensity of facial emotion and to establish if eating psychopathology is associated with a specific pattern of emotion recognition errors that is independent of other psychopathological or personality factors. Eighty females, 40 high and 40 low scorers on the Eating Disorders Inventory (EDI) were presented with a series of faces, each featuring one of five emotional expressions at one of four intensities, and were asked to identify the emotion portrayed. Results revealed that, in comparison to Low EDI scorers, high scorers correctly recognised significantly fewer expressions, particularly of fear and anger. There was also a trend for this deficit to be more evident for subtle displays of emotion (50% intensity). Deficits in anger recognition were related specifically to scores on the body dissatisfaction subscale of the EDI. Error analyses revealed that, in comparison to Low EDI scorers, high scorers made significantly more and fear-as-anger errors. Also, a tendency to label anger expressions as sadness was related to body dissatisfaction. Current findings confirm FER deficits in subclinical eating psychopathology and extend these findings to subtle expressions of emotion. Furthermore, this is the first study to establish that these deficits are related to a specific pattern of recognition errors. Impaired FER could disrupt normal social functioning and might represent a risk factor for the development of more severe psychopathology.
The descriptive term of cerebral palsy encompasses the largest group of childhood movement disorders. Severity and pattern of clinical involvement varies widely dependent on the area of the central nervous system compromised. A multidisciplinary team approach is vital for all the aspects of management to improve function and minimise disability. From a medical viewpoint, there are two pronged approaches. First a focus on developmental and clinical comorbidities such as communication, behaviour, epilepsy, feeding problems, gastro-oesophageal reflux and infections; and second on specifics of muscle tone, motor control and posture. With regards to the latter, there is an increasing number of available treatments including oral antispasticity and antidystonic medications, injectable botulinum toxin, multilevel orthopaedic and neurosurgical options and a variety of complementary and alternative therapies.




Basic research in neuroscience and clinical research on neurological disorders synergistically increase our understanding of the human brain. Traditionally, functional and clinical studies of the human brain were limited to postmortem histology, &quot;natural experiments&quot; (eg, lesions to brain areas caused by trauma or disease), and crude measures of electrical activity such as electroencephalography. More recently, the development of transcranial magnetic stimulation and rapid advances in imaging technology have greatly facilitated human brain research. In rare cases in which treating a neurological disorder involves implanting electrodes, researchers can even record the electrical activity of individual neurons. Although these approaches have led to important insights, they do not allow for a precise dissection of the underlying mechanisms by which the brain mediates perception, cognition, and behavior. Thus, neuroscientists and neurologists remain severely limited in the types of experiments they can perform on human subjects and much of our understanding of brain structure and function is based on research in animal models. In this article, I highlight the enormous potential for synergy between neuroscience and evolutionary biology. Nervous systems have been shaped by evolution, and comparative approaches take advantage of the resulting diversity to gain insight into the neural mechanisms of behavior. On the other hand, nervous systems and the behaviors and perceptions they mediate can play a fundamental role in the evolutionary processes that generate this diversity. To emphasize these points, I describe recent findings from research on African fishes that use electricity to communicate and navigate in their dark underwater world.
The authors have analyzed the content of a selection of letters written by Dom Pedro II, the Emperor of Brazil, and sent to Doctor Charles Brown-Squard, the famous neurologist, between 1876 and 1885. The content of those letters focuses mainly on his wife's, Princess Thereza Cristina, health issues and Dom Pedro's personal desire to foster the research into the physiological study of the nervous system.

To investigate whether polymerized human placenta hemoglobin (PolyPHb) improved hemodynamic parameter recovery and cardiac function after hemorrhagic shock, a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 30 mmHg was maintained for 60min. Then, all the rats were randomly resuscitated with hetastarch (HES), shed blood (Whole Blood), or PolyPHb (PolyPHb). The MAP was greatly improved by PolyPHb, but it was still lower than that of the Whole Blood group. Meanwhile, the cardiac function and enzyme releases in the PolyPHb group were similar to the HES group. Therefore, our findings suggest that PolyPHb moderately improved hemodynamic recovery and provided little cardioprotective effect in hemorrhagic shock.
When, in relation to the execution of an eye movement, does the recoding of visual information from retinotopic to spatiotopic coordinates happen? Two laboratories seeking to answer this question using oculomotor inhibition of return (IOR) have generated different answers: Matht and Theeuwes (Psychological Science 21:1793-1798, 2010) found evidence for the initial coding of IOR to be retinotopic, while Pertzov, Zohary, and Avidan (Journal of Neuroscience 30:8882-8887, 2010) found evidence for spatiotopic IOR at even shorter postsaccadic intervals than were tested by Matht and Theeuwes (Psychological Science 21:1793-1798, 2010). To resolve this discrepancy, we conducted two experiments that combined the methods of the previous two studies while testing as early as possible. We found early spatiotopic IOR in both experiments, suggesting that visual events, including prior fixations, are typically coded into an abstract, allocentric representation of space either before or during eye movements. This type of coding enables IOR to encourage orienting toward novelty and, consequently, to perform the role of a foraging facilitator.




Measurement of the severity of autism at a single time point, and over time, is a widespread challenge for researchers. Recently, Gotham, Pickles, and Lord published a severity metric (calibrated severity scores; CSS) that takes into account age and language level and is based on raw total scores of the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS), a standardized measure commonly used in autism diagnosis. The present study examined psychometric characteristics of the CSS compared to raw scores in an independent sample of 368 children aged 2 to 12 years with autism, pervasive developmental disorder-not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS), non-spectrum delay, or typical development. Reflecting the intended calibration, the CSS were more uniformly distributed within clinical diagnostic category and across ADOS modules than were raw scores. Cross-sectional analyses examining raw and severity scores and their relationships to participant characteristics revealed that verbal developmental level was a significant predictor of raw score but accounted for significantly less variance in the CSS. Longitudinal analyses indicated overall stability of the CSS over 12 to 24 months in children with autism. Findings from this study support the use of the CSS as a more valid indicator of autism severity than the ADOS raw total score, and extend the literature by examining the stability over 12 to 24 months of the CSS in children with ASD.

Zoletil() is a 1:1 combination of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, tiletamine, and the benzodiazepine, zolazepam, commonly used as a veterinary anesthetic. There have been previous reports on the abuse of zoletil in humans, and these motivated us to investigate the rewarding and reinforcing effects of the drug. We experimented whether zoletil and its constituents, tiletamine and zolazepam, produces place preference and/or facilitates self-administration. Then we compared the effects of zoletil to that of the recreationally abused veterinary anesthetic, ketamine. We also delved into the consequences of drug pre-exposure, thus parallel experiments were performed on rats pre-treated with the drug for 14 days. Our findings indicated that zoletil produced neither reward nor reinforcement in drug-nave rats; however, repeated pre-treatment of zoletil produced significant place preference and self-administration. Tiletamine generated both place preference and self-administration; while zolazepam induced place preference but was not self-administered, even in pre-treated animals. The rewarding and reinforcing effects produced by zoletil were comparable to that of ketamine. Therefore, zoletil per se, has no motivational effects but the changes in neuronal functions and behavior consequential to repeated zoletil treatment may contribute in part to the addiction liability of the drug. Furthermore, the present study suggests that complex interactions occur with acute or repeated treatment of an NMDA receptor antagonist-benzodiazepine combination.
Photoperiodism is a biological phenomenon in which environmental day length is monitored to ascertain time of year to engage in seasonally appropriate adaptations. This trait is common among organisms living outside of the tropics. White-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) are small photoperiodic rodents which display a suite of adaptive responses to short day lengths, including reduced hippocampal volume, impairments in hippocampal-mediated memory, and enhanced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis reactivity. Because these photoperiodic changes in brain and behavior mirror some of the etiology of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), we hypothesized that photoperiod may also alter fear memory and neuronal morphology within the hippocampus-basolateral amygdala-prefrontal cortex fear circuit. Ten weeks of exposure to short days increased fear memory in an auditory-cued fear conditioning test. Short days also increased dendritic spine density of the neurons of the basolateral amygdala, without affecting morphology of pyramidal neurons within the infralimbic region of the medial prefrontal cortex. Taken together, photoperiodic phenotypic changes in brain morphology and physiology induced by a single environmental factor, exposure to short day lengths, affect responses to fearful stimuli in white-footed mice. These results have potential implications for understanding seasonal changes in fear responsiveness, as well as for expanding translational animal models for studying gene-environment interactions underlying psychiatric diseases, such as PTSD.
Aside from the well-known influence of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) on emotional regulation, more recent investigations have revealed the importance of this monoamine in modulating cognition. Parachlorophenylalanine (PCPA) depletes 5-HT by inhibiting tryptophan hydroxylase, the enzyme required for 5-HT synthesis and, if administered at sufficiently high doses, can result in a depletion of at least 90% of the brain's 5-HT levels. The present study assessed the long-lasting effects of widespread 5-HT depletions on two tasks of cognitive flexibility in Long Evans rats: effort discounting and reversal learning. We assessed performance on these tasks after administration of either 250 or 500 mg/kg PCPA or saline (SAL) on two consecutive days. Consistent with a previous report investigating the role of 5-HT on effort discounting, pretreatment with either dose of PCPA resulted in normal effortful choice: All rats continued to climb tall barriers to obtain large rewards and were not work-averse. Additionally, rats receiving the lower dose of PCPA displayed normal reversal learning. However, despite intact motivation to work for food rewards, rats receiving the largest dose of PCPA were unexpectedly impaired relative to SAL rats on the pretraining stages leading up to reversal learning, ultimately failing to approach and respond to the stimuli associated with reward. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection confirmed 5-HT, and not dopamine, levels in the ventromedial frontal cortex were correlated with this measure of associative reward learning.
The antagonist MZ-4-71 of growth hormone-releasing hormone (GH-RH) has been shown to suppress the secretion of GH and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), suggesting that this class of analogs could be used for the therapy of disorders characterized by excessive GH secretion. Numerous GH-RH antagonists has been synthetized and shown to suppress the growth of various tumors. MZ-4-71 facilitates the consolidation of passive avoidance learning. Beta-amyloid 25-35 impairs the consolidation of passive avoidance learning and MZ-4-71 fully blocks this impairment. However, little is known about the possible mechanism of action of GR-RH antagonists on these actions. In the present work, the possible effects of different neurotransmitters on the action of MZ-4-71 were studied in the memory consolidation of passive avoidance behavior. The involvement of cholinergic, serotonergic, dopaminergic, GABA-ergic, adrenergic and opiate receptors was tested. Mice were pretreated with a nonselective -adrenergic receptor antagonist, phenoxybenzamine, a -adrenergic receptor antagonist, propranolol, a mixed 5-HT1/5-HT2 serotonergic receptor antagonist, methysergide, a nonselective 5-HT2 serotonergic receptor antagonist, cyproheptadine, a nonselective muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, atropine, a D2, D3, D4 dopamine receptor antagonist, haloperidol, a -aminobutyric acid subunit A (GABA-A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, or a nonselective opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone. Atropine, methysergide, cyproheptadine and naloxone prevented the effects of MZ-4-71 on passive avoidance learning, whereas haloperidol, phenoxybenzamine, propranolol and bicuculline did not change the effects of MZ-4-71. The results demonstrate that the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor, the 5-HT1/5-HT2 serotonergic receptor and opioid receptors are involved as mediators in the action of MZ-4-71 on the consolidation of passive avoidance learning.
The majority of patients with panic disorder express a fearful sensation when encountered with panic-related cues. A subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons in the hippocampus has been demonstrated in the regulation of behavioural learning, especially during the contextual fear-conditioning. Here, we examined the influence of panic/fear response induced by deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the periaqueductal gray on these hippocampal parvalbumin-positive interneurons. We found that fear-like behaviour did not change the number of c-Fos immunoreactive and parvalbumin-positive cells. However, a remarkable decrease of c-Fos and parvalbumin co-localization was shown in the hippocampal regions when compared to non-stimulated sham animals. In line with previous studies, our results support the hypothesis that GABAergic regulation resulted in enhanced behavioural reactivity to fear conditioning. In conclusion, our findings indicate that the inhibition of this subpopulation of hippocampal parvalbumin-positive interneurons induced a long lasting anxiety- or fear-like behaviour.
Sweet preference and impulsivity are predictors of cocaine self-administration; however, no research has been conducted to investigate neuronal activation in key brain reward areas after first time exposure to cocaine in rats that differ in their propensity for cocaine-seeking and -taking behavior. In this study we used rats that had been selectively bred for high vs. low saccharin intake and rats selected for high vs. low impulsivity for food. The goal of this study was to investigate whether there are differences of c-Fos reactivity between high and low phenotypes and determine whether these differences are similar between the two animal models. A group of rats was bred for high or low saccharin intake. Another group of rats was selected as high or low impulsive based on performance in a delay-discounting task. Subsequently, rats were given an acute injection of cocaine or saline and then c-Fos expression was observed and analyzed in several brain regions. The low reward-seeking phenotypes showed higher cocaine-induced c-Fos expression in several of these regions. Low saccharin preferring rats showed higher cocaine-induced c-Fos expression in the nucleus accumbens shell, and low impulsive rats showed higher cocaine-induced c-Fos expression in the orbitofrontal cortex and cingulate gyrus 1 area. In addition, both low impulsive and low saccharin rats had higher cocaine-induced c-Fos in the dorsal medial and dorsal lateral caudate putamen. The results indicate that individual differences in neuronal reactivity exist prior to chronic exposure to drugs of abuse. Furthermore, similar differences between the two animal models may be indicative of a common mechanism underlying vulnerability to drugs of abuse.
In rodents, exercise increases hippocampal neurogenesis and allows for better learning and memory performance on water maze tasks. While exercise has also been shown to be beneficial for the brain and behavior in humans, no study has examined how exercise impacts spatial learning using a directly translational water maze task, or if these relationships exist during adolescence--a developmental period which the animal literature has shown to be especially vulnerable to exercise effects. In this study, we investigated the influence of aerobic fitness on hippocampal size and subsequent learning and memory, including visuospatial memory using a human analogue of the Morris Water Task, in 34 adolescents. Results showed that higher aerobic fitness predicted better learning on the virtual Morris Water Task and larger hippocampal volumes. No relationship between virtual Morris Water Task memory recall and aerobic fitness was detected. Aerobic fitness, however, did not relate to global brain volume or verbal learning, which might suggest some specificity of the influence of aerobic fitness on the adolescent brain. This study provides a direct translational approach to the existing animal literature on exercise, as well as adds to the sparse research that exists on how aerobic exercise impacts the developing human brain and memory.
Several lines of evidence show that homocysteine (Hcy) levels are increased in blood and CSF of patients with Parkinson's disease. B vitamins are necessary for Hcy metabolism and their deficiencies cause hyperhomocysteinemia and neurodegeneration. In present study, effect of B vitamin supplementation on the severity of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced Parkinsonism was investigated. Rats were nourished with B vitamin supplements from 1 month before of stereotaxic injection of 6-OHDA to the end of experiments. Total serum Hcy was measured at the end of experiments to identify its association with Parkinsonism. Both rotational and rotarod tests revealed that supplementation of folic acid, in a dose dependent manner, attenuates severity of Parkinsonism. Supplement of B complex also had beneficial effect and improved motor performance in rotarod test and decreased biased swings in elevated body swing test but had no effect on the apomorphine-induced rotational behavior. Supplement of B(6) attenuated rotational behavior but had no effect on the rotarod performance and swinging behavior. Supplement of B(12) or combination of folic acid with B(6) and B(12) had no effect on the behavioral symptoms of Parkinsonism. Except one group, the levels of Hcy in other vitamin B treated groups were near to that in control group. Surprisingly, Hcy in group of rats that received high intake of folic acid was significantly higher than that in control group. Our results indicate that high intake of folic acid or B complex provides anti-Parkinsonism effect but it is not mediated by lowering plasma Hcy.
A combination of early neurodevelopmental disruptions and young-adult cannabis use may lead to the development of neuropsychiatric disorders. The aim of this study was to investigate in adult Wistar rats (12-14 weeks of age) the long-term 'two hit' behavioural effects of chronic young-adult treatment with the cannabinoid receptor agonist, CP55,940 (0.2 mg/kg, 8-10 weeks of age) in combination with maternal separation (MS) (3 h every day from postnatal days 2-14). Two weeks after chronic CP55,940 treatment had ceased, baseline locomotor activity was reduced in male, but not female rats and irrespective of MS. In male rats only, the combination of MS and cannabinoid exposure, but not either 'hit' alone, induced a significant decrease in sucrose preference. In contrast, in male rats both MS and CP55,940 treatment reduced time spent on the open arms of the plus maze or centre time in the open field and this was most pronounced after a combination of these 'hits'. Prepulse inhibition was reduced by MS in both sexes but there was no additional effect of CP55,940 treatment. Memory performance in the Y-maze and novel object recognition test was not affected by either of the two 'hits'. These results indicate that early developmental disruptions and young-adult cannabis use on their own or in combination can differentially and sex-specifically affect behaviours related to neuropsychiatric disorders.
We examine tool use in relation to the capacity of animals for construction, contrasting tools and nests; place human tool use in a more general problem-solving context, revisiting the body schema in the process; and relate the evolution of language and of tool use.
A comparative fMRI study by Peeters et al. (2009) provided evidence that a specific sector of left inferior parietal lobule is devoted to tool use in humans, but not in monkeys. We propose that this area represents the neural substrate of the human capacity to understand tool use by using causal reasoning.
The cortical representation of concepts varies according to the information critical for their development. Living categories, being mainly based upon visual information, are bilaterally represented in the rostral parts of the ventral stream of visual processing; whereas tools, being mainly based upon action data, are unilaterally represented in a left-sided fronto-parietal network. The unilateral representation of tools results from involvement in actions of the right side of the body.
Contrary to Vaesen's argument that humans are unique with respect to nine cognitive capacities essential for tool use, we suggest that although such cognitive processes contribute to variation in tool use, it does not follow that these capacities are necessary for tool use, nor that tool use shaped cognition per se, given the available data in cognitive neuroscience and behavioral biology.
&quot;Predictive coding&quot; models posit a key role for associative learning in visual cognition, viewing perceptual inference as a process of matching (learned) top-down predictions (or expectations) against bottom-up sensory evidence. At the neural level, these models propose that each region along the visual processing hierarchy entails one set of processing units encoding predictions of bottom-up input, and another set computing mismatches (prediction error or surprise) between predictions and evidence. This contrasts with traditional views of visual neurons operating purely as bottom-up feature detectors. In support of the predictive coding hypothesis, a recent human neuroimaging study (Egner, Monti, &amp; Summerfield, 2010) showed that neural population responses to expected and unexpected face and house stimuli in the &quot;fusiform face area&quot; (FFA) could be well-described as a summation of hypothetical face-expectation and -surprise signals, but not by feature detector responses. Here, we used computer simulations to test whether these imaging data could be formally explained within the broader framework of a mathematical neural network model of associative learning (Schmajuk, Gray, &amp; Lam, 1996). Results show that FFA responses could be fit very closely by model variables coding for conditional predictions (and their violations) of stimuli that unconditionally activate the FFA. These data document that neural population signals in the ventral visual stream that deviate from classic feature detection responses can formally be explained by associative prediction and surprise signals.
The medial preoptic area (MPOA) is an integral site for male sexual behavior. Dopamine is released in the MPOA before and during copulation and facilitates male rat sexual behavior. Repeated sexual experience and noncopulatory exposures to an estrous female facilitate subsequent copulation. However, the neurobiological mechanisms that mediate such enhancement remain unclear. Here, we examined the role of dopamine D receptors in the MPOA in experience-induced enhancement of male sexual behavior in rats. In experiment 1, microinjections of the D antagonist SCH-23390 into the MPOA before each of seven daily 30-min noncopulatory exposures to a receptive female impaired copulation on a drug-free test on Day 8, compared to vehicle-treated female-exposed animals. Copulatory performance in drug-treated animals was similar to that of vehicle-treated males that had not been preexposed to females. This effect was site specific. There were no group differences in locomotor activity in an open field on the copulation test day. In experiment 2, a separate cohort of animals was used to examine phosphorylation of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32) in the MPOA of animals with acute and/or chronic sexual experience. DARPP-32 is a downstream marker of D receptor signaling and substrate of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). Western immunoblot analysis revealed that p-DARPP-32 expression was greatest in the MPOA of males that received both acute and chronic sexual experience, compared to all other mated conditions and nave controls. These data suggest that D receptors in the MPOA contribute to experience-induced enhancement of male sexual behavior, perhaps through a PKA regulated mechanism.
Chronic stress exerts detrimental effects on higher order executive functions that are governed by the prefrontal cortex. Experimental data suggest that dopamine D1 receptor-mediated hypodopaminergic dysfunction may underlie stress-induced cognitive deficits. However, although the involvement of D1 receptors in working memory is well established, less is known about their role in the modulation of set-shifting ability. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine the impact of the selective D1 receptor agonist, SKF 81297, on the attentional set-shifting task performance of rats subjected to repeated restraint stress and of unrestrained controls. The acute administration of SKF 81297 to control rats facilitated extradimensional set-shifting. However, only intermediate doses (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) were effective, whereas no effect was observed after the administration of either lower (0.01 mg/kg) or higher (1 mg/kg) doses. This dose-response curve was shifted to the left in stressed animals as the effectiveness of SKF 81297 (as compared with either vehicle-treated controls or stressed animals) was found only after the administration of lower drug doses (0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg). The beneficial effects of SKF 81297 on the attentional set-shifting task performance of stressed rats may have therapeutic implications for the treatment of frontal-like disturbances, particularly cognitive inflexibility, in stress-related psychiatric disorders.

Work published over the past 10-15 years has caused the neuroscience community to engage in a process of constant re-evaluation of the roles of glial cells in the mammalian central nervous system. Recent emerging evidence suggests that, in addition to carrying out various homeostatic functions within the CNS, astrocytes can also engage in a two-way dialogue with neurons. Astrocytes possess many of the receptors, and some of the ion channels, present in neurons endowing them with an ability to sense and respond to an array of neuronal signals. In addition, an expanding number of small molecules and proteins have been shown to be released by astrocytes in both health and disease. In this commentary we will highlight advances in our understanding of G protein-coupled receptor signalling in astrocytes, with a particular emphasis on metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors. Discussion will focus on the major mGlu receptors expressed in astrocytes, mGlu3 and mGlu5, how these receptors can influence different aspects of astrocyte physiology, and how signalling by these G protein-coupled receptors might change under pathophysiological circumstances.
Six tau isoforms differing in their affinity for microtubules are produced by alternative splicing from the MAPT (microtubule-associated protein tau) gene in adult human brain. Several MAPT mutations causing the familial tauopathy, FTDP-17 (frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17), affect alternative splicing of exon 10, encoding a microtubule-binding motif. Advanced RNA analysis methods have suggested that levels of exon 10-containing MAPT mRNA are elevated in Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, the MAPT H1 haplotype, associated with Alzheimer's disease, promotes exon 10 inclusion in MAPT mRNA. Thus an accurate regulation of tau alternative splicing is critical for the maintenance of neuronal viability, and its alteration might be a contributing factor to Alzheimer's disease. Tau alternative splicing could represent a target for therapeutic intervention to delay the progression of pathology in familial as well as sporadic tauopathies.
Mitochondria are semi-autonomous organelles that play essential roles in cellular metabolism and programmed cell death pathways. Genomic, functional and structural mitochondrial alterations have been associated with cancer. Some of those alterations may provide a selective advantage to cells, allowing them to survive and grow under stresses created by oncogenesis. Due to the specific alterations that occur in cancer cell mitochondria, these organelles may provide promising targets for cancer therapy. The development of drugs that specifically target metabolic and mitochondrial alterations in tumor cells has become a matter of interest in recent years, with several molecules undergoing clinical trials. This review focuses on the most relevant mitochondrial alterations found in tumor cells, their contribution to cancer progression and survival, and potential usefulness for stratification and therapy.

Channels formed by connexins display two distinct types of voltage-dependent gating, termed V(j)- or fast-gating and loop- or slow-gating. Recent studies, using metal bridge formation and chemical cross-linking have identified a region within the channel pore that contributes to the formation of the loop-gate permeability barrier. The conformational changes are remarkably large, reducing the channel pore diameter from 15 to 20 to less than 4. Surprisingly, the largest conformational change occurs in the most stable region of the channel pore, the 3(10) or parahelix formed by amino acids in the 42-51 segment. The data provide a set of positional constraints that can be used to model the structure of the loop-gate closed state. Less is known about the conformation of the V(j)-gate closed state. There appear to be two different mechanisms; one in which conformational changes in channel structure are linked to a voltage sensor contained in the N-terminus of Cx26 and Cx32 and a second in which the C-terminus of Cx43 and Cx40 may act either as a gating particle to block the channel pore or alternatively to stabilize the closed state. The later mechanism utilizes the same domains as implicated in effecting pH gating of Cx43 channels. It is unclear if the two V(j)-gating mechanisms are related or if they represent different gating mechanisms that operate separately in different subsets of connexin channels. A model of the V(j)-closed state of Cx26 hemichannel that is based on the X-ray structure of Cx26 and electron crystallographic structures of a Cx26 mutation suggests that the permeability barrier for V(j)-gating is formed exclusively by the N-terminus, but recent information suggests that this conformation may not represent a voltage-closed state. Closed state models are considered from a thermodynamic perspective based on information from the 3.5 Cx26 crystal structure and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. The applications of computational and experimental methods to define the path of allosteric molecular transitions that link the open and closed states are discussed. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: The Communicating junctions, composition, structure and characteristics.
Gap junction (GJ) channels assembled from connexin (Cx) proteins provide a structural basis for direct electrical and metabolic cell-cell communication. Here, we focus on gating and permeability properties of Cx43/Cx45 heterotypic GJs exhibiting asymmetries of both voltage-gating and transjunctional flux (J(j)) of fluorescent dyes depending on transjunctional voltage (V(j)). Relatively small differences in the resting potential of communicating cells can substantially reduce or enhance this flux at relative negativity or positivity on Cx45 side, respectively. Similarly, series of V(j) pulses resembling bursts of action potentials (APs) reduce J(j) when APs initiate in the cell expressing Cx43 and increase J(j) when APs initiate in the cell expressing Cx45. J(j) of charged fluorescent dyes is affected by ionophoresis and V(j)-gating and the asymmetry of J(j)-V(j) dependence in heterotypic GJs is enhanced or reduced when ionophoresis and V(j)-gating work in a synergistic or antagonistic manner, respectively. Modulation of cell-to-cell transfer of metabolites and signaling molecules by V(j) may occur in excitable as well as non-excitable tissues and may be more expressed in the border between normal and pathological regions where intercellular gradients of membrane potential and concentration of ions are substantially altered. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: The Communicating junctions, composition, structure and characteristics.
The molecular identity of the protein forming &quot;hemichannels&quot; at non-junctional membranes is disputed. The family of gap junction proteins, innexins, connexins, and pannexins share several common features, including permeability characteristics and sensitivity to blocking agents. Such overlap in properties renders the identification of which of these protein species actually establishes the non-junctional membrane conductance and permeability quite complicated, especially because in vertebrates pannexins and connexins have largely overlapping distributions in tissues. Recently, attempts to establish criteria to identify events that are &quot;hemichannel&quot; mediated and those to allow the distinction between connexin- from pannexin-mediated events have been proposed. Here, I present an update on that topic and discuss the most recent findings related to the nature of functional &quot;hemichannels&quot; focusing on connexin43 and pannexin1. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: The Communicating junctions, composition, structure and characteristics.



Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by neuritic plaques (main constituent: -amyloid [A]) and neurofibrillary tangles (hyperphosphorylated tau protein) in the brain. Abnormalities in A and tau can be measured upon neuropathological examination, in cerebrospinal fluid or by PET. Etiologically, a growing body of evidence suggests that susceptibility to AD is genetically controlled. However, the precise nature of the underlying risk genes and their relation to AD biomarkers remains largely elusive. To this end, we performed a qualitative review of 17 studies (covering 47 polymorphisms in 26 genes) and investigated the potential relation between the most compelling AD risk genes and markers for A and tau in cerebrospinal fluid, PET imaging and neuropathological examination. Of all covered genes, only APOE and PICALM showed consistent effects on A but not on tau, while no obvious effects were observed for CLU, CR1, ACE, SORL and MAPT.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are increasingly used in clinical settings, research and drug trials. However, their broad-scale use on different technology platforms is hampered by the lack of standardization at the level of sample handling, determination of concentrations of analytes and the absence of well-defined performance criteria for in vitro diagnostic or companion diagnostic assays, which influences the apparent concentration of the analytes measured and the subsequent interpretation of the data. There is a need for harmonization of CSF AD biomarker assays that can reliably, across centers, quantitate CSF biomarkers with high analytical precision, selectivity and stability over long time periods. In this position paper, we discuss reference procedures for the measurement of CSF AD biomarkers, especially amyloid 42 and tau. We describe possible technical approaches, focusing on a selected reaction monitoring mass spectrometry assay as a candidate reference method for quantification of CSF amyloid 42.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers are increasingly used for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in research, clinical trials and clinical settings. As for other biochemical measurements, variability between laboratories for these biomarkers may be monitored by proficiency testing programs, where participating laboratories use their local routine methods to analyze test samples shipped from a central laboratory. In this review, we summarize the results from the last years' pilot proficiency programs and describe the ongoing standardization efforts in this area. Global proficiency testing for CSF biomarkers is now fully established. It will continue to play an important part in the standardization of measurements that is a prerequisite for the broad-scale future implementation of CSF biomarkers.
In general, a biomarker has multiple uses such as a diagnostic tool and a method to monitor therapy. The quality of a biomarker depends on how big the difference is between, for example, patients and healthy controls, but also on the capacity of the method used to measure it (the uncertainty in the method should be much less than the difference between the groups). A good biomarker should also be specific towards a disease, allowing for differentiation between clinically related syndromes. In addition, it is of importance that the stability of the methods used is high enough to establish cut-off levels both in individual laboratories and on a global scale. In the field of Alzheimer's disease, there are currently three cerebrospinal fluid markers that have been verified in multiple studies and the analytical aspects of measuring them will be discussed.
The cerebrospinal fluid is a valuable diagnostic fluid that is underutilized. A number of classical neurochemical tests and newer biomarkers of neuropathology may be performed on the cerebrospinal fluid from patients with clinical signs of progressive neurological disease to assist and complement diagnosis. Here, we discuss how they may be employed in the clinical evaluation of patients with memory problems. We argue for their proper application and use, and caution against common misinterpretations.


Pyrido[3,2-b]pyrazin-3(4H)-ones and pteridin-7(8H)-ones were evaluated as corticotropin-releasing factor-1 receptor antagonists. The synthesis, SAR studies and pharmacokinetic evaluation of these analogs are described herein.
We describe the discovery of a series of compounds based on 1-{3-[4-(2-oxo-2,3-dihydro-benzoimidazol-1-yl)-piperidin-1-yl]-propyl}-3,4-dihydro-1H-quinolin-2-one (3), showing combined D(2) receptor affinity and M(1) receptor agonism. Based on a strategy of controlling logP, we herein describe a hit-to-lead investigation with the aim of retaining the combined D(2)/M(1) profile, while removing the propensity of the compounds to inhibit the hERG channel, as well as at obtaining acceptable pharmacokinetic properties. Although a SAR was evident for all four parameters in question, it was not possible to separate hERG channel inhibition and D(2) receptor affinity by this effort; whilst it was feasible to obtain compounds with M(1) receptor agonism, acceptable clearance, and weak hERG inhibition.
A method is described for studying the morphological features of extensive axonal projections within the central nervous system of the gerbil, Meriones anguiculatus. Potentially long descending axonal projections between the auditory thalamus and lower brainstem were used as a model. The inferior colliculus (IC) in the tectum was injected in vivo with a fluorescent retrograde tracer, Fluoro-Gold, to label cells in the medial geniculate body (MGB) that had descending projections to the IC, and cells in the superior olivary complex (SOC) that had ascending projections to the IC. Another fluorescent retrograde tracer, fast blue, was injected into the cochlea to label olivocochlear (OC) cells in the SOC. Inferomedially curved parasagittal slices containing ipsilateral auditory cell groups from the thalamus to the brainstem were cut and descending axons of the pre-labeled MGB cells were traced anterogradely with Biocytin. After visualizing histologically the injected Biocytin, discretely labeled IC-projecting axons of the MGB cells were traced including their collaterals that extended further into the SOC. In the SOC, these axons terminated on pre-labeled cells including OC cells. The combination of anterograde and retrograde tracing in the slice preparations described here demonstrated extensive descending axonal projections from the thalamus to their targets in the lower brainstem that had known ascending/descending projections within the auditory system.



Cerebral microdialysis (MD) has proven to be a valuable clinical and research tool in neuroscience. It allows sampling of endogenous and exogenous molecules of interest from the extracellular fluid (ECF) of the brain. MD has also been successfully used to assess drug delivery to the target tissues in pharmacokinetic (PK) studies. There is a concern that due to the blood-brain barrier (BBB), current regimens of commonly used antibiotics might be inadequate. Although PK/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) studies play an important role in drug evaluation, PK MD studies of antibacterial agents in cerebral tissue are few in number. These studies demonstrate a significant variation in drug penetration in the presence of intracranial pathology. Antibacterial agents from the same chemical group have significantly different PK profiles due to different affinity to the transport proteins of the BBB. Some studies suggest that commonly used antibiotics do not reach a therapeutic concentration range in brain ECF. Studies reviewed in this article are small and performed in different patient populations (brain tumour, head injury, epilepsy) using different methodological approaches to the drug recovery estimation. Nevertheless, they provide interesting and important data on the variability of antibiotic penetration that could be utilized for PK/PD studies and which may have clinical relevance.

Two recent reviews of the neuroimaging literature on creativity have pointed to inconsistent findings across studies, calling into question the usefulness of the theoretical constructs motivating the search for its neural bases. However, it is argued that consistent patterns of neural activation do emerge when the cognitive process and the neuroimaging method are kept uniform across studies. To demonstrate this empirically, the activation likelihood estimation (ALE) method was used to conduct quantitative meta-analyses of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments of analogy and metaphor - two processes related to creativity and included in the recent reviews. The results demonstrated that analogy and metaphor reliably activate consistent but dissociable brain regions across fMRI studies. The implications of the findings for cognitive theories of analogy and metaphor are discussed. Furthermore, these results demonstrate that to the extent that creativity has heterogeneous sources, its neural instantiation will vary as a function of the underlying cognitive processes.
Cognitive deficits occur in up to 30% of patients with early Parkinson's disease, some of which are thought to result from dysfunction within the fronto-striatal dopaminergic network. Recently, it has been shown that a common functional polymorphism (Val(158)Met) in the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene is associated with changes in executive performance in tasks that have a fronto-striatal basis. This is thought to relate to changes in cortical dopamine levels as catechol-O-methyltransferase is the main mode of inactivation for dopamine in frontal areas. However to date, no study has investigated dopamine turnover as a function of this genetic polymorphism in Parkinson's disease. We, therefore, set out to investigate in vivo changes in presynaptic dopamine storage in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease as a function of the catechol-O-methyltransferase Val(158)Met polymorphism using (18)F-DOPA positron emission tomography. Twenty patients with Parkinson's disease (10 homozygous for Val/Val and 10 for Met/Met catechol-O-methyltransferase polymorphisms) underwent (18)F-DOPA positron emission tomography using a prolonged imaging protocol. The first dynamic scan was acquired from 0 to 90 min (early), and the second scan (late) from 150 to 210 min post-intravenous radioligand administration. Patients were matched for age, sex, verbal IQ, disease duration and severity of motor features. (18)F-DOPA influx constants (Ki) were calculated and compared for frontal and striatal regions. Late scan mean frontal and striatal Ki values were significantly reduced in both Parkinson's disease groups relative to early scan Ki values. Met/Met patients had significantly higher late scan Ki values compared with their Val/Val counterparts in anterior cingulate, superior frontal and mid-frontal regions but early frontal Ki values were not different between the two groups. As late Ki values reflect rates of dopamine metabolism to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid, our results indicate that Met homozygotes have higher presynaptic dopamine levels in frontal regions than Val homozygotes, which may help to explain how this genotypic variation may influence the fronto-striatal cognitive deficits of Parkinson's disease.
Machado-Joseph disease is the most frequently found dominantly-inherited cerebellar ataxia. Over-repetition of a CAG trinucleotide in the MJD1 gene translates into a polyglutamine tract within the ataxin 3 protein, which upon proteolysis may trigger Machado-Joseph disease. We investigated the role of calpains in the generation of toxic ataxin 3 fragments and pathogenesis of Machado-Joseph disease. For this purpose, we inhibited calpain activity in mouse models of Machado-Joseph disease by overexpressing the endogenous calpain-inhibitor calpastatin. Calpain blockage reduced the size and number of mutant ataxin 3 inclusions, neuronal dysfunction and neurodegeneration. By reducing fragmentation of ataxin 3, calpastatin overexpression modified the subcellular localization of mutant ataxin 3 restraining the protein in the cytoplasm, reducing aggregation and nuclear toxicity and overcoming calpastatin depletion observed upon mutant ataxin 3 expression. Our findings are the first in vivo proof that mutant ataxin 3 proteolysis by calpains mediates its translocation to the nucleus, aggregation and toxicity and that inhibition of calpains may provide an effective therapy for Machado-Joseph disease.
Learning and memory dysfunction is the most common neuropsychological effect of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, and because the underlying neurobiology is poorly understood, there are no pharmacological strategies to help restore memory function in these patients. We have demonstrated impairments in the acquisition of an allocentric spatial task, in patients with unilateral hippocampal sclerosis. We also show that patients have accelerated forgetting of the learned spatial task and that this is associated with damage to the non-dominant hippocampal formation. We go on to show a very similar pattern of chronic allocentric learning and accelerated forgetting in a status epilepticus model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy in rats, which is associated with reduced and abnormal hippocampal neurogenesis. Finally, we show that reversal of the neurogenic deficit using fluoxetine is associated with reversal of the learning deficit but not the accelerated forgetting, pointing to a possible dissociation in the underlying mechanisms, as well as a potential therapeutic strategy for improving hippocampal-dependent learning in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy.
This study applied multiscale entropy analysis to investigate the correlation between the complexity of intracranial pressure waveform and outcome after traumatic brain injury. Intracranial pressure and arterial blood pressure waveforms were low-pass filtered to remove the respiratory and pulse components and then processed using a multiscale entropy algorithm to produce a complexity index. We identified significant differences across groups classified by the Glasgow Outcome Scale in intracranial pressure, pressure-reactivity index and complexity index of intracranial pressure (P&lt;0.0001; P=0.001; P&lt;0.0001, respectively). Outcome was dichotomized as survival/death and also as favourable/unfavourable. The complexity index of intracranial pressure achieved the strongest statistical significance (F=28.7; P&lt;0.0001 and F=17.21; P&lt;0.0001, respectively) and was identified as a significant independent predictor of mortality and favourable outcome in a multivariable logistic regression model (P&lt;0.0001). The results of this study suggest that complexity of intracranial pressure assessed by multiscale entropy was significantly associated with outcome in patients with brain injury.
Dravet syndrome is a severe infantile onset epileptic encephalopathy associated with mutations in the sodium channel alpha 1 subunit gene SCN1A. To date no large studies have systematically examined the prognostic, clinical and demographic features of the disease. We prospectively collected data on a UK cohort of individuals with Dravet syndrome during a 5-year study period and analysed demographic information based on UK population and birth figures. From structured referral data we examined a range of clinical characteristics including epilepsy phenotype, seizure precipitants, electroencephalography data, imaging studies, mutation class and response to medication. Predictors of developmental outcome were determined by logistic regression. We identified 241 cases with SCN1A mutation-positive Dravet syndrome, 207 of which were UK-based. The incidence of mutation-positive Dravet syndrome is at least 1:40900 UK births. Clinical features predicting a worse developmental outcome included status epilepticus (odds ratio=3.1; confidence interval=1.5-6.3; P=0.003), interictal electroencephalography abnormalities in the first year of life (odds ratio=5.7; confidence interval=1.9-16.8; P=0.002) and motor disorder (odds ratio=3.3; confidence interval=1.7-6.4; P&lt;0.001). No significant effect was seen for seizure precipitants, magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities or mutation class (truncating versus missense). Abnormal magnetic resonance imaging was documented in 11% of cases, principally with findings of non-specific brain atrophy or hippocampal changes. Sodium valproate, benzodiazepines and topiramate were reported as being the most helpful medications at the time of referral. Aggravation of seizures was reported for carbamazepine and lamotrigine. The identification of factors influencing prognosis both aids counselling and encourages early, syndrome-specific therapy. Prevention of status epilepticus with regular medication and emergency protocols is important and may influence developmental outcome.
Patients rarely experience visual hallucinations while being observed by clinicians. Therefore, instruments to detect visual hallucinations directly from patients are needed. Pareidolias, which are complex visual illusions involving ambiguous forms that are perceived as meaningful objects, are analogous to visual hallucinations and have the potential to be a surrogate indicator of visual hallucinations. In this study, we explored the clinical utility of a newly developed instrument for evoking pareidolic illusions, the Pareidolia test, in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies-one of the most common causes of visual hallucinations in the elderly. Thirty-four patients with dementia with Lewy bodies, 34 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 26 healthy controls were given the Pareidolia test. Patients with dementia with Lewy bodies produced a much greater number of pareidolic illusions compared with those with Alzheimer's disease or controls. A receiver operating characteristic analysis demonstrated that the number of pareidolias differentiated dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer's disease with a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 88%. Full-length figures and faces of people and animals accounted for &gt;80% of the contents of pareidolias. Pareidolias were observed in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies who had visual hallucinations as well as those who did not have visual hallucinations, suggesting that pareidolias do not reflect visual hallucinations themselves but may reflect susceptibility to visual hallucinations. A sub-analysis of patients with dementia with Lewy bodies who were or were not treated with donepzil demonstrated that the numbers of pareidolias were correlated with visuoperceptual abilities in the former and with indices of hallucinations and delusional misidentifications in the latter. Arousal and attentional deficits mediated by abnormal cholinergic mechanisms and visuoperceptual dysfunctions are likely to contribute to the development of visual hallucinations and pareidolias in dementia with Lewy bodies.
Recent findings from our lab have shown that peripheral infection of adult mice with influenza A/PR/8/34 (H1N1) virus induces a neuroinflammatory response that is paralleled by loss of neurotrophic and glial regulatory factors in the hippocampus, and deficits in cognitive function. Environmental enrichment has been shown to exert beneficial effects on the brain and behavior in many central nervous system (CNS) disorders, but its therapeutic potential during peripheral viral infection remains unknown. Therefore, the objective of the present study was to determine if long-term continuous exposure to environmental enrichment could prevent and/or attenuate the negative effects of influenza infection on the hippocampus and spatial cognition. Mice were housed in enriched or standard conditions for 4 months, and continued to live in their respective environments throughout influenza infection. Cognitive function was assessed in a reversal learning version of the Morris water maze, and changes in hippocampal expression of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1, IL-6, TNF-, IFN-), neurotrophic (BDNF, NGF), and immunomodulatory (CD200, CX3CL1) factors were determined. We found that environmental enrichment reduced neuroinflammation and helped prevent the influenza-induced reduction in hippocampal CD200. These changes were paralleled by improved cognitive performance of enriched mice infected with influenza when compared to infected mice in standard housing conditions. Collectively, these data are the first to demonstrate the positive impact of environmental enrichment on the brain and cognition during peripheral viral infection, and suggest that enhanced modulation of the neuroimmune response may underlie these beneficial effects.
The kynurenine pathway (KP) and its rate-limiting tryptophan degrading enzyme indolamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of depression. IDO expression is driven by inflammatory cytokines, and has been suggested as the link between inflammation and a serotonergic deficit in depression. Studies also indicate that inflammatory cytokines upregulate the serotonin transporter (SERT), representing another mechanism by which inflammation could influence serotonin availability. Here we examined circulating concentrations of inflammatory cytokines (IFN-, TNF-, IL-1, IL-6), and the acute phase protein CRP alongside plasma tryptophan, kynurenine, kynurenic acid (KYNA) and 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid (3-HAA) concentrations, and whole blood mRNA expression of IDO, kynurenine aminotransferases (KAT I and II), kynurenine-3-monooxygenase (KMO), kynureninase and SERT in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) compared with age and sex-matched controls. Whilst no changes in TNF- or IL-1 were observed, plasma concentrations of IL-6, IFN- and CRP were increased in the depressed cohort. Despite this inflammatory phenotype, IDO expression or plasma kynurenine were not significantly different between MDD patients and controls. In addition, there was no difference between controls and depressives in concentrations of KYNA and 3-HAA, or in expression of enzymes KAT, KMO or kynureninase that drive their production. Nonetheless, a depletion in tryptophan was evident in depressed patients and was correlated with HAM-D scores. In addition, we failed to observe any difference in SERT mRNA expression in the blood cells from patients with MDD relative to controls. These data support the idea that a mild inflammatory signature is evident in MDD and is accompanied by reduced circulating tryptophan concentrations. However, we found no indication of KP activation in the depressed cohort suggesting that an alternative mechanism mediates the depletion of tryptophan observed. Taken together these data question the ability of the mild inflammatory phenotype observed in depression to induce molecules such as IDO and SERT that could negatively impact upon serotonergic functioning.
Elevated levels of the inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) occur in a number of CNS disorders. However, little is known about how this condition affects CNS neuronal function. Transgenic mice that express elevated levels of IL-6 in the CNS show cognitive changes, increased propensity for hippocampal seizures and reduced number of inhibitory interneurons, suggesting that elevated levels of IL-6 can cause neuroadaptive changes that alter hippocampal function. To identify these neuroadaptive changes, we measured the levels of protein expression using Western blot analysis and synaptic function using field potential recordings in hippocampus from IL-6 transgenic mice (IL-6 tg) and their non-transgenic (non-tg) littermates. Western blot analysis showed enhanced levels of the GFAP and STAT3 in the IL-6 tg hippocampus compared with the non-tg hippocampus, but no difference for several other proteins. Field potential recordings of synaptic transmission at the Schaffer collateral to CA1 synapse showed enhanced dendritic excitatory postsynaptic potentials and somatic population spikes in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices from IL-6 tg mice compared with slices from non-tg littermate controls. No differences were observed for several forms of short-term and long-term synaptic plasticity between hippocampal slices from IL-6 tg and non-tg mice. These results demonstrate that elevated levels of IL-6 can alter mechanisms involved in the excitability of hippocampal neurons and synapses, an effect consistent with recent evidence indicating that elevated production of IL-6 plays an important role in conditions associated with seizure activity and in other impairments observed in CNS disorders with a neuroinflammatory component.
Fatigue is highly prevalent and causes serious disruption in quality of life. Although cross-sectional studies suggest childhood adversity is associated with adulthood fatigue, longitudinal evidence of this relationship and its specific biological mechanisms have not been established. This longitudinal study examined the association between early life stress and adulthood fatigue and tested whether this association was mediated by low-grade systemic inflammation as indexed by circulating C-reactive protein (CRP) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). In the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study, a population-based longitudinal study conducted in 4 US cities, early life stress was retrospectively assessed in 2716 African-American and white adults using the Risky Families Questionnaire at Year 15 examination (2000-2001, ages 33-45 years). Fatigue as indexed by a loss of subjective vitality using the Vitality Subscale of the 12-item Short Form Health Survey was assessed at both Years 15 and 20. While CRP was measured at both Years 15 and 20, IL-6 was measured only at Year 20. Early life stress assessed at Year 15 was associated with adulthood fatigue at Year 20 after adjustment for sociodemographic characteristics, body-mass index, medication use, medical comorbidity, smoking, alcohol consumption, physical activity, current stress, pain, sleep disturbance as well as Year 15 fatigue (adjusted beta 0.047, P=0.007). However, neither CRP nor IL-6 was a significant mediator of this association. In summary, early life stress assessed in adulthood was associated with fatigue 5 years later, but this association was not mediated by low-grade systemic inflammation.


The myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88) product is the most common adaptor protein implicated in Toll-like and interleukin receptor (TIR) domain signaling and thus plays an important role in the innate immune system. Despite the fact that the MyD88-dependent pathway has emerged as an important player in cell death processes described in several animal models of neurodegenerative disorders, the contribution of this pathway to specific behavioral phenotypes has been largely ignored. To understand the full implication of this pathway, we tested MyD88(-/-) mice for both motor and cognitive functions in normal conditions. MyD88(-/-) mice displayed impaired spatial and working memory as detected by the Barnes maze, the water T-maze and the passive avoidance tests. Furthermore, MyD88(-/-) mice demonstrated hypolocomotion in the open-field and wheel activity systems, as well as impairments in motor coordination and balance using the pole test and the rotarod. Our findings shed light on behavioral alterations that are associated with the deletion of the MyD88 protein in physiological conditions. These behavioral effects should be taken into consideration when assessing the role of the MyD88-dependent pathway in various infectious and non-infectious conditions.

Various postmortem brain studies have provided evidence that reduced serotonin (5-HT) transmission in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) is associated with depression-related suicide. Suicide victims have fewer 5-HT transporter sites and a large number of postsynaptic 5-HT1A and 5-HT receptors in the vlPFC, which are implicated in behavioral inhibition and impulsivity. These could be compensatory changes in response to 5-HT hypofunction in depression and suicide. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are commonly used for the treatment of depression and suicidal ideation. 5-HT innervation of the PFC arises predominantly from 5-HT neurons in the brainstem dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). In the DRN of suicide cases, 5-HT1A autoreceptors are increased and the levels of 5-HT biosynthetic enzyme, tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), are reduced. Reduced 5-HT1A feedback inhibition and increased TPH may reflect compensatory changes in response to 5-HT hypofunction in depression-related suicide. Genetic polymorphisms in TPH, 5-HT transporter (5-HTTLPR allele), and 5-HT2A receptor were examined for their association with depression-related suicide, but no consistent associations were found. Stress is a risk factor for depression and is linked to hyperactivity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis and suicide. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-immunoreactive varicose fibers were detected in the DRN of suicide victims, suggesting that CRF neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and 5-HT neurons in the DRN may form a circuit in stress-induced depression. Alcoholics are at a significantly greater risk of suicide than the general population. Alcoholism is associated with alterations in the 5-HT system.
Addiction is a notorious treatment-resistant psychiatric disorder characterized by the impairment of self-monitoring, loss of interest in other targets of pleasure, and uncorrectable impulsive/compulsive drug-seeking behaviors. The striatum, particularly the ventral striatum (= the nucleus accumbens) is deeply involved in the acquisition and expression of addiction. Although only few pharmacotherapeutic approaches against addiction are available, the currently used animal models of addiction are sophisticated enough to mimic most of the representative phenotypes observed in human addicts. In addition, recent advances in neuroimaging techniques, such as positron emission tomography or functional magnetic resonance imaging, as well as computational neuroscience approaches have promoted our understanding of addiction, particularly at the circuitry level. In this review, I introduce some pivotal topics regarding addiction for discussion. First, I outline the updated concept regarding how dopamine is involved in addiction by focusing on 2 seemingly uncompromising hypotheses, prediction-error theory and incentive salience theory. Second, after providing a brief introduction to unmanageable maladaptive behaviors in addiction that may be attributable to the impairments of the medial prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, and orbitofrontal cortex, I emphasize the roles of glutamatergic inputs projecting from these frontal areas to the nucleus accumbens in cue-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking and impaired neuronal plasticity. Third, on the basis of the complementary or counterbalancing relationship between goal-directed behaviors and habits, I discuss the foresights and pitfalls of the current concept of &quot;addiction as a pathological habit.&quot; Lastly, I conclude my discussion with an integrated (but a rough) circuitry model of addiction.
Although numerous studies find the premotor cortex and the primary motor cortex are involved in action language comprehension, so far the nature of these motor effects is still in controversy. Some researchers suggest that the motor effects reflect that the premotor cortex and the primary motor cortex make functional contributions to the semantic access of action verbs, while other authors argue that the motor effects are caused by comprehension. In the current study, we used Granger causality analysis to investigate the roles of the premotor cortex and the primary motor cortex in processing of manual-action verbs. Regions of interest were selected in the primary motor cortex (M1) and the premotor cortex based on a hand motion task, and in the left posterior middle temporal gyrus (lexical semantic area) based on the reading task effect. We found that (1) the left posterior middle temporal gyrus had a causal influence on the left M1; and (2) the left posterior middle temporal gyrus and the left premotor cortex had bidirectional causal relations. These results suggest that the premotor cortex and the primary motor cortex play different roles in manual verb comprehension. The premotor cortex may be involved in motor simulation that contributes to action language processing, while the primary motor cortex may be engaged in a processing stage influenced by the meaning access of manual-action verbs. Further investigation combining effective connectivity analysis and technique with high temporal resolution is necessary for better clarification of the roles of the premotor cortex and the primary motor cortex in action language comprehension.
Behavioural and psychological symptoms in dementia, or BPSD, occur in the majority of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. They are associated with considerable patient morbidity and greater care-giver stress. There is some evidence suggesting that BPSD have a genetic component and a large number of studies have examined the association of candidate genes with these symptoms. This review provides a comprehensive summary of all the published studies investigating the association of candidate gene missense substitutions with BPSD. Missense substitutions could potentially alter protein function or render the protein non-functional, resulting in phenotypic consequences. More than 80 studies investigating the association of 8 missense substitutions in 7 genes with BPSD were identified. However, results of these studies are contradictory and do not provide firm support for these associations. Larger studies and more systematic approaches will delineate the association of missense substitutions with behavioural symptoms in AD.

Malignant gliomas are highly invasive and chemoresistant brain tumors with extremely poor prognosis. Targeting of the soluble factors that trigger invasion and resistance, therefore, could have a significant impact against the infiltrative glioma cells that are a major source of recurrence. Fibulin-3 is a matrix protein that is absent in normal brain but upregulated in gliomas and promotes tumor invasion by unknown mechanisms. Here, we show that fibulin-3 is a novel soluble activator of Notch signaling that antagonizes DLL3, an autocrine inhibitor or Notch, and promotes tumor cell survival and invasion in a Notch-dependent manner. Using a strategy for inducible knockdown, we found that controlled downregulation of fibulin-3 reduced Notch signaling and led to increased apoptosis, reduced self-renewal of glioblastoma-initiating cells, and impaired growth and dispersion of intracranial tumors. In addition, fibulin-3 expression correlated with expression levels of Notch-dependent genes and was a marker of Notch activation in patient-derived glioma samples. These findings underscore a major role for the tumor extracellular matrix in regulating glioma invasion and resistance to apoptosis via activation of the key Notch pathway. More importantly, this work describes a noncanonical, soluble activator of Notch in a cancer model and shows how Notch signaling can be reduced by targeting tumor-specific accessible molecules in the tumor microenvironment.
Glucocorticoids (GCs) are an ubiquitous class of steroid hormones that exert a wide array of physiological effects. Traditionally, GC action has been considered to primarily involve transcriptional effects following the binding of hormone to the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and subsequent activation or repression of target genes. However, a number of findings suggest that cellular responses following GC exposure may be mediated by transcription-independent, or &quot;non-classical,&quot; mechanisms. We have added to this growing body of work by recently uncovering a novel GC signaling pathway that operates through plasma membrane GRs to limit gap junction intercellular signaling and limit the proliferation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs). In this review, we highlight our current state of knowledge of non-classical GR signaling, in particular as it applies to neuronal function. Using NPCs as a cellular model, we speculate on the components of this non-classical pathway and the mechanisms whereby a number of cytoplasmic and nuclear signaling events may be integrated.
Chromogranin A (CgA), a secretory protein expressed by many neuroendocrine cells, neurons, cardiomyocytes, and keratinocytes, is the precursor of various peptides that regulate the carbohydrate/lipid metabolism and the cardiovascular system. We have found that CgA, locally administered to injured mice, can accelerate keratinocyte proliferation and wound healing. This biological activity was abolished by the Asp(45)Glu mutation. CgA and its N-terminal fragments, but not the corresponding Asp(45)Glu mutants, could selectively recognize the v6-integrin on keratinocytes (a cell-adhesion receptor that is up-regulated during wound healing) and regulate keratinocyte adhesion, proliferation, and migration. No binding was observed to other integrins such as v3, v5, v8, 51, 11, 31, 64, 67 and 91. Structure-activity studies showed that the entire CgA(39-63) region is crucial for v6 recognition (K(i) = 7 nM). This region contains an RGD site (residues CgA(43-45)) followed by an amphipathic -helix (residues CgA(47-63)), both crucial for binding affinity and selectivity. These results suggest that the interaction of the RGD/-helix motif of CgA with v6 regulates keratinocyte physiology in wound healing.
The generation of neuronal cells from stem cells obtained from adult bone marrow is of significant clinical interest in order to design new cell therapy protocols for several neurological disorders. The recent identification in adult bone marrow of stem cells derived from the neural crest stem cells (NCSC) might explain the neuronal phenotypic plasticity shown by bone marrow cells. However, little information is available about the nature of these cells compared to mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), including their similarities and differences. In this paper, using transcriptomic as well as proteomic technologies, we compared NCSC to MSC and stromal nestin-positive cells, all of them isolated from adult bone marrow. We demonstrated that the nestin-positive cell population, which was the first to be described as able to differentiate into functional neurons, was a mixed population of NCSC and MSC. More interestingly, we demonstrated that MSC shared with NCSC the same ability to truly differentiate into Tuj1-positive cells when co-cultivated with paraformaldehyde-fixed cerebellar granule neurons. Altogether, those results suggest that both NCSC and MSC can be considered as important tools for cellular therapies in order to replace neurons in various neurological diseases.
Rhes, the Ras Homolog Enriched in Striatum, is a GTP-binding protein whose gene was discovered during a screen for mRNAs preferentially expressed in rodent striatum. This 266 amino acid protein is intermediate in size between small Ras-like GTP-binding proteins and -subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. It is most closely related to another Ras-like GTP-binding protein termed Dexras1 or AGS1. Although subsequent studies have shown that the rhes gene is expressed in other brain areas in addition to striatum, the striatal expression level is relatively high, and Rhes protein is likely to play a vital role in striatal physiology and pathology. Indeed, it has recently been shown to interact with the Huntingtin protein and play a pivotal role in the selective vulnerability of striatum in Huntington's disease (HD). Not surprisingly, Rhes can interact with multiple proteins to affect striatal physiology at multiple levels. Functional studies have indicated that Rhes plays a role in signaling by striatal G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR), although the details of the mechanism remain to be determined. Rhes has been shown to bind to both - and -subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins and to affect signaling by both Gi/o- and Gs/olf-coupled receptors. In this context, Rhes can be classified as a member of the family of accessory proteins to GPCR signaling. With documented effects in dopamine- and opioid-mediated behaviors, an interaction with thyroid hormone systems and a role in HD pathology, Rhes is emerging as an important protein in striatal physiology and pathology.
Neuropathic pain concurrent with mood disorder from peripheral nerve injury is a serious clinical problem that significantly affects quality of life. Recent studies have suggested that a lack of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the limbic system may cause this pain-emotion. BDNF is induced in cultured neurons by 4-methylcatechol (4-MC), but the role of 4-MC-induced BDNF in pain-emotion is poorly understood. Thus, we assessed the possible involvement of BDNF in brain in depression-like behavior during chronic pain following peripheral nerve injury. In addition, we examined whether intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) 4-MC prevents chronic pain in rats and produces an antidepressant effect. Sprague-Dawley rats implanted intracerebroventricularly with a PE-10 tube were subjected to chronic constriction injury (CCI). Pain was assessed by a reduction in paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to heat stimuli after CCI. We also used a forced swimming testing (FST; time of immobility, in seconds) from day 14 to day 21 after CCI. Modulation of pain and emotional behavior was performed by injection of PD0325901 (a MEK1/2 inhibitor). 4-MC (100 nM) was continuously administered i.c.v. for 3 days during the period from day 14 to day 21 after CCI. To block analgesic and antidepressant effects, anti-BDNF antibody or K252a (a TrkB receptor inhibitor) was injected in combination with 4-MC. Naloxone was also coadministered to confirm the analgesic effect of 4-MC. During the chronic stage after CCI, the rats showed a sustained decrease in PWL (thermal hyperalgesia) associated with extension of the time of immobility (depression-like behavior). PD0325901 significantly reduced the decrease in PWL and the increased time of immobility after CCI. The decreased PWL and increased time of immobility were also reduced by 4-MC and by treatment with an ERK1/2 inhibitor. These effects of 4-MC i.c.v. were reversed by anti-BDNF and K252a. The analgesic effect of 4-MC i.c.v. was also antagonized by naloxone. Based on these results, we suggest that a lack of BDNF and activation of ERK1/2 in the pain-emotion network in the CNS may be involved in depression-like behavior during chronic pain. 4-MC i.c.v. ameliorates chronic pain and depression-like behavior by producing of BDNF and normalization of ERK1/2 activation. Therefore, enhancement of BDNF may be a new treatment strategy for chronic pain associated with depression.
Human ether--go-go related gene (hERG, K(v)11.1) potassium channels play a significant role in cardiac excitability. Like other K(v) channels, hERG is activated by membrane voltage; however, distinct from other K(v) channels, hERG channels have unusually slow kinetics of closing (deactivation). The mechanism for slow deactivation involves an N-terminal &quot;eag domain&quot; which comprises a PAS (Per-Arnt-Sim) domain and a short Cap domain. Here we review recent advances in understanding how the eag domain regulates deactivation, including several new Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) solution structures of the eag domain, and evidence showing that the eag domain makes a direct interaction with the C-terminal C-linker and Cyclic Nucleotide-Binding Homology Domain.
Recent investigation of the intestine following ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) has revealed that nitric oxide synthase (NOS) neurons are more strongly affected than other neuron types. This implies that NO originating from NOS neurons contributes to neuronal damage. However, there is also evidence of the neuroprotective effects of NO. In this study, we compared the effects of I/R on the intestines of neuronal NOS knockout (nNOS(-/-)) mice and wild-type mice. I/R caused histological damage to the mucosa and muscle and infiltration of neutrophils into the external muscle layers. Damage to the mucosa and muscle was more severe and greater infiltration by neutrophils occurred in the first 24h in nNOS(-/-) mice. Immunohistochemistry for the contractile protein, -smooth muscle actin, was used to evaluate muscle damage. Smooth muscle actin occurred in the majority of smooth muscle cells in the external musculature of normal mice but was absent from most cells and was reduced in the cytoplasm of other cells following I/R. The loss was greater in nNOS(-/-) mice. Basal contractile activity of the longitudinal muscle and contractile responses to nerve stimulation or a muscarinic agonist were reduced in regions subjected to I/R and the effects were greater in nNOS(-/-) mice. Reductions in responsiveness also occurred in regions of operated mice not subjected to I/R. This is attributed to post-operative ileus that is not significantly affected by knockout of nNOS. The results indicate that deleterious effects are greater in regions subjected to I/R in mice lacking nNOS compared with normal mice, implying that NO produced by nNOS has protective effects that outweigh any damaging effect of this free radical produced by enteric neurons.
This study provides a new perspective on the long-standing problem of the nature of the decapod crustacean blood-brain interface. Previous studies of crustacean blood-brain interface permeability have relied on invasive histological, immunohistochemical and electrophysiological techniques, indicating a leaky non-selective blood-brain barrier. The present investigation involves the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), a method for non-invasive longitudinal tracking of tracers in real-time. Differential uptake rates of two molecularly distinct MRI contrast agents, namely manganese (Mn(II)) and Magnevist (Gd-DTPA), were observed and quantified in the crayfish, Cherax destructor. Contrast agents were injected into the pericardium and uptake was observed with longitudinal MRI for approximately 14.5h. Mn(II) was taken up quickly into neural tissue (within 6.5min), whereas Gd-DTPA was not taken up into neural tissue and was instead restricted to the intracerebral vasculature or excreted into nearby sinuses. Our results provide evidence for a charge-selective intracerebral blood-brain interface in the crustacean nervous system, a structural characteristic once considered too complex for a lower-order arthropod.
Brodmann's area 5 has traditionally included the rostral bank of the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) as well as posterior portions of the postcentral gyrus and medial wall. However, different portions of this large architectonic zone may serve different functions related to reaching and grasping behaviors. The current study used multiunit recording techniques in anesthetized macaque monkeys to survey a large extent of the rostral bank of the IPS so that hundreds of recording sites could be used to determine the functional subdivisions and topographic organization of cortical areas in this region. We identified a lateral area on the rostral IPS that we term area 5L. Area 5L contains neurons with receptive fields on mostly the shoulder, forelimb, and digits, with no apparent representation of other body parts. Thus, there is a large magnification of the forelimb. Receptive fields for neurons in this region often contain multiple joints of the forelimb or multiple digits, which results in imprecise topography or fractures in map organization. Our results provide the first overall topographic map of area 5L obtained in individual macaque monkeys and suggest that this region is distinct from more medial portions of the IPS.
To investigate early effects of beta-amyloid (A) on neuronal function, elderly normal controls (NCs, age range 58-97) were scanned with Pittsburgh Compound-B (PIB) positron emission tomography (a measure of A) as well as functional magnetic resonance imaging (a measure of brain activation) while performing an episodic memory-encoding task of natural scenes (also performed by young NCs; age range 18-30). Relationships between A and activation were assessed across task-positive (regions that activate for subsequently remembered vs. forgotten scenes) and task-negative regions (regions that deactivate for subsequently remembered vs. forgotten scenes). Significant task-related activation was present in a distributed network spanning ventrolateral prefrontal, lateral occipital, lateral parietal, posterior inferior temporal cortices, and the right parahippocampal/hippocampus, whereas deactivation was present in many default mode network regions (posteromedial, medial prefrontal, and lateral temporoparietal cortices). Task-positive activation was higher in PIB+ compared with PIB- subjects, and this activation was positively correlated with memory measures in PIB+ subjects. Although task deactivation was not impaired in PIB+ NCs, deactivation was reduced in old versus young subjects and was correlated with worse task memory performance among old subjects. Overall, these results suggest that heightened activation during episodic memory encoding is present in NC elderly subjects with high A.
Although androgens are known to modulate dopamine (DA) systems and DA-dependent behaviors of the male prefrontal cortex (PFC), how this occurs remains unclear. Because relatively few ventral tegmental area (VTA) mesoprefrontal DA neurons contain intracellular androgen receptors (ARs), studies presented here combined retrograde tracing and immunolabeling for AR in male rats to determine whether projections afferent to the VTA might be more AR enriched. Results revealed PFC-to-VTA projections to be substantially AR enriched. Because these projections modulate VTA DA cell firing and PFC DA levels, influence over this pathway could be means whereby androgens modulate PFC DA. To assess the hormone sensitivity of glutamate stimulation of PFC DA tone, additional studies utilized microdialysis/reverse dialysis application of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subtype-selective antagonists which act locally within the PFC and tegmentally via inhibition or disinhibition of PFC-to-VTA afferents to modulate intracortical DA levels. Here, we compared the effects of these drug challenges in control, gonadectomized, and gonadectomized rats given testosterone or estradiol. This revealed complex effects of gonadectomy on antagonist-stimulated PFC DA levels that together with the anatomical data above suggest that androgen stimulation of PFC DA systems does engage glutamatergic circuitry and perhaps that of the AR-enriched glutamatergic projections from PFC-to-VTA specifically.

Electrophysiology plays a determinant role in Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) diagnosis, classification of the subtypes and in establishing prognosis. In the last three decades, different electrodiagnostic criteria sets have been proposed for acute inflammatory demyelinating neuropathy (AIDP), acute motor axonal neuropathy (AMAN) and acute motor and sensory axonal neuropathy (AMSAN). Criteria sets for AIDP varied for the parameters indicative of demyelination considered, for the cut-off limits and the number of required abnormalities (all a priori established) showing different sensitivities. Criteria sets for AMAN and AMSAN were proposed on the initial assumption that these subtypes were pathologically characterised by simple axonal degeneration. However, some AMAN patients show transient conduction block/slowing in intermediate and distal nerve segments, mimicking demyelination but without the development of abnormal temporal dispersion, named reversible conduction failure (RCF). The lack of distinction between RCF and demyelinating conduction block leads to fallaciously classify AMAN patients with RCF as AIDP or AMAN with axonal degeneration. Serial electrophysiological studies are mandatory for proper diagnosis of GBS subtypes, identification of pathophysiological mechanisms and prognosis. More reliable electrodiagnostic criteria should be devised to distinguish axonal and demyelinating subtypes of GBS, taking into consideration the RCF pattern and focussing on temporal dispersion.




In the past two decades, the study of mood disorder patients using experience sampling methods (ESM) and ecological momentary assessment (EMA) has yielded important findings. In patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), the dynamics of their everyday mood have been associated with various aspects of their lives. To some degree similar studies have been conducted in patients with bipolar disorder (BD). In this paper we present the results of a systematic review of all ESM/EMA studies in MDD and BD to date. We focus not only on the correlates of patients' everyday mood but also on the impact on treatment, residual symptoms in remitted patients, on findings in pediatric populations, on MDD/BD specificity, and on links with neuroscience. After reviewing these six topics, we highlight the benefits of ESM/EMA for researchers, clinicians, and patients, and offer suggestions for future studies.

Memantine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist approved for Alzheimer's disease with a good safety profile, is increasingly being studied in a variety of non-dementia psychiatric disorders. We aimed to critically review relevant literature on the use of the drug in such disorders. We performed a PubMed search of the effects of memantine in animal models of psychiatric disorders and its effects in human studies of specific psychiatric disorders. The bulk of the data relates to the effects of memantine in major depressive disorder and schizophrenia, although more recent studies have provided data on the use of the drug in bipolar disorder as an add-on. Despite interesting preclinical data, results in major depression are not encouraging. Animal studies investigating the possible usefulness of memantine in schizophrenia are controversial; however, interesting findings were obtained in open studies of schizophrenia, but negative placebo-controlled, double-blind studies cast doubt on their validity. The effects of memantine in anxiety disorders have been poorly investigated, but data indicate that the use of the drug in obsessive-compulsive disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder holds promise, while findings relating to generalized anxiety disorder are rather disappointing. Results in eating disorders, catatonia, impulse control disorders (pathological gambling), substance and alcohol abuse/dependence, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder are inconclusive. In most psychiatric non-Alzheimer's disease conditions, the clinical data fail to support the usefulness of memantine as monotherapy or add-on treatment However, recent preclinical and clinical findings suggest that add-on memantine may show antimanic and mood-stabilizing effects in treatment-resistant bipolar disorder.
This review provides a brief summary of what is known about the anxiolytic mechanism of action of pregabalin, a highly selective, high-affinity ligand of the P/Q type of voltage-gated calcium channel (CaV). Evidence from in vivo models of neuronal hyperexcitability suggests that pregabalin reduces synaptic release of neurotransmitters in selected CNS regions including the cortex, olfactory bulb, hypothalamus, amygdala, hippocampus, cerebellum and dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Release of neurotransmitters from the synaptic vesicle, and propagation of neurotransmission, requires the vesicle to fuse with the presynaptic membrane. Pregabalin binding to the (2) type 1 protein of the P/Q type CaV reduces the availability of Ca2+ required for membrane fusion and exocytosis of neurotransmitters. Evidence that the anxiolytic mechanism of action of pregabalin is mediated by binding to the (2) type 1 protein comes from animal models, which have demonstrated a structure-activity relationship between the affinity of ligands for the (2) type 1 protein and their potency in models of anxiety such as the Vogel conflict test. Furthermore, the anxiolytic activity of pregabalin is lost in transgenic mice with specific point mutations in the CaV (2) type 1 protein. Pregabalin-mediated reduction in calcium currents has also been shown to result in a significant inhibition of the release of neurotransmitters implicated in pathological anxiety such as glutamate and monoamine neurotransmitters. However, further research is needed to confirm that these effects contribute to the anxiolytic mechanism of action of pregabalin. Finally, pregabalin may also act by inhibiting synaptogenesis of excitatory neurons formed in response to chronic stress or anxiety, or more acutely inhibit the trafficking of CaV to the plasma membrane.
For many years, multiple sclerosis (MS) patients have been self-medicating with illegal street cannabis to alleviate symptoms associated with MS. Data from animal models of MS and clinical studies have supported the anecdotal data that cannabis can improve symptoms such as limb spasticity, which are commonly associated with progressive MS, by the modulation of excessive neuronal signalling. This has lead to cannabis-based medicines being approved for the treatment of pain and spasticity in MS for the first time. Experimental studies into the biology of the endocannabinoid system have revealed that cannabinoids have activity, not only in symptom relief but also potentially in neuroprotective strategies which may slow disease progression and thus delay the onset of symptoms such as spasticity. This review appraises the current knowledge of cannabinoid biology particularly as it pertains to MS and outlines potential future therapeutic strategies for the treatment of disease progression in MS.
Dabigatran etexilate is emerging as an alternative for vitamin K antagonists, but evidence-based guidelines for management of intracerebral hemorrhage and acute ischemic stroke in patients taking this drug are nonexistent. This review summarizes current knowledge on key pharmacological features and the assessment of dabigatran activity. Pragmatic approaches are provided for individualized decision taking with regard to hemostatic therapy and reperfusion strategies in acute stroke patients.
Eye-tracking technology is a growing field used to detect eye movements and analyze human processing of visual information for interactive and diagnostic applications. Different domains in scientific research such as neuroscience, experimental psychology, computer science and human factors can benefit from eye-tracking methods and techniques to unobtrusively investigate the quantitative evidence underlying visual processes. In order to meet the experimental requirements concerning the variety of application fields, different gaze- and eye-tracking solutions using high-speed cameras are being developed (e.g., eye-tracking glasses, head-mounted or desk-mounted systems), which are also compatible with other analysis devices such as magnetic resonance imaging. This work presents an overview of the main application fields of eye-tracking methodology in psychological research. In particular, two innovative solutions will be shown: (1) the SMI RED-M eye-tracker, a high performance portable remote eye-tracker suitable for different settings, that requires maximum mobility and flexibility; (2) a wearable mobile gaze-tracking device--the SMI eye-tracking glasses--which is suitable for real-world and virtual environment research. For each kind of technology, the functions and different possibilities of application in experimental psychology will be described by focusing on some examples of experimental tasks (i.e., visual search, reading, natural tasks, scene viewing and other information processing) and theoretical approaches (e.g., embodied cognition).
In number-space synesthesia, numbers are visualized in spatially defined arrays. In a recent study (Gertner et al. in Cortex, doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2012.03.019 , 2012), we found that the size congruency effect (SiCE) for physical judgments (i.e., comparing numbers' physical sizes while ignoring their numerical values, for example, 8) was modulated by the spatial position of the presented numbers. Surprisingly, we found that the neutral condition, which is comprise solely of physical sizes (e.g., 3), was affected as well. This pattern gave rise to the idea that number-space synesthesia might entail not only discrete, ordered, meaningful symbols (i.e., Arabic numbers) but also continuous non-symbolic magnitudes (i.e., sizes, length, luminance, etc.). We tested this idea by assessing the performance of two number-space synesthetes and 12 matched controls in 3 comparative judgment tasks involving symbolic and non-symbolic stimuli: (1) Arabic numbers, (2) dot clusters, and (3) sizes of squares. The spatial position of the presented stimuli was manipulated to be compatible or incompatible with respect to the synesthetic number-space perceptions. Results revealed that for synesthetes, but not for controls, non-symbolic magnitudes (dot clusters) as well as symbolic magnitudes (i.e., Arabic numbers) interacted with space. Our study suggests that number-space synesthetes might have a general magnitude-space association that is not restricted to concrete symbolic stimuli. These findings support recent theories on the perception and evaluation of sizes in numerical cognition.
In spatial-sequence synesthesia, ordinal sequences are visualized in explicit spatial locations. We examined a recently documented subtype in which musical notes are represented in spatial configurations, to verify consistency and automaticity of musical pitch-space (M-S) synesthesia. An M-S synesthete performed a mapping pre-task (Exp. 1) used to indicate the locations of 7 auditory or visually presented notes, in 2 sessions a month apart. Results revealed strong correlations between sessions, suggesting the synesthete's musical forms were consistent over time. Experiment 2 assessed automaticity of M-S synesthesia. The same synesthete and matched controls preformed a spatial Stroop-like task. Participants were presented with an auditory or visual musical note and then had to reach for an asterisk (target) with a mouse cursor. The target appeared in a compatible or incompatible location (according to the synesthete's spatial representation). A compatibility effect was found for the synesthete but not for controls. The synesthete was significantly faster when the target appeared in compatible locations than in incompatible ones. Our findings show that for synesthetes, auditory and visually presented notes automatically trigger attention to specific spatial locations according to their specific M-S associations.
Persons with a diagnosis of minimally conscious state and pervasive motor disabilities tend to be passive and isolated. A way to help them improve their adaptive behavior (relate to their environment) involves the use of intervention packages combining assistive technology with motivational strategies. The types of assistive technology included in those packages may consist of (a) microswitches allowing direct access to environmental stimuli, (b) combinations of microswitches and voice output communication devices (VOCAs) allowing stimulus access and calls for caregivers' attention, respectively, and (c) computer presentations of stimulus options and microswitches allowing choice among those options and access to them.
In 1972, Michael Baxandal characterizes the processes responsible for the cultural relativism of art experience as highly complex and unknown in their physiological detail. While art history still shows considerable interest in the brain sciences forty years later, most cross-disciplinary studies today are referring to the neurosciences in an attempt to seek scientific legitimization of variations of a generalized and largely deterministic model of perception, reducing interaction between a work of art and its observers to a set of biological automatisms. I will challenge such an approach and take up art theory's interest in the historico-cultural and situational dimensions of art experience. Looking at two examples of large-scale installation and sculptural post-war American art, I will explore instable perceptions of depth and changing experiences of space that indicate complex interactions between perceptual and higher cognitive processes. The argument will draw on recent theories describing neuronal processes underlying multistable phenomena, eye movement, visual attention and decision-making. As I will show a large number of neuroscientific studies provide theoretical models that help us analyse not the anthropological constants but the influence of cultural, individual and situational variables on aesthetic experience.
Several philosophical theories attempt to explain how actions performed in the world enhance cognitive processing: internalism, active externalism, and cognitive integration. The aim of this paper is to examine whether the use of spatial representations in arithmetic can shed light on this debate. Relying on philosophical analysis, on a discussion of empirical work in the cognitive neuroscience of number, and on a historical case study, I will show that spatial representations of number indicate an integration between internal and external cognitive processes.
Witnessing emotional events such as arousal or pain may impair ongoing cognitive processes such as inhibitory control. We found that this may be true only half of the time. Erotic images and painful video clips were shown to men and women shortly before a stop signal task, which measures cognitive inhibitory control. These stimuli impaired inhibitory control only in men and not in women, suggesting that emotional stimuli may be processed with different weights depending on gender.
Synaptic vesicles release neurotransmitter at chemical synapses, thus initiating the flow of information in neural networks. To achieve this, vesicles undergo a dynamic cycle of fusion and retrieval to maintain the structural and functional integrity of the presynaptic terminals in which they reside. Moreover, compelling evidence indicates these vesicles differ in their availability for release and mobilization in response to stimuli, prompting classification into at least three different functional pools. Ongoing studies of the molecular and cellular bases for this heterogeneity attempt to link structure to physiology and clarify how regulation of vesicle pools influences synaptic strength and presynaptic plasticity. We discuss prevailing perspectives on vesicle pools, the role they play in shaping synaptic transmission, and the open questions that challenge current understanding.
Parkinsonism, the clinical term for a disorder with prominent bradykinesia and variable associated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms, is accompanied by degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, with neuronal loss and reactive gliosis in the substantia nigra found at autopsy. Parkinsonism is pathologically heterogeneous, with the most common pathologic substrates related to abnormalities in the presynaptic protein -synuclein or the microtubule binding protein tau. In idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), -synuclein accumulates in neuronal perikarya (Lewy bodies) and neuronal processes (Lewy neurites). The disease process is multifocal and involves select central nervous system neurons and peripheral autonomic nervous system neurons. The particular set of neurons affected determines nonmotor clinical presentations. Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is the other major -synucleinopathy. It is also associated with autonomic dysfunction and in some cases with cerebellar signs. The hallmark histopathologic feature of MSA is accumulation of -synuclein within glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCI). The most common of the Parkinsonian tauopathies is progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), which is clinically associated with severe postural instability leading to early falls. The tau pathology of PSP also affects both neurons and glia. Given the population frequency of PD, -synuclein pathology similar to that in PD, but not accompanied by neuronal loss, is relatively common (10% of people over 65 years of age) in neurologically normal individuals, leading to proposed staging schemes for PD progression. Although MSA-like and PSP-like pathology can be detected in neurologically normal individuals, such cases are too infrequent to permit assessment of patterns of disease progression.



