Cell therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD) is based on the idea that new midbrain dopamine (mDA) neurons, implanted directly into the brain of the patient, can structurally and functionally replace those lost to the disease. Clinical trials have provided proof-of-principle that the grafted mDA neurons can survive and function after implantation in order to provide sustained improvement in motor function for some patients. Nonetheless, there are a number of issues limiting the application of this approach as mainstream therapy, including: the use of human fetal tissue as the only safe and reliable source of transplantable mDA neurons, and variability in the therapeutic outcome. Here we review recent progress in this area from investigations using rodent models of PD, paying particular attention to the use of transgenic reporter mice as tools for neural transplantation studies. Cell type-specific expression of reporter genes, such as green fluorescent protein, affords valuable technical advantages in transplantation experiments, such as the ability to selectively isolate specific cell fractions from mixed populations prior to grafting, and the unambiguous visualization of graft-derived dopamine neuron fiber patterns after transplantation. The results from these investigations have given new insights into the transplantability of mDA precursors as well as their connectivity after grafting and have interesting implications for the development of stem cell based approaches for the treatment of PD.

This chapter focuses on the interdisciplinary discussion between cognitive psychologists and neuroscientists on how actions, the results of decision processes, are implemented. After surveying the approaches used in action implementation research, we analyze the contributions of these different approaches in more detail. Topics covered include expertise research in sports science, knowledge structures, neuroscientific research on motor imagery and decision making, computational models in motor control, robotics, and brain-machine interfaces. This forms the basis for discussing central issues for interdisciplinary research on action implementation from different viewpoints. In essence, most findings show the need to abandon serial frameworks of information processing suggesting a step-by-step pattern from perception, evaluation, and selection to execution. Instead, an outlook on new approaches is given, opening a route for future research in this field.
In the neurosciences, motor imagery (MIm) has not just been a topic of basic research. It has also attracted attention in applied research as a therapeutic tool. MIm is conceptualized as an internal simulation of motor acts that generates images on the basis of motor representations. Therefore, MIm is associated with neural activation of the cortical and subcortical motor system. The resulting concept of functional equivalence between MIm and execution opens a window to study the organization of motor processes and, more generally, to understand the neural plasticity of the motor system.
In the present contribution, the various functional interpretations concerning the putative function of the orbital prefrontal cortex are reviewed since this region and adjacent areas are considered the neural substrate of social behavior in general, and decision-making behavior in particular. This literature review revealed different but related interpretations as to the function of the orbital prefrontal cortex (including the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC)): the orbital prefrontal areas (a) code the hedonic quality of choice options, (b) are critical for maintaining associative information about expected outcomes in representational memory so that it can be compared and integrated with information about internal states and current goals, (c) serve as a store of implicitly acquired linkages between factual knowledge and bio-regulatory states, including those that constitute feelings and emotions, (d) serve as a detector of potential content that is derived from the critical aspects of the input, that is, the gist information, (e) are crucially involved in the integration of emotional signals in the decision-making process, and (f) may specialize in integrating the external and internal environment. In the last part of this contribution, we try to bring together these varying but related approaches and propose a preliminary working hypothesis with regard to the role of orbital prefrontal areas in decision making.
Patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) are at increased risk to develop neurocognitive problems. HIV crosses the blood-brain barrier (BBB) through a variety of means. Once within the brain tissue, HIV stimulates immunoactivation and inflammation that lead to neuronal loss. This review discusses the pathophysiology of HIV within the brain and the treatment modalities used to prevent neurocognitive problems from developing. Modalities that prevent antiretroviral drugs from crossing into the central nervous system and reducing viral load are also discussed. Finally, since drug penetration across the BBB is reduced, the use of nanoparticles as a treatment modality to increase BBB penetration may be an option worth further exploration.
Malignant gliomas, despite aggressive multimodal therapies and adequate supportive care, still maintain poor prognosis. Solid lipid nanoparticles (SLN) are colloidal carriers that could be regarded as a highly flexible platform for brain tumor imaging and therapeutical purposes. In this chapter we will first describe brain tumors characteristics and conventional therapeutical approaches. In the subsequent sections, we will analyze SLN properties, effectiveness, and future perspectives in both imaging and targeted treatment of malignant gliomas.
Although neuromodulation with implanted brain electrodes (deep brain stimulation, DBS) has been increasingly effective in treating many patients with movement disorders (e.g., advanced Parkinson's disease) over the past 20 years, the techniques have changed little for more than 50 years. After summarizing the current state of DBS, this chapter considers (1) the advances being offered by computational analysis techniques as well as (2) the benefits of monitoring and modulating brain chemical activity in addition to brain electrical activity. A review of the current state of sensory neuroprostheses follows, with consideration of emerging data on the optimal configuration of micron-sized retinal prostheses as well as on the optimal site for stimulation of cells in the retina. Very recent findings on nanotechniques to enhance charge transfer from prosthesis to cell (neuronal or glial), that is, enhancement of the neural-electrical interface, are then reviewed. The final section summarizes areas of potential cross-fertilization between those centers developing sensory neuroprostheses and those centers developing nanotechniques for DBS.
Oxidative stress is known to play a key role in the initiation and promotion of the neurodegeneration that characterizes the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD). An accumulation of redox active transition metals, including iron and copper, is likely a major generator of reactive oxidative species and other free radicals and is thought to induce a detrimental cycle of oxidative stress, amyloid-beta aggregation, and neurodegeneration. As such, metal chelators may provide an alternative therapeutic approach to sequester redox active metals and prevent the onslaught of oxidative damage. Unfortunately, however, metal chelation approaches are currently limited in their potential, since many cannot readily pass the blood-brain barrier (BBB), due to their hydrophilicity, and many are neurotoxic at high concentrations. To circumvent such issues, here we describe the development of iron chelator-nanoparticle conjugation that allows delivery of target chelator to the brain in the absence of neurotoxicity. Such nanoparticle delivery of iron chelators will likely provide a highly advantageous mode of attack on the oxidative stress that plagues AD as well as other conditions characterized by excess metal accumulation.
Rapid advances in the field of nanotechnology promise revolutionary improvements in the diagnosis and therapy of neuroinflammatory disorders. An array of iron oxide nano- and microparticle agents have been developed for in vivo molecular magnetic resonance imaging (mMRI) of cerebrovascular endothelial targets, such as vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), E-selectin, and the glycoprotein receptor GP IIb/IIIa expressed on activated platelets. Molecular markers of glioma cells, such as matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), and markers for brain tumor angiogenesis, such as alpha (v) beta (3) integrin (alpha(v)beta(3)), have also been successfully targeted using nanoparticle imaging probes. This chapter provides an overview of targeted, iron oxide nano- and microparticles that have been applied for in vivo mMRI of the brain in experimental models of multiple sclerosis (MS), brain ischemia, cerebral malaria (CM), brain cancer, and Alzheimer's disease. The potential of targeted nanoparticle agents for application in clinical imaging is also discussed, including multimodal and therapeutic approaches.
Functionalized quantum dot nanocrystals provide an opportunity for high signal-to-noise ratio specific labeling of cells with micron-scale spatial resolution, and extend the cellular imaging toolbox available to the cellular neurobiologist. In this review we discuss previous work from our group aimed at optimizing quantum dot labeling protocols specific to neurons and neural glial cells, labeling and imaging of intact neural retinal tissue sections in a rat model of retinal degeneration focused on the formation of the glial scar following focal reactive gliosis, and on the characterization and estimation of the number of functionally available antibodies for biological binding conjugated to quantum dots following two popular conjugation schemes.
Many neurodegenerative diseases, cancer, and infections of the brain become more prevalent as populations become older. Despite major advances in neuroscience, the blood-brain barrier (BBB) ensures that many potential therapeutics cannot reach the central nervous system (CNS). The BBB is formed by the complex tight junctions between the endothelial cells of the brain capillaries and their low endocytic activity. It results in the capillary wall that behaves as a continuous lipid bilayer and prevents the passage of polar substances. Drug delivery to the brain has remained one of the most vexing problems in translational neuroscience research, because of the difficulties posed by the BBB. Several strategies for delivering drugs to the CNS have been developed. This review rationalizes the strategies to target drugs to the brain by using different colloids.

Phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are the only known enzymes to degrade cAMP and cGMP, intracellular signaling molecules key to numerous cellular functions. There are 11 PDE families identified to date, and each is expressed in a unique pattern across brain regions. Here, we review genetic mouse models in which PDEs are either directly manipulated (e.g., genetically deleted) or are changed in a compensatory manner due to the manipulation of another target. We believe these genetic mouse models have contributed to our understanding of how the PDE1, PDE4, and PDE10 families contribute uniquely to overall brain function.
Quantitative colocalization analysis is an advanced digital imaging tool to characterize the spatial expression of molecules of interest in immunofluorescence images obtained using confocal microscopes. It began from simple pixel counting and, with introduction of specialized algorithms, transformed into a powerful image analyzing technique capable of identifying the exact locations of various molecules in tissues and cells and describing their subtle changes in dynamics. Applications of quantitative colocalization in the field of neuroscience proved to be particularly informative by helping to obtain observations not otherwise achievable using other techniques. In this article, we review the background and applicability of quantitative colocalization with special focus on neuroscience research.
The antiapoptotic, antioxidant, proliferative, and angiogenic effects of metallothionein (MT)-I+II has resulted in increased focus on their role in oncogenesis, tumor progression, therapy response, and patient prognosis. Studies have reported increased expression of MT-I+II mRNA and protein in various human cancers; such as breast, kidney, lung, nasopharynx, ovary, prostate, salivary gland, testes, urinary bladder, cervical, endometrial, skin carcinoma, melanoma, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and pancreatic cancers, where MT-I+II expression is sometimes correlated to higher tumor grade/stage, chemotherapy/radiation resistance, and poor prognosis. However, MT-I+II are downregulated in other types of tumors (e.g. hepatocellular, gastric, colorectal, central nervous system (CNS), and thyroid cancers) where MT-I+II is either inversely correlated or unrelated to mortality. Large discrepancies exist between different tumor types, and no distinct and reliable association exists between MT-I+II expression in tumor tissues and prognosis and therapy resistance. Furthermore, a parallel has been drawn between MT-I+II expression as a potential marker for prognosis, and MT-I+II's role as oncogenic factors, without any direct evidence supporting such a parallel. This review aims at discussing the role of MT-I+II both as a prognostic marker for survival and therapy response, as well as for the hypothesized role of MT-I+II as causal oncogenes.
In traumatic brain injury (TBI), the primary, irreversible damage associated with the moment of impact consists of cells dying from necrosis. This contributes to fuelling a chronic central nervous system (CNS) inflammation with increased formation of proinflammatory cytokines, enzymes and reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS promote oxidative stress, which leads to neurodegeneration and ultimately results in programmed cell death (secondary injury). Since this delayed, secondary tissue loss occurs days to months following the primary injury it provides a therapeutic window where potential neuroprotective treatment could alleviate ongoing neurodegeneration, cell death and neurological impairment following TBI. Various neuroprotective drug candidates have been described, tested and proven effective in pre-clinical studies, including glutamate receptor antagonists, calcium-channel blockers, and caspase inhibitors. However, most of the scientific efforts have failed in translating the experimental results into clinical trials. Despite intensive research, effective neuroprotective therapies are lacking in the clinic, and TBI continues to be a major cause of morbidity and mortality. This paper provides an overview of the TBI pathophysiology leading to cell death and neurological impairment. We also discuss endogenously expressed neuroprotectants and drug candidates, which at this stage may still hold the potential for treating brain injured patients.

Synaptic activity-dependent protein synthesis is required to convert a labile short-term memory (STM) into a persistent long-term memory (LTM). Indeed, genetic or pharmacological inhibition of translation impairs LTM, but not STM. Long-lasting biochemical and morphological changes of synapses, which underlie learning and memory, also require new protein synthesis. In recent years, a large number of experiments have yielded much new information about the processes that govern translational control of synaptic plasticity during learning and memory processes. Signaling pathways that modulate mRNA translation play critical roles in these processes. In this chapter, we review the mechanisms by which certain translational regulators including eIF2alpha, 4E-BP, S6K, and CPEB control long-term synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation and their involvement in neurologic disease.
Members of the R7 subfamily of regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins (RGS6, 7, 9, and 11) exist as heterodimers with the G protein beta subunit G5. These protein complexes are only found in neurons and are defined by the presence of three domains: DEP/DHEX, G5/GGL, and RGS. This article summarizes published work in the following areas: (1) the functional significance of structural organization of G5-R7 complexes, (2) regional distribution of G5-R7 in the nervous system and regulation of R7 family expression, (3) subcellular localization of G5-R7 complexes, and (4) novel binding partners of G5-R7 proteins. The review points out some contradictions between observations made by different research groups and highlights the importance of using alternative experimental approaches to obtain conclusive information about G5-R7 function in vivo.
This work comprises of a literature review on visual perception distortions that have their origin in structural or functional irregularities of the brain, resulting in the cortex malfunction. The main area that we pay attention to is the brain cortex, but we should not forget, that diseases destructive to the lower brain structures also inevitably lead to secondary dysfunction of the cortex, and thus they have also been included in this paper. Cerebral vision disorders are a small percentage of caseload in either neurology or ophthalmology practice, yet they certainly are interesting for the cognitive scientists, as they open a window into the complex mechanisms of the cerebral clockwork. We are presenting examples of disorders, many of which engage the creative cooperation between specialists from different fields of neuroscience. Three kinds of disorders are presented: vision loss, agnosias and hallucinations. Among others there is some information on cortical blindness, blindsight, Anton's syndrome, hysterical blindness, apperceptive and associative agnosia, prosopagnosia, pure alexia, achromatopsia, Bonnet syndrome, Alice in Wonderland syndrome, peduncular halucinosis etc.
In our recent article we attempt to sum up the circumstances of the closing-down of the National Psychiatric and Neurologic Institute (OPNI). We intend to summarize the values that may disappear by the liquidation of the institute and try to explore the possibilities how to keep them alive in the future. Most of the divisions can operate further under the umbrella of the Semmelweis University; the modus operandi and the role of the University are also covered in this article.
Objective: Accurate and prospective assessments of treatment-emergent suicidal thoughts and behaviors are essential to both clinical care and randomized clinical trials. The Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale is a prospective, patient self-report or clinician-administered rating scale that tracks both treatment-emergent suicidal ideation and behaviors. The Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale was incorporated into a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, and active comparator study examining the efficacy of an experimental corticotropin-releasing factor antagonist (BMS-562086) for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder.Method: The Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale was administered to subjects at baseline, Week 2, Week 4, and Week 8 or early termination. Subjects completed theSheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale by self report. The Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale was designated as an exploratory outcome measure in the study protocol, and post-hoc analyses were performed to examine the performance of the Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale.Results: A total of 82 subjects completed the Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale during the course of the study. Altogether, these subjects provided 297 completed Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale ratings across the study time points. Sixty-one subjects (n=25 placebo, n=24 BMS-562086, and n=12 escitalopram) had a baseline and at least one post-baseline Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale measurement. The mean change from baseline at Week 8 in the Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale total score was -0.10, -0.02, and -0.06 for escitalopram, placebo, and BMS-562086 groups, respectively. The sensitivity of the Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale and HAM-D Item #3 (suicide) for identifying subjects with suicidal thoughts or behaviors was 100 percent and 63 percent, respectively.Conclusions: The Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale may be a sensitive psychometric tool to prospectively assess for treatment-emergent suicidal thoughts and behaviors. Despite the small sample size and low occurrence of suicidal ideation during the course of this clinical trial, the self-reported Sheehan Suicidality Tracking Scale demonstrated increased sensitivity over the rater administered HAM-D Item #3 in identifying suicide related ideations and behaviors. Further research in larger study samples as well as in other psychiatric disorders are needed.

A fundamental claim associated with parallel distributed processing (PDP) theories of cognition is that knowledge is coded in a distributed manner in mind and brain. This approach rejects the claim that knowledge is coded in a localist fashion, with words, objects, and simple concepts (e.g. &quot;dog&quot;), that is, coded with their own dedicated representations. One of the putative advantages of this approach is that the theories are biologically plausible. Indeed, advocates of the PDP approach often highlight the close parallels between distributed representations learned in connectionist models and neural coding in brain and often dismiss localist (grandmother cell) theories as biologically implausible. The author reviews a range a data that strongly challenge this claim and shows that localist models provide a better account of single-cell recording studies. The author also contrast local and alternative distributed coding schemes (sparse and coarse coding) and argues that common rejection of grandmother cell theories in neuroscience is due to a misunderstanding about how localist models behave. The author concludes that the localist representations embedded in theories of perception and cognition are consistent with neuroscience; biology only calls into question the distributed representations often learned in PDP models.
Aging is associated with preserved enhancement of emotional memory, as well as with age-related reductions in memory for negative stimuli, but the neural networks underlying such alterations are not clear. We used a subsequent-memory paradigm to identify brain activity predicting enhanced emotional memory in young and older adults. Activity in the amygdala predicted enhanced emotional memory, with subsequent-memory activity greater for negative stimuli than for neutral stimuli, across age groups, a finding consistent with an overall enhancement of emotional memory. However, older adults recruited greater activity in anterior regions and less activity in posterior regions in general for negative stimuli that were subsequently remembered. Functional connectivity of the amygdala with the rest of the brain was consistent with age-related reductions in memory for negative stimuli: Older adults showed decreased functional connectivity between the amygdala and the hippocampus, but increased functional connectivity between the amygdala and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices. These findings suggest that age-related differences in the enhancement of emotional memory might reflect decreased connectivity between the amygdala and typical subsequent-memory regions, as well as the engagement of regulatory processes that inhibit emotional responses.
Input-control theories of the attentional blink (AB) suggest that this deficit results from impaired attentional selection caused by the post-Target 1 (T1) distractor (Di Lollo et al., 2005; Olivers et al., 2007). Accordingly, there should be no AB when there are no intervening distractors between the targets. Contrary to these hypotheses, Dux et al. (2008) observed an AB (T3 deficit) when three targets, from the same attentional set, were presented successively in a rapid stream of distractors if subjects increased the resources devoted to T1 processing, a result consistent with resource depletion accounts of the AB. However, Olivers et al. (this issue) argue that Dux et al.'s results can be better explained by the relationship between T1 and T2 rather than between T1 and T3, and by target discriminability effects. Here, we find that manipulating the resources subjects devote to T1, either exogenously (target perceptual salience) or endogenously (target task-relevance), affects T3 performance even when controlling for T2 and target discriminability differences. These results support Dux et al.'s conclusion that T1 resource depletion underlies the AB.

There is general agreement that DSM-IV and ICD-10 require major improvements in format and content to make them more valid, evidence-based and clinically useful. DSM-IV-TR currently includes a series of clinical features that provide potentially useful information on cross-sectional and longitudinal courses of bipolar disorder. This conceptual and data-driven review proposes changes in the current classification by removing, modifying and adding bipolar episode and course specifiers in DSM-V. Specifiers to be maintained would be 'with catatonic features', 'with melancholic features', 'with atypical features' and 'with rapid cycling'. The 'seasonal pattern' modifier should be amended to allow manic, hypomanic and mixed episodes to be included in the description. Some specifiers should likely be substantially reconceptualized ('severity/psychosis/remission') or removed ('with post-partum onset'). Age at onset (early, intermediate or late onset) and predominant polarity (manic, depressive) should be added for their relevance for course and outcome.














Theta oscillations (4-8 Hz) are often modulated in human electroencephalogram (EEG) studies of memory, whereas overlapping frequencies dominate rodent hippocampal EEG. An emerging parallelism between theta reactivity and hippocampal functional magnetic resonance imaging activation has suggested a homology between theta activity in humans and rodents, representing a process of cortico-hippocampal interaction involved in memory. In the present study, we investigated EEG reactivity during performance of a relational memory task that induces a negative hippocampal blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal change, compared to a nonrelational control condition. Relational trials induced theta increases and alpha decreases. Low Resolution Electromagnetic Brain Tomography estimates localized theta and alpha modulation to frontal midline and parietal midline cortices, respectively, both of which exhibit negative BOLD responses in this task. Thus, theta and alpha dynamics are dissociable from positive BOLD activation, and may, in fact, colocalize with negative BOLD responses.




We characterized the inflammatory response after a single dose of 8 Gy to the brains of postnatal day 9 rats. Affymetrix gene chips revealed activation of multiple inflammatory mechanisms in the acute phase, 6 h after irradiation. In the subacute phase, 7 days after irradiation, genes related to neurogenesis and cell cycle were down-regulated, but glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was up-regulated. The concentrations of 14 different cytokines and chemokines were measured using a microsphere-based xMAP technology. CCL2, Gro/KC and IL-1alpha were the most strongly up-regulated 6 h after irradiation. CCL2 was expressed in astrocytes and microglia in the dentate gyrus and the subventricular zone (SVZ). Hypertrophy, but not hyperplasia, of astrocytes was demonstrated 7 days after irradiation. In summary, we found transient activation of multiple inflammatory mechanisms in the acute phase (6 h) after irradiation and activation of astrocytes in the subacute phase (7 days) after irradiation. It remains to be elucidated whether these transient changes are involved in the persistent effects of radiation observed on neurogenesis and cognition in rodents.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurological disease with dementia. AD-related dementia is caused by death and dysfunction of neurons involved in cognitive function. It has been generally believed that increased levels of toxic amyloid-betas (Abetas) are linked to the occurrence of neuronal death as well as dysfunction (Abeta cascade theory). Consequently, lowering levels of toxic Abetas in the brain is considered to be central for therapy of AD. Multiple drug candidates based on this therapeutic strategy have been developed and are being vigorously developed. Some clinical studies have indicated that this strategy is effective. In addition to this theory, Abeta-independent pathomechanisms have been shown to contribute to the progression of AD-related dementia, justifying alternative strategies for AD treatment that are effective against Abeta-independent pathomechanisms. A possible therapeutic strategy belonging to them is to directly suppress AD-related neuronal death and dysfunction. A series of studies indicated that a 24-amino-acid bioactive peptide named Humanin was shown to inhibit neuronal cell death induced by enforced expression of familial AD-related genes. Humanin also protected neurons from being killed by toxic Abetas in vitro. In addition, neuronal dysfunction-associated dementia of mice caused by muscarinic receptor antagonists and intracranially injected toxic Abetas was ameliorated by Humanin therapy. Multiple studies have indicated the existence of a putative specific Humanin receptor on the cell membrane. These results together suggest that an endogenous AD-related humoral factor(s) may inhibit the progression of AD-related dementia by inhibiting both neuronal cell death and dysfunction in vivo. Malfunction of this self-defense mechanism is also hypothesized to be another etiology or an aggravator of AD. Moreover, from a standpoint of AD therapy, stimulation of the AD defense mechanism by a potent Humanin derivative is a promising alternative strategy for AD treatment. The present patents cover Humanin and the methods of its clinical usage.
The World Health Organization grossly classifies the various types of astrocytomas using a grade system with grade IV gliomas having the worst prognosis. Oncolytic virus therapy is a novel treatment option for GBM patients. Several patents describe various oncolytic viruses used in preclinical and clinical trials to evaluate safety and efficacy. These viruses are natural or genetically engineered from different viruses such as HSV-1, Adenovirus, Reovirus, and New Castle Disease Virus. While several anecdotal studies have indicated therapeutic advantage, recent clinical trials have revealed the safety of their usage, but demonstration of significant efficacy remains to be established. Oncolytic viruses are being redesigned with an interest in combating the tumor microenvironment in addition to defeating the cancerous cells. Several patents describe the inclusion of tumor microenvironment modulating genes within the viral backbone and in particular those which attack the tumor angiotome. The very innovative approaches being used to improve therapeutic efficacy include: design of viruses which can express cytokines to activate a systemic antitumor immune response, inclusion of angiostatic genes to combat tumor vasculature, and also enzymes capable of digesting tumor extra cellular matrix (ECM) to enhance viral spread through solid tumors. As increasingly more novel viruses are being tested and patented, the future battle against glioma looks promising.
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) plays an important role in cell growth. Dysfunction of mTOR has been linked to many human diseases, such as cancers, obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and neurological disorders. Currently, the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin and its analogs have been vigorously evaluated and developed as anticancer drugs. Here, we will review the most recent patents and patent applications relating to mTOR pathway. Moreover, we will discuss the patents and patent applications on the treatment of mTOR-associated metabolic diseases and cancers.
The dogma that solid tumors are composed of tumor cells that all share the same ability to produce proliferating daughter cells has been challenged in recent years. There is growing evidence that many adult tissues contain a set of tissue stem cells, which might undergo malignant transformation while retaining their stem cell characteristics. These include the ability of indefinite self-renewal and the capability to differentiate into daughter cells of tissue-specific lineages. Brain tumors such as medulloblastomas or glioblastomas often contain areas of divergent differentiation, which raises the intriguing question of whether these tumors could derive from neural stem cells (NSCs).This chapter reviews the current knowledge of NSCs and relates them to brain tumor pathology. Current therapy protocols for malignant brain tumors are targeted toward the reduction of bulk tumor mass. The concept of brain-tumor stem cells could provide new insights for future therapies, if the capacity for self-renewal of tumor cells and growth of the tumor mass would reside within a small subset of cancer cells.
Exposure to novel adult males and their urine can hasten the onset of sexual maturity in female mice. Some evidence implicates chemosignals from males' preputial glands, while other evidence suggests that male urinary steroids, especially 17beta-oestradiol, contribute to this effect. The present experiment was designed to determine whether preputial gland removal would influence the capacity of males to accelerate female sexual development, and to measure male urinary oestradiol and testosterone in the presence or absence of these glands. Juvenile females aged 28 days were housed for two weeks in isolation or underneath two outbred males that had undergone preputialectomy or sham surgery. Urine samples were collected non-invasively from males that were isolated or exposed to females, then assayed for oestradiol, testosterone and creatinine. Combined uterine and ovarian mass from females sacrificed at 43 days of age was increased by exposure to males, regardless of whether or not these males had been preputialectomised. Male urinary creatinine was reduced by exposure to developing females. Creatinine-adjusted oestradiol and testosterone were significantly greater in female-exposed than in isolated males, in both preputialectomised and intact males. These data suggest that the preputials are not necessary for the capacity of males to hasten female uterine and ovarian growth. As exogenous oestrogens can promote uterine growth and other parameters of female reproductive maturation, oestradiol in males' urine may contribute to earlier sexual maturity in male-exposed females.
Parabens are widely used as preservatives in many foods, cosmetics, toiletries, and pharmaceuticals due to their relatively low toxicity profile and to a long history of safe use. Parabens are alkyl esters of p-hydroxybenzoic acid and typically include methylparaben, ethylparaben, propylparaben, butylparaben, isobutylparaben, isopropylparaben and benzylparaben. These compounds are known to have a null or very weak estrogenic activity in estrogen receptor assays in vitro. In recent years, an increasing concern has emerged regarding possible adverse effects of chemicals in food and in cosmetics on human reproduction outcomes. In developed countries about 15% of human couples are affected by infertility, almost half of these cases attributed to men, through low sperm motility or/and sperm count. It is known that a significant number of cases of male infertility results from exposure to xenobiotics, and also that testis mitochondria are particularly affected by drug-induced toxicity. The present review discusses evidence that parabens may not be as safe as initially thought, and suggests that the interaction between parabens and mitochondrial function in the testis may be key in explaining the contribution of parabens for a decrease in reproductive potential.
The progesterone metabolite and neurosteroid, 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP), has actions in the midbrain ventral tegmental area (VTA) to modulate lordosis, but its effects on other reproductively relevant behaviors are not well understood. Effects on exploration, anxiety, and social behavior resulting from inhibition of 3alpha,5alpha-THP formation, as well as 3alpha,5alpha-THP enhancement, were investigated in the midbrain VTA. Naturally sexually receptive, female rats (n=8-10/group) received infusions aimed at the midbrain VTA of vehicle, PK11195 (an inhibitor of neurosteroidogenesis), and/or indomethacin (an inhibitor of 3alpha,5alpha-THP formation from prohormones), and were subsequently infused with vehicle or FGIN 1-27 (a neurosteroidogenesis enhancer). The rats were then assessed in a behavioral battery that examined exploration (open field), anxiety (elevated plus maze), social (social interaction), and sexual (paced mating) behavior. Inhibition of 3alpha,5alpha-THP formation decreased exploratory, anti-anxiety, social, and sexual behavior, as well as midbrain 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels. Infusions of FGIN 1-27 following 3alpha,5alpha-THP inhibition restored these behaviors and midbrain 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels to those commensurate with control rats that had not been administered inhibitors. These findings suggest that 3alpha,5alpha-THP formation in the midbrain VTA may influence appetitive, as well as consummatory, aspects of mating behavior.
We investigated the task processes which hinder people with intellectual disabilities (ID) when using the human-computer interface. This involved testing performance on specific computer tasks and conducting detailed analyses of the task demands imposed on the participants. The interface used by Internet Explorer (IE) was standardized into 16 tasks (161 subtasks). A total of 57 people with ID completed all the tasks. The task demands of each subtask were analyzed and rated by an expert panel review. Results indicated that the 16 identified tasks to have varied levels of difficulty. Participants' performances were differentiated by two tasks: general motor functions and use customized bookmark. The majority of the tasks required visual acuity, vigilance, orientation, and basic sensori-motor abilities. The more difficult tasks were associated with higher levels of working memory and recognition of Chinese words. The model of identification, response, and execution was useful for analyzing the IE tasks. Successful IE performances appeared to be determined by the match between the participants' abilities and the task demands. The findings shed light on the use of task-specific screening tests and on the design of ability-specific training programs that enhance the computer competency of people with ID.



The journal Restorative Neurology and Neuroscience (RNN) now celebrates its 20th anniversary. Since 1989 RNN has published scientific findings in the emerging fields of brain plasticity, repair and rehabilitation via original scientific publications and review papers in basic research (animal experiments, in vitro studies) and clinical science. During the last decade RNN had a steady progress in reference value and scientific impact, reaching an ISI-impact factor of 1.978 (2008) and has published a total of 717 papers. The journal's success can be explained by different factors: (1) neuroplasticity, regeneration, recovery and rehabilitation have developed to main stream subjects with a worldwide increase in the number of publications and their citation rate, (2) RNN has published numerous special issues which summarize the work of leading experts in specialized sub-fields, (3) a dedicated, highly qualified editorial board (4) the quality of papers submitted to RNN has increased over time. RNN has now become a visible and leading source of original scientific information in the space of brain plasticity, rehabilitation and repair.





Actin filaments are thin polymers of the 42 kD protein actin. In mature axons a network of subaxolemmal actin filaments provide stability for membrane integrity and a substrate for short distance transport of cargos. In developing neurons dynamic regulation of actin polymerization and organization mediates axonal morphogenesis and axonal pathfinding to synaptic targets. Other changes in axonal shape, collateral branching, branch retraction, and axonal regeneration, also depend on actin filament dynamics. Actin filament organization is regulated by a diversity of actin-binding proteins (ABP). ABP are the focus of complex extrinsic and intrinsic signaling pathways, and many neurological pathologies and dysfunctions arise from defective regulation of ABP function.
Axon regeneration in the mature mammalian central nervous system (CNS) is extremely limited after injury. Consequently, functional deficits persist after spinal cord injury (SCI), traumatic brain injury, stroke, and related conditions that involve axonal disconnection. This situation differs from that in the mammalian peripheral nervous system (PNS), where long-distance axon regeneration and substantial functional recovery can occur in the adult. Both extracellular molecules and the intrinsic growth capacity of the neuron influence regenerative success. This chapter discusses determinants of axon regeneration in the PNS and CNS.
Synucleinopathies are a group of neurodegenerative diseases characterized by accumulation and aggregation of the protein alpha-synuclein in neuronal perikarya and processes. In contrast to the proximal localization of alpha-synuclein in diseased states, under physiologic conditions, the bulk of alpha-synuclein is present in distant presynaptic terminals. Thus, pathologic conditions lead to mislocalization and aggregation of alpha-synuclein in neuronal cell bodies, and an outstanding question relates to the cell-biological mechanisms that can lead to such mislocalization. Like most other synaptic proteins, alpha-synuclein is synthesized in the neuronal perikarya and then transported into axons and synaptic domains. Accordingly, it has been hypothesized that disturbances in biogenesis/axonal transport or presynaptic targeting of alpha-synuclein can lead to its mislocalization in diseased states. In this chapter, key observations that lead to this hypothesis are presented in addition to a review of some recent literature that has directly addressed this issue. Finally, conflicting results that have resulted from such studies are also highlighted, and a view is offered to reconcile these controversies.
During evolution, as organisms increased in complexity and function, the need for the ensheathment and insulation of axons by glia became vital for faster conductance of action potentials in nerves. Myelination, as the process is termed, facilitates the formation of discrete domains within the axolemma that are enriched in ion channels, and macromolecular complexes consisting of cell adhesion molecules and cytoskeletal regulators. While it is known that glia play a substantial role in the coordination and organization of these domains, the mechanisms involved and signals transduced between the axon and glia, as well as the proteins regulating axo-glial junction formation remain elusive. Emerging evidence has shed light on the processes regulating myelination and domain differentiation, and key molecules have been identified that are required for their assembly and maintenance. This review highlights these recent findings, and relates their significance to domain disorganization as seen in several demyelinating disorders and other neuropathies.
Axons and their growth cones are specialized neuronal sub-compartments that possess translation machinery and have distinct messenger RNAs (mRNAs). Several classes of mRNAs have been identified using candidate-based, as well as unbiased genome-wide-based approaches. Axonal mRNA localization serves to regulate spatially the protein synthesis; thereby, providing axons with a high degree of functional autonomy from the soma during axon pathfinding. Importantly, de novo protein synthesis in navigating axonal growth cones is necessary for chemotropic responses to various axon guidance cues. This chapter discusses the molecular components involved in regulating axonal mRNA trafficking, targeting, and translation, and focuses on RNA binding proteins (RNBPs) and microRNAs. The functional significance of local mRNA translation in the directional response of growth cones to a gradient is highlighted along with the downstream signaling events that mediate local protein synthesis. The view that emerges is that local translation is tightly coupled to extracellular cues, enabling growth cones to respond to new signals with exquisite adaptability and spatiotemporal control.
Endogenous opioid systems are implicated in the reinforcing effects of ethanol and may play a substantial role in modulating the central reinforcing effects of ethanol early in ontogeny. This possibility was explored in the present study through the use of an olfactory conditioning paradigm with centrally administered ethanol serving as an unconditioned stimulus (US). In Experiment 1, newborn rat pups were treated with either a selective mu antagonist CTOP or kappa selective antagonist nor-BNI prior to olfactory conditioning. Experiment 2 tested the effectiveness of an alternative, shorter-duration kappa opioid antagonist GNTI in altering ethanol reinforcement. Experiment 3 investigated whether the effectiveness of pharmacological blockade of opioid receptors was due to the disruption of learning per se using an olfactory aversive conditioning paradigm with intraoral quinine serving as a US. Central administration of either mu or kappa opioid antagonists prior to conditioning disrupted the reinforcing effects of ethanol in newborn rats. The kappa opioid antagonist GNTI was as effective as nor-BNI. These effects of opioid antagonists on ethanol reinforcement are unlikely to be due to a disruption of all types of conditioning, since CTOP did not affect aversive reinforcement to intraoral infusions of quinine. The present results support the hypothesis that in newborn rats, the reinforcing properties of ethanol are mediated by the endogenous activity at mu and kappa opioid receptors.
Lyme disease, the multisystem infectious disease caused by the tickborne spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi, frequently affects the peripheral and central nervous systems. The earliest indication of Lyme disease infection is usually erythema migrans. This large, typically macular erythema, often with a target-like pattern of concentric pale and red circles, gradually enlarges day by day, potentially reaching many centimeters in diameter. In a significant proportion of infected individuals, an acute disseminated phase leads to seeding elsewhere in the body. Up to 5% of patients develop cardiac involvement. In about 10% to 15% of patients, the nervous system becomes symptomatically involved. Current serologic diagnostic tools are quite useful, and standard treatment regimens are highly effective. Oral antimicrobials have been shown to be effective in European neuroborreliosis and presumably are equally potent in North American patients. Long-term antibiotic treatment does not provide any additional lasting improvement, but it is frequently associated with significant morbidity.
We demonstrate brain locations appearing to correlate with consciousness, but not being directly responsible for it. Technology reveals that brain activity is associated with consciousness but is not equivalent to it. We examine how consciousness occurs at critical levels of complexity. Conventional explanations portray consciousness as an emergent property of classical computer-like activities in the brain's neural networks. Prevailing views in this camp are that patterns of neural network activities correlate with mental states, that synchronous network oscillations in the thalamus and cerebral cortex temporally bind information, and that consciousness emerges as a novel property of computational complexity among neurons. A hard-wired theory is enigmatic for explaining consciousness because the nature of subjective experience, or 'qualia'- 'inner life' - is a &quot;hard problem&quot; to understand; binding spatially distributed brain activity into unitary objects, and a coherent sense of self, or 'oneness' is difficult to explain as is the transition from pre- to conscious states. Consciousness is non-computable and involves factors that are neither random nor algorithmic - consciousness cannot be simulated; explanations are also needed for free will and for subjective time flow. Convention argues that neurons and their chemical synapses are the fundamental units of information in the brain, and that conscious experience emerges when a critical level of complexity is reached in the brain's neural networks. The basic idea is that the mind is a computer functioning in the brain. In fitting the brain to a computational view, such explanations omit incompatible neurophysiological details, including widespread apparent randomness at all levels of neural processes (is it really noise, or underlying levels of complexity?); glial cells (which account for some 80% of the brain); dendritic-dendritic processing; electrotonic gap junctions; cytoplasmic/cytoskeletal activities; living state (the brain is alive!); and absence of testable hypotheses in emergence theory. There is no threshold or rationale specified; rather, consciousness 'just happens'. Consciousness then involves an awareness of what we are sensing or experiencing and some ability to control or coordinate voluntary actions. These issues of life, death, and consciousness are discussed in the context of Mike, the headless chicken, who survived for 18 months, and in the context of consciousness with high degrees of intellectual and cognitive function in a congenitally anencephalic brain; additionally, in the reanimation work of Soviet scientists in the 1920-30s, and in auditory sentence processing in patients in comatose, vegetative, and minimally conscious states.
We outline the basis of how functional disconnection with reduced activity and coherence in the right hemisphere would explain all of the symptoms of autistic spectrum disorder as well as the observed increases in sympathetic activation. If the problem of autistic spectrum disorder is primarily one of desynchronization and ineffective interhemispheric communication, then the best way to address the symptoms is to improve coordination between areas of the brain. To do that the best approach would include multimodal therapeusis that would include a combination of somatosensory, cognitive, behavioral, and biochemical interventions all directed at improving overall health, reducing inflammation and increasing right hemisphere activity to the level that it becomes temporally coherent with the left hemisphere. We hypothesize that the unilateral increased hemispheric stimulation has the effect of increasing the temporal oscillations within the thalamocortical pathways bringing it closer to the oscillation rate of the adequately functioning hemisphere. We propose that increasing the baseline oscillation speed of one entire hemisphere will enhance the coordination and coherence between the two hemispheres allowing for enhanced motor and cognitive binding.
Since Alois Alzheimer first described morphological alterations associated with his patient's dementia more than 100 years ago, Alzheimer's disease (AD) was defined as neurodegenerative disease caused by extracellular deposits of misfolded proteins. These amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles have been unambiguously considered as hallmarks of this ailment, accompanied by devastating brain atrophy and cell loss. When a 40-42 amino acid peptide, called beta-amyloid (Abeta), was identified as a main component of amyloid plaques and a few genetic cases of AD were linked to Abeta metabolism, the Abeta hypothesis of AD was proposed. It was initially thought that an increase in Abeta42 precipitates plaque formation, which causes the generation of neurofibrillary tangles and ultimately the death of neurons. However, during the last decade it became apparent that soluble rather than deposited Abeta is associated with dementia. Among the constituents of soluble Abeta, small oligomeric forms were increasingly associated with neuropathology. There is now ample evidence that Abeta oligomers do not affect neuronal viability in general, but interfere specifically with synaptic function. Long-term neurophysiological impairment ultimately causes degeneration of synapses, which becomes most apparent on the morphological level by retraction of dendritic spines. Loss of meaningful synaptic connections in the brain of patients with AD will shatter their capacity to encode and retrieve memories. The precise molecular mechanism of Abeta oligomer-induced impairment of synaptic transmission is not fully understood, but there are several independent observations that oligomers interfere with the vesicular release machinery at the presynaptic terminal. While this hypothesis offers a promising avenue to understand the underlying cause of cognition and memory deficits in the AD brain, it also opens a possibility to address new mechanisms for preventing and ultimately curing AD.
Within the pool of endogenous amino acids, serine and aspartate are the only two residues occurring at significant concentrations in free D-form in mammalian tissues. D-Serine (D-Ser) is mainly localized in the forebrain structures of the CNS throughout embryonic development and postnatal phase. Compelling evidence demonstrates that D-Ser has a functional role as an endogenous co-agonist at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) and shows its beneficial involvement in psychiatric disorders including schizophrenia. On the other hand, knowledge concerning the role of free D-Asp in mammals has so far been less extensive. D-Asp occurs in the brain as well as in peripheral tissues including the endocrine glands. In endocrine glands, D-Asp levels increase during the postnatal period in concomitance with their functional maturation. The involvement of D-Asp in the regulation of the synthesis and/or release of different hormones has been clearly demonstrated. However, its biological significance in the brain is still obscure. D-Asp appears with a peculiar temporal pattern of localization, being abundant during embryonic development and strongly decreasing after birth. This phenomenon is the result of the postnatal onset of D-Asp oxidase (DDO) expression, the only known enzyme that strictly controls the endogenous levels of D-Asp. The pharmacological affinity of D-Asp for the glutamate site of NMDARs has raised the intriguing question whether this D-amino acid may have some in vivo influence on responses mediated by this subclass of glutamate receptors. In order to unveil the physiological function of D-Asp and of its metabolizing enzyme, genetic and pharmacological approaches have been recently developed. It has now become possible to generate animal models with abnormally elevated levels of D-Asp in adulthood based on the targeted deletion of the Ddo gene and on the oral administration of D-Asp. These animal models have thus highlighted that D-Asp has a neuromodulatory role at NMDARs in brain areas where they regulate crucial nervous functions. Indeed, abnormally high D-Asp levels in the hippocampus are able to strongly enhance NMDAR-dependent LTP and, in turn, to facilitate spatial memory of mice. Moreover, in both mutant and treated animals, this deregulated D-Asp content completely suppresses striatal LTD, most likely via overactivation of NMDARs. The later synaptic plasticity alteration resembles that produced by chronic administration of haloperidol and is probably the neurobiological substrate responsible for the attenuation of prepulse inhibition deficits induced by amphetamine and MK-801 in Ddo knockout and D-Asp-treated mice. These in vitro and in vivo findings, together with others reported in this review, support a neuromodulatory action for D-Asp at glutamatergic synapses. In addition, they suggest that this D-amino acid may play a potential beneficial role in conditions related to a pathological hypofunctioning of NMDARs in the mammalian brain.
Arousal states strongly influence behavioral decisions. In general, arousal promotes activity and enhances responsiveness to sensory stimuli. Earlier work has emphasized general, or nonspecific, effects of arousal on multiple classes of behaviors. However, contemporary work indicates that arousal has quite specific effects on behavior. Here we review studies of arousal-related circuitry in molluscan model systems. Neural substrates for both general and specific effects of arousal have been identified. Based on the scope of their actions, we can distinguish two major classes of arousal elements: localized versus general. Actions of localized arousal elements are often limited to one class of behavior, and may thereby mediate specific effects of arousal. In contrast, general arousal elements may influence multiple classes of behaviors, and mediate both specific and nonspecific effects of arousal. One common way in which general arousal elements influence multiple behaviors is by acting on localized arousal elements of distinct networks. Often, effects on distinct networks have different time courses that may facilitate formation of specific behavioral sequences. This review highlights prominent roles of serotonergic systems in arousal that are conserved in gastropod molluscs despite extreme diversification of body forms, diet and ecological niches. The studies also indicate that the serotonergic elements can act as either localized or general arousal elements. We discuss the implications of these findings across animals.
Recent advance of molecular biology reveals that quality control of intracellular environment takes an important role for maintaining the neuronal function. One is a quality control of protein and another is a quality control of nucleotide. Polyglutamine disease is a disease which caused by a failure of quality control of protein. Expanded polyglutamine repeats result in neurodegenerative disorders, but their cytotoxic structures remain to be elucidated. We have applied fluorescence resonance energy transfer analysis to clarify the cytotoxicity of soluble polyglutamine oligomers. By using this method we revealed that polyglutamine monomers assemble into oligomer in a parallel beta-sheet or a head-to-tail cylindrical beta-sheet manner. We distinguished oligomers from monomers and inclusion bodies in a single living cell. Survival assay of neuronally differentiated cells revealed that cells with soluble oligomers died faster than those with inclusion bodies or monomers. These results indicate that a formation of oligomers is an essential mechanism underlying neurodegeneration in polyglutamine-mediated disorders. About the quality control of nucleotide in neuron, DNA single-strand breaks were continually produced by endogenous reactive oxygen species or exogenous genotoxic agents. These damaged ends posses damaged 3'-ends including 3'-phosphate, 3'-phosphoglycolate, or 3'-alpha, beta-unsaturated aldehyde ends, and should be restored to 3'-hydroxyl ends for subsequent repair processes. We have demonstrated by in vitro assay that aprataxin, the causative gene product for early-onset ataxia with ocular motor apraxia and hypoalbuminemia/ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 1 (EAOH/AOA1), specifically removes 3'-phosphoglycolate and 3'-phosphate ends at DNA 3'-ends, but not 3'-alpha, beta-unsaturated aldehyde ends. The findings indicate that aprataxin removes blocking molecules from 3'-ends, and that the accumulation of unrepaired DNA single-strand breaks with damaged 3'-ends underlies the pathogenesis of EAOH/AOA1. The findings will provide new insight into the mechanism underlying degeneration and DNA repair in neurons. Taken together, these results indicate that the quality control of protein and nucleotide is crucial to understand the neurodegenerative disorder.

Several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been identified in the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor gene (ADRB2). By the use of five SNPs (G46A, C79G, C491T, C523A, G1053C) for identification of ADRB2 haplotypes in 814 Danish Caucasians, we investigated whether ADRB2 haplotypes are associated with body mass index (BMI). The SNPs showed organization into 13 distinct haplotypes and 41 haplotype pairs. The study identified four common haplotypes: ACCCC (10.1 +/- 0.3 %), ACCCG (27.9 +/- 0.3 %), GCCAC (10.8 +/- 0.1 %) and GGCCG (41.0 +/- 0.2 %) (frequencies (SD), seen in 91 % of the population. In the total population (mean age +/- SD: 50 +/- 16 years), BMI was not related to haplotype pairs, individual SNPs or allelic haplotypes. However, in subjects &lt; 50 years (N = 356, 36 +/- 8 years) BMI levels varied significantly between pairs of major haplotype groups (p = 0.014) but were not related to individual SNPs. In subjects &lt; 37 years, the haplotype pair homozygote for the Gly16 and Glu27 amino acid variants (GGCCG/GGCCG) had a higher frequency of lean subjects (BMI &lt; or = 25 kg/m(2)) compared with the GCCAC/GGCCG pair (73% versus 35%, odds ratio with 95% confidence interval: 4.95 (1.50-16.38). In conclusion, the haplotype analysis clearly revealed the prevalence of four major ADRB2 haplotypes in Caucasians. The results suggest that unique interactions in specific haplotype pairs rather than individual SNPs may affect BMI and that this effect of ADRB2 haplotypes is blunted by age-related factors.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) is either directly involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) or tightly correlated with other primary pathogenic factors. It is produced from amyloid precursor protein (APP) by proteolytic processing dependent on the beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) and gamma-secretase, and is degraded by a broad range of proteases. This update summarizes the currently available studies that have determined the usefulness of BACE1 and secreted fragments of APP and Abeta as cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the progressive formation of insoluble amyloid plaques and vascular deposits consisting of the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) in the brain. Pathological mechanisms are already active early in the presymptomatic stage of AD. BACE1, beta-secretase, is one of the two key enzymes in amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing; the other being gamma-secretase. The Abeta peptide results from cleavage of APP initially by BACE1 to produce the C99 fragment and releases soluble APPbeta (sAPPbeta); C99 is then further cleaved by gamma-secretase leading to the Abeta peptide. Increased BACE1 activity and elevated levels of insoluble Abeta peptide have been shown in brain tissue of patients with sporadic AD. Since the CSF is in direct contact with the extracellular space of the central nervous system, biochemical changes in the brain can potentially be reflected in CSF. Therefore, CSF-based detection of BACE1 levels and activity might be valuable in aiding early detection and prediction, particularly in preclinical or even presymptomatic subjects who are at risk of AD. Recently, we were among the first groups to quantitatively analyse the enzymatic activities and protein levels of BACE1 in the CSF. Preliminary research using recently developed BACE1 ELISAs, BACE1 enzymatic activity, sAPPbeta and total Abeta1-x ELISAs were used by examining these hypothesis driven functional candidate markers in subjects with clinically diagnosed AD and amnestic MCI. Two sandwich ELISAs were used and BACE1 enzymatic activities were seen by synthetic fluorescence substrate and total Abeta levels by sandwich-ELISA. Moreover, elevated CSF levels of BACE1 protein were associated with an increased risk ratio in MCI. Interestingly, amnestic MCI subjects showed increased levels of BACE1 activity compared to HC and AD patients. For total Abeta and tau, increased CSF levels were associated with a higher risk of MCI compared to HC as well. BACE1 activity was significantly correlated with BACE1 protein concentration and total Abeta levels, with Abeta being itself correlated with the BACE1 protein level. Currently, independent studies are ongoing to validate BACE1 and functionally associated proteins as candidate biomarkers for early detection, prediction, progression as well as for biological activity in AD.
This was a multicentre study with risk perception as the theoretical framework, investigating if risk behaviours change when injecting drug users (IDUs) are aware of their hepatitis C virus (HCV) status and had assessed the health consequences with HCV infection. Two hundred and thirteen participants aged 15-40 y were analysed. Sharing of needles and of other injecting equipment were common both among participants who reported HCV-positive status (74%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 65.3-80.1%) and among those who reported HCV status unknown (68%, 95% CI 56.0-78.4%). Participants associating very severe health consequences with HCV infection and those who did not know of any health consequences with HCV infection shared needles at almost the same rate (78%, 95% CI 62.5-87.7 vs 69%, 95% CI 8.0-78.9, respectively). Sharing of other injecting equipment was most common among participants with verified HCV-positive status (adjusted risk ratio 5.64, 95% CI 2.64-12.07). Knowledge of HCV status and assessment of health consequences with HCV infection were not enough to change injecting risk behaviours. Sharing of other injecting equipment was a more important risk factor than sharing needles for participants with verified HCV-positive status. It is suggested that professionals engage IDUs in risk analysis and open a dialogue about assessment in order to identify, quantify and characterize risks.
Incomplete recovery of function and neuropathic pain are common problems after peripheral nerve injury. To develop new treatment strategies for peripheral nerve injuries we investigated whether the neurotrophic factor artemin could improve outcome after sciatic nerve injuries in rats. Artemin is a member of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family and exerts neuroprotective effects on sensory neurons as well as influencing behavioural thermal sensitivity. We additionally evaluated if fibrin sealant, which is sometimes used as a nerve glue, had any effects on neuropathic pain-related behaviour. After the sciatic nerve had been transected, 30 animals were randomised to one of three groups: treatment with a fibrin sealant that contained artemin in conjunction with sutures; fibrin sealant with no artemin (sham) in conjunction with sutures; or sutures alone (n=10 in each group). Motor function, sensory function, and autotomy were evaluated from 1 to 12 weeks after injury. Retrograde flourogold tracing 12 weeks after injury showed that the addition of artemin increased the number of regenerating motor neurons. However, it did not improve their performance, as measured by the Sciatic Function Index, compared with sham or suture alone. Animals treated with artemin had a non-significant increase in motor nerve conduction velocity compared with sham. However, artemin did not reverse nerve injury-induced pain behaviour such as cold or heat hypersensitivity. Fibrin sealant in itself did not ameliorate motor performance, or regeneration of motor neurons, or give rise to nerve injury-induced pain behaviour. The results indicate that artemin is of value as a treatment for peripheral nerve injuries, although the effects were limited. As the artemin high-affinity receptor GFRalpha-3 is present in Schwann cells and not in motor neurons, the effect on motor neuron axon regeneration may result from an indirect effect through Schwann cells in the injured nerve.



The construct of attention has many facets that have been examined in human and animal research and in healthy and psychiatrically disordered conditions. The Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) group concluded that control of attention-the processes that guide selection of task-relevant inputs-is particularly impaired in schizophrenia and could profit from further work with refined measurement tools. Thus, nominations for cognitive tasks that provide discrete measures of control of attention were sought and were then evaluated at the third CNTRICS meeting for their promise for future use in treatment development. This article describes the 5 nominated measures and their strengths and weaknesses for cognitive neuroscience work relevant to treatment development. Two paradigms, Guided Search and the Distractor Condition Sustained Attention Task, were viewed as having the greatest immediate promise for development into tools for treatment research in schizophrenia and are described in more detail by their nominators.
This overview describes the goals and objectives of the third conference conducted as part of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) initiative. This third conference was focused on selecting specific paradigms from cognitive neuroscience that measured the constructs identified in the first CNTRICS meeting, with the goal of facilitating the translation of these paradigms into use in clinical trials contexts. To identify such paradigms, we had an open nomination process in which the field was asked to nominate potentially relevant paradigms and to provide information on several domains relevant to selecting the most promising tasks for each construct (eg, construct validity, neural bases, psychometrics, availability of animal models). Our goal was to identify 1-2 promising tasks for each of the 11 constructs identified at the first CNTRICS meeting. In this overview article, we describe the on-line survey used to generate nominations for promising tasks, the criteria that were used to select the tasks, the rationale behind the criteria, and the ways in which breakout groups worked together to identify the most promising tasks from among those nominated. This article serves as an introduction to the set of 6 articles included in this special issue that provide information about the specific tasks discussed and selected for the constructs from each of 6 broad domains (working memory, executive control, attention, long-term memory, perception, and social cognition).
The third meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) focused on selecting promising measures for each of the cognitive constructs selected in the first CNTRICS meeting. In the domain of perception, the 2 constructs of interest were gain control and visual integration. CNTRICS received 5 task nominations for gain control and three task nominations for visual integration. The breakout group for perception evaluated the degree to which each of these tasks met prespecified criteria. For gain control, the breakout group for perception believed that 2 of the tasks (prepulse inhibition of startle and mismatch negativity) were already mature and in the process of being incorporated into multisite clinical trials. However, the breakout group recommended that steady-state visual-evoked potentials be combined with contrast sensitivity to magnocellular vs parvocellular biased stimuli and that this combined task and the contrast-contrast effect task be recommended for translation for use in clinical trial contexts in schizophrenia research. For visual integration, the breakout group recommended the Contour Integration and Coherent Motion tasks for translation for use in clinical trials. This manuscript describes the ways in which each of these tasks met the criteria used by the breakout group to evaluate and recommend tasks for further development.
The third meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) was focused on selecting promising measures for each of the cognitive constructs selected in the first CNTRICS meeting. In the domain of executive control, the 2 constructs of interest were &quot;rule generation and selection&quot; and &quot;dynamic adjustments in control.&quot; CNTRICS received 4 task nominations for each of these constructs, and the breakout group for executive control evaluated the degree to which each of these tasks met prespecified criteria. For rule generation and selection, the breakout group for executive control recommended the intradimensional/extradimensional shift task and the switching Stroop for translation for use in clinical trial contexts in schizophrenia research. For dynamic adjustments in control, the breakout group recommended conflict and error adaptation in the Stroop and the stop signal task for translation for use in clinical trials. This article describes the ways in which each of these tasks met the criteria used by the breakout group to recommend tasks for further development.
This article describes the results and recommendations of the third Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia meeting related to measuring treatment effects on social and affective processing. At the first meeting, it was recommended that measurement development focuses on the construct of emotion identification and responding. Five Tasks were nominated as candidate measures for this construct via the premeeting web-based survey. Two of the 5 tasks were recommended for immediate translation, the Penn Emotion Recognition Task and the Facial Affect Recognition and the Effects of Situational Context, which provides a measure of emotion identification and responding as well as a related, higher level construct, context-based modulation of emotional responding. This article summarizes the criteria-based, consensus building analysis of each nominated task that led to these 2 paradigms being recommended as priority tasks for development as measures of treatment effects on negative symptoms in schizophrenia.
The third meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) was focused on selecting promising measures for each of the cognitive constructs selected in the first CNTRICS meeting. In the domain of working memory, the 2 constructs of interest were goal maintenance and interference control. CNTRICS received 3 task nominations for each of these constructs, and the breakout group for working memory evaluated the degree to which each of these tasks met prespecified criteria. For goal maintenance, the breakout group for working memory recommended the AX-Continuous Performance Task/Dot Pattern Expectancy task for translation for use in clinical trial contexts in schizophrenia research. For interference control, the breakout group recommended the recent probes and operation/symmetry span tasks for translation for use in clinical trials. This article describes the ways in which each of these tasks met the criteria used by the breakout group to recommend tasks for further development.
Recently, numerous brain imaging studies have been performed to clarify the pathophysiology of depression. These studies suggest that the neural network, physiological function, and their interaction are related to the development of depressive symptoms. In this article, we present our neuroimaging studies employing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) on the functional basis of depression involving the brain. At first, because of the influence of stressful life events on depression, sex differences in the cognition of psychosocial stressors, the change in the sensory gating system under stressful conditions, and the mechanism of psychological ways to adapt to stressful events were examined. The results revealed the importance of prefrontal cortex (PFC) function in stress regulation. Next, some important changes in the PFC were shown in depression using well-known neuropsychological tasks and originally created tasks related to depressive symptoms. Moreover, these changes in the brain might be a possible biological marker of the treatment response and functional recovery. Then, we focused on the neurophysiological role of serotonin in higher cognitive function in the human brain. It was found that serotonin differentially regulated reward-predictive activities at different time scales in the striatum-PFC network. Finally, the brain mechanism of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) was examined. Brain activation in the PFC and functional connectivity between the PFC and amygdala on receiving negative emotional stimuli were weakened after CBT. From these findings, the functional basis of the pathophysiology of depression in the brain was discussed.

Much is known about the endocrine hormonal mechanisms controlling ovarian development. More recently, attention has focused on identifying regulatory pathways that, operating within the ovarian microenvironment, contribute to the acquisition of ovarian reproductive competence. Within this framework, the concept has developed that neurotrophins (NTs) and their Trk tyrosine kinase receptors, long thought to be exclusively required for the development of the nervous system, are also involved in the control of ovarian maturation. The ovary of several species, including rodents, sheep, cows, nonhuman primates, and humans, produce NTs and express both the high-affinity receptors and the common p75 (NTR) receptor required for signaling. Studies in humans and rodents have shown that this expression is initiated during fetal life, before the formation of primordial follicles. Gene targeting approaches have identified TrkB, the high-affinity receptor for neurotrophin-4/5 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, as a signaling module required for follicular assembly, early follicular growth, and oocyte survival. A similar approach has shown that nerve growth factor contributes independently to the growth of primordial follicles into gonadotropin-responsive structures. Altogether, these observations indicate that NTs are important contributors to the gonadotropin-independent process underlying the formation and initiation of ovarian follicular growth.
In this study we present the real-time monitoring of three key brain neurochemical species in conscious rats using implantable amperometric electrodes interfaced to a biotelemetric device. The new system, derived from a previous design, was coupled with carbon-based microsensors and a platinum-based biosensor for the detection of ascorbic acid (AA), O(2) and glucose in the striatum of untethered, freely-moving rats. The miniaturized device consisted of a single-supply sensor driver, a current-to-voltage converter, a microcontroller and a miniaturized data transmitter. The redox currents were digitized to digital values by means of an analog-to-digital converter integrated in a peripheral interface controller (PIC), and sent to a personal computer by means of a miniaturized AM transmitter. The electronics were calibrated and tested in vitro under different experimental conditions and exhibited high stability, low power consumption and good linear response in the nanoampere current range. The in-vivo results confirmed previously published observations on striatal AA, oxygen and glucose dynamics recorded in tethered rats. This approach, based on simple and inexpensive components, could be used as a rapid and reliable model for studying the effects of different drugs on brain neurochemical systems.
Model-free tracking is important for solving tasks such as moving-object tracking and action recognition in cases where no prior object knowledge is available. For this purpose, we extend the concept of spatially synchronous dynamics in spin-lattice models to the spatiotemporal domain to track segments within an image sequence. The method is related to synchronization processes in neural networks and based on superparamagnetic clustering of data. Spin interactions result in the formation of clusters of correlated spins, providing an automatic labeling of corresponding image regions. The algorithm obeys detailed balance. This is an important property as it allows for consistent spin-transfer across subsequent frames, which can be used for segment tracking. Therefore, in the tracking process the correct equilibrium will always be found, which is an important advance as compared with other more heuristic tracking procedures. In the case of long image sequences, i.e., movies, the algorithm is augmented with a feedback mechanism, further stabilizing segment tracking.
The rapidly inactivating (A-type) potassium channels regulate membrane excitability that defines the fundamental mechanism of neuronal functions such as pain signaling. Cytosolic Kv channel-interacting proteins KChIPs co-assemble with Kv4 (Shal) alpha subunits to form a native complex. The specific binding of auxiliary KChIPs to the Kv4 N-terminus results in modulation of gating properties, surface expression and subunit assembly of Kv4 channels. Based on recent structural efforts, here we attempt to emphasize the interaction between KChIPs and Kv4 channel complex in which a single KChIP1 molecule laterally clamps two neighboring Kv4.3 N-termini in a 4:4 manner. Greater insights into molecular mechanism between KChIPs and Kv4 interaction may provide therapeutic potentials by structure-based design of chemical compounds aimed at disrupting the protein-protein interaction for treatment of membrane excitability-related disorders.

This study's goals were twofold: (1) to analyze the author's experience with the petro-occipital trans-sigmoid (POTS) approach for the resection of tumors arising in or adjacent to the jugular foramen, and (2) to define the anatomical sites exposed by this approach. A retrospective review was conducted of 61 patients with jugular fossa tumors that included lower cranial nerve schwannomas, paragangliomas, meningiomas, chordomas, cholesteatomas, and other benign or low-grade malignant tumors. Outcome measures were mortality, morbidity, and long-term outcomes. No deaths were found in this study. The major morbidity was deficits of the glossopharyngeal, vagus, and accessory nerves. Hearing and facial nerve function were largely preserved. The resections were undertaken as single-stage procedures regardless of whether the tumor was entirely extradural or both intra- and extradural. None of the patients had central nervous system complications. Good outcomes were achieved for schwannomas, meningiomas, chondrosarcomas, and papillary adenoma. Chordomas tended to recur, and only class C1 paragangliomas could be removed using this approach. The study found that the POTS approach should be considered the approach of choice for many tumors in the region of the jugular foramen, particularly schwannomas. It is not suitable for the resection of malignant tumors and most paragangliomas because it offers limited access to the skull base between the jugular fossa and carotid canal.
OBJECTIVE: Sleep disruption is common in widow(er)s. The objective of this study was to characterize the sleep of Spousally Bereaved (SB) seniors (60y+) studied within 4-19 months of being widowed. METHOD: Subjective (PSQI, 2-weeks diary) and objective (2-weeks actigraphy) baseline sleep measures were obtained in 47 (38f, 9m) Spousally Bereaved (SB) seniors, 33 (25f, 8m) Good Sleeper Controls (GSC), and 47 (38f, 9m) Older Adults with Insomnia (OAI); each group with the same mean age (72y). OAI subjects passed formal diagnostic criteria for primary or co-morbid insomnia. GSC subjects had no diagnosis of insomnia. At baseline (pre-treatment), all subjects completed 2 weeks of detailed sleep diary and wrist actigraphy, and completed the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) among other measures. RESULTS: Significant group effects appeared in PSQI (GSC: 2.4, SB: 6.7, OAI: 10.5; Effect Sizes [ES]&gt;1) and diary measures. In diary measures, for Total Sleep Time, Sleep Efficiency and Wake After Sleep Onset, SB were better than OAI and worse than GSC (0.47&lt;ES&lt;1.19). For Sleep Latency, SB were worse than GSC (ES=0.57), but similar to OAI. However, actigraphy results indicated no significant SB vs. GSC, or SB vs. OAI, differences in any of the sleep measures considered. CONCLUSION: The sleep disruption of bereaved seniors appears to be intermediate between GSC and OAI, as reported either retrospectively using the PSQI, or prospectively using a sleep diary. Only in diary sleep latency, were SB and OAI values similar. This pattern was not, however, observed when parallel objective actigraphic measures were considered.

The symptoms of restless legs syndrome (RLS) have a circadian pattern and central nervous system dopamine has been implicated in the pathogenesis of the condition. We sought to characterize circadian variation in dopamine and related compounds in human cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF). CSF was continuously withdrawn for 22 h from an implanted lumbar intradural catheter and sampled from three patients with RLS, three patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and three healthy volunteers. Patients had moderate disease severity and took no medications. We assayed CSF dopamine (DA), homovanillic acid (HVA), dihydroxy-phenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) from samples every 30 min by reversed-phase HPLC coupled with electrochemical detection. We also measured CSF levels of hypocretin-1 every hour by RIA. The procedure was well-tolerated. One patient ended the study early due to lumbar radicular pain and was not included in the analysis. There were no changes in CSF cell counts or protein levels from the first to the last samples. There was no difference in any of the compounds between groups, so we fit 24-h cosines to examine if the entire group had significant phase consistency. There was a peak for dopamine at 10 a.m. (p&lt;0.025) and for HVA at 2 p.m. (p&lt;0.01), but no evidence of a significant 24-h rhythm for DOPAC, 5-HIAA, the HVA/5-HIAA ratio, or hypocretin-1. These results demonstrate a circadian rhythm for CSF dopamine and HVA concentrations in humans, with higher levels in the daytime than at nighttime. This circadian variation could underlie the symptoms of RLS and sleep-related variation in motor function in PD.

Many studies provide support for the role of the fusiform gyrus in face recognition and its sensitivity to emotional expressions. Recently, category-specific representation was also observed for neutral human bodies in the middle temporal/middle occipital gyrus (extrastriate body area) but it is not clear whether this area is also sensitive to emotional bodily expressions. Besides these areas, other regions that process the affective information carried by the face and the body may be common and/or specific to the face or the body. To clarify these issues we performed a systematic comparison of how the whole brain processes faces and bodies and how their affective information is represented. Participants categorized emotional facial and bodily expressions while brain activity was measured using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Our results show that, first, the amygdala and the fusiform gyrus are sensitive to recognition of facial and bodily fear signals. Secondly, the extrastriate body area-area V5/MT is specifically involved in processing bodies without being sensitive to the emotion displayed. Thirdly, other important areas such as the superior temporal sulcus, the parietal lobe and subcortical structures represent selectively facial and bodily expressions. Finally, some face/body differences in activation are a function of the emotion expressed.
Functional brain imaging has been considered a new and better technique for the detection of deception. The reasoning is that there is a neural locus or circuit for lying that is sensitive, specific, generalizable across individuals and measurement contexts, and robust to countermeasures. To determine the extent to which the group results predicted lying at the level of the individual, we reanalyzed data on 14 participants from a study that had previously identified regions involved in lying (thus satisfying the criterion for sensitivity). We assessed the efficacy of functionally determined brain regions based on the lie-truth contrast for N-1 participants to detect deception in the Nth individual. Results showed that no region could be used to correctly detect deception across all individuals. The best results were obtained for medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), correctly identifying 71% of participants as lying with no false alarms. Lowering the threshold for a response increased hits and false alarms. The results suggest that although brain imaging is a more direct index of cognition than the traditional polygraph, it is subject to many of the same caveats and thus neuroimaging does not appear to reveal processes that are necessarily unique to deception.

We propose a generalized energy model of complex cells to describe modulatory contextual influences on the responses of neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1). Many orientation-selective cells in V1 respond to contrast of orientation and motion of stimuli exciting the classical receptive field (CRF) and the non-CRF, or surround. In the proposed model, a central spatiotemporal filter, defining the CRF, is nonlinearly combined with a spatiotemporal filter extending into the non-CRF. These filters are assumed to describe simple-cell responses, while the nonlinear combination of their responses describes the responses of complex cells. This mathematical operation accounts for the inherent nonlinearity of complex cells, such as phase independence and frequency doubling, and for nonlinear interactions between stimuli in the CRF and surround of the cell, including sensitivity to feature contrast. If only the CRF of the generalized complex cell is stimulated by a drifting grating, the model reduces to the standard energy model. The theoretical predictions of the model are supported by computer simulations and compared with experimental data from V1.
Several unresolved issues in stereopsis are discussed that are related to the visual processing of dynamic disparity information. These unresolved issues include: (1) how well does the visual system compute temporal change in disparity and what kind of computation is used; (2) what is the neurophysiological basis of such processing in humans; and (3) how is the information gleaned from such processing used for guiding human action. The resolution of these issues will likely involve an adoption of a philosophical perspective in which dynamic disparity is viewed as playing an important role in the control of behavior and in which stereopsis is studied within the context of control-systems analysis.

Recent studies have provided important insight into the homeoprotein LIM homeobox transcription factor 1alpha (Lmx1a) and its role in the commitment of cells to a midbrain dopamine (mDA) fate in the developing mouse. We show here that Lmx1a also plays a pivotal role in the mDA differentiation of human embryonic stem (hES) cells. Thus, as indicated by small interfering RNA experiments, the transient early expression of Lmx1a is necessary for the coordinated expression of all other dopamine (DA)-specific phenotypic traits as hES cells move from multipotent human neural progenitor cells (hNPs) to more restricted precursor cells in vitro. Moreover, only Lmx1a-specified hNPs have the potential to differentiate into bona fide mDA neurons after transplantation into the 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rat striatum. In contrast, cortical human neuronal precursor cells (HNPCs) and mouse subventricular zone cells do not express Lmx1a or become mDA neurons even when placed in an environment that fosters their DA differentiation in vitro or in vivo. These findings suggest that Lmx1a may be critical to the development of mDA neurons from hES cells and that, along with other key early DA markers (i.e., Aldh1a1), may prove to be extremely useful for the selection of appropriately staged and suitably mDA-specified hES cells for cell replacement in Parkinson's disease.



The paper introduces haptic medicine--healthcare based on loving touch for healing and preventing disease. We describe the effects of loving touch (a square inch of our skin has over 1000 nerves) on the body, brain and mind. We describe two web-based health education and media projects. The first, HYPERLINK &quot;http://www.21stcenturymed.org&quot; www.21stcenturymed.org is a place for health practitioners to start learning about touch and resources. The second project, Humans Without Borders, is a multi-lingual self help education website for everyday people. Teaching materials for these projects are based on our previous work with a form of haptic medicine known as psychophysiophilosophy with patients at Stanford Hospital, Kaiser Permanente and Lucille Packard Children's Hospital. We describe psychophysiophilosophy, relate motherly love to recent discoveries in neurosciences and give hints on ways to increase motherly love in each of us. We present a plan for moving into the future by re-introducing haptic medicine into our daily lives through self-help and as an adjunct for current physician practice. There is an exercise in self-help for the reader and an appendix of recent clinical research with profound benefits on the use of human touch for over 40 conditions.
Since operating room departments are among the costliest resources at a hospital, much attention is devoted to maximize their utilization. Operating room activities are however notoriously hard to plan in advance. This has to do with the unpredictable, problem-solving nature of the work and that the work is carried out by a multidisciplinary team of health personnel, members of which also have commitments outside the operating room department. We assume that operating room teams have the capacity to coordinate themselves and that coordination might be facilitated by visualizing relevant information on wall-mounted boards. To characterize clinical situations that require coordination and re-planning of the teams' work, we have developed a realistic scenario. We analyse and discuss the information security challenges that follow from displaying information on the whereabouts of other teams, actors and patients on wall-mounted boards in the operating rooms. Information security threats could be mitigated by de-identification techniques. Information demands could thereby be met without sacrificing the privacy of those whose information is displayed.
Traditionally, the process of turning data into biomedical knowledge has involved &quot;manual&quot; meta-analyses of results reported in journals. Since the amount of scientific data produced in neuroscience today increases dramatically, the resultant expansion of the medical databases has created a significant potential for the design of new data modeling and information retrieval tools and services that enable faster data processing, analysis and dissemination among a highly interdisciplinary community of researchers.
Maintaining healthy behavior among obesity patients is a challenge. This study aims to design an electronic health application for self-care management in collaboration with obesity patients and healthcare personnel.
The continuously increasing number of neuroscience studies and the difficulties associated with searching for related information and properly tracking neuroscience findings makes it imperative that one may be lead to isolated theories and findings which may be incompatible to each other or partially occluded. Semantically describing several aspects of studies in this field, such as, research groups attributes, aims of studies, experimental procedures followed, hardware and software tools utilised, acquisition systems used, as well as, the emerging neuro-physiological patterns found, may facilitate an integrative view of neuroscience theories. To this end, the current piece of work aims to provide a global theoretical framework using ontologies and semantic rules to describe neuroscience studies. Implementation details and applicability of the proof of concept are illustrated by means of an example targeting the semantic description of an emotion related study. The importance of the proposed framework in facilitating the envisaged personalised healthcare of the information society is discussed.
The amount of biomedical data available in Semantic Web formats has been rapidly growing in recent years. While these formats are machine-friendly, user-friendly web interfaces allowing easy querying of these data are typically lacking. We present &quot;Entrez Neuron&quot;, a pilot neuron-centric interface that allows for keyword-based queries against a coherent repository of OWL ontologies. These ontologies describe neuronal structures, physiology, mathematical models and microscopy images. The returned query results are organized hierarchically according to brain architecture. Where possible, the application makes use of entities from the Open Biomedical Ontologies (OBO) and the 'HCLS knowledgebase' developed by the W3C Interest Group for Health Care and Life Science. It makes use of the emerging RDFa standard to embed ontology fragments and semantic annotations within its HTML-based user interface. The application and underlying ontologies demonstrate how Semantic Web technologies can be used for information integration within a curated information repository and between curated information repositories. It also demonstrates how information integration can be accomplished on the client side, through simple copying and pasting of portions of documents that contain RDFa markup.
Grids are key technologies to federate data distributed in multiple neuroscience centers, thus enabling large scale multi-centric studies. However, the take up of these technologies is slow due to the difficulty to manipulate sensitive neuroradiological data in an open environment and the recognized risk of federated sites to loose control over their valuable data. In this paper we propose a distributed data access control policy, enabling the federation of existing data stores, where local security policies prevail, to supports multi-centric neuroscience studies. It achieves a compromise between enabling collaborative work through data sharing and preventing unauthorized access to data in a competitive environment.
The XTENS (eXTensible Environment for NeuroScience) platform consists in an highly extensible environment for collaborative work that improve repeatability of experiment and provides data storage and analysis capabilities. The platform is divided in repository and application domains, branched in services with different purpose. The first domain is the central component of the platform and consists in a multimodal repository with a client-server architecture. The second one provides remote tools for image and signal visualization and analysis. The main issue for such a platform is not only to provide an extensible collaborative environment, but also to build a development platform for testing models and algorithms in neuroscience. For these reasons a Grid approach has been considered. Both computational and data Grids infrastructures can be exploited to analyze and share large datasets of distributed data. The architecture has been deployed to support surgical planning for patients affected by drug resistant epilepsy. In that scenario, a complex analysis for a fully multimodal dataset including different image modalities, EEG and video is required to localize the origin of the ictal discharge and critical brain areas. As first results, prototype versions of both repository and application domain components are presented.
This paper describes an interdisciplinary research project aimed at developing and evaluating effective and user-friendly non-contact robot-assisted therapy, aimed at in-home use. The approach stems from the emerging field of social cognitive neuroscience that seeks to understand phenomena in terms of interactions between the social, cognitive, and neural levels of analysis. This technology-assisted therapy is designed to be safe and affordable, and relies on novel human-robot interaction methods for accelerated recovery of upper-extremity function after lesion-induced hemiparesis. The work is based on the combined expertise in the science and technology of non-contact socially assistive robotics and the clinical science of neurorehabilitation and motor learning, brought together to study how to best enhance recovery after stroke and mild traumatic brain injury. Our approach is original and promising in that it combines several ingredients that individually have been shown to be important for learning and long-term efficacy in motor neurorehabilitation: (1) intensity of task specific training and (2) engagement and self-management of goal-directed actions. These principles motivate and guide the strategies used to develop novel user activity sensing and provide the rationale for development of socially assistive robotics therapy for monitoring and coaching users toward personalized and optimal rehabilitation programs.
The disability deriving from stroke impacts heavily on the economic and social aspects of western countries because stroke survivors commonly experience various degrees of autonomy reduction in the activities of daily living. Recent developments in neuroscience, neurophysiology and computational science have led to innovative theories about the brain mechanisms of the motor system. Thereafter, innovative, scientifically based therapeutic strategies have initially arisen in the rehabilitation field. Promising results from the application of a virtual reality based technique for arm rehabilitation are reported.
We studied 23 Parkinson's disease (PD) non-demented patients and 15 controls in Virtual Reality (VR) environments reproducing usual daily living situations. In VR sessions, PD patients performed their actions worse than controls, in terms of time of execution in exploration and pointing, precision as objects avoiding, and in semantic incidental memory task. We observed clear differences of performances between on and off status medication, with a global worsening during off phase. Moreover, all six patients with motor fluctuations described visual hallucinations during off state, with occurrence of images not included in the virtual environment.
In recent decades, the rapid development of innovative Internet-based communication technologies created a new field of academic study among scholars. Particularly, the attention of researchers is focusing on new ways to form relationship-thought social web. Social Network sites constitute a new form of web communities, where people meet and share interests and activities. Due to exponential growth of these sites, an increasing number of scholars are beginning to study the emergent phenomena in order to identify any psychopathological risk related to use of social web, such as addiction. This article examines the recent literature about this issue.
Our work is aimed at exploring the recent literature data on web sites, forums, and blogs, which promote eating disorders as normal life styles and their implication in the changes of the psychopatology of such disorders. We also want to understand whether new technologies have an impact in the course of the disorders or, on the other hand, whether they can also represent an instrument for searching help or information about them. The search strategy included a search of PsycINFO, Medline, and Ovid databases to identify research reports about pro-ana sites and their implication on the course of anorexia using the following key words: pro-ana, thinspiration, anorexia-web, online help eating disorders, anorexia nation.
At MMVR 2007 we presented NeuroVR (http://www.neurovr.org) a free virtual reality platform based on open-source software. The software allows non-expert users to adapt the content of 14 pre-designed virtual environments to the specific needs of the clinical or experimental setting. Following the feedbacks of the 700 users who downloaded the first version, we developed a new version - NeuroVR 1.5 - that improves the possibility for the therapist to enhance the patient's feeling of familiarity and intimacy with the virtual scene, by using external sounds, photos or videos. Specifically, the new version now includes full sound support and the ability of triggering external sounds and videos using the keyboard. The outcomes of different trials made using NeuroVR will be presented and discussed.
At a Detroit research program from 2004 to 2005, out-of-treatment chronic daily heroin users (N = 100) were interviewed to evaluate relationships between past 30-day income and factors influencing heroin price, expenditures, and consumption. Weekly heroin purchasing frequency was positively related to income and number of suppliers, and negatively related to time cost (min) from primary supplier. Daily heroin consumption was positively related to income and injection heroin use, and negatively related to unit cost of heroin. Implications and limitations are noted. Simulations are underway to assess within-subject changes in drug demand.
The etiology of behavioral precursors to substance misuse and aggression is viewed from the perspective of a developmental, multifactorial model of complex disorders. Beginning at conception, genetic and environmental interactions have potential to produce a sequence of behavioral phenotypes during development that bias the trajectory toward high-risk outcomes. One pathway is theorized to emanate from a deviation in neurological development that predisposes children to affective and cognitive delays or impairments that, in turn, generate dysregulatory behaviors. The plasticity of these neurobiological systems is highly relevant to the prevention sciences; their functions are reliant upon environmental inputs and can be altered, for better or for worse, contingent upon the nature of the inputs. Thus, social contextual factors confer significant influence on the development of this neural network and behavioral outcomes by increasing risk for, or protecting (1) against, dysregulatory outcomes. A well-designed intervention can exploit the brain's plasticity by targeting biological and social factors at sensitive time points to positively influence emergent neurobiological functions and related behaviors. Accordingly, prevention research is beginning to focus on perturbations in developmental neural plasticity during childhood that increase the likelihood of risky behaviors and may also moderate intervention effects on behavior. Given that the more complex features of neurobiological functions underlying drug misuse and aggression (e.g., executive cognitive function, coping skills, affect regulation) do not coalesce until early adulthood when prefrontal-limbic brain networks consolidate, it is critical that mechanisms underlying developmental risk factors are identified. An empirically driven prevention approach, thus, may benefit from consideration of (i) the type, effect, and developmental timing of the environmental impact on the brain, and (ii) the type and effect on brain function, and developmental timing of the intervention. This translational approach promises to eventually offer some direction for the design of effective interventions to prevent drug misuse and concomitant aggression.
Quantitative EMG (QEMG) is a useful technique to diagnose subtle neuromuscular disorders. Automated QEMG techniques rely upon computer algorithms to extract motor unit action potentials (MUAPs). A number of different algorithms are available and we have compared the performance of three of them. We have also assessed a number of variables related to the operations performed by the algorithms, including marking of MUAP metrics, data acquisitions time, and effects of raising the high-pass filter. We have also assessed whether there are differences in MUAP metrics depending upon where the needle is placed in the muscle.

The brainstem raphe nuclei are typically assigned a role in serotonergic brain function. However, numerous studies have reported that a large proportion of raphe projection cells are nonserotonergic. The identity of these projection cells is unknown. Recent studies have reported that the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT3 is found in both serotonergic and nonserotonergic neurons in both the median raphe (MR) and dorsal raphe (DR) nuclei. We injected the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B into either the dorsal hippocampus or the medial septum (MS) and used triple labeled immunofluorescence to determine if nonserotonergic raphe cells projecting to these structures contained VGLUT3. Consistent with previous studies, only about half of retrogradely labeled MR neurons projecting to the hippocampus contained serotonin, whereas a majority of the retrogradely labeled nonserotonergic cells contained VGLUT3. Similar patterns were observed for MR cells projecting to the MS. About half of retrogradely labeled nonserotonergic neurons in the DR contained VGLUT3. Additionally, a large number of retrogradely labeled cells in the caudal linear and interpeduncular nuclei projecting to the MS were found to contain VGLUT3. These data suggest the enigmatic nonserotonergic projection from the MR to forebrain regions may be glutamatergic. In addition, these results demonstrate a dissociation between glutamatergic and serotonergic MR afferent inputs to the MS and hippocampus suggesting divergent and/or complementary roles of these pathways in modulating cellular activity within the septohippocampal network.
N-(4-Fluorobenzyl)-4-[3-(piperidin-1-yl)indole-1-sulfonyl]benzamide] (PipISB, 3) is a selective and high-potency cannabinoid subtype-1 (CB1) receptor inverse agonist. We have previously reported radiosyntheses of [11C]3 and [18F]3. Here, we aimed to evaluate the uptake and CB(1) receptor-specific binding of each radioligand in monkey brain in vivo with positron emission tomography (PET). [11C]3 or [18F]3 was injected intravenously into rhesus or cynomolgus monkey, respectively, and examined with PET at baseline or after pretreatment with a receptor-saturating dose of CB1 receptor-selective ligand (3 for [11C]3 or 8 for [18F]3). In one PET experiment, the dose of 3 was administered at 100 min after [11C]3. Relative plasma concentrations of radioligand and radiometabolites were concurrently measured in baseline experiments with high-performance liquid chromatography. Brain radioactivity uptake was highest in striatum and cerebellum, and it reached 170-270% standardized uptake value (SUV) at 120 min after injection of [11C]3 and 180% SUV at 240 min after injection of [18F]3. Radioactivity was well retained in all CB1 receptor-rich regions. No reference region could be identified for nonspecifically bound radioligand. Under CB1 receptor pretreatment and displacement conditions, initial brain uptakes of radioactivity were similar to those at baseline. Regional brain radioactivity concentrations then became homogeneous and diminished to between 70 and 80% SUV at 120 min after injection of [11C]3 and to 25% SUV at 240 min after injection of [18F]3. [18F]3 was not defluorinated but was metabolized to less lipophilic radiometabolites, as was [11C]3. Hence, [11C]3 and [18F]3 showed high CB1 receptor-specific binding in monkey brain in vivo and merit further investigation as prospective PET radioligands in humans.
Estrogens are the best-studied class of drugs for potential use in the prevention of Alzheimer's disease (AD). These steroids have been shown to be potent neuroprotectants both in vitro and in vivo, and to exert effects that are consistent with their potential use in prevention of AD. These include the prevention of the processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) into beta-amyloid (A), the reduction in tau hyperphosphorylation, and the elimination of catastrophic attempts at neuronal mitosis. Further, epidemiological data support the efficacy of early postmenopausal use of estrogens for the delay or prevention of AD. Collectively, this evidence supports the further development of estrogen-like compounds for prevention of AD. Several approaches to enhance brain specificity of estrogen action are now underway in an attempt to reduce the side effects of chronic estrogen therapy in AD.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the central nervous system. Demyelinization of nerve fibres not only affects the motor and sensory systems functionally, but may also cause psychopathological signs and symptoms. In addition to the psychiatric manifestations of MS, many patients have reactive psychological problems that are often hard to distinguish from the 'organic' causation of psychopathology. In any event, psychiatric comorbidity in MS deserves greater clinical attention than has been previously paid, because the presence of psychopathology may have deleterious effects on the disease process and impair coping with disability.



Aggression among a sample of traumatized, mass-evacuated adults from Kosovo was studied, using a prospective design with a baseline study, follow-ups at three months and six months in Sweden, and an additional follow-up after one and a half years in both Sweden and Kosovo. Aggression was measured with the Revised Swedish Version of Aggression questionnaire (AQ-RSV). Traumatic events and PTSD-related symptoms were measured by the Harvard Trauma Questionnaire (HTQ), and depression with HSCL-25. At the additional follow-up after one and a half years, the same measures were used, as well as clinical diagnostic interviews with the SCID. Verbal aggression correlated positively with age and educational level. No gender differences were found. The trauma level was high - the mean experienced number of the 16 trauma events derived from the HTQ was 9.65 (SD 3.55) - and significant correlations were found between trauma and aggression at the first follow-up after three months - torture, for instance, correlated with total aggression scores (p&lt;0.003) - but not in later follow-ups. Aggression increased over time and was linked with both mean scores of PTSD and depressive symptoms, as well as with the diagnoses PTSD (p&lt;0.0001) and depression (p&lt;0.0001), especially if both diagnoses were present. Implications are discussed.
In order to investigate the potential involvement of mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) dysfunction in myotoxicity associated with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor (statin) treatment, assessment was made of ETC activity and ubiquinone status in two patients experiencing myopathy following treatment with simvastatin (40 mg/day) and cyclosporin (patient 1) and simvastatin (40 mg/day) and itraconazole (patient 2). Analysis of skeletal muscle biopsies revealed a decreased ubiquinone status (77 and 132; reference range: 140-580 pmol/mg) and cytochrome oxidase (complex IV) activity (0.006 and 0.007 reference range: 0.014-0.034). To assess statin treatment in the absence of possible pharmacological interference from cyclosporin or itraconazole, primary astrocytes were cultured with lovastatin (100 microM). Lovastatin treatment resulted in a decrease in ubiquinone (97.9 +/- 14.9; control: 202.9 +/- 18.4 pmol/mg; p &lt; 0.05), and complex IV activity (0.008 +/- 0.001; control: 0.011 +/- 0.001; p &lt; 0.05) relative to control. These data, coupled with the patient findings, indicate a possible association between statin treatment, decreased ubiquinone status, and loss of complex IV activity.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), neurons suffer dysfunction and death associated with aberrant tau phosphorylation and subsequent neurofibrillary tangles. A new study reveals a surprising neuroprotective role for a truncated p73 isoform (DeltaNp73). Aged mice with reduced DeltaNp73 levels exhibit tau pathology and cognitive deficits, and DeltaNp73 reduction in mice with amyloid pathology causes extensive tangle formation and neuron death. These findings provide a novel animal model of AD and a potential therapeutic role for DeltaNp73 inducers.
If the brain is a machine that processes information, then its cognitive activity can be interpreted as a set of information processing states linking stimulus to response (i.e. as a mechanism or an algorithm). The cornerstone of this research agenda is the existence of a method to translate the measurable states of brain activity into the information processing states of a cognitive theory. Here, we contend that reverse correlation methods can provide this translation and we frame the transitions between information processing states in the context of automata theory. We illustrate, using examples from visual cognition, how this novel framework can be applied to understand the information processing algorithms of the brain in cognitive neuroscience.
We highlight the latest research on body perception and self-consciousness, but argue that despite these achievements, central aspects have remained unexplored, namely, global aspects of bodily self-consciousness. Researchers investigated central representations of body parts and actions involving these, but neglected the global and unitary character of self-consciousness, the 'I' of experience and behaviour. We ask, what are the minimally sufficient conditions for the appearance of a phenomenal self, that is, the fundamental conscious experience of being someone? What are necessary conditions for self-consciousness in any type of system? We offer conceptual clarifications, discuss recent empirical evidence from neurology and cognitive science and argue that these findings offer a new entry point for the systematic study of global and more fundamental aspects of self-consciousness.
Neuroelectric oscillations reflect rhythmic shifting of neuronal ensembles between high and low excitability states. In natural settings, important stimuli often occur in rhythmic streams, and when oscillations entrain to an input rhythm their high excitability phases coincide with events in the stream, effectively amplifying neuronal input responses. When operating in a 'rhythmic mode', attention can use these differential excitability states as a mechanism of selection by simply enforcing oscillatory entrainment to a task-relevant input stream. When there is no low-frequency rhythm that oscillations can entrain to, attention operates in a 'continuous mode', characterized by extended increase in gamma synchrony. We review the evidence for early sensory selection by oscillatory phase-amplitude modulations, its mechanisms and its perceptual and behavioral consequences.
Over the past three decades, multiple mechanisms limiting central nervous system regeneration have been identified. Here, we address plasticity arising from spared systems as a particularly important and often unrecognized mechanism that potentially contributes to functional recovery in studies of 'regeneration' after spinal cord injury. We then discuss complexities involved in translating findings from animal models to human clinical trials in spinal cord injury; current strategies might be too limited in scope to yield detectable benefits in the complex and variable arena of human injury. Our animal models are imperfect, and the very variability that we attempt to control in the course of conducting rigorous research might, ironically, limit our ability to identify the most promising therapies in the human arena. Therapeutic candidates are most likely to have a detectable effect in human trials if they elicit benefits in severe contusion and larger animal models and pass the test of independent replication.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer's disease and is an important cause of chronic disability. Numerous important advances have been made in our understanding of the aetiopathogenesis, pathology and clinical phenomenology of this disease, and these have underpinned advances in symptomatic treatment and the prospect that these might be extended into interventions that will slow progression. It is notable that the continuing characterisation of the downstream biochemical consequences of the genetic causes of PD serves only to reinforce this notion. Progress in the management of PD has continued, particularly in timing of drug initiation and the sequence and combinations in which drugs are used to improve long-term outcome and reduce drug-induced complications. Particular progress has been made in the field of neuroprotection, where novel therapies and clinical trial designs are being tested. This review will focus particularly upon this area.

In a previous study we reported difficulty with expressive language and visuoperceptual ability in preschool children with epilepsy and otherwise normal development. The present study analysed speech and language dysfunction for each individual in relation to epilepsy variables, ear preference, and intelligence in these children and described their auditory function. Twenty 6-year-old children with epilepsy (14 females, 6 males; mean age 6:5 y, range 6 y-6 y 11 mo) and 30 reference children without epilepsy (18 females, 12 males; mean age 6:5 y, range 6 y-6 y 11 mo) were assessed for language and auditory ability. Low scores for the children with epilepsy were analysed with respect to speech-language domains, type of epilepsy, site of epileptiform activity, intelligence, and language laterality. Auditory attention, perception, discrimination, and ear preference were measured with a dichotic listening test, and group comparisons were performed. Children with left-sided partial epilepsy had extensive language dysfunction. Most children with partial epilepsy had phonological dysfunction. Language dysfunction was also found in children with generalized and unclassified epilepsies. The children with epilepsy performed significantly worse than the reference children in auditory attention, perception of vowels and discrimination of consonants for the right ear and had more left ear advantage for vowels, indicating undeveloped language laterality.
The advance of neuroscience has begun to affect different disciplines, one of the most influenced is the criminal law. The new researches add light on what region are in charge of the control and value of our behaviour and which might be the consequences of the dysfunction in these regions. Therefore, the criminal law begin to ask about criminal responsibility in subjects with brain injuries or dysfunction. The aim of this paper is to analyze the impact of the current neuroscience in criminal responsibility.

One of the most influential theories in visual cognition proposes that attention is necessary to bind different visual features into coherent object percepts (Treisman &amp; Gelade, 1980). While considerable evidence supports a role for attention in perceptual feature binding, whether attention plays a similar function in visual working memory (VWM) remains controversial. To test the attentional requirements of VWM feature binding, here we gave participants an attention-demanding multiple object tracking task during the retention interval of a VWM task. Results show that the tracking task disrupted memory for color-shape conjunctions above and beyond any impairment to working memory for object features, and that this impairment was larger when the VWM stimuli were presented at different spatial locations. These results demonstrate that the role of visuospatial attention in feature binding is not unique to perception, but extends to the working memory of these perceptual representations as well.
Coherent visual perception necessitates the ability to track distinct objects as the same entities over time and motion. Calculations of such object persistence appear to be fairly automatic and constrained by specific rules. We explore the nature of object persistence here within the object-file framework; object files are mid-level visual representations that track entities over time and motion as the same persisting objects and store and update information about the objects. We present three new findings. First, objects files are constrained by the principle of &quot;boundedness&quot;; persisting entities should maintain a single closed contour. Second, object files are constrained by the principle of &quot;containment&quot;; all the parts and properties of a persisting object should reside within, and be connected to, the object itself. Third, object files are sensitive to the context in which an object appears; the very same physical entity that can instantiate object-file formation in one experimental context cannot in another. This contextual influence demonstrates for the first time that object files are sensitive to more than just the physical properties contained within any given visual display.
Robust interference often arises when multiple targets (T1 and T2) are discriminated in rapid succession (the attentional blink or AB). The AB has been observed for a wide range of stimuli, and is often thought to reflect a central capacity limitation in working memory consolidation, attentional engagement, and/or online response selection. However, recent evidence challenges the existence of unitary bottleneck during postperceptual processing. Awh et al. (2004) found no AB interference when a digit target preceded a face target, presumably because these stimuli could be processed by means of separable processing channels. Using a modified AB procedure, recent studies have also demonstrated that speeded response selection of T1 leads to an AB effect for T2 identification, supporting the conclusion that response selection induces the same processing limitations that typically gives rise to an AB. The present research tests this hypothesis by examining the effects of response selection on the identification of faces. Although we replicated previous demonstrations that online response selection of a digit disrupts the identification of T2 letters, we found no interference in the identification of T2 faces. However, robust AB interference was once again observed when a speeded response to a T1 face was required, confirming that faces are not simply immune to central interference. These results dispute the existence of a unitary postperceptual capacity limitation that gives rise to the AB.
Efficient coding has been proposed to play an essential role in early visual processing. While several approaches used an objective function to optimize a particular aspect of efficient coding, such as the minimization of mutual information or the maximization of sparseness, we here explore how different estimates of efficient coding in a model with nonlinear dynamics and Hebbian learning determine the similarity of model receptive fields to V1 data with respect to spatial tuning. Our simulation results indicate that most measures of efficient coding correlate with the similarity of model receptive field data to V1 data, that is, optimizing the estimate of efficient coding increases the similarity of the model data to experimental data. However, the degree of the correlation varies with the different estimates of efficient coding, and in particular, the variance in the firing pattern of each cell does not predict a similarity of model and experimental data.
While color vision mediated by rod photoreceptors in dim light is possible (Kelber &amp; Roth, 2006), most animals, including humans, do not see in color at night. This is because their retinas contain only a single class of rod photoreceptors. Many of these same animals have daylight color vision, mediated by multiple classes of cone photoreceptors. We develop a general formulation, based on Bayesian decision theory, to evaluate the efficacy of various retinal photoreceptor mosaics. The formulation evaluates each mosaic under the assumption that its output is processed to optimally estimate the image. It also explicitly takes into account the statistics of the environmental image ensemble. Using the general formulation, we consider the trade-off between monochromatic and dichromatic retinal designs as a function of overall illuminant intensity. We are able to demonstrate a set of assumptions under which the prevalent biological pattern represents optimal processing. These assumptions include an image ensemble characterized by high correlations between image intensities at nearby locations, as well as high correlations between intensities in different wavelength bands. They also include a constraint on receptor photopigment biophysics and/or the information carried by different wavelengths that produces an asymmetry in the signal-to-noise ratio of the output of different receptor classes. Our results thus provide an optimality explanation for the evolution of color vision for daylight conditions and monochromatic vision for nighttime conditions. An additional result from our calculations is that regular spatial interleaving of two receptor classes in a dichromatic retina yields performance superior to that of a retina where receptors of the same class are clumped together.
Stimulus contrast fluctuations were controlled while the properties of a novel ERP known as the VESPA (Visual Evoked Spread Spectrum Analysis) were examined using data from 8 healthy human subjects. Substantial differences were seen between the morphologies of VESPAs obtained using low contrast stimuli when compared with those obtained using high contrast and full contrast range stimuli. Topographic distributions for both responses are compared and the findings are considered in terms of the response characteristics of the magnocellular and parvocellular visual pathways and the VESPA method itself.
Leventhal et al. (Science, 2003, 300(5620), 812-815) reported that orientation selectivity of V1 neurons was significantly reduced in older macaque monkeys, which suggests that mechanisms that encode orientation in humans may become more broadly tuned in old age. We examined this hypothesis in two experiments that used sine-wave masking and notched-noise masking to estimate the bandwidth of orientation-selective mechanisms in younger (age approximately 23 years) and older (age approximately 68 years) human adults. In both experiments, the orientation selectivity of masking was essentially identical in younger and older subjects.
Written Chinese is distinct from alphabetic languages because of its enormous number of characters with a great range of spatial complexities (stroke numbers). In this study we investigated the impact of spatial complexity on legibility of Chinese characters as well as associated crowding in peripheral vision. Our results showed that for isolated characters, threshold sizes of complex characters increased faster with retinal eccentricity than did those of simple characters, suggesting possible &quot;within-character&quot; crowding among parts of complex Chinese characters. However, such &quot;within-character&quot; crowding was rendered negligible by strong &quot;between-character&quot; crowding introduced by flankers. When the target and flankers belonged to different complexity groups, the intensity and extent of crowding were greatly reduced, which could be explained by top-down influences as well as lower-level mechanisms. We suggest that crowding can be attributed to multiple mechanisms at different levels of visual processing.
The Cys-loop ligand-gated ion channel (LGIC) family comprises a group of membrane ion channel receptors that play a crucial role in fast synaptic neurotransmission in the central and peripheral nervous system. The members of this superfamily include gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)), neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh), 5-HT(3), and glycine receptors. These receptors serve as therapeutic sites for general anesthetic, antipsychoactive, antinociceptive, and anxiolytic drugs in the brain. These receptors are also thought to be primary targets of alcohol and other drugs of abuses. A number of studies reported that fatty acids affected the function of GABA(A) receptors in the early nineties. Accumulating evidence has suggested that the derivatives of arachidonic acid (AA), such as anandamide (N-arachidonoylethanolamine, AEA) and arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), can critically regulate the other members of the Cys-loop LGIC superfamily through a cannabinoid receptor-independent mechanism. This chapter focuses on the results of recent studies showing that the Cys-loop LGICs could be additional molecular targets for fatty acid and endocannabinoid action in the central and peripheral nervous system. Some of these targets may mediate behavioral effects for cannabinoids to alter neuronal function.
Using cluster analysis techniques, we identified two distinct clusters of newly homeless adolescents in Los Angeles (n = 261): those who are protected and doing relatively well while out of home with more protective than risk factors, and those who are risky with more risk than protective factors. The objective of this study was to examine the trajectories of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) risk behaviors and exiting homelessness among protected newly homeless adolescents, compared to those who are classified as risky. HIV risk behavior included unprotected sex, having multiple sex partners and hard drug use. Logistic regression mixed-effects models were used to evaluate the trajectories of HIV risk behaviors and exiting homelessness over time. The adolescents in the protected group reported significantly less unprotected sex ( p = 0.0156), being abstinent or monogamous ( p &lt; 0.0001) and less hard drug use ( p &lt; 0.0001) compared to the adolescents in the risky group. In addition, the protected group reported more &quot;exiting homelessness&quot;, compared to the risky group ( p = 0.0007). However, the differences in the level of unprotected sex between the protected and risky groups decreased over time. Our findings confirm the notion that newly homeless adolescents are indeed heterogeneous. Given that the risk behavior profiles of protected group merges to the risky group over time, our findings underscore the need to mount tailored interventions to be designed for the protected group early in the process.
Research is limited regarding occupational stress in academic physicians; professionals whose work situation includes the three areas of clinical practice, research, and teaching. The aim of this study was to gain knowledge of factors experienced as stressful by academic physicians employed by a university hospital. A questionnaire assessing the frequency and intensity of 36 potentially stressful factors was sent to all 157 academic physicians who were employed at the Linkping University Hospital, Sweden. The response rate was 77%. Both a high frequency and intensity of stress was experienced by 66% of the academic physicians in relation to &quot;time pressure&quot; and by almost 50% in connection with both &quot;find time for research&quot; and having &quot;conflict of interest between different work assignments&quot;. Moreover, physicians in the higher age group and those who had attained a higher academic position experienced less stress. The female participants experienced more stress than the males due to gender-related problems and to variables associated with relationships at work. More knowledge is needed to determine the consequences of this finding and to identify coping strategies used for handling such stress.

Depressed patients are impaired in the ability to shift their focus of attention. This attentional control process is related to dysfunctions in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). It has been proposed that a dorsal circuit plays an important role in the interaction between emotional and attentional information processing. However, because the different emphasis of fundamental cognitive neuroscience research and clinical research of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the DLPFC, little research has been done on the effects of rTMS on cognitive functioning after a single stimulation session to explore the neural systems underlying depression. This study was conducted as a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover, within subjects design. Sixteen depressed patients performed a modified task switching paradigm, before and after receiving high frequency (HF) versus placebo rTMS over the left DLPFC. One session of HF-rTMS over the left DLPFC had a specific beneficial effect on task-switching performance, whereas mood remained stable. Antidepressant effects of rTMS could be related to the same neurochemical changes that underlie cognitive functioning. Therefore, task switching performance may provide a unique window into the extent of antidepressant effects which can be considered as second-order long-term effects possibly related to primary alternations in cognitive functioning.
The aim of this 6-month observational study was to examine which clinical, eating- and lifestyle-related factors were associated with weight gain in patients initiating or switching to oral olanzapine for the treatment of schizophrenia or bipolar mania. A total of 622 outpatients in four countries (China, Mexico, Romania, Taiwan) were assessed at monthly intervals for up to 6 months. Mixed model repeated-measures analysis, adjusted for baseline weight, was used to identify which factors were associated with weight gain during olanzapine therapy. After 6 months of therapy, the LS mean weight change was +4.1 kg and 43.9% of the patients had significant (&gt; or = 7%) weight gain. Early significant weight gain after 2 months of therapy occurred in 23.4% of the patients and these patients gained significantly more weight overall. Ten factors were associated with weight gain during 6 months of olanzapine therapy in an exploratory multivariate analysis: country, housing conditions, stronger appetite, excessive amount of food needed to feel full, eating until uncomfortably full, thoughts preoccupied with food, meal location, increased meal frequency, evening snack consumption, and a lower amount of vigorous exercise. These results indicate that the influence of environmental, eating- and lifestyle-related factors should be considered when assessing weight gain during olanzapine therapy.
These updated guidelines are based on a first edition that was published in 2003, and have been edited and updated with the available scientific evidence until end of 2008. Their purpose is to supply a systematic overview of all scientific evidence pertaining to the treatment of acute mania in adults. The data used for these guidelines have been extracted from a MEDLINE and EMBASE search, from the clinical trial database clinicaltrials.gov, from recent proceedings of key conferences, and from various national and international treatment guidelines. Their scientific rigor was categorised into six levels of evidence (A-F). As these guidelines are intended for clinical use, the scientific evidence was finally asigned different grades of recommendation to ensure practicability.
Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the behavioural disorder most commonly diagnosed in childhood. In addition to the main symptoms of inattention, impulsiveness and hyperactivity, neurological soft signs (NSS) are often associated with ADHD. NSS are discrete motor and sensory disorders that cannot be linked to specific cerebral lesions. We review all the scientific contributions on NSS in ADHD. The conclusions support the presence of an alteration in the neural networks for motor control inhibition, at the base of the pathophysiology of NSS in children with ADHD, as well as a possible central role of dopamine in these neural circuits.

Metabolic syndrome is currently the research topic of several studies. Although physical manifestations of metabolic syndrome have been described, the psychological and psychiatric impact of metabolic syndrome has not been studied to date. We report the first case of antipsychotic-induced metabolic syndrome which was associated with development of delusions of pregnancy in a post-menopausal woman.

We propose the concept that anorexia nervosa is a neuropsychiatric developmental disorder. In support of the concept we present a case report of a 12-year-old girl with high functioning autistic disorder who developed Tourette syndrome and obsessive-compulsive disorder. She subsequently experienced a distinct onset of partial anorexia nervosa characterized by fear of gaining weight, body image distortions, food preference idiosyncrasies including avoidance of fat, dietary restriction, a pursuit of thinness, episodic self-induced vomiting, the missing of her menstrual cycles, and a 10% decrement in expected weight for height. She fell short of the required 15% decrement in expected weight for height to qualify for the full syndrome. Our case presentation emphasizes the longitudinal commonalities and symptomatic overlap of her multiple comorbidities. We discuss treatment approaches typically used with individuals with neuropsychiatric developmental disorders which might benefit higher functioning individuals with eating disorders. We conclude with examples of a neuropsychiatric developmental approach to generate a research agenda for anorexia nervosa.
Acute ingestion of MDMA (ecstasy) causes a transient marked increase in serotonin and dopamine at central synapses. Recent studies demonstrated that MDMA induces damage of serotonergic nerve terminals and alters hippocampal processing. Pronounced cognitive deficits in MDMA users affect learning and memory abilities. This pattern of predominant and long-lasting memory dysfunction suggests that the functioning of the hippocampus might be affected by the neurotoxic effects of MDMA. We present the case of a 16-year-old girl who developed an acute organic and psychotic syndrome caused by occasional use of low to moderate dose of MDMA. Serial neuroimaging ((18)F-FDG-PET and brain MRI) were correlated with her neurocognitive performance and clinical evolution. The structural and metabolic changes correlated with a severe cognitive impairment. After 16 months of intensive neuropsychological rehabilitation she showed significant improvement in hippocampal-related memory cognitive functions, which correlated with normalization of her (18)F-FDG-PET and remarkable hippocampal remodelling. This case report indicates that even non-chronic MDMA use may cause subacute toxic encephalopathy in which the clinical evolution is paralleled by neuroimaging changes in specific cerebral areas. The most relevant aspect is the reversibility of the volumetric changes, which may be the structural correlate of an ongoing hippocampal remodelling.


The distribution of Kraepelin's ubiquitous dichotomy varies with standard of living and pubertal age: when one rises, the other declines. The universal similar clinical picture--mortality risk, manic depressive psychosis, episodic dysfunction of brainstem control systems (sleep-wake cycle, food, mood control mechanism)--is caused by abridged pubertal pruning of excitatory synapses, which is treated with anti-epileptics, as opposed to convulsant neuroleptics in dementia praecox, where the clinical variation reflects varying degrees of excessive pruning and deficit in excitability. Localization of cortical breakdown of circuitry, silent spots and persistent dysfunction due to insufficient fill-in mechanisms, determine the clinical picture. This ranges from dementia praecox in late puberty and poor living standards, to cognitive dysfunction (mainly with higher standards of living) with earlier puberty. This variation is the most likely explanation why the acceptance of dementia praecox as a disease entity was complicated. Kraepelin's dichotomy, episodic dysfunction against a clinical deterioration, is at the extremes of brain maturation; the fundamental property of nervous tissue, excitability, is affected. To reduce the risk of psychotic episodes, omega-3 might also be given, as it normalizes excitation at all levels. The neo-Kraepelinian atheoretical quantitative scoring systems have eliminated disease entities and neglected endogeneity in psychiatry. We are back to a pre-Kraepelinian state, without his systematic observations. What is psychiatry without Kraepelin's dichotomy? Mood stability is a fundamental personality trait with a normal distribution; what is considered within or outside normal variation is arbitrary. Given the mood-stabilizing effect of anti-epileptics and omega-3, these will increasingly dominate psychiatric treatment.



The paper is concerned with grouping, segmentation and accentuation occurring in the processes of stimuli perception. An universal model of these events is based on vector coding in neuronal networks. Grouping is unification of objects or events into collections according to their similarity. Segmentation is separation of such groups up to small ensembles of units. In neuroscience grouping and segmentation are regarded as referred to neural mechanisms underlying perceptual and semantic processes resulting in a phenomenal attachment or separation. It is assumed that stimuli in neuronal nets are encoded by combinations of excitations of cardinal neurons constituting excitation vectors. Differences among stimuli are formed as absolute values of their excitation vector differences. The more different are stimuli the separate are their perceptual and semantic representations. The more similar are respective stimuli, the less is their separation. It suggests that stimuli having similar excitation vectors would be grouped together. On the contrary stimuli with opposed excitation vectors would be segmented and pushed to different ensembles. The vector encoding is expressed also for location in space. Thus spatial separation of objects is increasing with the increasing of their spatial excitation vector differences. The universal principle of vector encoding of differences can be illustrated by color contrast: differences of contrast colors rise with increase of their excitation vector differences. Objects having similar excitation vectors constitute a group accentuated due to summation of their excitation vectors. Groups of objects characterized by different excitation vectors are mutually accentuated by a contrast mechanism. A plastic accentuation depends on novelty of stimulation being habituated during repeated stimulus presentations.

Tau-tubulin kinase-1 (TTBK1) is involved in phosphorylation of tau protein at specific Serine/Threonine residues found in paired helical filaments, suggesting its role in tauopathy pathogenesis. We found that TTBK1 levels were upregulated in brains of human Alzheimer' disease (AD) patients compared with age-matched non-AD controls. To understand the effects of TTBK1 activation in vivo, we developed transgenic mice harboring human full-length TTBK1 genomic DNA (TTBK1-Tg). Transgenic TTBK1 is highly expressed in subiculum and cortical pyramidal layers, and induces phosphorylated neurofilament aggregation. TTBK1-Tg mice show significant age-dependent memory impairment as determined by radial arm water maze test, which is associated with enhancement of tau and neurofilament phosphorylation, increased levels of p25 and p35, both activators of cyclin-dependent protein kinase 5 (CDK5), enhanced calpain I activity, and reduced levels of hippocampal NMDA receptor types 2B (NR2B) and D. Enhanced CDK5/p35 complex formation is strongly correlated with dissociation of F-actin from p35, suggesting the inhibitory mechanism of CDK5/p35 complex formation by F-actin. Expression of recombinant TTBK1 in primary mouse cortical neurons significantly downregulated NR2B in a CDK5- and calpain-dependent manner. These data suggest that TTBK1 in AD brain may be one of the underlying mechanisms inducing CDK5 and calpain activation, NR2B downregulation, and subsequent memory dysfunction.
D-Serine is detected in the brain and acts as a coagonist at the &quot;glycine-site&quot; of the NMDA-type glutamate receptor. Although D-serine can be directly produced from L-serine by serine racemase (SR), the relative contribution of SR in D-serine formation in vivo is not known. Pathological roles of brain D-serine mediating NMDA receptor overactivation are suggested in studies using in vitro culture systems. However, we have recently demonstrated the differential SR protein expression in vivo and in culture. Here, we reported an approximately 90% decrease in forebrain D-serine content in SR knock-out (KO) mice. We also found a reduced neurotoxicity induced by NMDA- and Abeta(1-42)- peptide injections into the forebrain in SR KO mice. These results suggest that SR is the major enzyme for D-serine production in the brain, D-serine is the predominant endogenous coagonist of the NMDA receptor in the forebrain, and D-serine may be involved in controlling the extent of NMDA receptor-mediated neurotoxic insults observed in disorders including Alzheimer's disease. The control of SR activity and D-serine level in the brain may lead to a novel strategy for neuroprotection against various neurodegenerative diseases.
During development of the calyx of Held synapse, presynaptic action potentials (APs) become substantially faster and briefer. Nevertheless, this synapse is able to upregulate quantal output triggered by arriving APs. Briefer APs lead to less effective gating of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCCs). Therefore, mechanisms downstream of Ca(2+) entry must effectively compensate for the attenuated Ca(2+) influx associated with shorter APs in more mature calyces. This compensation could be achieved by tighter spatial coupling between VGCCs and synaptic vesicles, so that the latter are exposed to higher intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). Alternatively or additionally, the Ca(2+) sensitivity of the release apparatus may increase during synapse development. To differentiate between these possibilities, we combined paired patch-clamp recordings with Ca(2+) imaging and flash photolysis of caged Ca(2+) and estimated the [Ca(2+)](i) requirements for vesicle release in the developing mouse calyx of Held synapse. Surprisingly, the dose-response relationship between [Ca(2+)](i) and release rate was shifted slightly to the right in more mature calyces, rendering their vesicles slightly less sensitive to incoming Ca(2+). Taking into account the time course and peak rates of AP-evoked release transients for the corresponding developmental stages, we estimate the local [Ca(2+)](i)&quot;seen&quot; by the Ca(2+) sensors on synaptic vesicles to increase from 35 to 56 mum [from postnatal day 9 (P9)-P11 to P16-P19]. Our results reinforce the idea that developmental tightening of the spatial coupling between VGCCs and synaptic vesicles plays a predominant role in enhancing quantal output at this synapse and possibly other central synapses.
Mints/X11s are neuronal adaptor proteins that bind to amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP). Previous studies suggested that Mint/X11 proteins influence APP cleavage and affect production of pathogenic amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides in Alzheimer's disease; however, the biological significance of Mint/X11 binding to APP and their possible role in Abeta production remain unclear. Here, we crossed conditional and constitutive Mint1, Mint2, and Mint3 knock-out mice with transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease overproducing human Abeta peptides. We show that deletion of all three individual Mint proteins delays the age-dependent production of amyloid plaque numbers and Abeta40 and Abeta42 levels with loss of Mint2 having the largest effect. Acute conditional deletion of all three Mints in cultured neurons suppresses the accumulation of APP C-terminal fragments and the secretion of ectodomain APP by decreasing beta-cleavage but does not impair subsequent gamma-cleavage. These results suggest that the three Mint/X11 proteins regulate Abeta production by a novel mechanism that may have implications for therapeutic approaches to altering APP cleavage in Alzheimer's disease.
cAMP is a critical second messenger involved in synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity. Here, we show that activation of the adenylyl cyclase by forskolin and application of the cAMP-analog Sp-5,6-DCl-cBIMPS both mimicked and occluded tetanus-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) in subicular bursting neurons, but not in subicular regular firing cells. Furthermore, LTP in bursting cells was inhibited by protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitors Rp-8-CPT-cAMP and H-89. Variations in the degree of EPSC blockade by the low-affinity competitive AMPA receptor-antagonist gamma-d-glutamyl-glycine (gamma-DGG), analysis of the coefficient of variance as well as changes in short-term potentiation suggest an increase of glutamate concentration in the synaptic cleft after expression of LTP. We conclude that presynaptic LTP in bursting cells requires activation of PKA by a calcium-dependent adenylyl cyclase while LTP in regular firing cells is independent of elevated cAMP levels. Our results provide evidence for a differential role of cAMP in LTP at hippocampal output synapses.
Circadian rhythms, endogenously generated by the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), can be synchronized to a variety of photic and non-photic environmental stimuli. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is produced in the intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) and known to mediate both photic and non-photic influences on the SCN. We recently found that npy-/- mice were slower to shift their locomotor activity onset to the new time of light offset when photoperiod was abruptly changed from light/dark (LD) cycle 18:6 to LD 6:18. In the present study, we measured the locomotor response of npy-/- mice to gradual changes in photoperiod (4 min a day) for 141 days (LD 16:8 changing to LD 8:16), mimicking external LD cycles in nature. When the photoperiod approached LD 8:16, npy-/- mice showed a significantly delayed onset of activity compared to wild-type mice. Activity patterns disintegrated into multiple bouts and intensity of activity decreased as the photoperiod changed and these changes were more pronounced in npy-/- mice. Our results lend further support to the idea that NPY is involved in circadian entrainment responses to seasonal photoperiod changes.
Active myofascial trigger points (MTrPs) have been found to contribute to chronic tension-type headache and migraine. The purpose of this case series was to examine if active trigger points (TrPs) provoking cluster-type referred pain could be found in cluster headache patients and, if so, to evaluate the effectiveness of active TrPs anaesthetic injections both in the acute and preventive headache's treatment. Twelve patients, 4 experiencing episodic and 8 chronic cluster headache, were studied. TrPs were found in all of them. Abortive infiltrations could be done in 2 episodic and 4 chronic patients, and preemptive infiltrations could be done in 2 episodic and 5 chronic patients, both kind of interventions being successful in 5 (83.3%) and in 6 (85.7%) of the cases respectively. When combined with prophylactic drug therapy, injections were associated with significant improvement in 7 of the 8 chronic cluster patients. Our data suggest that peripheral sensitization may play a role in cluster headache pathophysiology and that first neuron afferent blockade can be useful in cluster headache management.
Two neural systems, a hippocampal system and an extrahippocampal system compete for control over contextual fear, and the hippocampal system normally dominates. Our experiments reveal that output provided by the ventral subiculum is critical for the hippocampal system to win this competition. Bilateral electrolytic lesions of the ventral subiculum after conditioning, but not before conditioning, impaired contextual fear conditioning. Reversibly inactivating this region by bilateral injections of muscimol produced the same results-no impairment when the injection occurred prior to conditioning but a significant impairment when this region was inactivated after conditioning. Thus, the extrahippocampal system can support contextual fear conditioning if the ventral subiculum is disabled before conditioning but not if it is disabled after conditioning. Our experiments also reveal that the basolateral region of the amygdala (BLA) is where the two systems compete for associative control of the fear system. To test this hypothesis we reasoned that the extrahippocampal system would also acquire associative control over the fear system, even if the hippocampal system were functional, if the basal level of plasticity potential in the BLA could be increased. We did this by injecting the D1 dopamine agonist, SKF82958, into the BLA just prior to conditioning. This treatment resulted in a significant increase in freezing when the ventral subiculum was disabled prior to the test. These results are discussed in relationship to the idea that D1 agonists increase plasticity potential by increasing the pool of available extrasynaptic GluR1 receptors in the population of neurons supporting acquired fear.
Mice communicate through visual, vocal, and olfactory cues that influence innate, nonassociative behavior. We here report that exposure to a recently fear-conditioned familiar mouse impairs acquisition of conditioned fear and facilitates fear extinction, effects mimicked by both an olfactory chemosignal emitted by a recently fear-conditioned familiar mouse and by the putative stress-related anxiogenic pheromone beta-phenylethylamine (beta-PEA). Together, these findings suggest social modulation of higher-order cognitive processing through pheromone communication and support the concurrent excitor hypothesis of extinction learning.

Significant reductions in GABAergic cell numbers and/or activity have been demonstrated in the hippocampus of subjects with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. To understand how different subpopulations of interneurons are regulated, laser microdissection and gene expression profiling have been used to &quot;deconstruct&quot; the trisynaptic pathway, so that subtypes of GABA cells could be defined by their location in various layers of CA3/2 and CA1. The results suggest that the cellular endophenotypes for SZ and BD may be determined by multiple factors that include unique susceptibility genes for the respective disorders and altered integration among hippocampal GABA cells with extrinsic and intrinsic afferent fiber systems. The extensive and intricate data that has come from this study has provided insights into how a complex circuit, like the trisynaptic pathway, may be regulated in human hippocampus in both health and disease.
The development of glutamatergic synapses involves changes in the number and type of receptors present at the postsynaptic density. To elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying these changes, we combine in utero electroporation of constructs that alter the molecular composition of developing synapses with dual whole-cell electrophysiology to examine synaptic transmission during two distinct developmental stages. We find that SAP102 mediates synaptic trafficking of AMPA and NMDA receptors during synaptogenesis. Surprisingly, after synaptogenesis, PSD-95 assumes the functions of SAP102 and is necessary for two aspects of synapse maturation: the developmental increase in AMPA receptor transmission and replacement of NR2B-NMDARs with NR2A-NMDARs. In PSD-95/PSD-93 double-KO mice, the maturational replacement of NR2B- with NR2A-NMDARs fails to occur, and PSD-95 expression fully rescues this deficit. This study demonstrates that SAP102 and PSD-95 regulate the synaptic trafficking of distinct glutamate receptor subtypes at different developmental stages, thereby playing necessary roles in excitatory synapse development.
Most forebrain GABAergic interneurons in rodents are born during embryonic development in the ganglionic eminences (GE) and migrate tangentially into the cortical plate. A subset, however, continues to be generated postnatally in the subventricular zone (SVZ). These interneurons populate the olfactory bulb (OB) reached via migration in the rostral migratory stream (RMS). Employing transgenic mice expressing EGFP in 5-HT(3)-positive neurons, we identified additional migratory pathways in the early postnatal brain. Time-lapse imaging experiments revealed massive migration of EGFP-positive cells from the SVZ into numerous forebrain regions, including cortex, striatum, and nucleus accumbens. The neuronal fate of the migratory EGFP-labeled cells was indicated by their doublecortin (DCX) expression. Birthdating experiments, by using 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and retrovirus-based experiments, provided evidence that migrating neuroblasts were born in the SVZ postnatally and developed a distinct GABAergic phenotype. Our results demonstrate that the SVZ is a reservoir of GABAergic interneurons not only for the OB, but also for other cortical and subcortical areas.
Na(+)-activated K(+) (K(Na)) channels are expressed in neurons and are activated by Na(+) influx through voltage-dependent channels or ionotropic receptors, yet their function remains unclear. Here we show that K(Na) channels are associated with AMPA receptors and that their activation depresses synaptic responses. Synaptic activation of K(Na) channels by Na(+) transients via AMPA receptors shapes the decay of AMPA-mediated current as well as the amplitude of the synaptic potential. Thus, the coupling between K(Na) channels and AMPA receptors by synaptically induced Na(+) transients represents an inherent negative feedback mechanism that scales down the magnitude of excitatory synaptic responses.
Alternative patterns of neural activity drive different rhythmic locomotory patterns in both invertebrates and mammals. The neuro-molecular mechanisms responsible for the expression of rhythmic behavioral patterns are poorly understood. Here we show that Caenorhabditis elegans switches between distinct forms of locomotion, or crawling versus swimming, when transitioning between solid and liquid environments. These forms of locomotion are distinguished by distinct kinematics and different underlying patterns of neuromuscular activity, as determined by in vivo calcium imaging. The expression of swimming versus crawling rhythms is regulated by sensory input. In a screen for mutants that are defective in transitioning between crawl and swim behavior, we identified unc-79 and unc-80, two mutants known to be defective in NCA ion channel stabilization. Genetic and behavioral analyses suggest that the NCA channels enable the transition to rapid rhythmic behaviors in C. elegans. unc-79, unc-80, and the NCA channels represent a conserved set of genes critical for behavioral pattern generation.
Auditory hair cell defect is a major cause of hearing impairment, often leading to spiral ganglia neuron (SGN) degeneration. The cell loss that follows is irreversible in mammals, because inner ear hair cells (HCs) have a limited capacity to regenerate. Here, we report that in the adult brain of both rodents and humans, the ependymal layer of the lateral ventricle contains cells with proliferative potential, which share morphological and functional characteristics with HCs. In addition, putative neural stem cells (NSCs) from the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle can differentiate into functional SGNs. Also important, the NSCs can incorporate into the sensory epithelia, demonstrating their therapeutic potential. We assert that NSCs and edendymal cells can undergo an epigenetic functional switch to assume functional characteristics of HCs and SGNs. This study suggests that the functional plasticity of renewable cells and conditions that promote functional reprogramming can be used for cell therapy in the auditory setting.
Recent imaging studies suggest that the so-called &quot;soft&quot; neurological signs in schizophrenia might have neuroanatomical validity. We examined gray matter volume correlates of neurological soft signs (NSS) in antipsychotic-naive schizophrenia patients using an automated image analysis technique. NSS were assessed using a modified neurological evaluation scale with good inter-rater reliability. Magnetic resonance images of 30 schizophrenia patients and 27 age-, sex-, education- and handedness-matched healthy controls were processed using optimized voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Logistic regression analysis showed that only the Motor Sequencing Signs (MSS) sub-score was a significant predictor of subject's status among the NSS sub-scores. Optimized VBM analysis showed that the MSS sub-score had a significant negative correlation with total and regional gray matter volumes (prefrontal, posterior cingulate, temporal cortices, putamen, and cerebellum) in schizophrenia patients but not in controls. Prefrontal and temporal cortices, putamen and cerebellum had significant volume deficits in patients. Cortical and cerebellar correlates of the sub-score MSS support the concept of &quot;cognitive dysmetria&quot; in schizophrenia.
This study uses a rapid-serial-visual-presentation (RSVP) paradigm to test the extent to which shape and motion direction can be independently accessed and processed during the perception of structure-from-motion (SFM) stimuli. Subjects reported the number of occurrences of shape or motion direction during RSVP sequences of 3D-SFM stimuli. Overall, performance was better for motion than shape. In the motion task, observers were less accurate when the motion direction was repeated revealing a repetition blindness (RB) effect. In addition, the repetition of shape, although irrelevant to the motion task, resulted in increased performance, without change in RB rate. In contrast, there was no RB at the group level in the shape task and the repetition of the irrelevant motion direction had no effect on the performance. A closer look at the data showed that observers fall in two statistically distinct groups for the shape task. Some observers (N = 6) show a repetition advantage (RA) while the others (N = 5) show a repetition blindness (RB) effect. No behavioral differences between groups could be found for the motion task. The implications of these results for models of SFM processing are discussed in the light of the type/token theory (N. Kanwisher, 2001).
We have recently identified three splice isoforms of the histamine H(3) receptor in multiple brain regions of cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis). Two of the novel isoforms displayed a deletion in the third intracellular loop (H(3)(413) and H(3)(410)), the third isoform H(3)(335) displayed a deletion in the i3 intracellular loop and a complete deletion of the putative fifth transmembrane domain TM5. We have confirmed by RT-PCR the expression of full-length H(3)(445) mRNA as well as H(3)(413), H(3)(410), and H(3)(335) splice isoform mRNA in multiple monkey brain regions including the frontal, parietal and occipital cortex, parahippocampal gyrus, hippocampus, amygdala, caudate nucleus, putamen, thalamus, hypothalamus, and cerebellum. The full-length isoform H(3)(445) was predominant in all of the regions tested, followed by H(3)(335), with the H(3)(413) and H(3)(410) being of low abundance. When expressed in C6 cells, H(3)(445), H(3)(413), and H(3)(410) exhibit high affinity binding to the agonist ligand [(3)H]-(N)-alpha-methylhistamine with respective pK(D) values of 9.7, 9.7, and 9.6. As expected, the H(3)(335) isoform did not display any saturable binding with [(3)H]-(N)-alpha-methylhistamine. The histamine H(3) receptor agonists histamine, (R)-alpha-methylhistamine, imetit and proxyfan were able to activate calcium mobilization responses through H(3)(445), H(3)(413) and H(3)(410) receptors when they were co-expressed with the chimeric G alpha(qi5)-protein in HEK293 cells, while no response was elicited in cells expressing the H(3)(335) isoform. The existence of multiple H(3) receptor splice isoforms across species raises the possibility that isoform specific properties including ligand affinity, signal transduction coupling, and brain localization may differentially contribute to observed in vivo effects of histamine H(3) receptor antagonists.
The present study investigated the mechanisms of vasodilatation of the human pancreatic polypeptide [cPP(1-7), NPY(19-23),Ala(31),Aib(32),Gln(34)]hPP (hPP) in mesenteric small arteries from Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). The arteries were isolated and mounted in microvascular myographs for isometric tension recording. In vasopressin-contracted preparations with endothelium from WKY rats, hPP evoked concentration-dependent relaxations with maximal responses of 50+/-2% (n=5). hPP relaxation was reduced by endothelial cell removal and abolished in the presence of a nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine-methylester (L-NAME). hPP relaxation was blunted in segments with endothelium, and absent in segments without endothelium from SHR. The combined neuropeptide Y(1)- and Y(4)-receptor antagonist, GR23118 (Ile-Glu-Pro-Dpr-Tyr-Arg-Leu-Arg-Tyr-CONH(2)), and the neuropeptide Y(1) receptor antagonist, BIBP3226 ((R) -N2-(diphenylacetyl)-N-[(4-hydroxyphenyl)-methyl]-arginineamide), inhibited hPP-induced vasodilatation. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) relaxation was reduced in arteries from SHR compared to WKY. The CGRP receptor antagonist, CGRP (8-37), antagonized vasodilatation induced by CGRP and rightward shifted concentration-response curves for hPP in arteries from WKY rats. There were no differences in nerves immunoreactive for CGRP in arteries from SHR compared to WKY rats. In contrast to neuropeptide Y which evokes contraction by activation of neuropeptide Y(1) and Y(2) receptors, the present results suggest hPP evokes relaxation of mesenteric small arteries by activation of prejunctional neuropeptide Y(1)-like receptors localized in CGRP-containing nerves followed by release of CGRP and of endothelium-derived NO. hPP relaxation is blunted in arteries from SHR probably as a consequence of endothelial cell dysfunction leading to reduced efficacy of CGRP.
Recently, we and others have shown that agonist potencies at some, but not all, G protein-coupled receptors are voltage-sensitive. Several of those studies employed electrophysiology assays in Xenopus oocytes with G protein-coupled potassium channels as a readout. Using this assay, we have now obtained evidence that voltage-sensitivity at the dopamine D(2S) receptor is agonist-specific. Whereas the potency of dopamine at the D(2S) receptor is decreased by depolarization, the potencies of beta-phenethylamine, p- and m-tyramine are voltage-insensitive. Furthermore, both monohydroxylated and non-hydroxylated N,N-dipropyl-2-aminotetralin compounds are voltage-sensitive. Differential activation of G protein subtypes or differential ratios between effector and active G protein do not underlie this agonist-selective voltage-sensitivity. This is the first demonstration of voltage-sensitive and voltage-insensitive behaviour of different agonists acting via the same receptor.
Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) was identified as a novel gene disrupted by a (1;11)(q42.1;q14.3) translocation segregating with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and other major mental illnesses in a Scottish family. We previously identified 446-533 amino acids of DISC1 as the kendrin-binding region by means of a directed yeast two-hybrid interaction assay and showed that the DISC1-kendrin interaction is indispensable for the centrosomal localization of DISC1. In this study, to confirm the DISC1-kendrin interaction, we examined the interaction between deletion mutants of DISC1 and kendrin. Then, we demonstrated that the carboxy-terminus of DISC1 is indispensable for the interaction with kendrin. Furthermore, the immunocytochemistry revealed that the carboxy-terminus of DISC1 is also required for the centrosomal targeting of DISC1. Overexpression of the DISC1-binding region of kendrin or the DISC1 deletion mutant lacking the kendrin-binding region impairs the microtubule organization. These findings suggest that the DISC1-kendrin interaction plays a key role in the microtubule dynamics.
Mutations affecting either the structure or regulation of the microtubule-associated protein Tau cause neuronal cell death and dementia. However, the molecular mechanisms mediating these deleterious effects remain unclear. Among the most characterized activities of Tau is the ability to regulate microtubule dynamics, known to be essential for proper cell function and viability. Here we have tested the hypothesis that Tau mutations causing neurodegeneration also alter the ability of Tau to regulate the dynamic instability behaviors of microtubules. Using in vitro microtubule dynamics assays to assess average microtubule growth rates, microtubule growth rate distributions, and catastrophe frequencies, we found that all tested mutants possessing amino acid substitutions or deletions mapping to either the repeat or interrepeat regions of Tau do indeed compromise its ability to regulate microtubule dynamics. Further mutational analyses suggest a novel mechanism of Tau regulatory action based on an &quot;alternative core&quot; of microtubule binding and regulatory activities composed of two repeats and the interrepeat between them. In this model, the interrepeat serves as the primary regulator of microtubule dynamics, whereas the flanking repeats serve as tethers to properly position the interrepeat on the microtubule. Importantly, since there are multiple interrepeats on each Tau molecule, there are also multiple cores on each Tau molecule, each with distinct mechanistic capabilities, thereby providing significant regulatory potential. Taken together, the data are consistent with a microtubule misregulation mechanism for Tau-mediated neuronal cell death and provide a novel mechanistic model for normal and pathological Tau action.
Decision making with several choice options is central to cognition. To elucidate the neural mechanisms of such decisions, we investigated a recurrent cortical circuit model in which fluctuating spiking neural dynamics underlie trial-by-trial stochastic decisions. The model encodes a continuous analog stimulus feature and is thus applicable to multiple-choice decisions. Importantly, the continuous network captures similarity between alternatives and possible overlaps in their neural representation. Model simulations accounted for behavioral as well as single-unit neurophysiological data from a recent monkey experiment and revealed testable predictions about the patterns of error rate as a function of the similarity between the correct and actual choices. We also found that the similarity and number of options affect speed and accuracy of responses. A mechanism is proposed for flexible control of speed-accuracy tradeoff, based on a simple top-down signal to the decision circuit that may vary nonmonotonically with the number of choice alternatives.
Rats discriminate objects by scanning their surface with the facial vibrissae, producing spatiotemporally complex sequences of tactile contacts. The way in which the somatosensory cortex responds to these complex multivibrissal stimuli has not been explored. It is unclear yet whether contextual information from across the entire whisker pad influences cortical responses. Here, we delivered tactile stimuli to the rat vibrissae using a new 24 whisker stimulator. We tested sequences of rostrocaudal whisker deflections that generate multivibrissal motion patterns in different directions across the mystacial pad, allowing to disambiguate local from global sensory integration. Unitary electrophysiological recordings from different layers of the barrel cortex showed that a majority of neurons has direction selectivity for the multivibrissal stimulus. The selectivity resulted from nonlinear integration of responses across the mystacial pad. Our results indicate that the system extracts collective properties of a tactile scene.
There are two major forms of long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission in the central nervous system that require activation of either N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) or metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). In synapses in the perirhinal cortex, we have directly compared the Ca(2+) signaling mechanisms involved in NMDAR-LTD and mGluR-LTD. While both forms of LTD involve Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores, the Ca(2+) sensors involved are different; NMDAR-LTD involves calmodulin, while mGluR-LTD involves the neuronal Ca(2+) sensor (NCS) protein NCS-1. In addition, there is a specific requirement for IP3 and PKC, as well as protein interacting with C kinase (PICK-1) in mGluR-LTD. NCS-1 binds directly to PICK1 via its BAR domain in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Furthermore, the NCS-1-PICK1 association is stimulated by activation of mGluRs, but not NMDARs, and introduction of a PICK1 BAR domain fusion protein specifically blocks mGluR-LTD. Thus, NCS-1 plays a distinct role in mGluR-LTD.
Presynaptic autoreceptors modulate transmitter release at many synapses. At the mossy fiber to CA3 pyramidal cell (mf-CA3) synapse, two types of glutamatergic autoreceptors have been identified: transmitter release is reportedly suppressed by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and augmented by kainate receptors (KARs). However, the net effect of these autoreceptors when activated by endogenous glutamate is unknown. Here, we show that during low-frequency mossy fiber stimulation, glutamate acting through presynaptic mGluRs substantially suppresses transmitter release. However, using similar recording conditions, we find that presynaptic KARs are insufficient to facilitate transmitter release over a wide range of mossy fiber stimulus frequencies, indicating that the uniquely robust mf-CA3 short-term plasticity is KAR independent. Furthermore, we report that actions generally attributed to presynaptic KARs are likely due to activation of recurrent CA3 network activity. Thus, negative feedback via presynaptic mGluRs is the dominant mode of glutamatergic autoregulation at the mf-CA3 synapse.
Our understanding of the mechanisms whereby BACE1, the aspartyl protease required for the initial cleavage of APP to generate amyloid-beta (Abeta), is regulated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains incomplete. In this issue of Neuron, O'Connor and coworkers show how energy deprivation, a potential risk factor in AD, triggers the phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2alpha to elevate the translation efficiency of a set of stress-related transcripts, including that of BACE1, and increases the level of BACE1, thereby accelerating amyloidogenesis.
Application of aged animals to studies of Parkinson's disease (PD) will be beneficial to improve the understanding of its pathogenesis. The senescence-accelerated mouse prone8 (SAMP8) mouse has an early onset of senility and a short life span, characterized by learning and memory impairment, and affective disturbance in the aging process. There is no animal currently being used as a PD model that exhibits these characteristics. Application of the SAMP8 mouse to PD research may have several merits. For the first time, we have investigated damage of the nigrostriatal system in the SAMP8 mouse induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Male SAMP8 mice (12 weeks) were treated with four subcutaneous injections of MPTP (20mg/kg at 2h intervals): spontaneous activity decreased significantly after the third injection, and recovered 48h after the first injection. In MPTP-SAMP8 mice, the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neuronal loss at 6h (7.06%), 24h (12.79%), 3 days (22.49%), and 8 days (42.39%), while striatal dopamine (DA) levels decreased at 6h by 79.09%, at 24h by 80.33%, at 3 days by 83.86%, and at 8 days by 80.14%. These results indicated that there were marked decreases in striatal DA levels and a loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, with the behavior change following shortly thereafter, in MPTP-SAMP8 mice. On the basis of the current findings, the SAMP8 mouse is also vulnerable to neurotoxic effects of MPTP. These data suggest that the SAMP8 mouse may be utilized in PD research.
To address the possibility that mitochondria are involved in the age-related loss of testicular function, we characterized mitochondrial bioenergetics in rat testis. A peak of mitochondrial functionality was detected in adult animals, with a decrease in both young and older animals. In the latter group a decrease in mitochondrial function was matched with an increase in proton leak and expression and activity of uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2), suggesting that proton leak may be involved in managing age-dependent mitochondrial dysfunction.
Past research has demonstrated that performance on frontal lobe-dependent tasks is associated with dopamine system integrity and that various dopamine system deficits occur with aging. The positron emission tomography (PET) radiotracer 6-[(18)F]fluoro-l-m-tyrosine (FMT) is a substrate of the dopamine-synthesizing enzyme, aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC). Studies using 6-[(18)F]fluorodopa (FDOPA) (another AADC substrate) to measure how striatal PET signal and age relate have had inconsistent outcomes. The varying results occur in part from tracer processing that renders FDOPA signal subject to aspects of postrelease metabolism, which may themselves change with aging. In contrast, FMT remains a purer measure of AADC function. We used partial volume-corrected FMT PET scans to measure age-related striatal dopamine synthesis capacity in 21 older (mean, 66.9) and 16 younger (mean, 22.8) healthy adults. We also investigated how striatal FMT signal related to a cognitive measure of frontal lobe function. Older adults showed significantly greater striatal FMT signal than younger adults. Within the older group, FMT signal in dorsal caudate (DCA) and dorsal putamen was greater with age, suggesting compensation for deficits elsewhere in the dopamine system. In younger adults, FMT signal in DCA was lower with age, likely related to ongoing developmental processes. Younger adults who performed worse on tests of frontal lobe function showed greater FMT signal in right DCA, independent of age effects. Our data suggest that higher striatal FMT signal represents nonoptimal dopamine processing. They further support a relationship between striatal dopamine processing and frontal lobe cognitive function.
During development, activity-dependent processes increase the specificity of neural responses to stimuli, but the role that this type of process plays in adult plasticity is unclear. We examined the dynamics of hippocampal activity as animals learned about new environments to understand how neural selectivity changes with experience. Hippocampal principal neurons fire when the animal is located in a particular subregion of its environment, and in any given environment the hippocampal representation is sparse: less than half of the neurons in areas CA1 and CA3 are active whereas the rest are essentially silent. Here we show that different dynamics govern the evolution of this sparsity in CA1 and upstream area CA3. CA1, but not CA3, produces twice as many spikes in novel compared with familiar environments. This high rate firing continues during sharp wave ripple events in a subsequent rest period. The overall CA1 population rate declines and the number of active cells decreases as the environment becomes familiar and task performance improves, but the decline in rate is not uniform across neurons. Instead, the activity of cells with initial peak spatial rates above approximately 12 Hz is enhanced, whereas the activity of cells with lower initial peak rates is suppressed. The result of these changes is that the active CA1 population comes to consist of a relatively small group of cells with strong spatial tuning. This process is not evident in CA3, indicating that a region-specific and long timescale process operates in CA1 to create a sparse, spatially informative population of neurons.
Amblyopia is a developmental abnormality that results in physiological alterations in the visual cortex and impairs form vision. It is often successfully treated by patching the sound eye in infants and young children, but is generally considered to be untreatable in adults. However, a number of recent studies suggest that repetitive practice of a visual task using the amblyopic eye results in improved performance in both children and adults with amblyopia. These perceptual learning studies have used relatively brief periods of practice; however, clinical studies have shown that the time-constant for successful patching is long. The time-constant for perceptual learning in amblyopia is still unknown. Here we show that the time-constant for perceptual learning depends on the degree of amblyopia. Severe amblyopia requires &gt;50 h (approximately equal to 35,000 trials) to reach plateau, yielding as much as a five-fold improvement in performance at a rate of approximately equal to 1.5%/h. There is significant transfer of learning from the amblyopic to the dominant eye, suggesting that the learning reflects alterations in higher decision stages of processing. Using a reverse correlation technique, we document, for the first time, a dynamic retuning of the amblyopic perceptual decision template and a substantial reduction in internal spatial distortion. These results show that the mature amblyopic brain is surprisingly malleable, and point to more intensive treatment methods for amblyopia.
The failure of the remyelination processes in multiple sclerosis contributes to the formation of chronic demyelinated plaques that lead to severe neurological deficits. Long-term cuprizone treatment of C57BL/6 mice resulted in pronounced white matter pathology characterized by oligodendrocyte depletion, irreversible demyelination and persistent functional deficits after cuprizone withdrawal. The use of a combination of in vivo diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DT-MRI) and histological analyses allowed for an accurate longitudinal assessment of demyelination. Injection of triiodothyronine (T(3)) hormone over a 3 week interval after cuprizone withdrawal progressively restored the normal DT-MRI phenotype accompanied by an improvement of clinical signs and remyelination. The effects of T(3) were not restricted to the later stages of remyelination but increased the expression of sonic hedgehog and the numbers of Olig2(+) and PSA-NCAM(+) precursors and proliferative cells. Our findings establish a role for T(3) as an inducer of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells in adult mouse brain following chronic demyelination.
The LIM homeodomain transcription factor Lmx1b has been suggested to be required for the differentiation of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurons. However, whether the loss of mDA neurons in Lmx1b(-/-) mice is due to its intrinsic role in the mDA lineage or to a consequence of the malformations caused by the earlier mid/hindbrain patterning defects remains to be clarified. We report here that Lmx1b expression in mDA neurons is dispensable for their differentiation and maintenance, and the loss of mDA neurons in Lmx1b(-/-) mice is due to the disruption of inductive activity of the isthmic organizer (IsO) in the absence of Lmx1b at the mid/hindbrain boundary (MHB). We found that mDA neurons revealed by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), Pitx3, Nurr1, and dopamine transporter were indistinguishable from wild-type controls during embryonic development as well as in adulthood in TH-Cre;Lmx1b(flox/-) and Dat(Cre/+);Lmx1b(flox/-) mice, in which Lmx1b was selectively deleted in differentiating mDA neurons. In addition, mDA neurons were recovered in Lmx1b(-/-) mice, when IsO activity was restored by Wnt1-Lmx1b transgene at MHB. The restored IsO activity was evidenced by apparently normal tectum and cerebellum and recurrence of expression of Fgf8 and Wnt1 at MHB in Wnt1(Lmx1b);Lmx1b(-/-). Furthermore, when Lmx1b was deleted in the whole brain after the formation of IsO by Nestin-Cre, mDA neurons were normal, whereas serotonergic neurons displayed defective development phenocopying what observed in Lmx1b(-/-) mice. Thus, our results indicate that the inductive activity of IsO is essential, but Lmx1b expression in mDA neurons is dispensable for their differentiation and maintenance.
Mutations in the hypoxia-inducible factor angiogenin (ANG) have been identified in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) patients, but the potential role of ANG in ALS pathogenesis was undetermined. Here we show that angiogenin promotes motoneuron survival both in vitro and in vivo. Angiogenin protected cultured motoneurons against excitotoxic injury in a PI-3-kinase/Akt kinase-dependent manner, whereas knock-down of angiogenin potentiated excitotoxic motoneuron death. Expression of wild-type ANG protected against endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-induced and trophic-factor-withdrawal-induced cell death in vitro, whereas the ALS-associated ANG mutant K40I exerted no protective activity and failed to activate Akt-1. In SOD1(G93A) mice angiogenin delivery increased lifespan and motoneuron survival, restored the disease-associated decrease in Akt-1 survival signaling, and reversed a pathophysiological increase in ICAM-1 expression. Our data demonstrate that angiogenin is a key factor in the control of motoneuron survival.
Hippocampal area CA3 is critically involved in the formation of nonoverlapping neuronal subpopulations (&quot;pattern separation&quot;) to store memory representations as distinct events. Efficient pattern separation relies on the strong and sparse excitatory input from the mossy fibers (MFs) to pyramidal cells and feedforward inhibitory interneurons. However, MF synapses on CA3 pyramidal cells undergo long-term potentiation (LTP), which, if unopposed, will degrade pattern separation because MF activation will now recruit additional CA3 pyramidal cells. Here, we demonstrate MF LTP in stratum lacunosum-moleculare (L-M) interneurons induced by the same stimulation protocol that induces MF LTP in pyramidal cells. This LTP was NMDA receptor (NMDAR) independent and occurred at MF Ca(2+)-impermeable AMPA receptor synapses. LTP was prevented by with voltage clamping the postsynaptic cell soma during high-frequency stimulation (HFS), intracellular injections of the Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA (20 mm), or bath applications of the L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker nimodipine (10 microm). We propose that MF LTP in L-M interneurons preserves the sparsity of pyramidal cell activation, thus allowing CA3 to maintain its role in pattern separation. In the presence of the mGluR1alpha antagonist LY367385 [(S)-(+)-a-amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbenzeneacetic acid] (100 microm), the same HFS that induces MF LTP in naive slices triggered NMDAR-independent MF LTD. This LTD, like LTP, required activation of the L-type Ca(2+) channel and also was induced after blockade of IP(3) receptors with heparin (4 mg/ml) or the selective depletion of receptor-gated Ca(2+) stores with ryanodine (10 or 100 microm). We conclude that L-M interneurons are endowed with Ca(2+) signaling cascades suitable for controlling the polarity of MF long-term plasticity induced by joint presynaptic and postsynaptic activities.
Opioid-based narcotics are the most widely prescribed therapeutic agent for the alleviation of persistent pain; however, it is becoming increasingly clear that morphine is significantly less potent in women compared with men. Morphine primarily binds to mu-opioid receptors (MORs), and the periaqueductal gray (PAG) contains a dense population of MOR-expressing neurons. Via its descending projections to the rostral ventromedial medulla and the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, the PAG is considered an essential neural substrate for opioid-based analgesia. We hypothesized that MOR expression in the PAG was sexually dimorphic, and that these sex differences contribute to the observed sex differences in morphine potency. Using immunohistochemistry, we report that males had a significantly higher expression of MOR in the ventrolateral PAG compared with cycling females, whereas the lowest level of expression was observed in proestrus females. CFA-induced inflammatory pain produced thermal hyperalgesia in both males and females that was significantly reversed in males with a microinjection of morphine into the ventrolateral PAG; this effect was significantly greater than that observed in proestrus and estrus females. Selective lesions of MOR-expressing neurons in the ventrolateral PAG resulted in a significant reduction in the effects of systemic morphine in males only, and this reduction was positively correlated with the level of MOR expression in the ventrolateral PAG. Together, these results provide a mechanism for sex differences in morphine potency.
Recent theory and data suggest that adaptive use of learning in the context of sexual behaviour could contribute to assortative mating. Experiments examining this issue indicated that male Drosophila persimilis that experienced courtship and rejection by heterospecific females exhibited significantly lower levels of heterospecific courtship and mating compared with those of inexperienced males. These results indicate that experience in the context of sexual behaviour in fruit flies could reduce gene flow between diverging populations, which may contribute to incipient speciation.

Given the importance of auditory feedback in vocal production, how can deaf individuals produce intelligible speech? A new study suggests that somatosensory feedback is the answer and, more generally, offers intriguing insights into the action-oriented nature of sensory representations in the brain.
Why do vertebrates use rods and cones that hyperpolarize, when in insect eyes a single depolarizing photoreceptor can function at all light levels? We answer this question at least in part with a comprehensive assessment of ATP consumption for mammalian rods from voltages and currents and recently published physiological and biochemical data. In darkness, rods consume 10(8) ATP s(-1), about the same as Drosophila photoreceptors. Ion fluxes associated with phototransduction and synaptic transmission dominate; as in CNS, the contribution of enzymes of the second-messenger cascade is surprisingly small. Suppression of rod responses in daylight closes light-gated channels and reduces total energy consumption by &gt;75%, but in Drosophila light opens channels and increases consumption 5-fold. Rods therefore provide an energy-efficient mechanism not present in rhabdomeric photoreceptors. Rods are metabolically less &quot;costly&quot; than cones, because cones do not saturate in bright light and use more ATP s(-1) for transducin activation and rhodopsin phosphorylation. This helps to explain why the vertebrate retina is duplex, and why some diurnal animals like primates have a small number of cones, concentrated in a region of high acuity.
Bilateral damage to the human hippocampus profoundly impairs the ability to form long-term, consciously accessible memories, producing a classic amnesic syndrome. However, the effect of hippocampal damage on our ability to recognize items via a feeling of familiarity is hotly disputed. Dual-process theory predicts no effect, whereas declarative memory theory predicts impairment of all types of recognition memory. Here, we demonstrate a striking material specificity in the effect of focal hippocampal damage: Recognition memory is impaired for words but intact for faces. The latter finding is incompatible with declarative memory theory, whereas the former constrains dual-process theory by revealing the limitations of postulated extrahippocampal familiarity-based processes. We suggest that the hippocampus boosts recognition of well-known stimuli (high-frequency words) by activating pre-experimental associations that enrich the context of their presentation. By contrast, recognition memory for some kinds of previously unfamiliar stimuli (unfamiliar faces) may be supported by extrahippocampal familiarity-based processes, at least over short intervals.
Practice improves discrimination of many basic visual features, such as contrast, orientation, and positional offset. Perceptual learning of many of these tasks is found to be retinal location specific, in that learning transfers little to an untrained retinal location. In most perceptual learning models, this location specificity is interpreted as a pointer to a retinotopic early visual cortical locus of learning. Alternatively, an untested hypothesis is that learning could occur in a central site, but it consists of two separate aspects: learning to discriminate a specific stimulus feature (&quot;feature learning&quot;), and learning to deal with stimulus-nonspecific factors like local noise at the stimulus location (&quot;location learning&quot;). Therefore, learning is not transferable to a new location that has never been location trained. To test this hypothesis, we developed a novel double-training paradigm that employed conventional feature training (e.g., contrast) at one location, and additional training with an irrelevant feature/task (e.g., orientation) at a second location, either simultaneously or at a different time. Our results showed that this additional location training enabled a complete transfer of feature learning (e.g., contrast) to the second location. This finding challenges location specificity and its inferred cortical retinotopy as central concepts to many perceptual-learning models and suggests that perceptual learning involves higher nonretinotopic brain areas that enable location transfer.

How long-term memories are stored is a fundamental question in neuroscience. The first molecular mechanism for long-term memory storage in the brain was recently identified as the persistent action of protein kinase Mzeta (PKMzeta), an autonomously active atypical protein kinase C (PKC) isoform critical for the maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP). PKMzeta maintains aversively conditioned associations, but what general form of information the kinase encodes in the brain is unknown. We first confirmed the specificity of the action of zeta inhibitory peptide (ZIP) by disrupting long-term memory for active place avoidance with chelerythrine, a second inhibitor of PKMzeta activity. We then examined, using ZIP, the effect of PKMzeta inhibition in dorsal hippocampus (DH) and basolateral amygdala (BLA) on retention of 1-d-old information acquired in the radial arm maze, water maze, inhibitory avoidance, and contextual and cued fear conditioning paradigms. In the DH, PKMzeta inhibition selectively disrupted retention of information for spatial reference, but not spatial working memory in the radial arm maze, and precise, but not coarse spatial information in the water maze. Thus retention of accurate spatial, but not procedural and contextual information required PKMzeta activity. Similarly, PKMzeta inhibition in the hippocampus did not affect contextual information after fear conditioning. In contrast, PKMzeta inhibition in the BLA impaired retention of classical conditioned stimulus-unconditioned stimulus (CS-US) associations for both contextual and auditory fear, as well as instrumentally conditioned inhibitory avoidance. PKMzeta inhibition had no effect on postshock freezing, indicating fear expression mediated by the BLA remained intact. Thus, persistent PKMzeta activity is a general mechanism for both appetitively and aversively motivated retention of specific, accurate learned information, but is not required for processing contextual, imprecise, or procedural information.
Whether functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) allows the identification of neural drivers remains an open question of particular importance to refine physiological and neuropsychological models of the brain, and/or to understand neurophysiopathology. Here, in a rat model of absence epilepsy showing spontaneous spike-and-wave discharges originating from the first somatosensory cortex (S1BF), we performed simultaneous electroencephalographic (EEG) and fMRI measurements, and subsequent intracerebral EEG (iEEG) recordings in regions strongly activated in fMRI (S1BF, thalamus, and striatum). fMRI connectivity was determined from fMRI time series directly and from hidden state variables using a measure of Granger causality and Dynamic Causal Modelling that relates synaptic activity to fMRI. fMRI connectivity was compared to directed functional coupling estimated from iEEG using asymmetry in generalised synchronisation metrics. The neural driver of spike-and-wave discharges was estimated in S1BF from iEEG, and from fMRI only when hemodynamic effects were explicitly removed. Functional connectivity analysis applied directly on fMRI signals failed because hemodynamics varied between regions, rendering temporal precedence irrelevant. This paper provides the first experimental substantiation of the theoretical possibility to improve interregional coupling estimation from hidden neural states of fMRI. As such, it has important implications for future studies on brain connectivity using functional neuroimaging.
The arousing and motor-activating effects of psychostimulants are mediated by multiple systems. In Drosophila, dopaminergic transmission is involved in mediating the arousing effects of methamphetamine, although the neuronal mechanisms of caffeine (CAFF)-induced wakefulness remain unexplored. Here, we show that in Drosophila, as in mammals, the wake-promoting effect of CAFF involves both the adenosinergic and dopaminergic systems. By measuring behavioral responses in mutant and transgenic flies exposed to different drug-feeding regimens, we show that CAFF-induced wakefulness requires the Drosophila D1 dopamine receptor (dDA1) in the mushroom bodies. In WT flies, CAFF exposure leads to downregulation of dDA1 expression, whereas the transgenic overexpression of dDA1 leads to CAFF resistance. The wake-promoting effects of methamphetamine require a functional dopamine transporter as well as the dDA1, and they engage brain areas in addition to the mushroom bodies.
Daily routines in animal activities range from sleep-wake cycles, to foraging bouts, to social interactions. Among animals living within groups, it is unclear whether the motivations that underlie social interactions respond to daily light-dark (LD) cycles or endogenous circadian rhythms. Employing two mouse strains (BALB/cJ [BALB] and C57BL/6J [B6]) with genetically based differences in social affect and circadian rhythms, we examined how social investigation (SI) is modulated by social deprivation and circadian factors. We found a genetic influence on SI that was moderated by the preceding duration of social deprivation, requiring 3-6 h of social isolation prior to testing. Following 6h of social deprivation, the SI responses of adolescent B6 mice were greater than those of BALB mice only when the isolation period was imposed during the dark phase of the LD cycle. When B6 mice were weaned into conditions of constant darkness, a novel, endogenous social rhythm emerged, which was characterized by two pronounced peaks of social responsiveness (relative to one peak under LD entrainment) that were separated by 12-h intervals. Irrespective of the lighting conditions during social isolation, the SI responses of adolescent BALB mice did not oscillate across the day. Similar strain-dependent patterns of sociability were evident within groups of mice that were left undisturbed in their home cage under LD entrainment or constant darkness. Overall, genetic influences on the social phenotypes of adolescent mice are thus moderated by an interaction between social deprivation and oscillations of an endogenous social rhythm that entrains to the LD cycle.
Sex differences exist in skilled movement, and skilled motor performance is also influenced by stress. As shown for cognitive function, the effects of stress are usually characterized by considerable sexual dimorphism. The purpose of this study was to investigate sex differences in skilled motor function in response to stress. Male and female Long-Evans rats were trained and tested in skilled reaching and skilled walking tasks. Both groups of animals were then exposed to daily restraint stress for 15 days. Recovery from daily stress was assessed by comparing reaching performance at 10 min versus 60 min after restraint stress, and recovery from chronic stress was tested for 21 days after cessation of stress. Animals were tested daily in skilled reaching for the entire period. Observations showed that females performed significantly better than males during the stress period in terms of reaching success and number of attempts needed to grasp a food pellet. No difference between testing at 10 or 60 min after daily stress was found. Analysis of movement patterns and recovery from stress indicated that males and females use different strategies to overcome stress-induced motor disturbance. While male rats preferred to use original movement patterns, females tended to modify these patterns in order to increase reaching success. Modification of movement patterns in female rats was accompanied by a faster recovery in success rate after the cessation of stress. These results indicate sex differences in skilled reaching in response to stress, and in the recovery period after stress.
High-frequency cortical activity in humans and animals has been linked to a wide variety of higher cognitive processes. This research suggests that specific changes in neuronal synchrony occur during cognitive processing, distinguished by emergence of fast oscillations in the gamma frequency range. To determine whether the development of high-frequency brain oscillations can be related to the development of cognitive abilities, we studied the power spectra of resting EEG in children 16, 24 and 36 months of age. Individual differences in the distribution of frontal gamma power during rest were highly correlated with concurrent language and cognitive skills at all ages. Gamma power was also associated with attention measures; children who were observed as having better inhibitory control and more mature attention shifting abilities had higher gamma power density functions. We included a group of children with a family history of language impairment (FH+) and thus at higher risk for language disorders. FH+ children, as a group, showed consistently lower gamma over frontal regions than the well-matched FH- controls with no such family history (FH-). We suggest that the emergence of high-frequency neural synchrony may be critical for cognitive and linguistic development, and that children at risk for language impairments may lag in this process.
Failure of the ubiquitin-proteasome system to degrade abnormal proteins may underlie the accumulation of alpha-synuclein and dopaminergic neuronal degeneration that occurs in Parkinson's disease. Consequently, a reduction of functional proteasome activity has been implicated in Parkinson's disease. VP025 (Vasogen Inc.) is a preparation of phospholipid nanoparticles incorporating phosphatidylglycerol that has been shown to have neuroprotective effects. We show that VP025 prevents the deficits in motor coordination and dopamine observed in a proteasome inhibitor rat model of PD. Thus, VP025 may have a therapeutic effect on the impairment of dopaminergic-mediated motor activity induced by proteasome inhibition.
Neural responses to a repeated stimulus typically diminish, an effect known as repetition suppression. We here demonstrate what appear to be parallel effects of repetition on subjective duration, even when stimuli are presented too rapidly for explicit temporal judgments. When a brief visual stimulus (e.g., a letter, word, object, or face) was serially flashed in different locations, several stimuli appeared to be present simultaneously due to persistence of vision-we term this the Proliferation Effect. Critically, fewer stimuli were perceived to be simultaneously present when the same stimulus was flashed repeatedly than when a different stimulus was used for each flash, indicating that persistence of vision (and hence subjective duration) shrinks for predictable stimuli. These short-timescale experiments demonstrate that subjective durations are computed at a preconscious and implicit level of processing, thereby changing the temporal interpretation of visual scenes. Further, these findings suggest a new, instant diagnostic test for deficits in repetition suppression, such as those found in schizophrenia.
Conventional approaches to modeling classification image data can be described in terms of a standard linear model (LM). We show how the problem can be characterized as a Generalized Linear Model (GLM) with a Bernoulli distribution. We demonstrate via simulation that this approach is more accurate in estimating the underlying template in the absence of internal noise. With increasing internal noise, however, the advantage of the GLM over the LM decreases and GLM is no more accurate than LM. We then introduce the Generalized Additive Model (GAM), an extension of GLM that can be used to estimate smooth classification images adaptively. We show that this approach is more robust to the presence of internal noise, and finally, we demonstrate that GAM is readily adapted to estimation of higher order (nonlinear) classification images and to testing their significance.
Regional synaptic activity induces local increases in perfusion that are coupled to upstream vasodilation and improved blood flow. In the cerebral circulation, it has been proposed that astrocytes mediate the link between the initiating stimulus and local vasodilation through propagated intracellular calcium waves. In the systemic circulation the mechanism by which local vasodilation triggers upstream alterations in blood flow involves electrotonic propagation of hyperpolarization via endothelial gap junctions, although less is known concerning the cerebral circulation. The present study aimed to investigate the extent of coupling in microvessels of the rodent brainstem and retina and the subtypes of intracellular calcium stores that might mediate astrocytic signaling. Within the brainstem, connexins (Cxs) 37 and 40 were restricted to the endothelium of pial vessels and larger penetrating arterioles, whereas astrocytic Cxs30 and 43 were found closely associated with pre- and postsynaptic neurons and nearby microvessels. Within the rat retina, Cxs37 and 40 were expressed in large radiating arterioles, but were not found in smaller vessels on the retinal surface or in the deeper retinal layers. These Cxs were absent from all retinal vessels in mice. Astrocytes, expressing Cxs30 and 43 in the rat, but only Cx43 in the mouse, were found closely associated with superficial, but not deeper blood vessels. Inositol-trisphosphate receptors (IP(3)R) 1 and 2 were expressed within brainstem astrocytes, whereas IP(3)R1 and 3 were expressed within retinal astrocytes. Limited intravascular coupling and the proximity of astrocytic networks to blood vessels supports a role for glia in activity-dependent alterations in central blood flow.

Kv channel-interacting proteins (KChIPs) are auxiliary subunits of the heteromultimeric channel complexes that underlie neuronal I(SA), the subthreshold transient K(+) current that dynamically regulates membrane excitability, action potential firing properties, and long term potentiation. KChIPs form cytoplasmic associations with the principal pore-forming Kv4 subunits and typically mediate enhanced surface expression and accelerated recovery from depolarization-induced inactivation. An exception is KChIP4a, which dramatically suppresses Kv4 inactivation while promoting neither surface expression nor recovery. These unusual properties are attributed to the effects of a K channel inactivation suppressor domain (KISD) encoded within the variable N terminus of KChIP4a. Here, we have functionally and biochemically characterized two brain KChIP isoforms, KChIP2x and KChIP3x (also known as KChIP3b) and show that they also contain a functional KISD. Like KChIP4a and in contrast with non-KISD-containing KChIPs, both KChIP2x and KChIP3x strongly suppress inactivation and slow activation and inhibit the typical increases in surface expression of Kv4.2 channels. We then examined the properties of the KISD to determine potential mechanisms for its action. Subcellular fractionation shows that KChIP4a, KChIP2x, and KChIP3x are highly associated with the membrane fraction. Fluorescent confocal imaging of enhanced green fluorescent proteins (eGFP) N-terminally fused with KISD in HEK293T cells indicates that KISDs of KChIP4a, KChIP2x, and KChIP3x all autonomously target eGFP to intracellular membranes. Cell surface biotinylation experiments on KChIP4a indicate that the N terminus is exposed extracellularly, consistent with a transmembrane KISD. In summary, KChIP4a, KChIP2x, and KChIP3x comprise a novel class of KChIP isoforms characterized by an unusual transmembrane domain at their N termini that modulates Kv4 channel gating and trafficking.
The dopamine D2S receptor (short isoform) couples to inhibitory Galphai/o proteins to inhibit thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)-stimulated p42/p44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK1/2) phosphorylation in GH4ZR7 rat pituitary cells, consistent with its actions to inhibit prolactin gene transcription and cell proliferation. However, the underlying mechanism is unclear. To identify novel Galphai effectors, yeast two-hybrid screening of a GH4ZR7 cDNA library was done using constitutively active Galphai3-Q204L, and multiple clones of the RasGAP cDNA GAP1(IP4BP)/RASA3 were identified. In yeast mating assay, RASA3 preferentially interacted with activated forms of Galphai/o/z proteins, but not with Galphas. A direct interaction was indicated by in vitro pull-down assay, in which S-His-RASA3 preferentially bound guanosine 5'-O-(gamma-thio)triphosphate-activated Galphai3 and Galphai2 compared with guanosine 5'-O-(beta-thio)diphosphate-inactivated proteins. Similarly, in co-immunoprecipitation studies in HEK-293 cells, FLAG-tagged RASA3 preferentially interacted with activated mutants of Galphai3 and Galphai2 compared with wild type proteins. In GH4ZR7 cells, co-immunoprecipitation studies of endogenous proteins demonstrated a Galphai3-RASA3 complex that was induced upon TRH/D2S receptor co-activation. To address RASA3 function in dopamine D2S receptor-induced inhibition of ERK1/2 activity, endogenous RASA3 protein expression was suppressed (70% knockdown) in GH4ZR7 cells stably transfected with full-length antisense cDNA of RASA3. The selected antisense clones had similar levels of dopamine D2S receptor binding and D2S-induced inhibition of cAMP formation compared with parental GH4ZR7 cells. In these clones, D2S-mediated inhibition of TRH-induced phospho-ERK1/2 was reversed by 70-80% compared with parental GH4ZR7 cells. Our results provide a novel mechanism for dopamine D2S-induced inhibition of ERK1/2 and indicate that RASA3 links Galphai proteins to inhibit Gq-induced Ras/ERK1/2 activation.
X11 and X11-like proteins (X11L) are neuronal adaptor proteins whose association to the cytoplasmic domain of amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP) suppresses the generation of amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) implicated in Alzheimer disease pathogenesis. The amyloidogenic, but not amyloidolytic, metabolism of APP was selectively increased in the brain of mutant mice lacking X11L (Sano, Y., Syuzo-Takabatake, A., Nakaya, T., Saito, Y., Tomita, S., Itohara, S., and Suzuki, T. (2006) J. Biol. Chem. 281, 37853-37860). To reveal the actual role of X11 proteins (X11s) in suppressing amyloidogenic cleavage of APP in vivo, we generated X11 and X11L double knock-out mice and analyzed the metabolism of APP. The mutant mice showed enhanced beta-site cleavage of APP along with increased accumulation of Abeta in brain and increased colocalization of APP with beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme (BACE). In the brains of mice deficient in both X11 and X11L, the apparent relative subcellular distributions of both mature APP and its beta-C-terminal fragment were shifted toward the detergent-resistant membrane (DRM) fraction, an organelle in which BACE is active and both X11s are not nearly found. These results indicate that X11s associate primarily with APP molecules that are outside of DRM, that the dissociation of APP-X11/X11L complexes leads to entry of APP into DRM, and that cleavage of uncomplexed APP by BACE within DRM is enhanced by X11s deficiency. Present results lead to an idea that the dysfunction of X11L in the interaction with APP may recruit more APP into DRM and increase the generation of Abeta even if BACE activity did not increase in brain.
Rewarding properties of opioids are now accepted and widely discussed. These properties can lead to long-term usage of these substances. The main purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of Cuminum cyminum fruit essential oil (FEO) on the acquisition and expression of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in mice. CPP was induced by subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of morphine (5mg/kg) in 3 days conditioning schedule. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of Cumin FEO (0.001%, 0.01%, 0.1%, 0.5%, 1% and 2%; 5 ml/kg) or Tween-80 (0.5%; 5 ml/kg) did not show any conditioning effects. Administration of Cumin FEO (0.001-2%; 5 ml/kg; i.p.), 60 min before test on day 5 (expression) decreased the conditioning scores at the doses of 1% and 2% while i.p. injection of Cumin FEO (0.001-2%; 5 ml/kg), 60 min before morphine injection (5mg/kg; s.c.) during 3 days of conditioning session (acquisition) significantly resulted in decrement of rewarding properties of morphine at the doses of 0.1%, 0.5%, 1% and 2% in dose-dependent manner. Tween-80 as a vehicle did not suppress the acquisition and expression of morphine-induced CPP. The results showed that the C. cyminum fruit essential oil reduces the acquisition and expression of morphine-induced conditioned place preference in mice.
Multiple sclerosis is a currently incurable inflammatory demyelinating syndrome. Recent reports suggest that bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells may have therapeutic potential in experimental models of demyelinating disease, but various alternative mechanisms, ranging from systemic immune effects to local cell replacement, have been proposed. Here we used intraperitoneal delivery of human mesenchymal stem cells to help test (a) whether human cells can indeed suppress disease, and (b) whether CNS infiltration is required for any beneficial effect. We found pronounced amelioration of clinical disease but profoundly little CNS infiltration. Our findings therefore help confirm the therapeutic potential of mesenchymal stem cells, show that this does indeed extend to human cells, and are consistent with a peripheral or systemic immune effect of human MSCs in this model.
We report the existence of an entorhinal cell type that fires when an animal is close to the borders of the proximal environment. The orientation-specific edge-apposing activity of these &quot;border cells&quot; is maintained when the environment is stretched and during testing in enclosures of different size and shape in different rooms. Border cells are relatively sparse, making up less than 10% of the local cell population, but can be found in all layers of the medial entorhinal cortex as well as the adjacent parasubiculum, often intermingled with head-direction cells and grid cells. Border cells may be instrumental in planning trajectories and anchoring grid fields and place fields to a geometric reference frame.

Over the past decade several research groups have taken a renewed interest in the special role of a type of small eye movement, called 'microsaccades', in various visual processes, such as the activation of neurons in the central nervous system, or the prevention of image fading. As the study of microsaccades and their relation to visual processes goes back at least half a century, it seems appropriate to review the more recent reports in light of the history of research on maintained oculomotor fixation, in general, and on microsaccades in particular. Our review shows that there is no compelling evidence to support the view that microsaccades (or, fixation saccades more generally) serve a necessary role in improving oculomotor control or in keeping the visual world visible. The role of the retinal transients produced by small saccades during fixation needs to be evaluated in the context of both the brisk image motions present during active visual tasks performed by freely moving people, as well as the role of selective attention in modulating the strength of signals throughout the visual field.
The detection of electrical potentials across lipid bilayers by specialized membrane proteins is required for many fundamental cellular processes such as the generation and propagation of nerve impulses. These membrane proteins possess modular voltage-sensing domains, a notable example being the S1-S4 domains of voltage-activated ion channels. Ground-breaking structural studies on these domains explain how voltage sensors are designed and reveal important interactions with the surrounding lipid membrane. Although further structures are needed to understand the conformational changes that occur during voltage sensing, the available data help to frame several key concepts that are fundamental to the mechanism of voltage sensing.

Nicotine stimulates the activity of mesolimbic dopamine neurons, which is believed to mediate the rewarding and addictive properties of tobacco use. Accumulating evidence suggests that the endocannabinoid system might play a major role in neuronal mechanisms underlying the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse, including nicotine. Here, we investigated the modulation of nicotine effects by the endocannabinoid system on dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area with electrophysiological techniques in vivo and in vitro. We discovered that pharmacological inhibition of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), the enzyme that catabolizes fatty acid ethanolamides, among which the endocannabinoid anandamide (AEA) is the best known, suppressed nicotine-induced excitation of dopamine cells. Importantly, this effect was mimicked by the administration of the FAAH substrates oleoylethanolamide (OEA) and palmitoylethanolamide (PEA), but not methanandamide, the hydrolysis resistant analog of AEA. OEA and PEA are naturally occurring lipid signaling molecules structurally related to AEA, but devoid of affinity for cannabinoid receptors. They blocked the effects of nicotine by activation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPAR-alpha), a nuclear receptor transcription factor involved in several aspects of lipid metabolism and energy balance. Activation of PPAR-alpha triggered a nongenomic stimulation of tyrosine kinases, which might lead to phosphorylation and negative regulation of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. These data indicate for the first time that the anorexic lipids OEA and PEA possess neuromodulatory properties as endogenous ligands of PPAR-alpha in the brain and provide a potential new target for the treatment of nicotine addiction.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play important roles in innate immunity. Several TLR family members have recently been shown to be expressed by neurons and glial cells in the adult brain, and may mediate responses of these cells to injury and infection. To address the possibility that TLRs play a functional role in development of the nervous system, we analyzed the expression of TLRs during different stages of mouse brain development and assessed the role of TLRs in cell proliferation. TLR3 protein is present in brain cells in early embryonic stages of development, and in cultured neural stem/progenitor cells (NPC). NPC from TLR3-deficient embryos formed greater numbers of neurospheres compared with neurospheres from wild-type embryos. Numbers of proliferating cells, as assessed by phospho histone H3 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen labeling, were also increased in the developing cortex of TLR3-deficient mice compared with wild-type mice in vivo. Treatment of cultured embryonic cortical neurospheres with a TLR3 ligand (polyIC) significantly reduced proliferating (BrdU-labeled) cells and neurosphere formation in wild type but not TLR3(-/-)-derived NPCs. Our findings reveal a novel role for TLR3 in the negative regulation of NPC proliferation in the developing brain.
Survival and death of photoreceptors in degenerative diseases of the retina is controlled by a multitude of genes and endogenous factors. Some genes may be involved in the degenerative process itself whereas others may be part of an endogenous defense system. We show in two models of retinal degeneration that photoreceptor death strongly induces expression of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) in a subset of Muller glia cells in the inner nuclear layer of the retina. LIF expression is essential to induce an extensive intraretinal signaling system which includes Muller cells and photoreceptors and is characterized by an upregulation of Edn2, STAT3, FGF2 and GFAP. In the absence of LIF, Muller cells remain quiescent, the signaling system is not activated and retinal degeneration is strongly accelerated. Intravitreal application of recombinant LIF induces the full molecular pathway including the activation of Muller cells in wild-type and Lif(-/-) mice. Interruption of the signaling cascade by an Edn2 receptor antagonist increases whereas activation of the receptor decreases photoreceptor cell death. Thus, LIF is essential and sufficient to activate an extensive molecular defense response to photoreceptor injury. Our data establish LIF as a Muller cell derived neuronal survival factor which controls an intrinsic protective mechanism that includes Edn2 signaling to support photoreceptor cell survival and to preserve vision in the injured retina.
Electrophysiological studies have long demonstrated a high degree of correlated activity between the left and right hemispheres, however little is known about regional variation in this interhemispheric coordination. Whereas cognitive models and neuroanatomical evidence suggest differences in coordination across primary sensory-motor cortices versus higher-order association areas, these have not been characterized. Here, we used resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data acquired from 62 healthy volunteers to examine interregional correlation in spontaneous low-frequency hemodynamic fluctuations. Using a probabilistic atlas, we correlated probability-weighted time series from 112 regions comprising the entire cerebrum. We then examined regional variation in correlated activity between homotopic regions, contrasting primary sensory-motor cortices, unimodal association areas, and heteromodal association areas. Consistent with previous studies, robustly correlated spontaneous activity was noted between all homotopic regions, which was significantly higher than that between nonhomotopic (heterotopic and intrahemispheric) regions. We further demonstrated substantial regional variation in homotopic interhemispheric correlations that was highly consistent across subjects. Specifically, there was a gradient of interhemispheric correlation, with highest correlations across primary sensory-motor cortices (0.758, SD=0.152), significantly lower correlations across unimodal association areas (0.597, SD=0.230) and still lower correlations across heteromodal association areas (0.517, SD=0.226). These results demonstrate functional differences in interhemispheric coordination related to the brain's hierarchical subdivisions. Synchrony across primary cortices may reflect networks engaged in bilateral sensory integration and motor coordination, whereas lower coordination across heteromodal association areas is consistent with functional lateralization of these regions. This novel method of examining interhemispheric coordination may yield insights regarding diverse disease processes as well as healthy development.
Acid-sensing ion channel-1a (ASIC1a) contributes to multiple fear behaviors, however the site of ASIC1a action in behavior is not known. To explore a specific location of ASIC1a action, we expressed ASIC1a in the basolateral amygdala of ASIC1a-/- mice using viral vector-mediated gene transfer. This rescued context-dependent fear memory, but not the freezing deficit during training or the unconditioned fear response to predator odor. These data pinpoint the basolateral amygdala as the site where ASIC1a contributes to fear memory. They also discriminate fear memory from fear expressed during training and from unconditioned fear. Furthermore, this work illustrates a strategy for identifying discrete brain regions where specific genes contribute to complex behaviors.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the human brain has provided much information about visual cortex. These insights hinge on researchers' ability to identify cortical areas based on stimulus selectivity and retinotopic mapping. However, border identification around regions of interest or between retinotopic maps is often performed without characterizing the degree of certainty associated with the location of these key features; ideally, assertions about the location of boundaries would have an associated spatial confidence interval. We describe an approach that allows researchers to transform estimates of error in the intensive dimension (i.e., activation of voxels) to the spatial dimension (i.e., the location of features evident in patterns across voxels). We implement the approach by bootstrapping, with applications to: (1) the location of human MT+ and (2) the location of the V1/V2 boundary. The transformation of intensive to spatial error furnishes graphical, intuitive characterizations of spatial uncertainty akin to error bars on the borders of visual areas, instead of the conventional practice of computing and thresholding p-values for voxels. This approach provides a general, unbiased arena for evaluating: (1) competing conceptions of visual area organization; (2) analysis technique efficacy; and (3) data quality.

5-HT4 agonists are currently being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and have previously been demonstrated to improve cognitive performance in a variety of tests but none that specifically test attention. Here we characterise the 5-HT4 partial agonist SL65.0155 compared to the reference drug, nicotine, in a test that is used to measure attention in rats, the five-choice serial reaction time task (5CSRTT). SL65.0155 (0.1 or 1 mg/kg s.c) and nicotine (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) were tested in protocols using fixed or variable stimulus durations. SL65.0155 improved performance by virtue of reducing incorrect responses and increasing % correct trials. Perseverative responses were reduced by SL65.0155, and latency during incorrect trials was increased following treatment with 0.1 mg/kg SL65.0155. Nicotine, as previously reported, improved performance in several parameters in the 5CSRTT, including response latencies, errors of omission and correct responses in both the baseline and variable stimulus protocol. These data suggest 5-HT4 agonists may have beneficial effects on attention and thereby may be useful for the treatment of cognitive deficits.
Animal studies and pharmacological studies in man have suggested that the serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptor may serve as a biomarker for cognitive functioning and a target for treatment of cognitive impairment. Consistent findings in man have nonetheless hitherto remained sparse. Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of the 5-HT(1A) receptor in patients with Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and depression implicate an alteration in 5-HT(1A) receptor binding compared to control subjects, but it is yet unknown whether these alterations are related to the cognitive impairment associated with these disorders. Pharmacological challenge studies using 5-HT(1A) agonism and antagonism to manipulate the serotonin system support involvement of the 5-HT(1A) receptor in human cognition, mainly in verbal memory functioning. However, the effect varies across studies and it remains unclear if the 5-HT(1A) receptor serves as a validated target for treatment of cognitive deficits. This lack of confirmation of experimental preclinical data, calls for increased efforts in translational research. Molecular imaging techniques such as PET, holds the potential to facilitate translational neuroscience by confirming observations from animal models in man, and aid development of validated animal models of use for advancement of pharmacological treatment. Furthermore, in combination with molecular genetics, molecular imaging may suggest novel strategies for prevention and intervention, based on an understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in disease pathogenesis of major neuropsychiatric disorder and associated cognitive impairment.
Cholinergic systems were linked to cognitive processes like attention and memory. Other neurotransmitter systems having minor influence on cognitive functions - as shown by the weakness of the effects of their selective lesions - modulate cholinergic functions. The serotonergic system is such a system. Conjoined functional changes in cholinergic and serotonergic systems may have marked cognitive consequences [Cassel JC, Jeltsch H. Serotoninergic modulation of cholinergic function in the central nervous system: cognitive implications. Neuroscience 1995;69(1):1-41; Steckler T, Sahgal A. The role of serotoninergic-cholinergic interactions in the mediation of cognitive behaviour. Behav Brain Res 1995;67:165-99]. A crucial issue in that concern is the identification of the neuroanatomical and neuropharmacological substrates where functional effects of serotonergic/cholinergic interactions originate. Approaches relying on lesions and intracerebral cell grafting, on systemic drug-cocktail injections, or even on intracerebral drug infusions represent the main avenues on which our knowledge about the role of serotonergic/cholinergic interactions has progressed. The present review will visit some of these avenues and discuss their contribution to what is currently known on the potential or established implication(s) into memory functions of serotonergic/cholinergic interactions. It will then focus on a brain region and a neuropharmacological substrate that have been poorly studied as regards serotonergic modulation of memory functions, namely the medial septum and its 5-HT(1A) receptors. Based on recent findings of our laboratory, we suggest that these receptors, located on both cholinergic and GABAergic septal neurons, take part in a mechanism that controls encoding, to some extent consolidation, but not retrieval, of hippocampal-dependent memories. This control, however, does not occur by the way of an exclusive action of serotonin on cholinergic neurons.
The ascending serotonin (5-HT) neurons innervate the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, septum and amygdala, all representing brain regions associated with various domains of cognition. The 5-HT innervation is diffuse and extensively arborized with few synaptic contacts, which indicates that 5-HT can affect a large number of neurons in a paracrine mode. Serotonin signaling is mediated by 14 receptor subtypes with different functional and transductional properties. The 5-HT(1A) subtype is of particular interest, since it is one of the main mediators of the action of 5-HT. Moreover, the 5-HT(1A) receptor regulates the activity of 5-HT neurons via autoreceptors, and it regulates the function of several neurotransmitter systems via postsynaptic receptors (heteroreceptors). This review assesses the pharmacological and genetic evidence that implicates the 5-HT(1A) receptor in learning and memory. The 5-HT(1A) receptors are in the position to influence the activity of glutamatergic, cholinergic and possibly GABAergic neurons in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and in the septohippocampal projection, thereby affecting declarative and non-declarative memory functions. Moreover, the 5-HT(1A) receptor regulates several transduction mechanisms such as kinases and immediate early genes implicated in memory formation. Based on studies in rodents the stimulation of 5-HT(1A) receptors generally produces learning impairments by interfering with memory-encoding mechanisms. In contrast, antagonists of 5-HT(1A) receptors facilitate certain types of memory by enhancing hippocampal/cortical cholinergic and/or glutamatergic neurotransmission. Some data also support a potential role for the 5-HT(1A) receptor in memory consolidation. Available results also implicate the 5-HT(1A) receptor in the retrieval of aversive or emotional memories, supporting an involvement in reconsolidation. The contribution of 5-HT(1A) receptors in cognitive impairments in various psychiatric disorders is still unclear. However, there is evidence that 5-HT(1A) receptors may play differential roles in normal brain function and in psychopathological states. Taken together, the evidence indicates that the 5-HT(1A) receptor is a target for novel therapeutic advances in several neuropsychiatric disorders characterized by various cognitive deficits.
The indolamine, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine-5-HT) was identified and initially characterized around the middle of the twentieth century and it is now known to participate in multiple physiologic processes in mammalians. As a neurotransmitter, 5-HT is well documented to play a significant role in the pathophysiology and treatment of a variety of psychiatric disorders including anxiety, depression, and schizophrenia. In addition, there is also some evidence to suggest that 5-HT function in the brain may be important (particularly in the behavioral disturbances) in various forms of dementia including Alzheimer's disease. While 5-HT is undoubtedly involved in cognitive function, its role in specific domains of cognition (attention, learning, and memory, etc.) is poorly understood. This understanding has been impeded to some extent by the many complex interactions between 5-HT neurons and other neuronal phenotypes, 5-HT receptor heterogeneity, and the conflicting results of some behavioral experiments in animals conducted to date. Through the combined use of modern molecular biology, transgenic animal models, and other more traditional research methods such as medicinal chemistry and classical pharmacology, a clearer picture of the role of serotonin and its receptor subtypes in mnemonic processes is beginning to emerge, however. Considerable data now support the argument that selective ligands at specific 5-HT receptor subtypes can serve as therapeutic agents designed to enhance cognitive function in psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia as well as age-related neurodegenerative illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this review is to provide a brief overview of these therapeutic targets within the 5-HT system and the pharmacologic approaches (including the most recently developed compounds) designed to enhance memory function.
Brain tumour stem cells (BTSCs) are a small population of cells that has self-renewal, transplantation, multidrug resistance and recurrence properties, thus remain novel therapeutic target for brain tumour. Recent studies have shown that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) agonists induce growth arrest and apoptosis in glioblastoma cells, but their effects on BTSCs are largely unknown. In this study, we generated gliospheres with more than 50% CD133+ BTSC by culturing U87MG and T98G human glioblastoma cells with epidermal growth factor (EGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). In vitro treatment with PPARgamma agonist, 15-Deoxy-Delta(12,14)-Prostaglandin J(2) (15d-PGJ2) or all-trans retinoic acid resulted in a reversible inhibition of gliosphere formation in culture. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma agonists inhibited the proliferation and expansion of glioma and gliosphere cells in a dose-dependent manner. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma agonists also induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in association with the inhibition of EGF/bFGF signalling through Tyk2-Stat3 pathway and expression of PPARgamma in gliosphere cells. These findings demonstrate that PPARgamma agonists regulate growth and expansion of BTSCs and extend their use to target BTSCs in the treatment of brain tumour.
Orexin/hypocretin neurons of the lateral hypothalamus/perifornical area project to a diverse array of brain regions and are responsive to a variety of psychostimulant drugs. It has been shown that orexin neurons are activated by systemic nicotine administration suggesting a possible orexinergic contribution to the effects of this drug on arousal and cognitive function. The basal forebrain and paraventricular nucleus of the dorsal thalamus (PVT) both receive orexin inputs and have been implicated in arousal, attention and psychostimulant drug responses. However, it is unknown whether orexin inputs to these areas are activated by psychostimulant drugs such as nicotine. Here, we infused the retrograde tract tracer cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) into either the basal forebrain or PVT of adult male rats. Seven to 10 days later, animals received an acute systemic administration of (-) nicotine hydrogen tartrate or vehicle and were euthanized 2h later. Triple-label immunohistochemistry/immunofluorescence was used to detect Fos expression in retrogradely-labeled orexin neurons. Nicotine increased Fos expression in orexin neurons projecting to both basal forebrain and PVT. The relative activation in lateral and medial banks of retrogradely-labeled orexin neurons was similar following basal forebrain CTb deposits, but was more pronounced in the medial bank following PVT deposits of CTb. Our findings suggest that orexin inputs to the basal forebrain and PVT may contribute to nicotine effects on arousal and cognition and provide further support for the existence of functional heterogeneity across the medial-lateral distribution of orexin neurons.

neuromancer/Tbx20 (nmr) genes are cardiac T-box transcription factors that are evolutionarily conserved from flies to humans. Along with other known congenital heart disease genes, including tinman/Nkx2-5, dorsocross/Tbx5/6, and pannier/Gata4/6, they are important for specification and morphogenesis of the embryonic heart. The Drosophila heart has proven to be an excellent model to study genes involved in establishing and maintaining the structural integrity of the adult heart, as well as genes involved in maintaining physiological function. Using this model, we have identified nmr as a gene required in adult fly hearts for the maintenance of both normal myofibrillar architecture and cardiac physiology. Moreover, we have discovered synergistic interactions between nmr and other cardiac transcription factors, including tinman/Nkx2-5, in regulating cardiac performance, rhythmicity, and cardiomyocyte structure, reminiscent of similar interactions in mice. This suggests a remarkably conserved role for this network of cardiac transcription factors in the genetic control of the adult heart. In addition, nmr-tinman interactions also influence the expression of potential downstream effectors, such as ion channels. Interestingly, genetic screening of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and congenital heart disease has revealed TBX20 variants in three sporadic and two familial cases that were not found in controls. These findings suggest that the fly heart might serve as an identifier of candidate genes involved in human heart disease.
Treatment of neuropathic pain is a major clinical problem. This study shows expression of phospholipase ss3 (PLCss3) in mouse and human DRG neurons, mainly in small ones and mostly with a nonpeptidergic phenotype. After spared nerve injury, the pain threshold was strongly reduced, and systemic treatment of such animals with the unselective PLC inhibitor U73122 caused a rapid and long-lasting (48-h) increase in pain threshold. Thus, inhibition of PLC may provide a way to treat neuropathic pain.
The microchemical environment of neuromelanin (NM) in whole neurons from formalin fixed and paraffin embedded human substantia nigra sections were characterized using synchrotron chemical X-ray microscopy. Concentrations of NM-associated elements increased in the developing brain; the highest levels of most elements were found in the mature brain but the temporal pattern of the accumulation of different elements varied. High spatial resolution investigations, using a unique hard X-ray nanoprobe, revealed iron-rich microdomains colocalized with other elements within the pigment. These microdomains represent the first visualization of a structure regulating the metal-binding properties of NM and supporting a physiological role for NM in the regulation of functionally important elements in pigmented neurons. Our results demonstrate that the local chemical environment of iron in NM is similar to that found in ferritin and points to a possible role of iron in NM biosynthesis. Intracellular speciation of sulfur contained in NM revealed the presence of reduced sulfur compounds and various forms of oxidized sulfur compounds which have not previously been reported. Further, a significant increase in sulfonate in NM in the mature brain suggests that in vivo metabolism of the pigment via an as yet unidentified pathway occurs. The current data add to our understanding of the development and regulation of NM in the human brain.

Rhes is one of several signaling molecules preferentially expressed in the striatum. This GTP-binding protein affects dopamine-mediated signaling and behavior. Denervating the striatum of its dopaminergic inputs in adulthood reduces rhes mRNA expression. Here we show that dopamine depletion in adult rats by 6-hydroxydopamine caused a significant decrease in striatal Rhes protein levels as measured by Western blotting. The role of dopamine input on rhes mRNA induction during ontogeny was also examined. Rhes mRNA was measured on postnatal days 4, 6, 8, 10, 15, and 24 with in situ hybridization to determine its normal ontogeny. Signal in striatum was detectable, but very low, on postnatal day 4 and increased gradually to peak levels at days 15 and 24. Outside of the striatum, rhes mRNA was expressed at high levels in hippocampus and cerebellum during the postnatal period. Hippocampal signal was initially highest in CA3 and dentate gyrus, but shifted to higher expression in CA1 by the late postnatal period. Several other nuclei showed low levels of rhes mRNA during ontogeny. Depletion of dopamine by 6-hydroxydopamine injection on postnatal day 4 did not affect the ontogenetic development of rhes mRNA, such that expression did not differ statistically in lesioned versus vehicle-treated animals tested in adulthood. These findings suggest that although dopamine input is not necessary for the ontogenetic development of rhes mRNA expression, changes in both rhes mRNA and Rhes protein are integral components of the response of the adult striatum to dopamine depletion.
Previous studies have shown that a saccade is coded in a specific reference frame according to its goal: to aim for a new object or to explore an object which has already been fixated. In a two saccade sequence, the second saccade aiming for a new object is programmed in a retinocentric reference frame in which the spatial location of the second object is stored in spatial memory before the first saccade and updated after its execution. The second saccade exploring the same object is coded in an oculocentric reference frame in which object size is directly transformed into a fixed motor vector, encoded in motor memory before the first saccade and simply applied after its execution. The integration of parafoveal visual information appears to be crucial in the selection of the appropriate reference frame. The two experiments presented here investigate how and when the saccadic system integrates visual information to plan a sequence of saccades. In separate blocks, subjects were asked to execute a sequence of prosaccades directed toward a single object or two short objects, or to execute a sequence of antisaccades in the opposite direction of the stimuli. The latency of the initial saccade was modulated by using the Gap-200, Gap-0 and Overlap-600 ms paradigms. The results show that the time available for segmenting the visual stimulation into discrete objects and application of a specific reference frame according to this segmentation is critical for saccadic planning.
Intrauterine morphine exposure is a risk factor for neurological and behavioral deficit in children, although the precise underlying biological correlate for this is unclear. Female pregnant rats were orally treated with 0.1 mg/ml of morphine solution on the 21st day of gestation. Pregnant rats were killed on the 21st day of gestation and their fetuses were taken out and evaluated for growth and cerebral development. The fetuses were fixed and followed by dehydration through graded ethanol solutions and were then embedded and their heads were coronally sectioned through the frontal cerebral cortex. Quantitative computer-assisted morphometric study was done on the frontal cerebral cortex (FCC) which consists of cortical plate (CP), intermediate (migratory) zone (IZ) and matrix (proliferative) zone (MZ) in the rat embryos. The results showed that morphine exposure caused a significant reduction of fetal weight and crown-to-rump length in morphine exposure group. The present study showed that animals with intrauterine morphine exposure, induced by a period of reduced placental blood flow during the second week of pregnancy, demonstrate reduced both cortical thickness and the numbers of neurons in the developing fetal frontal cerebral cortex (FCC). Histomorphometric evaluation revealed that the thickness of the CP was significantly decreased in the morphine-exposed embryos. In addition, neuronal counting showed that cell proliferation in the CP was suppressed after morphine administration and that the migration of neurons from the matrix zone (MZ) to the cortex was decelerated. In conclusion, these results showed that morphine exposure during the second week of pregnancy could affect brain development in a way, which could lead to neurological and behavioral deficits in the postnatal animal.
The cannabinoid receptor one (CB1) is prevalent in the brains of many species. Receptor binding, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical surveys have described the distribution of this receptor in a limited number of species. The current study used in situ hybridization to examine the expression of CB1 mRNA in the chick brain, a non-mammalian vertebrate. The results were compared to the observed patterns of expression for CB1 mRNA, protein, and agonist binding that have been reported for other avian species and mammals. Importantly, since CB1 receptors are typically located on neuronal terminals, comparison of the somatic mRNA expression with previously reported descriptions of the location of functional receptors, allows speculation about the circuits that make use of these receptors. The expression pattern for CB1 mRNA appears to be highly conserved across species in key areas such as the cerebellum and portions of the forebrain. For example, high levels of expression were observed in the avian amygdala and hippocampus, areas which express high levels of CB1 in mammals. The avian substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area, however, showed specific labeling. This finding is in stark contrast to the high levels of receptor binding or CB1 protein, but not CB1 mRNA in these areas of the mammalian brain. Moderate labeling was also seen throughout the hyperpallium and mesopallium. Throughout the brain, a number of regions that are known to be involved in visual processing displayed high levels of expression. For example, the tectum also had strong mRNA expression within layers 9-11 of the stratum griseum et fibrosum superficale and stratum album centrale.
The extensive molecular genetic heterogeneity seen with inherited eye disease is a major barrier to the development of gene-based therapeutics. The underlying molecular pathology in a considerable proportion of these diseases however are nonsense mutations leading to premature termination codons. A therapeutic intervention targeted at this abnormality would therefore potentially be relevant to a wide range of inherited eye diseases. We have taken advantage of the ability of aminoglycoside drugs to suppress such nonsense mutations and partially restore full-length, functional protein in a zebrafish model of choroideraemia (chm(ru848); juvenile chorio-retinal degeneration) and in two models of ocular coloboma (noi(tu29a) and gup(m189); congenital optic fissure closure defects). In vitro cell-based assays showed significant readthrough with two drugs, gentamicin and paromomycin, which was confirmed by western blot and in vitro prenylation assays. The presence of either aminoglycoside during zebrafish development in vivo showed remarkable prevention of mutant ocular phenotypes in each model and a reduction in multisystemic defects leading to a 1.5-1.7-fold increase in survival. We also identified a significant reduction in abnormal cell death shown by TUNEL assay. To test the hypothesis that optic fissure closure was apoptosis-dependent, the anti-apoptotic agents, curcumin and zVAD-fmk, were tested in gup(m189) embryos. Both drugs were found to reduce the size of the coloboma, providing molecular evidence that cell death is required for optic fissure remodelling. These findings draw attention to the value of zebrafish models of eye disease as useful preclinical drug screening tools in studies to identify molecular mechanisms amenable to therapeutic intervention.
Postsynaptic density 95 (PSD-95) is an important regulator of synaptic structure and plasticity. However, its contribution to synapse formation and organization remains unclear. Using a combined electron microscopic, genetic, and pharmacological approach, we uncover a new mechanism through which PSD-95 regulates synaptogenesis. We find that PSD-95 overexpression affected spine morphology but also promoted the formation of multiinnervated spines (MISs) contacted by up to seven presynaptic terminals. The formation of multiple contacts was specifically prevented by deletion of the PDZ(2) domain of PSD-95, which interacts with nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS). Similarly, PSD-95 overexpression combined with small interfering RNA-mediated down-regulation or the pharmacological blockade of NOS prevented axon differentiation into varicosities and multisynapse formation. Conversely, treatment of hippocampal slices with an NO donor or cyclic guanosine monophosphate analogue induced MISs. NOS blockade also reduced spine and synapse density in developing hippocampal cultures. These results indicate that the postsynaptic site, through an NOS-PSD-95 interaction and NO signaling, promotes synapse formation with nearby axons.
Neurons have high densities of voltage-gated Na(+) channels that are restricted to axon initial segments and nodes of Ranvier, where they are responsible for initiating and propagating action potentials. New findings (Brchet, A., M.-P. Fache, A. Brachet, G. Ferracci, A. Baude, M. Irondelle, S. Pereira, C. Leterrier, and B. Dargent. 2008. J. Cell Biol. 183:1101-1114) reveal that phosphorylation of several key serine residues by the protein kinase CK2 regulates Na(+) channel interactions with ankyrin G. The presence of CK2 at the axon initial segment and nodes of Ranvier provides a mechanism to regulate the specific accumulation and retention of Na(+) channels within these important domains.
A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric method has been developed for measurement of N-acetylaspartate, N-acetylaspartylglutamate and glutamate. The analytes were separated within 5 min using an anion exchange/reverse phase column. The lower limit of quantification for Glu, NAA and NAAG was found to be 5, 50 and 6 nM, respectively, with a signal-to-noise ratio of 5:1. Using this methodology the basal levels of Glu, NAA and NAAG could be measured consistently in in vitro superfusion samples from rat hippocampus. The assay was also used for measurement of the distribution of Glu, NAA and NAAG in different regions of the rat brain.
Recent evidence has been accumulating that the sleep of individuals with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is not only disrupted in a nonspecific way but that ADHD has an increased association with simple sleep related movement disorders such as restless legs syndrome/periodic limb movements in sleep (RLS/PLMS), rhythmic movement disorder (body rocking and head banging), and parasomnias, such as disorders of partial arousal (sleep walking, sleep terrors, and confusional arousals). In addition increased associations have been reported between ADHD and hypersomnias such as narcolepsy and sleep apnea as well as circadian rhythm disorders, such as delayed sleep phase syndrome. These relationships are reviewed and the implications for such associations are explored. Patients with sleep disorders should be queried about the symptoms of ADHD and vice versa.
An 11 year-old-boy acutely developed complex visual and acoustic hallucinations. Hallucinations, consisting of visions of a threatening, evil character of the Harry Potter saga, persisted for 3 days. Neurological and psychiatric examinations were normal. Ictal EEG was negative. MRI documented 3 small areas of hyperintense signal in the brainstem, along the paramedian and lateral portions of pontine tegmentum, one of which showed post-contrast enhancement. These lesions were likely of inflammatory origin, and treatment with immunoglobulins was started. Polysomnography was normal, multiple sleep latency test showed a mean sleep latency of 8 minutes, with one sleep-onset REM period. The pontine tegmentum is responsible for REM sleep regulation, and contains definite &quot;REM-on&quot; and &quot;REM-off&quot; regions. The anatomical distribution of the lesions permits us to hypothesize that hallucinations in this boy were consequent to a transient impairment of REM sleep inhibitory mechanisms, with the appearance of dream-like hallucinations during wake.
Microglia plays an important role in mediating neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Intervention in microglia activation may exert a neuroprotective effect. In the present study, we reported that oligomeric Abeta1-42 dramatically increased the level of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta compared to monomeric and fibrillar Abeta1-42 in rat microglial cultures. Pretreatment of the cultures with triptolide, an anti-inflammatory reagent, alleviated the elevation of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta level induced by oligomeric Abeta1-42. Our results showed that oligomeric Abeta played an important role in mediating neuroinflammation and triptolide was able to suppress the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines from microglia.
Not all patients with clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) suggestive of multiple sclerosis (MS) develop clinically defined MS (CDMS). At first clinical event we observed increased production of IL17, IFNgamma and IL10 by peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with CIS that remained high in remission. In CD4+ T cells pSTAT3 expression was higher in patients who subsequently converted to CDMS than in patients who did not and controls. The persistency of high levels of pSTAT3 in circulating CD4+ T cells from CIS patients after the first clinical event may favor the early conversion to CDMS.
Transient global cerebral ischemia elicits a nearly total neuronal cell death in the hippocampal CA1 sector, accompanied by a marked microglial and astroglial proliferation. The molecular mechanisms regulating the postischemic glial reaction in the primate brain remain obscure. Here we present in situ evidence that proliferating postischemic microglia in adult monkey CA1 sector express the neurotrophin receptor TrkA, while activated astrocytes were labeled for the TrkA ligand nerve growth factor (NGF) and the tyrosine kinase TrkB, a receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). These results implicate NGF and BDNF as regulators of postischemic glial proliferation in adult primate hippocampus.
High-fat feeding in rodents leads to metabolic abnormalities mimicking the human metabolic syndrome, including obesity and insulin resistance. These metabolic diseases are associated with altered temporal organization of many physiological functions. The master circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei controls most physiological functions and metabolic processes. Furthermore, under certain conditions of feeding (hypocaloric diet), metabolic cues are capable of altering the suprachiasmatic clock's responses to light. To determine whether high-fat feeding (hypercaloric diet) can also affect resetting properties of the suprachiasmatic clock, we investigated photic synchronization in mice fed a high-fat or chow (low-fat) diet for 3 months, using wheel-running activity and body temperature rhythms as daily phase markers (i.e. suprachiasmatic clock's hands). Compared with the control diet, mice fed with the high-fat diet exhibited increased body mass index, hyperleptinaemia, higher blood glucose, and increased insulinaemia. Concomitantly, high-fat feeding led to impaired adjustment to local time by photic resetting. At the behavioural and physiological levels, these alterations include slower rate of re-entrainment of behavioural and body temperature rhythms after 'jet-lag' test (6 h advanced light-dark cycle) and reduced phase-advancing responses to light. At a molecular level, light-induced phase shifts have been correlated, within suprachiasmatic cells, with a high induction of c-FOS, the protein product of immediate early gene c-fos, and phosphorylation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases I/II (P-ERK). In mice fed a high-fat diet, photic induction of both c-FOS and P-ERK in the suprachiasmatic nuclei was markedly reduced. Taken together, the present data demonstrate that high-fat feeding modifies circadian synchronization to light.
Orthostatic tremor (OT) is a disabling movement disorder associated with postural and gait impairment in the elderly. Medical therapy often yields insufficient benefit. We report the clinical and electrophysiological data on two patients with medication-refractory OT treated with deep brain stimulation of the ventral intermediate thalamic nucleus (Vim DBS). Patient 1 underwent bilateral deep brain stimulation (DBS) and Patient 2 unilateral Vim DBS following 28 and 30 years of disease duration, respectively. Both patients showed increased latency to symptom onset after rising from a seated position, improved tolerance for prolonged standing, and slower crescendo of tremor severity when remaining upright. Postoperative evaluation demonstrated decreased amplitude of electromyographic activity with persistence of well-defined oscillatory behavior showing strong coherence at 15 Hz between all muscles tested in the upper and lower limbs. Postural sway was unchanged. Clinical benefits have been sustained for over 18 months in Patient 1, and receded after 3 months in Patient 2. These findings support the consideration of bilateral Vim DBS implantation as a therapeutic option in patients with medically refractory OT. Further efficacy studies on chronic stimulation to disrupt the abnormal oscillatory activity in this disorder are warranted.
Testosterone (T) mediates aggression in a wide range of species. In some species, however, aggressive behavior persists or increases during the non-breeding season when T levels are relatively low. Animals that do not display a positive correlation between aggression and gonadal steroids suggest the need for further investigation of alternative neuroendocrine mechanisms mediating seasonal aggression. Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) are an ideal study system because they display increased territorial aggression during the non-breeding season which may be independent of circulating T levels. The goals of the present study were to: 1) explore the role of T in the aggression of reproductive males, and 2) test the hypothesis that the adrenal steroid dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) acts as an endocrine regulator of seasonal aggression. In Experiment 1, individuals were housed in long day (breeding) photoperiod and received castrations, exogenous T capsules or both manipulations. In Experiment 2, animals were housed in either long or short days (non-breeding) photoperiod and received DHEA or empty capsules. In both experiments, serum hormone levels and aggressive behavior were assessed. In Experiment 1, castration did not reduce aggression whereas exogenous T actually inhibited aggressive behavior. In Experiment 2, short-day individuals were more aggressive than long-day animals but DHEA treatment did not affect aggressive behavior, regardless of photoperiod. The present study supports the hypothesis that circulating gonadal steroids are not necessary to activate aggressive behavior in adult male hamsters. Further, seasonal changes in territorial aggression appear independent of circulating levels of DHEA in Siberian hamsters.
The underlying mechanism of short-term memory improvement after inhibition of specific phosphodiesterases (PDEs) is still poorly understood. The present study aimed to reveal the ability of PDE5 and PDE2 inhibitors, that increase cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) and both cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cGMP, respectively, to reverse an object recognition deficit induced by acute tryptophan depletion. Acute tryptophan depletion is a pharmacological challenge tool to lower central serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) levels by depleting the availability of its dietary precursor tryptophan. Short-term object memory was tested in male Wistar rats by exposing them to the object recognition task. First, the effects of acute tryptophan depletion upon object recognition 2 h after administration of the nutritional mixture were established. Subsequently, acute tryptophan depletion was combined with the PDE5 inhibitor vardenafil (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg) or with the PDE2 inhibitor BAY 60-7550 (0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg), 30 min prior to testing. Acute tryptophan depletion significantly lowered plasma tryptophan levels and impaired object recognition performance. Vardenafil (3 and 10 mg/kg) and BAY 60-7550 (3 mg/kg) were able to attenuate the acute tryptophan depletion induced object recognition impairment. Thus, both PDE5 and PDE2 inhibition improved short-term object recognition performance after an acute tryptophan depletion induced deficit. The underlying mechanisms, however, remain poorly understood and further studies are needed to determine whether the present findings can be explained by a direct effect of enhanced cAMP and cGMP levels upon 5-HT activity, or even other neurotransmitter systems, and possibly an interaction with synthesis of nitric oxide or effects upon cerebral blood flow function.
The tachykinin family of receptors has been of strong interest recently due to the potential of the tachykinin NK(3) receptor antagonism in treatment of schizophrenia. However, critical differences in the tachykinin NK(3) receptor between rats, mice and humans make rats and mice less acceptable species for testing tachykinin NK(3) receptor antagonism. This has led to testing of tachykinin NK(3) receptor activity in gerbils and guinea pigs. As these species are much less common laboratory animals than rats and mice, there is a relative paucity of in vivo testing models for tachykinin NK(3) receptor activation. In the present study, locomotor activity induced by the tachykinin NK(3) receptor agonist senktide was characterized. Injection of senktide i.c.v. was found to dose-dependently induce hyperlocomotion from a dose of 0.06 nmol to the maximal dose tested, 0.6 nmol. Locomotion induced by 0.1 nmol of senktide could be blocked by injection of the tachykinin NK(3) receptor antagonists SB222200 (10 and 30 mg/kg i.p.) and talnetant (SB223412; 10 and 30 mg/kg i.p.), as well as by osanetant (SR142801; 10 and 30 mg/kg i.p.) when administered in a vehicle containing vitamin E and glycofurol. Senktide-induced activity was also reversed by the antipsychotics haloperidol (0.3 and 1 mg/kg p.o.) and risperidone (1 mg/kg p.o.), but not by the serotonin 5HT(2a/c) receptor antagonist MDL100907 (tested at 0.1, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg p.o.). Hyperlocomotion induced by 0.03 nmol of senktide was potentiated by antagonism of the tachykinin NK(1) receptor with aprepitant (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg, p.o.). Thus, hyperlocomotion induced by senktide in gerbils is a tachykinin NK(3) receptor-mediated behavior that is appropriate for use in testing tachykinin NK(3) receptor activity of novel compounds.

A sub-chronic administration of phencyclidine to the rat brings about enduring pathophysiological and cognitive changes that resemble some features of schizophrenia. The present study aimed to determine whether the behavioural consequence of this phencyclidine regime extends to a long-term disruption of social interaction that might provide a parallel with some negative symptoms of the disease. Rats were treated with phencyclidine (2mg/kg bi-daily for 1 week) or vehicle followed by a drug-free period. Social interaction was assessed 24h, 1 week, 3 weeks and 6 weeks post-treatment. A long-lasting disturbance of social behaviour was observed in the phencyclidine group, namely more contact and non-contact interaction with an unfamiliar target rat at all time points. Six weeks post-phencyclidine, analysis of brains showed a reduction in expression of parvalbumin immunoreactive neurons in the hippocampus with significant reductions localised to the CA1 and dentate gyrus regions. These results show that sub-chronic phencyclidine produces long-lasting disruptions in social interaction that, however, do not model the social withdrawal seen in patients with schizophrenia. These disturbances of social behaviour may be associated with concurrent pathophysiological brain changes.
Several studies have shown that the level of dopaminergic transmission and D1 receptor signaling is crucial for working memory (WM) in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of mammals. Thus, hyper- or hypostimulation of prefrontal D1 receptors are pathophysiological findings often involved in cognitive and WM impairments. These observations can be mimicked by supranormal stimulation or inhibition with D1 receptor agonists or D1 antagonists, respectively. As a consequence, it is assumed that there is a normal range of dopamine function in prefrontal cortex that can be described as an inverted U-shaped relationship between dopamine transmission, i.e. D1 receptor stimulation, and intact WM. If this is true, short-term fluctuations of cognitive performance might be described as small-scale adjustments along the tip of the inverted U-curve and should depend on D1 receptor stimulation. We tested this hypothesis in pigeons performing a delayed-matching-to-sample task (DMTS), a classic paradigm to test WM. We applied the D1 agonist SKF81297 and the D1 antagonist SCH23390 into the nidopallium caudolaterale (NCL), the avian functional analogue of the PFC, and simultaneously in the medial striatum (MSt), by in vivo microdialysis while the animals performed the task. Animals showed daily fluctuations in WM performance. While the D1 agonist was able to improve or to decrease performance during low or strong performance periods, respectively, performance did not differ from control with the D1 antagonist. This study shows that D1 receptors seem to calibrate differentially prefronto-striatal functions based on individual low or high performance states.
The involvement of the prefrontal cortex in executive control has been well established. It is, however, as yet unclear whether the basal ganglia and the cerebellum as components of frontostriatal/frontocerebellar networks also contribute to the executive domains multitasking and response inhibition. To investigate this issue, groups of patients with selective vascular lesions of the basal ganglia (n=13) or the cerebellum (n=14) were compared with matched healthy control groups. Several paradigms assessing the ability to process concurrent visual and auditory input and to simultaneously perform verbal and manual responses as well as the inhibition of habitual or newly acquired response tendencies were administered. Basal ganglia patients showed marked response slowing during coordination of sensory input from different modalities and high error rates during the inhibition of overlearned responses. There was no clear evidence of a cerebellar involvement in multitasking or response suppression. Taken together, the findings provided evidence for a striatal involvement in both multitasking and response inhibition, emphasizing the functional implication of subcortical components in frontostriatal circuits.
Recent evidence indicates that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists hold therapeutic potential for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). A study on the novel adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor dual antagonist 5-[5-amino-3-(4-fluorophenyl)pyrazin-2-yl]-1-isopropylpyridine-2(1H)-one (ASP5854) showed it to be effective in various rodents models of PD and cognition. In the present study, we further investigated the potential of ASP5854 as an anti-PD drug using 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets, which is a highly predictive model of clinical efficacy in PD, and compared its effect with those of existing anti-PD drugs. ASP5854 significantly and dose-dependently improved the total motor disability score for 7h at doses higher than 1mg/kg, and significantly increased total locomotor activity at doses higher than 0.1mg/kg without adverse effects. l-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine+benserazide and bromocriptine also significantly improved the motor disability score and the hypolocomotion caused by MPTP treatment in a dose-dependent fashion. This amelioration was significant at 32+8 and 10-32 mg/kg, respectively, although bromocriptine induced severe emesis. Trihexiphenidyl also significantly improved the total motor disability score at doses of 10-32 mg/kg; however, while a significant increase in the total locomotor activity was observed at 10mg/kg, the drug induced ataxia-like behavior at 32 mg/kg. On the other hand, neither selegiline nor amantadine improved the total motor disability and hypolocomotion. These data substantiate the evidence that the novel adenosine antagonist ASP5854 exerts comparable anti-PD activity with existing anti-PD drugs, which indicates that ASP5854 might have potential to ameliorate motor deficits in PD.
We compared acute and chronic antinociceptive effects of morphine in animals with high reactivity (HR) vs. low reactivity (LR) to novelty. Antinociception was assessed by tail-flick test. Rats were i.p. injected with either saline or morphine (1.5 or 3mg/kg) every 12h for 7 days according to the treatment group. On day 1 of the experiment, LR animals in the 1.5mg/kg morphine group showed significantly higher tail-flick latency than HR. Moreover, significant tolerance to the antinociceptive effects of morphine at the used doses was observed in LR but not HR animals. However, effects of chronic morphine treatment on tail-flick latency in rat groups with similar morphine-induced acute antinociception were undistinguishable. The difference in tail-flick latency between HR and LR rats observed after acute 1.5mg/kg morphine injection was eliminated if beta-funaltrexamine (3mg/kg, i.p.) was administered 24h before the test, an indication that mu opioid receptors are responsible for the difference observed. Studies to anatomically characterize the difference in the acute analgesic effect of morphine in HR vs. LR animals did not however yield any significant difference in mu opioid receptor mRNA levels in locus coeruleus (LC), ventral periaqueductal gray (vPAG), nucleus raphe magnus (NRM) and nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis (NRPG) between these two groups of animals. In conclusion, our results show that differences in novelty-seeking behavior can predict inter-individual variability in morphine-induced antinociception in rats. Such variability is dependent upon activation of mu opioid receptors, but does not correlate with mu opioid receptor expression in LC, vPAG or ventral medulla.
Mastermind (Mam) is a co-activator protein of binary complexes consisting of Suppressor of Hairless (Su(H)) and Notch Intracellular Domain (NICD) proteins assembled on cis-regulatory regions of target genes activated by Notch signaling. Current evidence indicates that Mastermind is necessary and sufficient for the formation of a functional Su(H)/NICD/Mam ternary complex on at least one specific architecture of Su(H) binding sites, called the SPS element (Su(H) Paired Sites). However, using transcription assays with a combination of native and synthetic Notch target gene promoters in Drosophila cultured cells, we show here that co-activation of Su(H)/NICD complexes on SPS elements by Mam is promoter-specific. Our novel results suggest this promoter specificity is mediated by additional unknown cis-regulatory elements present in the native promoters that are required for the recruitment of Mam and formation of functional Su(H)/NICD/Mam complexes on SPS elements. Together, the findings in this study suggest Mam is not always necessary and sufficient for co-activation of binary Su(H)/NICD complexes on SPS elements.
Abnormal proteolytic processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a pathologic feature of Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies have demonstrated that serine/threonine phosphorylation specifically at amino-acid residue Thr668 (APP695 numbering) regulates APP processing. In this study, we investigated the possibility that tyrosine phosphorylation of APP regulates APP processing. A tyrosine kinase inhibitor decreased expression of the C83 fragment which is a cleaved product of APP by alpha-secretase. By overexpressing APP mutant proteins, Tyr687 was found to be the major tyrosine kinase phosphorylation site. Expression of the C83 fragment was decreased in APPY687A-expressing cells relative to APP wild-type (APPWT)-expressing cells, which likely reflects the different cellular localization patterns of these two proteins. Expression of APP intracellular domain (AICD) which is a cleaved product of the C83 fragment by gamma-secretase was decreased in C83Y687A-expressing cells. These results suggest that phosphorylation of APP at Tyr687 regulates APP processing by alpha- and gamma-secretases, determining the expression level of AICD.
The metabolism of amyloid beta peptide (A beta) in the brain is crucial to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease. A body of evidence suggests that A beta is actively transported from brain parenchyma to blood across the blood-brain barrier (BBB), although the precise mechanism remains unclear. To unravel the cellular and molecular mechanism of A beta transport across the BBB, we established a new in vitro model of the initial internalization step of A beta transport using TR-BBB cells, a conditionally immortalized endothelial cell line from rat brain. We show that TR-BBB cells rapidly internalize A beta through a receptor-mediated mechanism. We also provide evidence that A beta internalization is mediated by LRP1 (low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1), since administration of LRP1 antagonist, receptor-associated protein, neutralizing antibody, or small interference RNAs all reduced A beta uptake. Despite the requirement of LRP1-dependent internalization, A beta does not directly bind to LRP1 in an in vitro binding assay. Unlike TR-BBB cells, mouse embryonic fibroblasts endogenously expressing functional LRP1 and exhibiting the authentic LRP1-mediated endocytosis (e.g. of tissue plasminogen activator) did not show rapid A beta uptake. Based on these data, we propose that the rapid LRP1-dependent internalization of A beta occurs under the BBB-specific cellular context and that TR-BBB is a useful tool for analyzing the molecular mechanism of the rapid transport of A beta across BBB.
Huntington's disease is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by the expansion of a polyglutamine repeat tract in the huntingtin protein. Polyglutamine-expanded huntingtin forms intranuclear as well as perinuclear inclusion bodies. Perinuclear aggregates formed by polyglutamine-expanded proteins are associated with a characteristic indentation of the nuclear envelope. We examined the nuclear envelope in cells containing huntingtin aggregates using immunostaining for lamin B1, a major component of the nuclear lamina. Laser confocal microscopy analysis revealed that huntingtin aggregates in a juxtanuclear position were associated with a clear focal distortion in the nuclear envelope in cells transfected with polyglutamine-expanded huntingtin. Lamin B1 distribution was not altered by aggregates of polyglutamine-expanded ataxin-1, that are exclusively intranuclear. Thus lamin immunocytochemistry demonstrates clearly the depression of the nuclear envelope resulting from the formation of perinuclear aggregates by polyglutamine-expanded huntingtin. Lamin immunocytochemistry would be of value to monitor the state of the nuclear envelope in experimental paradigms aimed at establishing the significance of perinuclear aggregates of pathogenic proteins.
The acknowledged importance of uncertainty in economic decision making has stimulated the search for neural signals that could influence learning and inform decision mechanisms. Current views distinguish two forms of uncertainty, namely risk and ambiguity, depending on whether the probability distributions of outcomes are known or unknown. Behavioural neurophysiological studies on dopamine neurons revealed a risk signal, which covaried with the standard deviation or variance of the magnitude of juice rewards and occurred separately from reward value coding. Human imaging studies identified similarly distinct risk signals for monetary rewards in the striatum and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), thus fulfilling a requirement for the mean variance approach of economic decision theory. The orbitofrontal risk signal covaried with individual risk attitudes, possibly explaining individual differences in risk perception and risky decision making. Ambiguous gambles with incomplete probabilistic information induced stronger brain signals than risky gambles in OFC and amygdala, suggesting that the brain's reward system signals the partial lack of information. The brain can use the uncertainty signals to assess the uncertainty of rewards, influence learning, modulate the value of uncertain rewards and make appropriate behavioural choices between only partly known options.
Neuroeconomics investigates the neural mechanisms underlying decisions about rewarding or punishing outcomes ('economic' decisions). It combines the knowledge about the behavioural phenomena of economic decisions with the mechanistic explanatory power of neuroscience. Thus, it is about the neurobiological foundations of economic decision making. It is hoped that by 'opening the box' we can understand how decisions about gains and losses are directed by the brain of the individual decision maker. Perhaps we can even learn why some decisions are apparently paradoxical or pathological. The knowledge could be used to create situations that avoid suboptimal decisions and harm.
Successful decision making in a social setting depends on our ability to understand the intentions, emotions and beliefs of others. The mirror system allows us to understand other people's motor actions and action intentions. 'Empathy' allows us to understand and share emotions and sensations with others. 'Theory of mind' allows us to understand more abstract concepts such as beliefs or wishes in others. In all these cases, evidence has accumulated that we use the specific neural networks engaged in processing mental states in ourselves to understand the same mental states in others. However, the magnitude of the brain activity in these shared networks is modulated by contextual appraisal of the situation or the other person. An important feature of decision making in a social setting concerns the interaction of reason and emotion. We consider four domains where such interactions occur: our sense of fairness, altruistic punishment, trust and framing effects. In these cases, social motivations and emotions compete with each other, while higher-level control processes modulate the interactions of these low-level biases.
The theory of games provides a mathematical formalization of strategic choices, which have been studied in both economics and neuroscience, and more recently has become the focus of neuroeconomics experiments with human and non-human actors. This paper reviews the results from a number of game experiments that establish a unitary system for forming subjective expected utility maps in the brain, and acting on these maps to produce choices. Social situations require the brain to build an understanding of the other person using neuronal mechanisms that share affective and intentional mental states. These systems allow subjects to better predict other players' choices, and allow them to modify their subjective utility maps to value pro-social strategies. New results for a trust game are presented, which show that the trust relationship includes systems common to both trusting and trustworthy behaviour, but they also show that the relative temporal positions of first and second players require computations unique to that role.
Several studies have investigated the relationship between C-reactive protein (CRP) and serum lipid levels in Major Depression (MD), but no study has, to date, evaluated the impact of alexithymia on these parameters. Therefore, the aim of the present cross-sectional study was to evaluate the relationship between alexithymia, suicide risk, C-reactive protein (CRP) and serum lipid levels in adult outpatients suffering from moderate to severe MD. CRP and serum lipid levels data were analyzed in 145 drug-nave adult outpatients (69 men, 76 women) with a DSM-IV diagnosis of MD. Alexithymia was measured with the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20), depression severity was evaluated with the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) and suicide risk was determined using the Scale of Suicide Ideation (SSI). Alexithymics showed altered serum lipid levels and higher CRP than non-alexithymics. In the linear regression models, lower total cholesterol levels and &quot;Difficulty in Identifying Feelings&quot; dimension of TAS-20 were significantly associated with depression severity, whereas lower high-density lipoprotein levels and &quot;Difficulty in Identifying and Describing Feelings&quot; dimensions of TAS-20 were associated with higher suicide risk. Authors discuss study limitations and future research needs.
Nur-related 1 (Nurr1) and nerve growth factor inducible-B (NGFI-B) constitute closely related subgroups of the nuclear receptor superfamily. One to three hours after 4 mg/kg acute methamphetamine (METH) administration, the levels of Nurr1 mRNA were significantly higher in the prelimbic (PrL), primary motor (M1) and primary somatosensory (S1) cortices and ventral tegmental area (VTA), as compared with the basal level. Pretreatment with 0.5 mg/kg of SCH23390 prevented the acute METH-induced increase in Nurr1 mRNA levels in these brain regions. One to three hours after 4-mg/kg acute METH administration, the levels of NGFI-B mRNA increased significantly in the PrL, M1, S1, striatum, and nucleus accumbens core (AcbC). Pretreatment with either 0.5 mg/kg of MK-801 or 0.5 mg/kg of SCH23390 prevented the acute METH-induced increase in NGFI-B mRNA levels in these brain regions. The levels of mRNAs were determined 3 h after a challenge injection of either saline or 4 mg/kg METH at the three-week withdrawal point in rats which had previously been exposed to either saline or METH (4 mg/kg/day) for 2 weeks. After the saline challenge, the group chronically exposed to METH displayed significantly higher levels of Nurr1 mRNA in the PrL, S1 and VTA, and of NGFI-B mRNA in the PrL, M1, S1, striatum and AcbC than did the group chronically treated with saline. The groups chronically exposed to METH failed to increase Nurr1 mRNA in the VTA, and NGFI-B mRNA in the AcbC, when challenged with 4 mg/kg METH. These results suggest that Nurr1 and NGFI-B mRNA play differential roles upon exposure to METH.
Previous functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that patients with schizophrenia and those with schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) show reduced laterality, or relative right hemispheric dominance, during the performance of cognitive activation tasks; however, neuroimaging studies looking at non-clinical schizotypy have been few. We have recently reported that schizotypal traits at a non-clinical level are associated with right prefrontal dominance during a letter version of the verbal fluency task (VFT), but it is unknown whether such relationship between schizotypy and functional laterality would be observed across various cognitive tasks. Here we examined the relationships of schizotypal traits as measured by the Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ) in healthy adults with hemispheric lateralization of prefrontal activation during letter and category VFTs, using near-infrared spectroscopy. Thirty-two participants were divided into high- (n=16) and low- (n=16) SPQ groups by the median split of the total SPQ score. The high-SPQ group, but not low-SPQ group, showed significantly right-greater-than-left asymmetry of prefrontal activation during letter VFT, whereas such pronounced hemispheric asymmetry in relation to schizotypy was not found during category VFT. These results indicate that non-clinical schizotypy is related to right prefrontal preference during the letter version of VFT in particular, suggesting that the association between schizotypal traits and functional laterality may vary depending on cognitive activation tasks.

Long-term serotonin (5-HT) neuronal loss is currently a major cause of concern associated with recreational use of the substituted amphetamine 3,4 methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; &quot;Ecstasy&quot;). Such loss may be problematic considering that psychiatric disorders such as depression and anxiety and responses to first line treatments for these disorders are associated with 5-HT. In this study the effects of prior exposure to MDMA on behavioural and central neurochemical changes induced by the serotonin (5-HT) re-uptake inhibitor and antidepressant fluoxetine were examined in rats. Animals were administered MDMA (10 mg/kg. i.p.) four times daily for two consecutive days. One week later the animals were subjected to treatment with fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, i.p.). Fluoxetine treatment groups received either acute (saline injections for 20 days followed by 3 fluoxetine treatments over 24 h) or chronic (once daily fluoxetine for 21 days) drug administration. Prior exposure to MDMA resulted in an attenuation of fluoxetine-induced swimming behaviour in the modified forced swimming test (FST); a behavioural test of antidepressant action. In parallel MDMA treatment resulted in significant regional depletions of 5-HT and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) accompanied by a reduction in cortical [3H] paroxetine binding to nerve terminal 5-HT transporters. MDMA-induced 5-HT loss was enhanced in animals following chronic fluoxetine administration. Elimination of fluoxetine and its metabolite norfluoxetine from the brain abolished this interaction between MDMA and fluoxetine treatment. Fluoxetine administration reduced both 5-HIAA and the 5-HIAA:5-HT metabolism ratio, which was attenuated in animals pre-treated with MDMA. Overall the results show that MDMA induces long-term 5-HT loss in the rodent brain and consequently diminishes behaviour and reductions in 5-HT metabolism induced by the antidepressant fluoxetine. These results have potential clinical relevance, suggesting that 5-HT re-uptake inhibitors such as fluoxetine may be less effective at treating depression in chronic abusers of MDMA.
5-HT2A receptor density in prefrontal cortex was associated with depression and suicide. 5-HT2A receptor gene polymorphism rs6313 was associated with 5-HT2A receptor binding potential, with the ability of individuals to use environmental support in order to prevent depression, and with sleep improvement after antidepressant treatment with mirtazapine. Studies on response to antidepressant drugs gave inconsistent results. Here we studied the effect of rs6313 on response to repeated total sleep deprivation (TSD) in 80 bipolar depressed inpatients treated with three consecutive TSD cycles (each one made of 36 h awake followed by a night of undisturbed sleep). All genotype groups showed comparable acute effects of the first TSD, but patients homozygotes for the T variant had better perceived and observed benefits from treatment than carriers of the C allele. These effects became significant after the first recovery night and during the following days, leading to a 36% higher final response rate (Hamilton depression rating&lt;8). The higher density of postsynaptic excitatory 5-HT2A receptors in T/T homozygotes could have led to higher behavioural effects of increased 5-HT neurotransmission due to repeated TSD. Other possible mechanisms involve allostatic/homeostatic adaptation to sleep loss, and a different effect of the allele variants on epigenetic influences. Results confirm the interest for individual gene variants of the serotonin pathway in shaping clinical characteristics of depression and antidepressant response.
SAR on HTS hits 1 and 2 led to the potent, Notch-1-sparing GSI 9, which lowered brain Abeta in Tg2576 mice at 100 mg/kg po. Converting the metabolically labile methyl groups in 9 to trifluoromethyl groups afforded the more stable analogue 10, which had improved in vivo potency. Further side chain modification afforded the potent Notch-1-sparing GSI begacestat (5), which was selected for development for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
To identify new CRF(1) receptor antagonists, an attempt to modify the bis-heterocycle moiety present in the top region of the dihydropyrrole[2,3]pyridine template was made following new pharmacophoric hypothesis on the CRF(1) receptor antagonists binding pocket. In particular, the 2-thiazole ring, present in the previous series of compounds, was replaced by more hydrophilic non aromatic heterocycles able to make appropriate H-bond interactions with amino acid residues Thr192 and Tyr195. This exploration, followed by an accurate analysis of the substitution of the pendant aryl ring, enabled to identify in vitro potent compounds showing excellent pharmacokinetics and outstanding in vivo activity in animal models of anxiety, both in rodents and primates.

Neurons have long held the spotlight as the central players of the nervous system, but we must remember that we have equal numbers of astrocytes and neurons in the brain. Are these cells only filling up the space and passively nurturing the neurons, or do they also contribute to information transfer and processing? After several years of intense research since the pioneer discovery of astrocytic calcium waves and glutamate release onto neurons in vitro, the neuronal-glial studies have answered many questions thanks to technological advances. However, the definitive in vivo role of astrocytes remains to be addressed. In addition, it is becoming clear that diverse populations of astrocytes coexist with different molecular identities and specialized functions adjusted to their microenvironment, but do they all belong to the umbrella family of astrocytes? One population of astrocytes takes on a new function by displaying both support cell and stem cell characteristics in the neurogenic niches. Here, we define characteristics that classify a cell as an astrocyte under physiological conditions. We will also discuss the well-established and emerging functions of astrocytes with an emphasis on their roles on neuronal activity and as neural stem cells in adult neurogenic zones.
The evidence suggesting a role of epigenetics in the definition of complex trait diseases is rapidly increasing. The gender prevalence of multiple sclerosis, the low level concordance in homozygous twins and the linkage to several genetic loci, suggest an epigenetic component to the definition of this demyelinating disorder. While the immune etio-pathogenetic mechanism of disease progression has been well characterized, still relatively little is known about the initial events contributing to onset and progression of the demyelinating lesion. This article addresses the challenging question of whether loss of the mechanisms of epigenetic regulation of gene expression in the myelinating cells may contribute to the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis, by affecting the repair process and by modulating the levels of enzymes involved in neo-epitope formation. The role of altered post-translational modifications of nucleosomal histones and DNA methylation in white matter oligodendroglial cells are presented in terms of pathogenetic concepts and the relevance to therapeutic intervention is then discussed.
Nanotechnologies are materials and devices that have a functional organization in at least one dimension on the nanometer (one billionth of a meter) scale, ranging from a few to about 100 nanometers. Nanoengineered materials and devices aimed at biologic applications and medicine in general, and neuroscience in particular, are designed fundamentally to interface and interact with cells and their tissues at the molecular level. One particularly important area of nanotechnology application to the central nervous system (CNS) is the development of technologies and approaches for delivering drugs and other small molecules such as genes, oligonucleotides, and contrast agents across the blood brain barrier (BBB). The BBB protects and isolates CNS structures (i.e. the brain and spinal cord) from the rest of the body, and creates a unique biochemical and immunological environment. Clinically, there are a number of scenarios where drugs or other small molecules need to gain access to the CNS following systemic administration, which necessitates being able to cross the BBB. Nanotechnologies can potentially be designed to carry out multiple specific functions at once or in a predefined sequence, an important requirement for the clinically successful delivery and use of drugs and other molecules to the CNS, and as such have a unique advantage over other complimentary technologies and methods. This brief review introduces emerging work in this area and summarizes a number of example applications to CNS cancers, gene therapy, and analgesia.
Although monosynaptic bulbospinal projections to phrenic motoneurons have been extensively described, little is known about the organization of phrenic premotor neurons in the adult rat spinal cord. Because interneurons may play an important role in normal breathing and recovery following spinal cord injury, the present study has used anterograde and transneuronal retrograde tracing to study their distribution and synaptic relations. Exclusive unilateral, first-order labeling of the phrenic motoneuron pool with pseudorabies virus demonstrated a substantial number of second-order, bilaterally distributed cervical interneurons predominantly in the dorsal horn and around the central canal. Combined transneuronal and anterograde tracing revealed ventral respiratory column projections to prephrenic interneurons, suggesting that some propriospinal relays exist between medullary neurons and the phrenic nucleus. Dual-labeling studies with pseudorabies virus recombinants also showed prephrenic interneurons integrated with either contralateral phrenic or intercostal motoneuron pools. The stability of interneuronal pseudorabies virus labeling patterns following lateral cervical hemisection was then addressed. Except for fewer infected contralateral interneurons at the level of the central canal, the number and distribution of phrenic-associated interneurons was not significantly altered 2 weeks posthemisection (i.e., the point at which the earliest postinjury recovery of phrenic activity has been reported). These results demonstrate a heterogeneous population of phrenic-related interneurons. Their connectivity and relative stability after cervical hemisection raise speculation for potentially diverse roles in modulating phrenic function normally and postinjury.
The posterodorsal portion of the medial amygdala (MePD) is sexually dimorphic in several rodent species. In several other brain nuclei, astrocytes change morphology in response to steroid hormones. We visualized MePD astrocytes using glial-fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunocytochemistry. We compared the number and process complexity of MePD astrocytes in adult wildtype male and female rats and testicular feminized mutant (TFM) male rats that lack functional androgen receptors (ARs) to determine whether MePD astrocytes are sexually differentiated and whether ARs have a role. Unbiased stereological methods revealed laterality and sex differences in MePD astrocyte number and complexity. The right MePD contained more astrocytes than the left in all three genotypes, and the number of astrocytes was also sexually differentiated in the right MePD, with males having more astrocytes than females. In contrast, the left MePD contained more complex astrocytes than did the right MePD in all three genotypes, and males had more complex astrocytes than females in this hemisphere. TFM males were comparable to wildtype females, having fewer astrocytes on the right and simpler astrocytes on the left than do wildtype males. Taken together, these results demonstrate that astrocytes are sexually dimorphic in the adult MePD and that the nature of the sex difference is hemisphere-dependent: a sex difference in astrocyte number in the right MePD and a sex difference in astrocyte complexity in the left MePD. Moreover, functional ARs appear to be critical in establishing these sex differences in MePD astrocyte morphology.
Safety signals are learned cues that predict stress-free periods whereas behavioral control is the ability to modify a stressor by behavioral actions. Both serve to attenuate the effects of stressors such as uncontrollable shocks. Internal and external cues produced by a controlling behavior are followed by a stressor-free interval, and so it is possible that safety learning is fundamental to the effect of control. If this is the case then behavioral control and safety should recruit the same neural machinery. Interestingly, safety signals that prevented a behavioral outcome of stressor exposure that is also blocked by control (reduced social exploration) failed to inhibit activity in the dorsal raph nucleus or use the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, the mechanisms by which behavioral control operates. However, bilateral lesions to a region of posterior insular cortex, termed the &quot;sensory insula,&quot; prevented the effect of safety but not of behavioral control, providing a double-dissociation. These results indicate that stressor-modulators can recruit distinct neural circuitry and imply a critical role of the sensory insula in safety learning.
Normal brain function depends on an interplay between glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission, yet questions remain about the biophysical differences between these two classes of synapse. By taking advantage of a simple culture system, we present here a detailed comparison of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission under identical conditions using the variance-mean (V-M) method of quantal analysis. First, we validate V-M analysis for glutamatergic autapses formed by isolated hippocampal pyramidal neurons in culture, confirming that the analysis accurately predicts the quantal amplitude (Q). We also show that V-M analysis is only weakly sensitive to intersite and intrasite quantal variance and to the known inhomogeneities in release probability (P(r)). Next, by repeating the experiments with GABAergic autapses, we confirm that V-M analysis provides an accurate account of inhibitory neurotransmission in this system. Mean P(r), provided by V-M analysis, shows a dependence on extracellular Ca(2+) concentration that is nearly identical for both excitatory and inhibitory autapses. Finally, the V-M method allows us to compare the locus of short-term synaptic plasticity at these connections. Glutamatergic autapses exhibit paired-pulse depression that depends mainly on changes in P(r), whereas depression at GABAergic autapses appears to depend primarily on changes in the number of release sites. We conclude that, apart from differences in the mechanisms of short-term plasticity, the basic quantal properties of excitatory and inhibitory connections in this hippocampal system are remarkably similar.
We have used a combination of theory and experiment to assess how information is represented in a realistic cortical population response, examining how motion direction and timing is encoded in groups of neurons in cortical area MT. Combining data from several single-unit experiments, we constructed model population responses in small time windows and represented the response in each window as a binary vector of 1s or 0s signifying spikes or no spikes from each cell. We found that patterns of spikes and silence across a population of nominally redundant neurons can carry up to twice as much information about visual motion than does population spike count, even when the neurons respond independently to their sensory inputs. This extra information arises by virtue of the broad diversity of firing rate dynamics found in even very similarly tuned groups of MT neurons. Additionally, specific patterns of spiking and silence can carry more information than the sum of their parts (synergy), opening up the possibility for combinatorial coding in cortex. These results also held for populations in which we imposed levels of nonindependence (correlation) comparable to those found in cortical recordings. Our findings suggest that combinatorial codes are advantageous for representing stimulus information on short time scales, even when neurons have no complicated, stimulus-dependent correlation structure.
Near-infrared light (NIL) promotes a wide range of biological effects including enhancement of energy production, gene expression and prevention of cell death. This is the first report of the in vivo neuroprotective effects of NIL against optic neuropathy induced by mitochondrial complex I inhibition. Subjects were pigmented rats that received single bilateral intravitreal doses of rotenone, a mitochondrial complex I inhibitor, or rotenone plus one of three different doses of NIL. Treatment effects were evaluated at behavioral, structural and neurochemical levels. Rotenone induced a decrease in visual function, as determined by changes in the dark-adapted illuminance sensitivity threshold, escape latency and rate of successful trials in a two-choice visual task, compared with vehicle-treated controls. Behavioral impairment correlated with a decrease in retinal and visual pathway metabolic activity, retinal nerve fiber layer thickness and ganglion cell layer cell density. These changes were prevented by NIL treatments in a dose-dependent manner. Whole-brain cytochrome oxidase and superoxide dismutase activities were also increased in NIL-treated subjects in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting an in vivo transcranial effect of NIL. In whole-brain membrane isolates, NIL prevented the rotenone-induced decrease in cell respiration. The results show that NIL treatment can effectively prevent the neurotoxic effects of rotenone and that it might be used in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders associated with mitochondrial dysfunction.
The hippocampus provides a spatial map of the environment. Changes in the environment alter the firing patterns of hippocampal neurons, but are presumably constrained by elements of the network dynamics. We compared the neural activity in CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus in rats running for water reward on a linear track, before and after the track length was shortened. A fraction of cells lost their place fields and new sets of cells with fields emerged, indicating distinct representation of the two tracks. Cells active in both environments shifted their place fields in a location-dependent manner, most notably at the beginning and the end of the track. Furthermore, peak firing rates and place-field sizes decreased, whereas place-field overlap and coactivity increased. Power in the theta-frequency band of the local field potentials also decreased in both CA1 and CA3, along with the coherence between the two structures. In contrast, the theta-scale (0-150 ms) time lags between cell pairs, representing distances on the tracks, were conserved, and the activity of the inhibitory neuron population was maintained across environments. We interpret these observations as reflecting the freedoms and constraints of the hippocampal network dynamics. The freedoms permit the necessary flexibility for the network to distinctly represent unique patterns, whereas the dynamics constrain the speed at which activity propagates between the cell assemblies representing the patterns.
At a synapse, presynaptic terminals form a specialized area of the plasma membrane called the active zone that mediates neurotransmitter release. RIM1alpha is a multidomain protein that constitutes a central component of the active zone by binding to other active zone proteins such as Munc13 s, alpha-liprins, and ELKS, and to synaptic vesicle proteins such as Rab3 and synaptotagmin-1. In mice, knockout of RIM1alpha significantly impairs synaptic vesicle priming and presynaptic long-term plasticity, but is not lethal. We now find that the RIM1 gene encodes a second, previously unknown RIM1 isoform called RIM1beta that is upregulated in RIM1alpha knock-out mice. RIM1beta is identical to RIM1alpha except for the N terminus where RIM1beta lacks the N-terminal Rab3-binding sequence of RIM1alpha. Using newly generated knock-out mice lacking both RIM1alpha and RIM1beta, we demonstrate that different from the deletion of only RIM1alpha, deletion of both RIM1alpha and RIM1beta severely impairs mouse survival. Electrophysiological analyses show that the RIM1alphabeta deletion abolishes long-term presynaptic plasticity, as does RIM1alpha deletion alone. In contrast, the impairment in synaptic strength and short-term synaptic plasticity that is caused by the RIM1alpha deletion is aggravated by the deletion of both RIM1alpha and RIM1beta. Thus, our data indicate that the RIM1 gene encodes two different isoforms that perform overlapping but distinct functions in neurotransmitter release.
High speed video analysis of the details of movement can provide a source of information about qualitative aspects of walking movements. When walking on a rotorod, animals remain in approximately the same place making repetitive movements of stepping. Thus the task provides a rich source of information on the details of foot stepping movements. Subjects were hemi-Parkinson analogue rats, produced by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the right nigrostriatal bundle to deplete nigrostriatal dopamine (DA). The present report provides a video analysis illustration of animals previously were filmed from frontal, lateral, and posterior views as they walked (15). Rating scales and frame-by-frame replay of the video records of stepping behavior indicated that the hemi-Parkinson rats were chronically impaired in posture and limb use contralateral to the DA-depletion. The contralateral limbs participated less in initiating and sustaining propulsion than the ipsilateral limbs.These deficits secondary to unilateral DA-depletion show that the rotorod provides a use task for the analysis of stepping movements.A more detailed presentation of the present study has been made (Whishaw et al, 2003), but the present study presents the video support describing the stepping movement in the good and affected limbs of unilateral dopamine-depleted rats. For the analysis, rats with unilateral DA depletions and control rats were video recorded from front, lateral and posterior views. A rating scale of posture and forelimb movements indicated that stepping movements were chronically impaired following surgery. Examination of limb movements indicated that whereas the DA-depleted rats could use the limbs contralateral to the lesion for support, they received minimal use for shifting weight. The results of this study indicate that the rotorod task, in addition to providing quantitative measures of motor impairments, can also provide insights into the qualitative impairments [corrected].

Neurons important for cognitive function are often classified by their morphology and integrative properties. However, it is unclear if within a single class of neuron these properties tune synaptic responses to the salient features of the information that each neuron represents. We demonstrate that for stellate neurons in layer II of the medial entorhinal cortex, the waveform of postsynaptic potentials, the time window for detection of coincident inputs, and responsiveness to gamma frequency inputs follow a dorsal-ventral gradient similar to the topographical organization of grid-like spatial firing fields of neurons in this area. We provide evidence that these differences are due to a membrane conductance gradient mediated by HCN and leak potassium channels. These findings suggest key roles for synaptic integration in computations carried out within the medial entorhinal cortex and imply that tuning of neural information processing by membrane ion channels is important for normal cognitive function.
Mitochondrial electron transport generates the ATP that is essential for the excitability and survival of neurons, and the protein phosphorylation reactions that mediate synaptic signaling and related long-term changes in neuronal structure and function. Mitochondria are highly dynamic organelles that divide, fuse, and move purposefully within axons and dendrites. Major functions of mitochondria in neurons include the regulation of Ca(2+) and redox signaling, developmental and synaptic plasticity, and the arbitration of cell survival and death. The importance of mitochondria in neurons is evident in the neurological phenotypes in rare diseases caused by mutations in mitochondrial genes. Mitochondria-mediated oxidative stress, perturbed Ca(2+) homeostasis, and apoptosis may also contribute to the pathogenesis of prominent neurological diseases including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases; stroke; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; and psychiatric disorders. Advances in understanding the molecular and cell biology of mitochondria are leading to novel approaches for the prevention and treatment of neurological disorders.
One of the great mysteries of neuroscience is why neurons express so many different types of ion channels with such wide-ranging expression heterogeneity. In this issue of Neuron, Garden and colleagues add a new piece to this puzzle by demonstrating that the &quot;memory&quot; of various functional maps in regions of the medial entorhinal cortex resides in conductance gradients of two types of ion channels expressed in layer II stellate neurons.
Centrally injected histamine (HA) affects heart rate (HR), arterial blood pressure (BP), and sympathetic activity in rats. The posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePD) has high levels of histidine decarboxylase, connections with brain areas involved with the modulation of cardiovascular responses, and is relevant for the pathogenesis of hypertension. However, there is no report demonstrating the role of the MePD histaminergic activity on the cardiovascular function in awake rats. The aims of the present work were: 1) to study the effects of two doses (10-100 nM) of HA microinjected in the MePD on basal cardiovascular recordings and on baroreflex- and chemoreflex-mediated responses; 2) to reveal whether cardiovascular reflex responses could be affected by MePD microinjections of (R)-alpha-methylhistamine (AH3), an agonist of the inhibitory autoreceptor H3; and, 3) to carry out a power spectral analysis to evaluate the contribution of the sympathetic and parasympathetic components in the variability of the HR and BP recordings. When compared with the control group (microinjected with saline, 0.3 microl), HA (10 nM) promoted an increase in the MAP50, i.e. the mean value of BP at half of the HR range evoked by the baroreflex response. Histamine (100 nM) did not affect the baroreflex activity, but significantly decreased the parasympathetic component of the HR variability, increased the sympathetic/parasympathetic balance at basal conditions (these two latter evaluated by the power spectral analysis), and promoted an impairment in the chemoreflex bradycardic response. Microinjection of AH3 (10 microM) led to mixed results, which resembled the effects of both doses of HA employed here. Present data suggest that cardiovascular changes induced by baroreceptors and chemoreceptors involve the histaminergic activity in the MePD. This neural regulation of reflex cardiovascular responses can have important implications for homeostatic and allostatic conditions and possibly for the behavioral displays modulated by the rat MePD.
Bcl-2-associated athanogene-1 (BAG1) binds heat-shock protein 70 (Hsp70)/Hsc70, increases intracellular chaperone activity in neurons and proved to be protective in several models for neurodegeneration. Mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene account for approximately 20% of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) cases. A common property shared by all mutant SOD1 (mtSOD1) species is abnormal protein folding and the propensity to form aggregates. Toxicity and aggregate formation of mutant SOD1 can be overcome by enhanced chaperone function in vitro. Moreover, expression of mtSOD1 decreases BAG1 levels in a motoneuronal cell line. Thus, several lines of evidence suggested a protective role of BAG1 in mtSOD1-mediated motoneuron degeneration. To explore the therapeutic potential of BAG1 in a model for ALS, we generated SOD1G93A/BAG1 double transgenic mice expressing BAG1 in a neuron-specific pattern. Surprisingly, substantially increased BAG1 protein levels in spinal cord neurons did not significantly alter the phenotype of SOD1G93A-transgenic mice. Hence, expression of BAG1 is not sufficient to protect against mtSOD1-induced motor dysfunction in vivo. Our work shows that, in contrast to the in vitro situation, modulation of multiple cellular functions in addition to enhanced expression of a single chaperone is required to protect against SOD1 toxicity, highlighting the necessity of combined treatment strategies for ALS.
Retrospective isolation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) may cause deterioration of the phenotype during the long-term cultivation. Therefore, prospective isolation is essential for understanding the exact characteristics of intact NPCs in the brain. However, few suitable specific cell surface antigens on NPCs that could be used for their prospective isolation are available. The present study demonstrated that within 60 min after initial plating, embryonic day 12 (E12) brain cells firmly attach to several types of lectin-coated culture wells, including Phaseolus vulgaris erythroagglutinating lectin (E-PHA), concanavalin A (Con A) and wheat germ agglutinin (WGA). Approximately 80% of the cells isolated from E-PHA-coated wells expressed the nestin antigen, which is a specific intracellular marker for NPCs and the ratio of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive/nestin-positive cells to the cells attached on the E-PHA-coated wells was significantly higher than that of the cells attached on the wells coated with other adhesive substrates. The cells that were isolated from the E-PHA-coated wells continued to attach to the well for 1 week, while those isolated from Con A- and WGA-coated wells lost their attachment after 6 days and 1 day, respectively. Furthermore, the cells isolated from the E-PHA-coated wells grew quite satisfactorily and formed numerous attached neurospheres. Their growth rate was almost equal to that observed in suspension cultures. These results indicate that the lectin panning method enables the prospective, quick and easy isolation of mouse NPCs without requiring a fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS) system.
Stereotactic surgical interventions for Parkinson's disease (PD) can considerably improve appendicular motor signs, but their effect on axial motor signs--especially balance control under optimal drug therapy--remains unclear. Here, we investigated the effect of bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation on levodopa-resistant axial and appendicular postural impairment in PD. Fourteen patients (11 with young-onset PD) and 18 age-matched controls were included. Patients were tested after intake of a suprathreshold levodopa dose, ensuring optimal response to drug therapy, and with stimulators both turned on and off. Balance control was assessed using multidirectional dynamic posturography. Outcome measures included full body kinematics and surface electromyography of paraspinal and deltoid muscles. Patients with stimulators turned off showed early decreased trunk roll with a loss of directional dependency, followed by increased and abnormally directed--i.e. destabilizing--trunk roll. Pelvis pitch motion showed decreased directional dependency in these patients. The abnormal trunk motion was not corrected by STN stimulation, but directional dependency of both trunk and pelvis motion partially improved, along with a general decrease in muscle activity. Even with stimulators off, protective arm movements were similar in the optimally treated patients and controls, indicating that these appendicular signs respond better to dopaminergic treatment than axial motor control. Our findings indicate that instability in PD results from a reduced flexibility of the trunk and pelvis that is largely resistant to STN stimulation combined with optimal drug treatment. These postural abnormalities are therefore likely associated with non-dopaminergic pathology. In contrast, protective arm movements did appear to be levodopa-responsive. Future studies should focus on identifying subgroups of optimal responders, particularly patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
A decrease in orexin-A (OX-A) levels has been reported to be associated with depression. It is also well known that stress and depression can disrupt neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus; however, it is unclear how OX-A is involved in depression and/or neurogenesis. In the present study, we investigated the effect of i.c.v. administration of OX-A on the forced swimming test (FST), an accepted behavioral screen of antidepressant-like activity, and on the cell proliferation with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) in the dentate gyrus at 4 days after i.c.v. administration of OX-A. OX-A administration (140 pmol/mouse) led to a significant reduction in animal immobility in the FST, without affecting spontaneous locomotor activities or serum corticosterone levels. In addition, the number of BrdU-positive cells in the dentate gyrus was significantly increased in OX-A-treated mice in vivo; however, OX-A did not affect the percentage of doublecortin-positive cells in the dentate gyrus. The proliferation of neural progenitor cells derived from rat fetal brain was not affected by OX-A treatment in vitro, and the orexin receptor 1 (OXR1) protein was not expressed in these cells. Treatment with the OXR1 antagonist SB-334867 (30 mg/kg, i.p.) blocked both the OX-A-induced decrease in the immobility of FST and increase in BrdU-positive. Moreover, the OX-A-induced increase in neuropeptide Y (NPY)-positive cells in the hilus of the dentate gyrus was blocked by SB-334867. These results suggest that OX-A induces an antidepressive-like effect, at least in part, via the enhancement of cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus. These effects of OX-A also may be partly relevant to the regulation of the NPY system in the hilus of the dentate gyrus.
The rapid and irreversible brain injury produced by anoxia when stroke occurs is well known. Cumulative evidence suggests that the activation of neuronal ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels may have inherent protective effects during cerebral hypoxia, yet little information regarding the therapeutic effects of KATP channel openers is available. We hypothesized that pretreatment with a KATP channel opener might protect against brain injury induced by cerebral hypoxia. In this study, adult Wistar rats were treated with iptakalim, a new KATP channel opener, which is selective for SUR2 type KATP channels, by intragastric administration at doses of 2, 4, or 8 mg/kg/day for 7 days before being exposed to simulated high altitude equivalent to 8000 m in a decompression chamber for 8 h leading to hypoxic brain injury. By light and electron microscopic images, we observed that hypobaric hypoxia-induced brain injury could be prevented by pretreatment with iptakalim. It was also observed that the permeability of the blood-brain barrier, water content, Na+ and Ca2+ concentration, and activities of Na+,K+-ATPase, Ca2+-ATPase and Mg2+-ATPase in rat cerebral cortex were increased and the gene expression of the occludin or aquaporin-4 was down- or upregulated respectively, which could also be prevented by the pretreatment with iptakalim at doses of 2, 4, or 8 mg/kg in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, we found that in an oxygen-and-glucose-deprived model in ECV304 cells and rat cortical astrocytes, pretreatment with iptakalim significantly increased survived cell rates and decreased lactate dehydrogenate release, which were significantly antagonized by glibenclamide, a K(ATP) channel blocker. We conclude that iptakalim is a promising drug that may protect against brain injury induced by acute hypobaric hypoxia through multiple pathways associated with SUR2-type K(ATP) channels, suggesting a new therapeutic strategy for stroke treatment.
We report that somatostatin receptor subtype 1 (sst1) associates in vivo and in vitro with synapse-associated protein SAP) 97, a membrane-associated guanylate kinase homolog implicated as a scaffolding protein in the structural organization of specialized membrane complexes in various tissues, including the CNS. SAP97 and sst1 were coimmuno-precipitated from rodent brain and from transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells, and pull-down experiments demonstrated that the interaction is dependent on the class I PDZ binding motif in sst1 carboxyterminus. Calorimetric titration indicated that the postsynaptic density-95/discs large/zona occludens-1 (PDZ) 2 domain of SAP97 provides the main contribution to the interaction. We noticed substantial sst1 immunoreactivity in differentiating cortical neurons in culture which declined as the cultures matured. The sst1 immunoreactivity extended, together with SAP97 to neuronal growth cones. Somatostatin (1 microM) triggered retraction of the filopodia and lamellipodia in the growth cones. This growth cone collapse was enhanced by overexpression of green fluorescent protein-tagged sst1, whereas sst1 mutant lacking the PDZ binding motif had no effect. These findings suggest a role for somatostatin signaling in the regulation of growth cone stability, which may involve PDZ domain proteins interacting with sst1 and/or other somatostatin receptors. Consistent with a developmental role, sst1 immunoreactivity was present transiently in the developing mouse cortex, peaking at postnatal day 5 and declining thereafter to low levels in the adult cortex.
Serotonergic systems in the dorsal raphe nucleus are thought to play an important role in the regulation of anxiety states. To investigate responses of neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus to a mild anxiety-related stimulus, we exposed rats to an open-field, under low-light or high-light conditions. Treatment effects on c-Fos expression in serotonergic and non-serotonergic cells in the midbrain raphe nuclei were determined 2 h following open-field exposure or home cage control (CO) conditions. Rats tested under both light conditions responded with increases in c-Fos expression in serotonergic neurons within subdivisions of the midbrain raphe nuclei compared with CO rats. However, the total numbers of serotonergic neurons involved were small suggesting that exposure to the open-field may affect a subpopulation of serotonergic neurons. To determine if exposure to the open-field activates a subset of neurons in the midbrain raphe complex that projects to forebrain circuits regulating anxiety states, we used cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) as a retrograde tracer to identify neurons projecting to the basolateral amygdaloid complex (BL) in combination with c-Fos immunostaining to identify cells that responded to open-field exposure. Rats received a unilateral injection of CTb into the BL. Seven to 11 days following CTb injection rats were either, 1) exposed to an open-field in low-light conditions, 2) briefly handled or 3) left undisturbed in home cages. Dual immunostaining for c-Fos and CTb revealed an increase in the percentage of c-Fos-immunoreactive BL-projecting neurons in open-field-exposed rats compared with handled and control rats. Dual immunostaining for tryptophan hydroxylase and CTb revealed that a majority (65%) of BL-projecting neurons were serotonergic, leaving open the possibility that activated neurons were serotonergic, non-serotonergic, or both. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that exposure to anxiogenic stimuli activates a subset of neurons in the midbrain raphe complex projecting to amygdala anxiety circuits.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neuromuscular disorder in which motor neurons may be targeted by oxidative and nitrergic stress without sufficient compensation by intrinsic support mechanisms. In this work, we addressed two key tenets of this hypothesis for the pathogenesis of ALS. Using superoxide dismutase (SOD) 1G93A mice, we studied the impact of reduction of nitrergic stress within the CNS with the use of a broad spectrum nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, NG-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester. A separate cohort of SOD1G93A mice received direct insulin neurotrophic support, ligating receptors expressed upon motor neurons, to attempt protection against neuronal and functional motor dropout. For direct access, we used a novel form of intranasal delivery that provides peak concentration levels in the CNS within 1 h of delivery without systemic side effects at doses which previously rescued retrograde loss of motor axons after axotomy. To identify even minor impacts of these interventions on the outcome, we utilized an intensive program of serial behavioral and electrophysiological testing weekly, combined with endpoint quantitative morphometry and molecular analysis. This intensive evaluation enhanced our knowledge of the time course in SOD1G93A mice and impact of the SOD1G93A mutation upon motor neurons and their function. Neither intervention had even minimal impact upon slowing progression of disease in SOD1G93A mice. Our data argue against significant roles for nitrergic stress in promoting motor neuron loss and the importance of alternative neurotrophic support mechanisms that might support motor neurons and prevent disease progression in SOD1G93A mice.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) has been proposed as the main kinase able to phosphorylate tau aberrantly in Alzheimer's disease and in related tauopathies. We have previously generated a double transgenic mouse line overexpressing the enzyme GSK-3beta and tau protein carrying a triple frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 mutation whose expression patterns overlap in CA1 (pyramidal neurons) and dentate gyrus (granular neurons). Here, we have used this transgenic model to analyze how axonal and somatodendritic neuronal compartments are affected in the hippocampus. Our data demonstrate that neuronal subpopulations respond differentially to increased GSK-3 activity. Thus, dentate gyrus granular neurons undergo apoptotic death with subsequent degeneration of the mossy fibers, while CA1 pyramidal neurons accumulate hyperphosphorylated tau both in the axonal and in the somatodendritic compartments. These studies also allow us to propose a model of spreading of pathology through the hippocampus as a consequence of GSK-3 and tau dysregulation.
The CNS can be activated by both local and systemic inflammation, resulting in the manifestation of sickness symptoms. The pathways by which the CNS is activated under these two conditions, however, may differ. In this study, we injected casein into the peritoneal cavity (i.p.) or into an s.c. air pouch of mice to induce restricted local inflammation. Both routes of casein injection caused fever and reduced locomotor activity. These responses were not accompanied by the statistically significant induction of the inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) in the blood and brain. Further, these responses were produced without the induction of brain cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), which has been implicated as an obligatory step in systemic inflammation-induced activation of the CNS. Induction of IL-1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and COX-2, however, was found consistently at the sites of casein injection. The local inflammation-induced febrile and locomotor activity responses were blunted in animals deficient in functional Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), type I interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R1), IL-6, or COX-2. Therefore, the observed febrile and locomotor activity effects appear to require local, but not central, IL-1, IL-6, and COX-2. These findings suggest that local inflammation can activate the CNS via pathways distinguishable from those mediating systemic inflammation-induced CNS activation.
Importin-alpha and beta1 mediate the translocation of macromolecules bearing nuclear localization signals across the nuclear pore complex. Five importin-alpha isoforms have been identified in mice and six in human. Some of these importins play an important role in neural activity such as long term potentiation, but the functional differences of each isoform in the CNS are still unclear. We performed in situ hybridization (ISH) using non-isotopic probes to clarify the expression patterns of importin-alpha subtypes (alpha5, alpha7, alpha1, alpha4, alpha3) and importin-beta1 in the mouse CNS of adult and early postnatal stages. The mRNAs of the importin-alpha subtypes and importin beta1 were expressed throughout the CNS with specific patterns; importin-alpha5, alpha7, alpha3, and beta1 showed moderate to high expression levels throughout the brain and spinal cord; importin-alpha4 showed a lack of expression in limited regions; and importin-alpha1 showed a low expression level throughout the brain and spinal cord but with a moderate expression level in the olfactory bulb and reticular system. We also demonstrated that importin-alphas and beta1 mRNAs were predominantly expressed in neurons in the adult mouse brain by using double-labeling fluorescence ISH and immunohistochemistry. Moreover, importin-alphas and beta1 mRNAs were detected throughout the CNS of postnatal mice and were highly expressed in the external granule layer of the cerebellar cortex on postnatal days 0, 4, and 10. This is the first report of importin-alphas and beta1 expression throughout the CNS of adult mice, as well as in the developing brain, including cell type specific localization.
GABAergic interneurons play central roles in the regulation of neuronal activity in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA). They are also suggested to be the principal targets of the brainstem noradrenergic afferents which are involved in the enhancement of the BLA-related memory. In addition, behavioral stress has been shown to impair noradrenergic facilitation of GABAergic transmission. However, the noradrenaline (NA) effects in the BLA have not been differentiated among medium- to large-sized GABAergic neurons and principal cells, and remain to be elucidated in terms of their underlying mechanisms. Glutamate decarboxylase 67 (GAD67) is a biosynthetic enzyme of GABA and is specifically expressed in GABAergic neurons. To facilitate the study of the NA effects on GABAergic neurons in live preparations, we generated GAD67-green fluorescent protein (GFP) knock-in mice, in which GFP was expressed under the control of an endogenous GAD67 gene promoter. Here, we show that GFP was specifically expressed in GABAergic neurons in the BLA of this GAD67-GFP knock-in mouse. Under whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in vitro, we identified a certain subpopulation of GABAergic neurons in the BLA chiefly on the basis of the electrophysiological properties. When depolarized by a current injection, these neurons, which are referred to as type A, generated action potentials at relatively low frequency. We found that NA directly excited type-A cells via alpha1-adrenoceptors, whereas its effects on the other types of neurons were negligible. Two ionic mechanisms were involved in this excitability: the activation of nonselective cationic conductance and the suppression of the resting K+ conductance. NA also increased the frequency of spontaneous IPSCs in the principal cells of the BLA. It is suggested that the NA-dependent excitation of type-A cells attenuates the BLA output for a certain period.
The basolateral nuclear complex of the amygdala (BLC) receives a dense dopaminergic innervation that plays a critical role in the formation of emotional memory. Dopamine has been shown to influence the activity of BLC GABAergic interneurons, which differentially control the activity of pyramidal cells. However, little is known about how dopaminergic inputs interface with different interneuronal subpopulations in this region. To address this question, dual-labeling immunohistochemical techniques were used at the light and electron microscopic levels to examine inputs from tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH+) dopaminergic terminals to two different interneuronal populations in the rat basolateral nucleus labeled using antibodies to parvalbumin (PV) or calretinin (CR). The basolateral nucleus exhibited a dense innervation by TH+ axons. Partial serial section reconstruction of TH+ terminals found that at least 43-50% of these terminals formed synaptic junctions in the basolateral nucleus. All of the synapses examined were symmetrical. In both TH/PV and TH/CR preparations the main targets of TH+ terminals were spines and distal dendrites of unlabeled cells. In sections dual-labeled for TH/PV 59% of the contacts of TH+ terminals with PV+ neurons were synapses, whereas in sections dual-labeled for TH/CR only 13% of the contacts of TH+ terminals with CR+ cells were synapses. In separate preparations examined in complete serial sections for TH+ basket-like innervation of PV+ perikarya, most (76.2%) of TH+ terminal contacts with PV+ perikarya were synapses. These findings suggest that PV+ interneurons, but not CR+ interneurons, are prominent synaptic targets of dopaminergic terminals in the BLC.
Processing of information for long-term storage requires specific patterns of activity that lead to modification of synapse structure and eventual change in neural connectivity pattern. Morphological change associated with memory consolidation is reliant on neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) function and that of its polysialylated variant (NCAM PSA). Across species and paradigms, a transient frequency increase of polysialylated neurons in the hippocampal dentate has been found necessary for memory consolidation, however, recent studies suggest that NCAM PSA may serve to suppress memory formation in certain paradigms. As intraventricular infusions of NCAM blocking antibodies have been used successfully to demonstrate its time-dependent role at the 6 h post-training period of memory consolidation, we employed the same procedure to demonstrate a functional requirement for NCAM PSA in the consolidation of two commonly used behavioral paradigms: avoidance conditioning and spatial learning in Wistar rats. Anti-PSA was found to significantly induce amnesia of the passive avoidance response when infused at the 10 h post-training time, a period coincident with the learning-associated increase in dentate polysialylated cell frequency. Moreover, the amnesia became apparent at the 48 h recall time and was not apparent at the 24 h post-training time, suggesting a possible role in memory reconsolidation. A similar anti-PSA action was observed following water maze training in aged animals but was not apparent in young animals, an effect suggested to be due to inadequate antibody saturation of the polysialylated cell population. These studies confirm the requirement for NCAM PSA in memory consolidation and separate it from that of NCAM.
The distribution of potential nitric oxide (NO) donor neurons and NO-responsive target neurons was revealed in the terminal abdominal ganglion (TAG) of the cricket. The expression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the nervous system was examined by Western blotting using universal nitric oxide synthase (uNOS) antibody that gave about a 130 kDa protein band. Immunohistochemistry using the uNOS antibody detected neurons whose cell bodies are located at the lateral region of the TAG. These neurons expanded their neuronal branches into the dorsal-median region or the dorsal-lateral region of the TAG. NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry was performed to confirm the distribution of NOS-containing neurons. The distributions of cell bodies and stained neuronal branches were similar to those revealed by uNOS immunohistochemistry. NO-induced cGMP immunohistochemistry was performed to reveal NO-responsive target neurons. Most of the cell bodies stained by immunohistochemistry appeared at the dorsal side of the TAG. At the dorsal-median region, some unpaired neuronal cell bodies were strongly stained. Some efferent neurons whose axon innervate into each nerve root were strongly stained. The generation of NO in the TAG was detected by NO electrode. We found that NO is generally produced to maintain a basal concentration of 70 nM. Hemoglobin scavenged released NO from the ganglion. The concentration of NO was partly recovered when hemoglobin was replaced by normal saline. Application of 10 microM L-arginine that is a substrate of NOS increased NO release by approximately 10 nM. Furthermore, an excitatory neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) also increased NO generation by approximately 40-50 nM in concentration in addition to the basal level of 70 nM. Optical imaging with fluorescent NO-indicator demonstrated that ACh-induced enhancement of NO release was transiently observed in the outer-edge region of TAG, where cell bodies of NOS-immunoreactive neurons were located. These results suggest that ACh accelerates NO production via neuronal events activated by ACh in the TAG.
Activity regulated cytoskeletal protein (Arc), c-fos and zif268 are immediate early genes (IEGs) important for adult brain plasticity. We examined developmental expression of these IEGs and the effect of neonatal noradrenergic lesion on their expression in developing and mature brain. N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride (DSP-4), a specific noradrenergic neurotoxin, was administered to rats on postnatal day (PND) 3 and in situ hybridization was used to assay Arc, c-fos and zif268 mRNA on PND 13, 25 and 60. In contrast to decreases in Arc, c-fos and zif268 expression produced by noradrenergic lesions of mature brain, lesions on PND 3 yield a strikingly different effect. Neonatal lesions produce increases in c-fos and zif268 expression in specific frontal cortical layers on PND 13, while Arc shows no change. These lesions lead to increases in zif268 expression in frontal cortical layers on PND 25, with no changes in c-fos or Arc expression, and on PND 60 they produce a significant increase in c-fos expression in hippocampus with no significant changes in Arc or zif268 expression. 2-[2-(2-Methoxy-1,4-benzodioxanyl)]imidazoline hydrochloride (RX821002), an alpha-2 adrenergic receptor (A2AR) antagonist, administered to control PND 60 animals produces elevations of Arc, zif268 and c-fos mRNAs. This response was eliminated in animals lesioned with DSP-4 on PND 3. These data indicate that norepinephrine regulation of IEG expression differs in developing and mature brain and that loss of developmental norepinephrine leads to abnormally high postnatal IEG expression. Previous studies have shown an important role for norepinephrine in brain development. Our data support the idea that norepinephrine plays an important role during CNS development and that changes in noradrenergic signaling during development may have long lasting effects, potentially on learning and memory.
White matter changes have been reported as part of Alzheimer dementia. To investigate this, the total subcortical myelinated nerve fiber length was estimated in postmortem brains from eight females (age 79-88 years) with severe Alzheimer's disease (AD) and compared with brains from 10 female control subjects (age 74-92 years). A stereological method for estimating myelinated brain fibers includes sampling systematically, randomly from the white matter, and counting fibers in unbiased counting frames using light microscopy at approximately 6000x magnification. The diameter of each counted fiber was measured to obtain the diameter distribution of myelinated fibers in both groups. The mean total myelinated fiber length was 81,554 km in the AD group and 78,896 km in the control group (P=0.63). All other measured parameters were also unaffected in the AD brains: The mean fiber length density was 248 km/cm3 in the AD group and 247 km/cm3 in the control group; the volume of white matter was 329 cm3 (AD) and 321 cm3 (control) and the volume density of myelinated fibers to white matter tissue volume was 0.30 in AD group and 0.31 in the control group. This is the first study of subcortical brain white matter fiber length using a stereological method on postmortem brains from AD patients and control subjects.
This special issue of Respiratory Physiology and Neurobiology surveys a broad range of topics focused on the neurochemical control of breathing. A variety of approaches have integrated the neurochemistry of breathing with the physiology of individual neurons, with the neuroanatomy of brainstem and forebrain respiratory circuits, and with the clinical pathology of respiratory disorders all of which has been fueled by the ongoing explosion of information in the molecular biology of the nervous system. Accordingly, substantial progress has identified neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, receptors, signaling cascades, trophic factors, hormones, and genes mediating normal and pathological breathing. Dynamic changes in the neurochemistry of breathing are addressed with respect to brainstem development, environmental challenges such as intermittent or chronic hypoxia, and as a function of the sleep-wake cycle. Respiratory disruption has also been identified in an increasing variety of genetic-based disorders and remarkable progress has been made in determining the affected genes and their mutations that negatively impact respiration.
Interactions between the cardiovascular and respiratory systems have been known for many years but the functional significance of the interactions is still widely debated. Here I discuss the possible role of metabotropic receptors in regulating cardiorespiratory neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord. It is clear that, although much has been discovered, cardiorespiratory regulation is certainly one area that still has a long way to go before its secrets are fully divulged and their function in controlling circulatory and respiratory function is revealed.
Severely arrhythmic breathing is a hallmark of Rett syndrome (RTT) and profoundly affects quality of life for patients and their families. The last decade has seen the identification of the disease-causing gene, methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (Mecp2) and the development of mouse models that phenocopy many aspects of the human syndrome, including breathing dysfunction. Recent studies have begun to characterize the breathing phenotype of Mecp2 mutant mice and to define underlying electrophysiological and neurochemical deficits. The picture that is emerging is one of defects in synaptic transmission throughout the brainstem respiratory network associated with abnormal expression in several neurochemical signaling systems, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), biogenic amines and gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA). Based on such findings, potential therapeutic strategies aimed at improving breathing by targeting deficits in neurochemical signaling are being explored. This review details our current understanding of respiratory dysfunction and underlying mechanisms in RTT with a particular focus on insights gained from mouse models.
Despite its vital importance to life, respiration is not mature at birth in mammals, but rather, it undergoes a great deal of growth, refinement, and adjustments postnatally. Many adjustments do not follow smooth paths, but assume abrupt changes during certain postnatal periods that may render the animal less capable of responding to respiratory stressors. The present review focuses on neurochemical and physiological correlates of a critical period of respiratory development in the rat. In addition to an imbalanced expression of reduced excitatory and enhanced inhibitory neurotransmitters, a switch in the expressions of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor subunits from alpha3 to alpha1 occurs around postnatal day (P)12 in the pre-Btzinger nucleus and the ventrolateral subnucleus of the solitary tract nucleus. Possible subunit switches in a number of other neurotransmitter receptors are discussed. These neurochemical changes are paralleled by ventilatory adjustments at the end of the second postnatal week. At P13 and under normoxia, respiratory frequency reaches its peak before assuming a gradual fall, and both tidal volume and minute ventilation exhibit a significant rise prior to a plateau or a gradual decline until P21. The response to acute hypoxia is markedly reduced between P12 and P16, being lowest at P13. Thus, the end of the second postnatal week can be considered as a critical period of respiratory development, during which multiple neurochemical and physiological adjustments and switches are orchestrated at the same time, rendering the system extremely dynamic but, at the same time, vulnerable to externally imposed perturbations and insults. The critical period embodies a time of multi-system, multifaceted growth and adjustments. It is a plastic, transitional period that is also a part of the normal development of the respiratory system.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) contains a narrow and deep active site gorge with two sites of ligand binding, an acylation site (or A-site) at the base of the gorge and a peripheral site (or P-site) near the gorge entrance. The P-site contributes to catalytic efficiency by transiently binding substrates on their way to the acylation site, where a short-lived acylated enzyme intermediate is produced. Carbamates are very poor substrates that, like other AChE substrates, form an initial enzyme-substrate complex with free AChE (E) and proceed to an acylated enzyme intermediate (EC), which is then hydrolyzed. However, the hydrolysis of EC is slow enough to resolve the acylation and deacylation steps on the catalytic pathway. Here, we focus on the reaction of carbachol (carbamoylcholine) with AChE. The kinetics and thermodynamics of this reaction are of special interest because carbachol is an isosteric analogue of the physiological substrate acetylcholine. We show that the reaction can be monitored with thioflavin T as a fluorescent reporter group. The fluorescence of thioflavin T is strongly enhanced when it binds to the P-site of AChE, and this fluorescence is partially quenched when a second ligand binds to the A-site to form a ternary complex. Analysis of the fluorescence reaction profiles was challenging because four thermodynamic parameters and two fluorescence coefficients were fitted from the combined data both for E and for EC. Respective equilibrium dissociation constants of 6 and 26 mM were obtained for carbachol binding to the A- and P-sites in E and of 2 and 32 mM for carbachol binding to the A- and P-sites in EC. These constants for the binding of carbachol to the P-site are about an order of magnitude larger (i.e., indicating lower affinity) than previous estimates for the binding of acetylthiocholine to the P-site.
Alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn) is a brain-enriched protein of 140 amino acids. Despite of strong evidence showing the implication of the protein in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases, its physiological function remains poorly understood. To study the physiological function of alpha-Syn, a depiction of its precise subcellular localization is necessary. Although alpha-Syn expression in the brain has been extensively investigated using several different antibodies, its precise subcellular localization in neurons remains elusive. In this study, immunogold electron microscopy with a newly produced 3D5 monoclonal antibody recognizing the C-terminal 115-121 amino acids of alpha-Syn was used to examine its subcellular localization in rat brain neurons. In addition, the relative amount of the protein in different subcellular pools of the neurons in several brain regions was evaluated and compared. The results showed that alpha-Syn-positive gold particles were unevenly distributed in axons, presynaptic terminals, cytoplasm and nucleus in the neuron, with the density of gold particles being greater in presynaptic terminals and nucleus than in other subcellular pools. In the cytoplasmic region, relatively dense gold particles were seen in some mitochondria. In the same subcellular pools, the density of gold particles was varied among the neurons from different brain regions. Although the cortical neurons showed much higher density of gold particles in the presynaptic terminals and nuclei than in striatal, hippocampal and substantia nigral neurons, the density of gold particles in their mitochondria was much lower compared with the mitochondria of striatal, hippocampal and substantia nigral neurons. The relative high level of mitochondrial alpha-Syn in hippocampus, striatum and substantia nigral neurons may have special pathophysiological significance, which deserves further investigation.
Children with Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD) present impaired motor skills, frequently associated with impaired attentional and executive functions. The objective of this study was to assess the impact of DCD on effective connectivity applied to a putative model of inhibition. fMRI was performed in 9 children with DCD and 10 control children (8-13 years old) performing a go-nogo task. As previously reported, children with DCD obtained a similar score for correct inhibitions as controls, but responses were slower and more variable than in controls. Compared to controls, Structural Equation Modeling indicated that: (1) path coefficients from both middle frontal cortex (MFC) and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) to inferior parietal cortex (IPC) increased in children with DCD particularly in the left hemisphere; (2) path coefficients between striatum and parietal cortex decreased in children with DCD in the right hemisphere. Results suggest that DCD could be characterized by abnormal brain hemispheric specialization during development. Furthermore, connectivity in the MFC-ACC-IPC network could indicate that children with DCD are less able than healthy children to easily and/or promptly switch between go and nogo motor responses. However, children with DCD seem to compensate for this poor efficiency by more actively engaging the ACC to prevent commissions allowing maintenance of a good level of inhibition.
Noninvasive cortical stimulation techniques, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), have proved to be powerful tools for establishing causal relationships between brain regions and their functions. In the present study, we demonstrate that a new technique called transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) can interact with ongoing rhythmic activities in the visual cortex in a frequency-specific fashion and induce visual experiences (phosphenes). We delivered an oscillatory current over the occipital cortex with tACS. In order to observe interactions with ongoing cortical rhythms, we compared the effects of delivering tACS under conditions of light (&quot;Light&quot; condition) or darkness (&quot;Dark&quot; condition). Stimulation over the occipital cortex induced perception of continuously flickering light most effectively when the beta frequency range was applied in an illuminated room, whereas the most effective stimulation frequency shifted to the alpha frequency range during testing in darkness. Stimulation with theta or gamma frequencies did not produce any visual phenomena. The shift of the effective stimulation frequency indicates that the frequency dependency is caused by interactions with ongoing oscillatory activity in the stimulated cortex. Our results suggest that tACS can be used as a noninvasive tool for establishing a causal link between rhythmic cortical activities and their functions.
Providing optimal patient care in multiple sclerosis (MS) is dependent on both the patient and the healthcare system. One of the greatest challenges to optimal patient care is ensuring patient adherence to treatment. The two reasons given most often for treatment discontinuation are adverse effects and lack of efficacy. Adverse effects can be anticipated and managed, in part through well-established protocols, but also through industry-sponsored nursing support programs. These strategies can reduce needless discontinuations when patients experience common adverse effects. Lack of efficacy can be addressed for many patients by providing them with enough education to develop reasonable expectations for treatment and long-term prognosis. As important as early and continuous treatment are, these strategies are essential for providing optimal patient care in MS.




Although RNAi-based gene silencing holds a great potential for treatment of neurological disorders, its application to the CNS has been restricted by low levels of tissue distribution and cellular uptake. In this work we report that cationic lipid-based vectors can enhance siRNA delivery to neurons both in vitro and in vivo. DOTAP:Chol liposomes associated with transferrin (Tf) and complexed with siRNAs (Tf-lipoplexes) were delivered to primary cultures of luciferase-expressing cortical neurons. Confocal microscopy studies revealed efficient cellular uptake of Cy3-labelled siRNAs after Tf-lipoplex delivery, which was reduced but not completely inhibited by blocking the Tf-receptor with excess Tf. Gene silencing was also evaluated after delivery of anti-luciferase or anti-c-Jun siRNAs. Our results demonstrate that Tf-lipoplexes achieve up to 50% luciferase and c-Jun knockdown, 48 h after transfection, without significant cytotoxicity. Similar results were observed in vivo, where a 40% reduction of luciferase activity was found in the striatum of luciferase mice. In addition, fluorescence microscopy studies showed extensive local distribution and internalization of Tf-lipoplex-associated Cy3-siRNAs without tissue toxicity. Overall, our results demonstrate that Tf-lipoplexes can mediate efficient gene silencing in neuronal cells, both in vitro an in vivo, which may prove useful in therapeutic approaches to neuronal protection and repair.

Multi-photon microscopy (MPM) is a powerful tool for biomedical imaging, enabling molecular contrast and integrated structural and functional imaging on the cellular and subcellular level. However, the cost and complexity of femtosecond laser sources that are required in MPM are significant hurdles to widespread adoption of this important imaging modality. In this work, we describe femtosecond diode pumped Cr:LiCAF laser technology as a low cost alternative to femtosecond Ti:Sapphire lasers for MPM. Using single mode pump diodes which cost only $150 each, a diode pumped Cr:LiCAF laser generates approximately 70-fs duration, 1.8-nJ pulses at approximately 800 nm wavelengths, with a repetition rate of 100 MHz and average output power of 180 mW. Representative examples of MPM imaging in neuroscience, immunology, endocrinology and cancer research using Cr:LiCAF laser technology are presented. These studies demonstrate the potential of this laser source for use in a broad range of MPM applications.
Using Monte Carlo simulations for a semi-infinite medium representing a skeletal muscle tissue, it is demonstrated that the zero- and first-order moments of the power spectrum for a representative pixel of a full-field laser-Doppler imager behave differently from classical laser-Doppler flowmetry. In particular, the zero-order moment has a very low sensitivity to tissue blood volume changes, and it becomes completely insensitive if the probability for a photon to interact with a moving red blood cell is above 0.05. It is shown that the loss in sensitivity is due to the strong forward scatter of the propagating photons in biological tissues (i.e., anisotropy factor g = 0.9). The first-order moment is linearly related to the root mean square of the red blood cell velocity (the Brownian component), and there is also a positive relationship with tissue blood volume. The most common physiological interpretation of the first-order moment is as tissue blood volume times expectation of the blood velocity (in probabilistic terms). In this sense, the use of the first-order moment appears to be a reasonable approach for qualitative real-time blood flow monitoring, but it does not allow us to obtain information on blood velocity or volume independently. Finally, it is shown that the spatial and temporal resolution trade-off imposed by the CMOS detectors, used in full-field laser-Doppler hardware, may lead to measurements that vary oppositely with the underlying physiological quantities. Further improvements on detectors' sampling rate will overcome this limitation.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most common neurobehavioral disorder in school-aged children. In addition to genetic factors, environmental influences or gene x environmental interactions also play an important role in ADHD. One example of a well studied environmental risk factor for ADHD is exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). In this study, we investigated whether the well-established genetic model of ADHD based on the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) and a well established PCB-based model of ADHD exhibited similar molecular changes in brain circuits involved in ADHD. The brains from 28 male rats (8 SHR, 8 Sprague-Dawley (SD) controls, 8 Wistar/Kyoto (WKY) controls, and 4 PCB-exposed SD rats) were harvested at postnatal days (PNDs) 55-65 and RNA was isolated from six brain regions of interest. The RNA was analyzed for differences in expression of a set of 308 probe sets interrogating 218 unique genes considered highly relevant to ADHD or epigenetic gene regulation using the Rat RAE230 2.0 GeneChip (Affymetrix). Selected observations were confirmed by real-time quantitative RT-PCR. The results show that the expression levels of genes Gnal, COMT, Adrbk1, Ntrk2, Hk1, Syt11, and Csnk1a1 were altered in both the SHR rats and the PCB-exposed SD rats. Arrb2, Stx12, Aqp6, Syt1, Ddc, and Pgk1 expression levels were changed only in the PCB-exposed SD rats. Genes with altered expression only in the SHRs included Oprm1, Calcyon, Calmodulin, Lhx1, and Hes6. The epigenetic genes Crebbp, Mecp2, and Hdac5 are significantly altered in both models. The data provide strong evidence that genes and environment can affect different set of genes in two different models of ADHD and yet result in the similar disease-like symptoms.
The contrast of biological samples in scanning electron microscopy (SEM) is very weak. To examine a biological specimen by SEM, many steps and/or special equipment are required to prepare the sample. Here, we describe a method using an unstained biological sample under a 40 nm carbon film to give a high contrast image, where the image is detected by the secondary electron (SE) signal at a low accelerating voltage of 1.5 kV. Under these conditions, it is hard to detect a direct signal from a biological specimen. The high contrast image is created by the SEs from the lower surface of the thin carbon film. Therefore, the damage to the sample from the electron beam is very low. Our method can be utilized to observe various biological samples of bacteria, viruses, and protein complexes.
There is increasing evidence that impairment of mitochondrial function and oxidative damage are contributing factors to the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). Studies have reported decreased levels of the mitochondrial electron transport chain carrier, coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)) in plasma and platelets from PD patients. Although a deficit in peripheral CoQ(10) has been reported no studies have assessed the CoQ(10) status of the PD brain. In this study we investigated the CoQ(10) status of the substantia nigra, cerebellum, cortex and striatum brain regions of both PD patients and age-matched controls. The results of this study indicate a significant reduction (p=0.007) in CoQ(10) concentration in the cortex region of the brain. In conclusion, the results of this study indicate evidence of a deficit in brain CoQ(10) status may be involved in the pathophysiology of PD.
In the olfactory bulb, apoptotic cell-death induced by sensory deprivation is restricted to interneurons in the glomerular and granule cell layers, and to a lesser extent in the external plexiform layer, whereas mitral cells do not typically undergo apoptosis. With the goal to understand whether brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mediates mitral cell survival, we performed unilateral naris occlusion on mice at postnatal day one (P1) and examined the subsequent BDNF-immunoreactive (BDNF-ir) profile of the olfactory bulb at P20, P30, and P40. Ipsilateral to the naris occlusion, there was a significant increase in the number of BDNF-ir mitral cells per unit area that was independent of the duration of the sensory deprivation induced by occlusion. The number of BDNF-ir juxtaglomerular cells per unit area, however, was clearly diminished. Western blot analysis revealed the presence of primarily proBDNF in the olfactory bulb. These data provide evidence for a neurotrophic role of proBDNF in the olfactory system of mice and suggest that proBDNF may act to protect mitral cells from the effects of apoptotic changes induced by odor sensory deprivation.
Scavengers of reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been shown to produce a strong antinociceptive effect on persistent pain, and mitochondria are suggested to be the main source of ROS in the spinal dorsal horn. To explore whether excessive generation of mitochondrial superoxide alone can induce pain, the effect of mitochondrial electron transport complex inhibitors on the development of mechanical hyperalgesia was examined in mice. Intrathecal injection of an electron transport complex inhibitor, antimycin A or rotenone, in normal mice resulted in a slowly developing but long-lasting and dose-dependent mechanical hyperalgesia. The levels of mechanical hyperalgesia after antimycin A, a complex III inhibitor, were higher than that with rotenone, a complex I inhibitor. A large increase of mitochondrial superoxide in the spinal dorsal horn and a strong antinociceptive effect of ROS scavengers, phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN) and 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl (TEMPOL) were observed in antimycin A-treated mice. The study indicates that the enhanced production of spinal mitochondrial superoxide alone without nerve injury can produce mechanical hyperalgesia.
The Rho family of small GTPase proteins are involved in the formation and maintenance of neuronal dendrites. In this study, we show that Daam1, a member of the Diaphanous-related formin protein family and a downstream effector for RhoA, is localized to the dendrites of hippocampal neurons. Immunoblot analysis showed that Daam1 is enriched in the mouse hippocampus and co-fractionates in brain lysates with dendritic and synaptic proteins. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Daam1 protein distributes in a punctate pattern throughout the cell body and dendritic shafts of dissociated hippocampal neurons and organotypic hippocampal cultures. Although Daam1 is mostly expressed in the shaft of dendrites, co-stainings with SV2 or PSD95 revealed that Daam1 is also present at some synapses. In addition, viral directed expression of a fluorescently tagged Daam1 fusion protein in hippocampal slices resulted in targeted delivery to the dendrites of pyramidal neurons, leading to a reduction in the density of spines.


Both malignant transformation and neurodegeneration, as it occurs in Alzheimer's disease, are complex and lengthy multistep processes characterized by abnormal expression, post-translational modification, and processing of certain proteins. To maintain and allow the accumulation of these dysregulated processes, and to facilitate the step-wise evolution of the disease phenotype, cells must co-opt a compensatory regulatory mechanism. In cancer, this role has been attributed to heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90), a molecular chaperone that maintains the functional conformation of multiple proteins involved in cell-specific oncogenic processes. In this sense, at the phenotypic level, Hsp90 appears to serve as a biochemical buffer for the numerous cancer-specific lesions that are characteristic of diverse tumors. The current review proposes a similar role for Hsp90 in neurodegeneration. It will present experimentally demonstrated, but also hypothetical, roles that suggest Hsp90 can act as a regulator of pathogenic changes that lead to the neurodegenerative phenotype in Alzheimer's disease.

Tau aggregation is one of the major features in Alzheimer's disease and in several other tauopathies, including frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). More than 35 mutations in the tau gene have been identified from FTDP-17 patients. A group of these mutations alters splicing of exon 10, resulting in an increase in exon 10 inclusion into tau mRNA. Abnormal splicing with inclusion of exon 10 into tau mRNA has also been observed in PSP and AD patients. These results indicate that abnormal splicing of exon 10, leading to the production of tau with exon 10, is probably one of the mechanisms by which tau accumulates and aggregates in tauopathic brains. Therefore, modulation of exon 10 splicing in the tau gene could potentially be targeted to prevent tauopathies. To identify small molecules or compounds that could potentially be developed into drugs to treat tauopathies, we established a cell-based high-throughput screening assay. In this review, we will discuss how realistic, specific biological molecules can be found to regulate exon 10 splicing in the tau gene for potential treatment of tauopathies.
The progesterone derivative allopregnanolone (ALLO) rapidly potentiates gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptor mediated inhibition. The present studies determined whether specific manipulation of neurosteroid levels in the hippocampus would alter seizure susceptibility in an animal model genetically susceptible to severe ethanol (EtOH) withdrawal, Withdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) mice. Male WSP mice were surgically implanted with bilateral guide cannulae aimed at the CA1 region of the hippocampus one week prior to measuring seizure susceptibility to the convulsant pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), given via timed tail vein infusion. Bilateral intra-hippocampal infusion of ALLO (0.1 microg/side) was anticonvulsant, increasing the threshold dose of PTZ for onset to myoclonic twitch and face and forelimb clonus by 2- to 3-fold. In contrast, infusion of the 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride (FIN; 2 microg/side), which decreases endogenous ALLO levels, exhibited a proconvulsant effect. During withdrawal from chronic EtOH exposure, WSP mice were tolerant to the anticonvulsant effect of intra-hippocampal ALLO infusion, consistent with published results following systemic injection. Finally, administration of intra-hippocampal FIN given only during the development of physical dependence significantly increased EtOH withdrawal severity, measured by handling-induced convulsions. These findings are the first demonstration that bi-directional manipulation of hippocampal ALLO levels produces opposite behavioral consequences that are consistent with alterations in GABAergic inhibitory tone in drug-naive mice. Importantly, EtOH withdrawal rendered WSP mice less sensitive to ALLO's anticonvulsant effect and more sensitive to FIN's proconvulsant effect, suggesting an alteration in the sensitivity of hippocampal GABA(A) receptors in response to fluctuations in GABAergic neurosteroids during ethanol withdrawal.
The novel iboga alkaloid congener 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC) is a putative anti-addictive agent that has been shown, in rats, to decrease the self-administration of several drugs of abuse. Previous work has established that 18-MC is a potent antagonist at alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors. Because high densities of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors occur in the medial habenula and the interpeduncular nucleus and moderate densities occur in the dorsolateral tegmentum, ventral tegmental area, and basolateral amygdala, the present study was conducted to determine if 18-MC could act in these brain areas to modulate methamphetamine self-administration in rats. Local administration of 18-MC into either the medial habenula, the interpeduncular area or the basolateral amygdala decreased methamphetamine self-administration. Similar results were produced by local administration into the same brain areas of two other alpha3beta4 nicotinic antagonists, mecamylamine and alpha-conotoxin AuIB. Local administration of 18-MC, or the other antagonists, into the dorsolateral tegmentum or the ventral tegmental area had no effect on methamphetamine self-administration. In contrast, local administration of 18-MC and the other antagonists decreased sucrose self-administration when administered into the dorsolateral tegmentum or basolateral amygdala but had no effect when infused into the medial habenula, interpeduncular nucleus, or ventral tegmental area. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that 18-MC decreases methamphetamine self-administration by indirectly modulating the dopaminergic mesolimbic pathway via blockade of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors in the habenulo-interpeduncular pathway and the basolateral amygdala. The data also suggest that the basolateral amygdala along with a different pathway involving alpha3beta4 receptors in the dorsolateral tegmentum mediate the effect of 18-MC on sucrose self-administration.
The melanin-concentrating hormone MCH(1) receptor has been proposed to exert an inhibitory control on monoaminergic (especially dopaminergic) activity within the mesolimbic system, which underpins drug seeking and reward. That hypothesis predicts that an inactivation of these receptors should enhance the sensitivity to drug rewarding effects. To test that prediction, we examined the propensity of mice lacking the melanin-concentrating receptor (MCH(1) KO) and their intact counterparts (WT) to form cocaine- and amphetamine-induced conditioned place preference. The conditioned rewarding effects induced by 0.375, 0.75, 1.5 and 3 mg/kg amphetamine were assessed in two sub-experiments and those induced by 1, 2, 4 and 8 mg/kg cocaine in two other sub-experiments. All mice were tested under saline for place preference 24 h following four every-other-day conditioning trials and an initial pre-conditioning session under saline. Most of the cocaine and amphetamine doses induced place preference, but without any genotype difference being revealed. Also, none of the cocaine doses induced psychomotor sensitization during conditioning, whereas amphetamine generated clear-cut dose-dependent sensitization in both genotypes. Albeit MCH(1) KO mice exhibited higher levels of psychomotor activation, the rates of sensitization were comparable across genotypes at 1.5 and 3 mg/kg amphetamine. Moreover, 0.375 and especially 0.75 mg/kg amphetamine produced a slight but yet significant sensitization in MCH(1) KO but not in their WT counterparts. Despite such an effect, the results cannot be considered as unambiguously supportive of the tested prediction.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of protein kinase C (PKC) activation by 100 nM phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) on N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function with the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Receptors expressed in primary cultured cerebellar granule cells at days in vitro that result in different NMDA NR2A and NR2B subunit composition were assessed. The effect of temperature during PMA exposure on NMDA-induced current amplitudes as well as PMA-induced translocation of PKC isoform-specific immunoreactivity was also assessed. We observed that PMA augmented NMDA-induced peak current amplitude regardless of NR2 subunit composition and augmentation of NMDA-induced steady-state current amplitudes was only observed in 13 and older days in vitro cerebellar granule cells. PMA treatment did not affect the desensitized state (steady-state to peak current ratios) of the receptor. Augmentation of NMDA-induced current amplitude was seen by 12.5 min PMA exposure, a time that corresponded with translocation of all PMA-sensitive PKC isoform immunoreactivity. PMA exposure at 37 degrees C resulted in a significant enhancement of NMDA-induced current amplitude compared to augmentation of receptor function following a PMA exposure at 23 degrees C. Translocation of PKC immunoreactivity was also greatly attenuated at 23 degrees C compared to treatment at 37 degrees C. While our data support previous observations that activation of PKC by PMA enhances NMDA receptor function, this augmentation does not appear to be dependent upon NR2 subunit composition. Furthermore our data emphasize the importance of conducting experiments at physiological temperatures when assessing PKC effects on native NMDA receptors.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common and debilitating condition that affects twice as many women as men. Accumulated evidence suggests that hormone fluctuations may play an important role in such increased risk for depression among females. For example, women during the menopausal transition appear to have a heightened risk for developing MDD compared with premenopausal or postmenopausal women. Overlapping depressive and menopause-related symptoms (e.g., vasomotor complaints, sleep disturbances) can complicate diagnosis and treatment, but it is vital that clinicians work to adequately tailor their treatment strategies to manage both the mood and somatic symptoms. Possible treatment options to be considered include the adequate use of hormone replacement therapy, antidepressants, psychotherapy, and other psychotropic agents.
A variety of neurological disorders and polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases are caused by misfolded proteins. The common feature of these diseases is late-onset cellular degeneration that selectively affects neurons in distinct brain regions. polyQ diseases, including Huntington's disease (HD), present a clear case of selective neurodegeneration caused by polyQ expansion-induced protein misfolding, which also leads to predominant inclusions in neuronal nuclei. It remains unclear how these ubiquitously expressed disease proteins selectively kill neurons. In HD, mutant huntingtin accumulates in both neurons and glia, but more neuronal cells display huntingtin aggregates. These aggregates colocalize with components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), which plays a critical role in clearing misfolded proteins. Using fluorescent reporters that reflect cellular UPS activity, we found that UPS activity in cultured neurons and glia decreases in a time-dependent manner. Importantly, UPS activity is lower in neurons than in glia and also lower in the nucleus than the cytoplasm. By expressing the UPS reporters in glia and neurons in the mouse brain, we also observed an age-dependent decrease in UPS activity, which is more pronounced in neurons than glial cells. Although brain UPS activities were similar between wild-type and HD 150Q knock-in mice, inhibiting the UPS markedly increases the accumulation of mutant htt in cultured glial cells. These findings suggest that the lower neuronal UPS activity may account for the preferential accumulation of misfolded proteins in neurons, as well as their selective vulnerability.
The neurotoxic forms of the prion protein (PrP) that cause neurodegeneration in prion diseases remain to be conclusively identified. Considerable evidence points to the importance of noninfectious oligomers of PrP in the pathogenic process. In this study, we describe lines of Tg(WT) transgenic mice that over-express wild-type PrP by either approximately 5-fold or approximately 10-fold (depending on whether the transgene array is, respectively, hemizygous or homozygous). Homozygous but not hemizygous Tg(WT) mice develop a spontaneous neurodegenerative illness characterized clinically by tremor and paresis. Both kinds of mice accumulate large numbers of punctate PrP deposits in the molecular layer of the cerebellum as well as in several other brain regions, and they display abnormally enlarged synaptic terminals accompanied by a dramatic proliferation of membranous structures. The over-expressed PrP in Tg(WT) mice assembles into an insoluble form that is mildly protease-resistant and is recognizable by aggregation-specific antibodies, but that is not infectious in transmission experiments. Together, our results demonstrate that noninfectious aggregates of wild-type PrP are neurotoxic, particularly to synapses, and they suggest common pathogenic mechanisms shared by prion diseases and nontransmissible neurodegenerative disorders associated with protein misfolding.
Song is a learned vocal behavior influenced by social interactions. Prior work has suggested that the anterior forebrain pathway (AFP), a specialized pallial-basal ganglia circuit critical for vocal plasticity, mediates the influence of social signals on song. Here, we investigate the signals the AFP sends to song motor areas and their dependence on social context by characterizing singing-related activity of single neurons in the AFP output nucleus LMAN (lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium). We show that interaction with females causes marked, real-time changes in firing properties of individual LMAN neurons. When males sing to females (&quot;directed&quot;), LMAN neurons exhibit reliable firing of single spikes precisely locked to song. In contrast, when males sing alone (&quot;undirected&quot;), the same LMAN neurons exhibit prominent burst firing and trial-by-trial variability. Burst structure and timing vary substantially across repeated undirected trials. Despite context-dependent differences in firing statistics, the average pattern of song-locked firing for an individual neuron is similar across behavioral contexts, suggesting a common underlying signal. Different LMAN neurons in the same bird, however, exhibit distinct firing patterns, suggesting that subsets of neurons jointly encode song features. Together, our findings demonstrate that behavioral interactions reversibly transform the signaling mode of LMAN neurons. Such changes may contribute to rapid switching of motor activity between variable and precise states. More generally, our results suggest that pallial-basal ganglia circuits contribute to motor learning and production through multiple mechanisms: patterned signals could guide changes in motor output while state-dependent variability could subserve motor exploration.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been used to document some apparent interhemispheric influences behaviorally, with TMS over the right parietal cortex reported to enhance processing of touch for the ipsilateral right hand (Seyal et al., 1995). However, the neural bases of such apparent interhemispheric influences from TMS remain unknown. Here, we studied this directly by combining TMS with concurrent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We applied bursts of 10 Hz TMS over right parietal cortex, at a high or low intensity, during two sensory contexts: either without any other stimulation, or while participants received median nerve stimulation to the right wrist, which projects to left primary somatosensory cortex (SI). TMS to right parietal cortex affected the blood oxygenation level-dependent signal in left SI, with high- versus low-intensity TMS increasing the left SI signal during right-wrist somatosensory input, but decreasing this in the absence of somatosensory input. This state-dependent modulation of SI by parietal TMS over the other hemisphere was accompanied by a related pattern of TMS-induced influences in the thalamus, as revealed by region-of-interest analyses. A behavioral experiment confirmed that the same right parietal TMS protocol of 10 Hz bursts led to enhanced detection of perithreshold electrical stimulation of the right median nerve, which is initially processed in left SI. Our results confirm directly that TMS over right parietal cortex can affect processing in left SI of the other hemisphere, with rivalrous effects (possibly transcallosal) arising in the absence of somatosensory input, but facilitatory effects (possibly involving thalamic circuitry) in the presence of driving somatosensory input.
The neural underpinnings of prototype learning are not well understood. A major source of confusion is that two versions of the prototype learning task have been used interchangeably in the literature; one where participants learn to categorize exemplars derived from two prototypes (A/B task), and one where participants learn to categorize exemplars derived from one prototype and noncategorical exemplars (A/non-A). We report results from an fMRI study of A/B and A/non-A prototype learning that allows for a direct contrast of the two learning methods. Accuracy in the two tasks did not correlate within subject despite equivalent average difficulty. The fMRI results revealed neural activation in a network of regions consistent with episodic memory retrieval for the A/B task while greater activation of a nondeclarative learning network was observed for the A/non-A task. The results demonstrate that learning in these two tasks is mediated by different neural systems and that recruitment of each system is dictated by the context of learning rather than the actual category structure.
Auditory cortical processing in primates has been proposed to be divided into two parallel processing streams, a caudal spatial stream and a rostral nonspatial stream. Previous single neuron studies have indicated that neurons in the rostral lateral belt respond selectively to vocalization stimuli, whereas imaging studies have indicated that selective vocalization processing first occurs in higher order cortical areas. To test the dual stream hypothesis and to find evidence to account for the difference between the electrophysiological and imaging results, we recorded the responses of single neurons in core and belt auditory cortical fields to both forward and reversed vocalizations. We found that there was little difference in the overall firing rate of neurons across different cortical areas or between forward and reversed vocalizations. However, more information was carried in the overall firing rate for forward vocalizations compared with reversed vocalizations in all areas except the rostral field of the core (area R). These results are consistent with the imaging results and are inconsistent with early rostral cortical areas being involved in selectively processing vocalization stimuli based on a firing rate code. They further suggest that a more complex processing scheme is in play in these early auditory cortical areas.
Localized increases in synaptic strength constitute a synaptic basis for learning and memory in the CNS and may also contribute to the maintenance of neuropathic pain after spinal cord injury (SCI) through the de novo formation or elaboration of postsynaptic dendritic structures. To determine whether SCI-induced dendritic spine remodeling contributes to neuronal hyperexcitability and neuropathic pain, we analyzed spine morphometry, localization, and functional influence in dorsal horn (DH) neurons in adult rats 1 month after sham surgery, contusion SCI, and SCI treated with a selective inhibitor of Rac1 activation, NSC23766. After SCI, DH neurons located in lamina IV-V exhibited increased spine density, redistributed spines, and mature spines compared with control neurons, which was associated with enhancement of EPSCs in computer simulations and hyperexcitable responsiveness to innocuous and noxious peripheral stimuli in unit recordings in vivo. SCI animals also exhibited symptoms of tactile allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. Inhibition of the small GTP-binding protein Rac1 ameliorated post-SCI changes in spine morphology, attenuated injury-induced hyperexcitability of wide-dynamic range neurons, and progressively increased pain thresholds over a 3 d period. This suggests that Rac1 is an important intracellular signaling molecule involved in a spinal dendritic spine pathology associated with chronic neuropathic pain after SCI. Our report provides robust evidence for a novel conceptual bridge between learning and memory on the one hand, and neuropathic pain on the other.
Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) has multiple, pleiotropic effects on the nervous system that include neurogenesis, neuroprotection and neuroplasticity. Thus, alteration in FGF-2 expression patterns may have a profound impact in brain function, both in normal physiology and in pathology. Here, we used FGF-2 transgenic mice (TgFGF2) to study the effects of endogenous FGF-2 overexpression on susceptibility to seizures and to the pathological consequences of seizures. TgFGF2 mice display increased FGF-2 expression in hippocampal pyramidal neurons and dentate granule cells. Increased density of glutamatergic synaptic vesicles was observed in the hippocampus of TgFGF2 mice, and electrophysiological data (input/output curves and patch-clamp recordings in CA1) confirmed an increase in excitatory inputs in CA1, suggesting the presence of a latent hyperexcitability. Indeed, TgFGF2 mice displayed increased susceptibility to kainate-induced seizures compared with wild-type (WT) littermates, in that latency to generalized seizure onset was reduced, whereas behavioral seizure scores and lethality were increased. Finally, WT and TgFGF2 mice with similar seizure scores were used for examining seizure-induced cellular consequences. Neurogenesis and mossy fiber sprouting were not significantly different between the two groups. In contrast, cell damage (assessed with Fluoro-Jade B, silver impregnation and anti-caspase 3 immunohistochemistry) was significantly lower in TgFGF2 mice, especially in the areas of overexpression (CA1 and CA3), indicating reduction of seizure-induced necrosis and apoptosis. These data suggest that FGF-2 may be implicated in seizure susceptibility and in seizure-induced plasticity, exerting different, and apparently contrasting effects: favoring ictogenesis but reducing seizure-induced cell death.
ATP and serotonin (5-HT) are neurotransmitters secreted from taste bud receptor (type II) and presynaptic (type III) cells, respectively. Norepinephrine (NE) has also been proposed to be a neurotransmitter or paracrine hormone in taste buds. Yet, to date, the specific stimulus for NE release in taste buds is not well understood, and the identity of the taste cells that secrete NE is not known. Chinese hamster ovary cells were transfected with alpha(1A) adrenoceptors and loaded with fura-2 (&quot;biosensors&quot;) to detect NE secreted from isolated mouse taste buds and taste cells. Biosensors responded to low concentrations of NE (&gt;or=10 nm) with a reliable fura-2 signal. NE biosensors did not respond to stimulation with KCl or taste compounds. However, we recorded robust responses from NE biosensors when they were positioned against mouse circumvallate taste buds and the taste buds were stimulated with KCl (50 mm) or a mixture of taste compounds (cycloheximide, 10 microm; saccharin, 2 mm; denatonium, 1 mm; SC45647, 100 microm). NE biosensor responses evoked by stimulating taste buds were reversibly blocked by prazosin, an alpha(1A) receptor antagonist. Together, these findings indicate that taste bud cells secrete NE when they are stimulated. We isolated individual taste bud cells to identify the origin of NE release. NE was secreted only from presynaptic (type III) taste cells and not receptor (type II) cells. Stimulus-evoked NE release depended on Ca(2+) in the bathing medium. Using dual biosensors (sensitive to 5-HT and NE), we found all presynaptic cells secrete 5-HT and 33% corelease NE with 5-HT.
The present study sought to determine the interaction between the novelty-seeking trait and cocaine treatment on gene expression in the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) system. Specifically, we assessed the regulation of FGFR1 in response to cocaine in animals that were selectively bred on the basis of their locomotor response to a novel environment. High-responder (HR) rats are those that exhibit increased locomotor response and exploratory behavior in a novel environment and low-responder (LR) rats are those that exhibit lower levels of exploratory behavior and are less active. Both phenotypes received daily injections of either cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline for 7 consecutive days. Animals were sacrificed 45 min following their last injection and FGFR1 gene expression was assessed in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex by mRNA in situ hybridization. HR-bred rats exhibited increased FGFR1 mRNA in the hippocampus compared to LR-bred rats. Furthermore, cocaine decreased FGFR1 mRNA in the hippocampus and increased FGFR1 mRNA in the prefrontal cortex. Finally, HR and LR rats differed in their response to cocaine between brain regions. In the hippocampus, cocaine decreased gene expression in HR-bred rats without affecting LR-bred rats, whereas in the prefrontal cortex cocaine increased gene expression in LR-bred rats without affecting HR-bred rats. These results suggest that cocaine interacts with the novelty-seeking trait to alter gene expression. Thus, the FGF system may contribute to individual differences in the response to drugs of abuse.
Locomotor sensitization induced by the dopamine agonist quinpirole can be potentiated by co-treatment with the synthetic kappa opioid agonist U69593. The identification of salvinorin A, an active component of the psychotropic sage Salvia divinorum, as a structurally different agonist of kappa-opioid receptors raised the question of whether this compound would similarly potentiate sensitization to quinpirole. Rats were co-treated with 0.5 mg/kg quinpirole and either salvinorin A (0.04, 0.4 or 2.0 mg/kg) or U69593 (0.3 mg/kg). Control groups were co-treated with vehicle and saline, vehicle and quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg), or saline and salvinorin A (0.4 mg/kg). Rats were injected biweekly for a total of 10 injections and locomotor activity measured after each treatment. Results showed that the highest dose of salvinorin A potentiated sensitization to quinpirole as did U69593, the middle salvinorin A dose had no effect on quinpirole sensitization, and the lowest dose of salvinorin A attenuated sensitization to quinpirole. These findings indicate that structural differences between salvinorin A and U69593 do not affect the potentiation of quinpirole sensitization. Moreover, the opposite effects of high and low salvinorin A doses suggest that salvinorin A can produce bidirectional modulation of sensitization to dopamine agonists.
Massive neuronal activation by glutamate can result in an excessive rise in cytoplasmic calcium, a process ultimately leading to neuronal death. We have investigated the role of the transient receptor potential channel 1 (TRPC1) in mediating glutamate-induced neuron death. We show that 2-APB (a blocker of store-operated Ca2+ entry) dramatically reduces glutamate-induced cell death in hippocampal organotypic slice cultures and that glutamate-induced toxicity is accompanied by an increase in TRPC1 expression. RNAi mediated knock-down ofTRPC1 in slice cultures prevented glutamate-induced cell death, indicating that TRPC1 plays a prominent role in calcium entry following exposure to glutamate. Thus, TRPC1 may represent a promising target for pharmacological interventions to prevent or reduce glutamate-induced neuronal damage.

We investigated the spatio-temporal dynamics of learning-induced cAMP response element-binding protein activation/phosphorylation (pCREB) in mice trained in a spatial reference memory task in the water maze. Using immunohistochemistry, we examined pCREB immunoreactivity (pCREB-ir) in hippocampal CA1 and CA3 and related brain structures. During the course of spatial learning over Days 1-9, pCREB-ir progressively increased in hippocampal neurons whereas its level in the dorsal striatum decreased. No significant changes were observed in the prelimbic cortex and lateral amygdala. Mice killed at various time points after the last training session demonstrated two waves of pCREB-ir in CA1 and an early transient CREB phosphorylation in area CA3, lateral amygdala, and prelimbic cortex. We show that CREB phosphorylation and downstream gene Zif268 activation remained sustained in CA1 and CA3 for at least 24 h after extended training (Days 8-9) but not during early training (Day 3). The present results indicate that the strong CA1 CREB phosphorylation observed immediately after training was not related strictly to learning or to memory. In contrast, at 15 min after training, the changes in CA1 CREB phosphorylation state were specifically related to individual learning capability. We suggest that hippocampal-learning specificity of CREB is reflected best by duration, rather than magnitude, of CREB phosphorylation.
The effects of prenatal choline availability on Pavlovian conditioning were assessed in adult male rats (3-4 mo). Neither supplementation nor deprivation of prenatal choline affected the acquisition and extinction of simple Pavlovian conditioned excitation, or the acquisition and retardation of conditioned inhibition. However, prenatal choline availability significantly altered the contextual control of these learned behaviors. Both control and choline-deprived rats exhibited context specificity of conditioned excitation as exhibited by a loss in responding when tested in an alternate context after conditioning; in contrast, choline-supplemented rats showed no such effect. When switched to a different context following extinction, however, both choline-supplemented and control rats showed substantial contextual control of responding, whereas choline-deficient rats did not. These data support the view that configural associations that rely on hippocampal function are selectively sensitive to prenatal manipulations of dietary choline during prenatal development.
Recent research suggests that drug-related memories are reactivated after exposure to environmental cues and may undergo reconsolidation, a process that can strengthen memories. Conversely, reconsolidation may be disrupted by certain pharmacological agents such that the drug-associated memory is weakened. Several studies have demonstrated disruption of memory reconsolidation using a drug-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) task, but no studies have explored whether cocaine-associated memories can be similarly disrupted in cocaine self-administering animals after a cocaine priming injection, which powerfully reinstates drug-seeking behavior. Here we used cocaine-induced CPP and cocaine self-administration to investigate whether the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (+)-5methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) given just prior to reactivation sessions would suppress subsequent cocaine-primed reinstatement (disruption of reconsolidation). Systemic injection of MK-801 (0.05 or 0.20 mg/kg administered intraperitoneally) in rats just prior to reactivation of the cocaine-associated memory in the CPP context attenuated subsequent cocaine-primed reinstatement, while no disruption occurred in rats that did not receive reactivation in the CPP context. However, in rats trained to self-administer cocaine, systemic administration of MK-801 just prior to either of two different types of reactivation sessions had no effect on subsequent cocaine-primed reinstatement of lever-pressing behavior. Thus, systemic administration of MK-801 disrupted the reconsolidation of a cocaine-associated memory for CPP but not for self-administration. These findings suggest that cocaine-CPP and self-administration do not use similar neurochemical processes to disrupt reconsolidation or that cocaine-associated memories in self-administering rats do not undergo reconsolidation, as assessed by lever-pressing behavior under cocaine reinstatement conditions.


DYT1 is the most common inherited dystonia, a neurological syndrome that causes disabling involuntary muscle contractions. This autosomal dominant disease is caused by a glutamic acid deletion near the carboxy-terminus in the protein torsinA. Cell- and animal-based studies have shown how the DYT1 mutation causes mutant torsinA to redistribute from the endoplasmic reticulum to the nuclear envelope, acting through a dominant negative effect over the wild type protein. As a result, the wild type:mutant torsinA expression ratio would be important for disease pathogenesis, and events that influence it, such as a differential degradation process for each protein, might modulate DYT1 pathobiology. The DYT1 mutation also triggers the formation of abnormal intermolecular disulfide bonds in torsinA, although the significance of this finding is unclear. How the protein quality control machinery handles torsinA, and whether this process is affected by its abnormal oligomerization remain unknown. Here, we first explored how the disease-linked mutation influences the catabolic process of human torsinA, demonstrating that the differences in subcellular localization between both forms of torsinA lead to divergences in their degradation pathways and, whereas torsinA is normally recycled through autophagy, the proteasome is also required for the efficient clearance of the mutated form. Subsequently, we determined that the abnormal disulfide bond-dependent oligomerization of mutant torsinA is not a result of its redistribution to the nuclear envelope, but a direct consequence of the mutation. Finally, we established that the presence of disulfide links in mutant torsinA oligomers interfere with their degradation by the proteasome, thus relying on autophagy as the main pathway for clearance. In conclusion, the abnormal subcellular localization and oligomerization of DYT1-linked torsinA influences its catabolic process, opening the door to the modulation of the wild type:mutant torsinA ratio through pharmacological manipulation of protein degradation pathways.
Somatostatin (SST) is a cyclic polypeptide that inhibits the release of a variety of regulatory hormones (e.g. growth hormone, insulin, glucagon, thyrotropin). Moreover, SST is widely distributed within the CNS, acting both as a neurotransmitter and as a neuromodulator of other neurotransmitter systems. However, despite its extensive expression in limbic areas, and its co-localization with GABA, a neurotransmitter previously implicated in emotion, the effects of SST on anxiety and depression have not been investigated. By performing intraventricular infusions in rats we demonstrate, for the first time, that SST has anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects in the elevated plus-maze and forced swim test, respectively. In addition, by performing local field potential recordings of hippocampal theta activity evoked by reticular stimulation in urethane-anesthetized rats we also show that SST application suppresses the frequency of theta in a similar fashion to diazepam. This neurophysiological signature, common to all classes of anxiolytic drugs (i.e. benzodiazepines, selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors, 5-HT1A agonists) provides strong converging evidence for the anxiolytic-like characteristics of SST. Our pharmacological antagonism experiments with bicuculline further suggest that the anxiolytic effect of SST may be attributable to the interaction of SST with GABA, whereas the antidepressant-like effect of SST may be GABA-independent. In addition to contributing to the current understanding of the role of neuropeptides in mood and emotion, these findings support a clinical role for SST (or its analogues) in the treatment of anxiety and depression.
Netrins are a family of secreted proteins that function as axon guidance cues during neural development. High levels of netrin-1 expressed by the embryonic ganglionic eminence, the precursor of the adult striatum, direct axons that pioneer the internal capsule. Here we describe netrin-1 expression by neurons distributed throughout the striatum of the adult mouse. Differences were detected in the number and type of neurons expressing netrin-1 in different regions of the striatum. Most neurons in the ventral striatum, including projection neurons and cholinergic interneurons, express netrin-1. In contrast, netrin-1 expression is largely limited to cholinergic interneurons in the dorsal striatum, and the proportion of cholinergic interneurons that express netrin-1 decreases along rostral-caudal and ventral-dorsal axes. Regional differences in expression in the adult striatum suggest that netrin-1 not only influences the development of striatal circuitry but may also participate in the maintenance and plasticity of connections in the adult brain.
Elevated nitric oxide (NO) and proton levels in synovial fluid are implicated in joint pathology. However, signaling pathways stimulated by these molecules that mediate inflammation and pain in the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) have not been investigated. The goal of this study was to determine the effect of NO-proton stimulation of rat trigeminal neurons on the in vivo expression of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and phosphatases (MKPs) in trigeminal ganglion neurons and satellite glial cells. Low levels of the active MAPKs extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 were localized in the cytosol of neurons and satellite glial cells in unstimulated animals. However, increased levels of active ERK and p38, but not JNK, were detected in the cytosol and nucleus of V3 neurons and satellite glial cells 15 min and 2 h following bilateral TMJ injections of an NO donor diluted in pH 5.5 medium. While ERK levels returned to near basal levels 24 h after stimulation, p38 levels remained significantly elevated. In contrast to MKP-2 and MKP-3 levels that were barely detectable in neurons or satellite glial cells, MKP-1 staining was readily observed in satellite glial cells in ganglia from unstimulated animals. However, neuronal and satellite glial cell staining for MKP-1, MKP-2, and MKP-3 was significantly increased in response to NO-protons. Increased active ERK and p38 levels as well as elevated MKP levels were also detected in neurons and satellite glial cells located in V2 and V1 regions of the ganglion. Our data provide evidence that NO-proton stimulation of V3 neurons results in temporal and spatial changes in expression of active ERK and p38 and MKPs in all regions of the ganglion. We propose that in trigeminal ganglia these cellular events, which are involved in peripheral sensitization as well as control of inflammatory and nociceptive responses, may play a role in TMJ pathology.
The dual-specific kinase DYRK1A (dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A) is the mammalian orthologue of the Drosophila minibrain (MNB) protein kinase and executes diverse roles in neuronal development and adult brain physiology. DYRK1A is overexpressed in Down syndrome (DS) and has recently been implicated in several neurodegenerative diseases. In an attempt to elucidate the molecular basis of its involvement in cognitive and neurodegeneration processes, we searched for novel proteins interacting with the kinase domain of DYRK1A in the adult mouse brain and identified septin 4 (SEPT4, also known as Pnutl2/CDCrel-2). SEPT4 is a member of the group III septin family of guanosine triphosphate hydrolases (GTPases), which has previously been found in neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer disease brains and in alpha-synuclein-positive cytoplasmic inclusions in Parkinson disease brains. In transfected mammalian cells, DYRK1A specifically interacts with and phosphorylates SEPT4. Phosphorylation of SEPT4 by DYRK1A was inhibited by harmine, which has recently been identified as the most specific inhibitor of DYRK1A. In support of a physiological relation in the brain, we found that Dyrk1A and Sept4 are co-expressed and co-localized in neocortical neurons. These findings suggest that SEPT4 is a substrate of DYRK1A kinase and thus provide a possible link for the involvement of DYRK1A in neurodegenerative processes and in DS neuropathologies.
Sharp wave-ripple (SPW-R) complexes are physiological pattern of network activity in the hippocampus thought to play important role in memory consolidation. During SPW-R activity the excitability of both pyramidal cells and certain types of interneurons in the CA1 region is transiently increased. As a result pyramidal cells receive inhibitory input during network oscillation, yet a relatively small group of pyramidal cells transmit their output to CA1 targets. However, the exact nature of CA1 output during SPW-R activity is not clear. In this study, using simultaneous intracellular and field recordings from rat ventral hippocampal slices maintained at 32 degrees C and spontaneously generating SPW-R complexes we show that 20% of CA1 pyramidal cells fired putative ectopic action potentials (e-APs) phase-related to SPW-Rs. The highest probability of ectopic discharge occurred at the maximal amplitude of the ripple oscillation and always during the period of SPW-R-associated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in pyramidal cells. Both e-APs and IPSPs were abolished under blockade of GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission by bicuculline. Ectopic APs phase-locked to SPW-R events were also evoked by Schaffer collateral stimulation subthreshold for and with longer latency than monosynaptic orthodromic APs. A fraction of CA1 pyramidal cells (25.7%), most of them distinct from the cells firing e-APs, fired orthodromic APs with highest probability before the onset of SPW-Rs. We hypothesize that putative ectopic spikes in pyramidal cells, presumably triggered by GABAergic synaptic mechanisms, by serving as output of the CA1 region might provide a reliable mechanism for optimized information transfer between hippocampus and its cortical targets during SPW-R activity. On the other hand, orthodromic APs might contribute to the initiation and synchronization of the population activity.
The mammalian circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is thought to be modulated by 5-HT. 5-HT is though to inhibit photic phase shifts by inhibiting the release of glutamate from retinal terminals, as well as by decreasing the responsiveness of retinorecipient cells in the SCN. Furthermore, there is also evidence that 5-HT may underlie, in part, non-photic phase shifts of the circadian system. Understanding the mechanism by which 5-HT accomplishes these goals is complicated by the wide variety of 5-HT receptors found in the SCN, the heterogeneous organization of both the circadian clock and the location of 5-HT receptors, and by a lack of sufficiently selective pharmacological agents for the 5-HT receptors of interest. Genetically modified animals engineered to lack a specific 5-HT receptor present an alternative avenue of investigation to understand how 5-HT regulates the circadian system. Here we examine behavioral and molecular responses to both photic and non-photic stimuli in mice lacking the 5-HT(1A) receptor. When compared with wild-type controls, these mice exhibit larger phase advances to a short late-night light pulse and larger delays to long 12 h light pulses that span the whole subjective night. Fos and mPer1 expression in the retinorecipient SCN is significantly attenuated following late-night light pulses in the 5-HT(1A) knockout animals. Finally, non-photic phase shifts to (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino)tetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT) are lost in the knockout animals, while attenuation of the phase shift to the long light pulse due to rebound activity following a wheel lock is unaffected. These findings suggest that the 5-HT(1A) receptor plays an inhibitory role in behavioral phase shifts, a facilitatory role in light-induced gene expression, a necessary role in phase shifts to 8-OH-DPAT, and is not necessary for activity-induced phase advances that oppose photic phase shifts to long light pulses.
This paper investigates the role of differences in adrenal cortical function on the proliferation rate of progenitor cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in adult Sprague-Dawley (SD) and Lister-Hooded (LH) male rats. SD rats had around 60% more cells labeled with Ki67 (an index of mitosis) than LH rats under basal conditions. Bilateral adrenalectomy (ADX) increased levels in both strains, but by unequal amounts, such that post-ADX numbers of Ki67-labeled cells were similar in both strains. Daily injections of 5 mg/kg corticosterone for 7 days reduced levels to similar values in ADX rats of both strains. The activity of progenitor cells in either strain did not respond to daily i.p. injections of fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) for 14 days, but an equivalent dose administered by osmotic minipump stimulated proliferation in both by a similar proportional amount, such that strain differences persisted. S.c. implantation of a corticosterone pellet (75 mg), which flattens the diurnal rhythm in corticosterone, prevented fluoxetine delivered by minipump from activating progenitor cell mitosis in SD rats, as it had in the LH strain in a previous study. These results show that much, if not all, of the marked strain differences between SD and LH rats in progenitor cell activity, and hence rates of neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus may be ascribed to corresponding differences in adrenal cortical activity.
The A-type voltage-gated potassium channels (Kv4) have been proved to play a major role as modulators of somatodendritic excitability. Recent studies indicate that neuronal hyperactivity in epilepsy is associated with changes in Kv4. However, the precise regulation of Kv4 in the development of epilepsy and its underlying mechanism remain unclear. In this study, we investigated whether the expression of the Kv4.2 channel and of its major modulator, voltage-dependent potassium channel-interacting protein (KChIP1), is altered following lithium-pilocarpine induced status epilepticus (SE) and the chronic-epilepsy phase in the rat model. We found that Kv4.2 and KChIP1 expression was transiently up-regulated following SE, whereas it was down-regulated during the chronic phase: this was most prominent in the CA1 and CA3 regions. The time-course analysis of the protein expression level showed that the peak Kv4.2 up-regulation was between 6 and 24 h after SE, whereas KChIP1 expression was increased earlier and for a shorter period. The temporospatial changes in Kv4.2 were very similar to those of its major modulator KChIP1. We compared the difference in 4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-induced intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)]i) elevation between model and control brain slices. The results showed that the [Ca(2+)]i elevation induced by the Kv4 channel blocker 4-AP was aggravated and prolonged in the model slice after SE. The functional relevance of these changes in Ca(2+) homeostasis and Kv4.2 and KChIP1 expression may be associated with intrinsic neuronal excitability regulation and epileptogenesis.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) binding protein (CRF-BP) is a secreted protein that acts to bind and limit the activity of the neuropeptides, CRF and urocortin (Ucn) 1. We previously selected for high maternal defense (protection of offspring) in mice and found CRF-BP to be elevated in the CNS of selected mice. We also previously determined that both CRF and Ucn 1 are potent inhibitors of offspring protection when administered centrally. Thus, elevated CRF-BP could promote defense by limiting endogenous actions of CRF or Ucn 1. To test this hypothesis, we crossed the deletion for CRF-BP into the mice selected for high maternal defense and evaluated offspring protection and other maternal behaviors. CRF-BP knockout (KO) mice exhibited significant deficits in maternal aggression relative to wild-type (WT) mice in three different measures. Other maternal features were almost identical between groups, including dam and pup weight, litter size, nursing time, and pup retrieval. Both groups performed similarly in a forced swim stress test and aggression in both groups was reduced following the swim test. Virgin KO female mice exhibited higher levels of anxiety-like behavior in terms of decreased time in the light portion of the light/dark box test. For males, no differences in light/dark box or swim test were found. However, increased anxiety-like behavior in male KO mice was identified in terms of contact and approach to a novel object both with and without previous exposure to the swim test. No differences in isolation induced resident intruder male aggression were found between groups. Together, these results indicate that loss of CRF-BP selectively impairs maternal, but not intermale aggression and that loss of the gene induces anxiety-like behavior in males and females, but there are sex differences in terms of how that anxiety is revealed.
Humans exposed prenatally to ethanol can exhibit brain abnormalities and cognitive impairment similar to those seen in patients expressing mutant forms of the L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM). The resemblance suggests that L1CAM may be a target for ethanol, and consistent with this idea, ethanol can inhibit L1CAM adhesion in cell lines and L1CAM-mediated outgrowth and signaling in cerebellar granule neurons. However, it is not known whether ethanol inhibits L1CAM function in other neuron types known to require L1CAM for appropriate development. Here we asked whether ethanol alters L1CAM function in neurons of the rat cerebral cortex. We find that ethanol does not alter axonal polarization, L1CAM-dependent axon outgrowth or branching, or L1CAM recycling in axonal growth cones. Thus, ethanol inhibition of L1CAM is highly dependent on neuronal context.
In natural settings, the occurrence of unpredictable infrequent events is often associated with emotional reactions in the brain. Previous research suggested a special sensitivity of the brain to valence differences in emotionally negative stimuli. Thus, the present study hypothesizes that valence changes in infrequent negative stimuli would have differential effects on visual novelty processing. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded for highly negative (HN), moderately negative (MN) and Neutral infrequent stimuli, and for the frequent standard stimulus while subjects performed a frequent/infrequent categorization task, irrespective of the emotional valence of the infrequent stimuli. The infrequent-frequent difference waves, which index visual novelty processing, displayed larger N2 amplitudes during HN condition than during MN condition which, in turn, elicited greater N2 amplitude than the Neutral condition. Similarly, in the infrequent-frequent difference waves, the frontocentral P3a and parietal LPC (late positive complex) elicited by the HN condition were more negative than those by MN stimuli, which elicited more negative amplitudes than the Neutral condition. This suggests that negative emotions of diverse strength, as induced by negative stimuli of varying valences, are clearly different in their impact on visual novelty processing. Novel stimuli of increased negativity elicited more attentional resources during the early novelty detection, and recruited increased inhibitive and evaluative processing during the later stages of response decision and reaction readiness, relative to novel stimuli of reduced negativity.
The aims of the present study were to investigate whether the activation of the 5-HT receptor subtypes (5-HT(4) and 5-HT(3)) acted significantly on the modification of the tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium current (I(NaR)) in small-sized rat trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons and whether the inhibition of the transient K(+) current (I(A)) contributed to the excitability in those neurons. 5-HT applications in at concentrations ranging from 0.01-10 microM significantly increased the peak I(NaR). One micromolar 5-HT application caused the greatest increase in the peak I(NaR) amplitude accompanied by a hyperpolarizing shift in the activation curve. A similar modification of I(NaR) properties was also obtained via the application of the 5-HT(4) receptor agonist, RS 67333, in concentrations ranging from 0.001-1 microM. The largest effects of 5-HT (1 microM) and RS 67333 (0.1 microM) on the modification of I(NaR) were abolished by pretreatment with ICS 205-930 (a 5-HT(3/4) receptor antagonist, 10 microM), which showed no significant effect on the baseline I(NaR). However, ICS 205-930 application at 30 microM caused a significant decrease in the baseline I(NaR). Phenylbiguanide (a 5-HT(3) receptor agonist) did not significantly alter I(NaR) properties when applied in concentrations ranging from 1 to 100 microM. The application of 0.1 microM RS 67333 decreased the transient K(+) current (I(A)) by approximately 31%. The threshold for action potential generation was significantly lower after the application of 0.1 microM RS 67333. Furthermore, 0.1 microM RS 67333 application increased the number of action potentials and the resting membrane potential got more positive, but it decreased the duration of depolarization phase of action potential. In addition, neither the additional application of 1 microM 5-HT in the presence of 10 microM forskolin, a stimulator of adenylyl cyclase, nor the opposite applications of 5-HT and forskolin caused the enhancement of increased I(NaR), which indicates the presence of an 'occluding effect.' These results suggest that the 5-HT-induced modification of I(NaR) is mediated by the activation of 5-HT(4) receptors, involving a cAMP-dependent signaling pathway, and that the inhibition of I(A) following the application of a 5-HT(4) receptor agonist also contributes to the increased number of action potentials.
Episodic ataxia type 1 (EA1) is a rare human neurological syndrome characterized by continuous myokymia and attacks of generalized ataxia that can be triggered by abrupt movements, emotional stress and fatigue. An Italian family has been identified where related members displayed continuous myokymia, episodes of ataxia, attacks characterized by myokymia only, and neuromyotonia. A novel missense mutation (F414C), in the C-terminal region of the K(+) channel Kv1.1, was identified in the affected individuals. The mutant homotetrameric channels were non-functional in Xenopus laevis oocytes. In addition, heteromeric channels resulting from the co-expression of wild-type Kv1.1 and Kv1.1(F414C), or wild-type Kv1.2 and Kv1.1(F414C) subunits displayed reduced current amplitudes and altered gating properties. This indicates that the pathogenic effect of this KCNA1 mutation is likely to be related to the defective functional properties we have identified.
We investigated episodic-like (ELM) and procedural memory (PM) in histamine H1 receptor knockout (H1R-KO) mice. In order to relate possible behavioral deficits to neurobiological changes, we examined H1R-KO and wild-type (WT) mice in terms of acetylcholine esterase (AChE) activity in subregions of the hippocampus and AChE and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression in the striatum. Furthermore, we analyzed acetylcholine (ACh), 5-HT and dopamine (DA) levels, including metabolites, in the cerebellum of H1R-KO and WT mice. The homozygous H1R-KO mice showed impaired ELM as compared with the heterozygous H1R-KO and WT mice. The performance of homozygous H1R-KO mice in the ELM task was primarily driven by familiarity-based memory processes. While the homozygous H1R-KO mice performed similar to the heterozygous H1R-KO and WT mice during the acquisition of a PM, as measured with an accelerating rotarod, after a retention interval of 7 days their performance was impaired relative to the heterozygous H1R-KO and WT mice. These findings suggest that, both, ELM and long-term PM are impaired in the homozygous H1R-KO mice. Neurochemical assays revealed that the H1R-KO mice had significantly lower levels of AChE activity in the dentate gyrus (DG) and CA1 subregions of the hippocampus as compared with the WT mice. The homozygous H1R-KO mice also displayed significantly reduced dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) levels and a reduced DOPAC/DA ratio in the cerebellum, suggesting that the DA turnover in the cerebellum is decelerated in homozygous H1R-KO mice. In conclusion, homozygous H1R-KO mice display severe long-term memory deficits in, both, ELM and PM, which coincide with changes in AChE activity in the hippocampus as well as DA turnover in the cerebellum. The importance of these findings for Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) is discussed.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by a polyglutamine repeat expansion in huntingtin. A newly developed bacterial artificial chromosome transgenic mouse model (BACHD) reproduces phenotypic features of HD including predominantly neuropil-associated protein aggregation and progressive motor dysfunction with selective neurodegenerative pathology. Motor dysfunction has been shown to precede neuropathology in BACHD mice. We therefore investigated the progression of synaptic pathology in pyramidal cells and interneurons of the superficial motor cortex of BACHD mice. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were performed on layer 2/3 primary motor cortical pyramidal cells and parvalbumin interneurons from BACHD mice at 3 months, when the mice begin to demonstrate mild motor dysfunction, and at 6 months, when the motor dysfunction is more severe. Changes in synaptic variances were detectable at 3 months, and at 6 months BACHD mice display progressive synaptic pathology in the form of reduced cortical excitation and loss of inhibition onto pyramidal cells. These results suggest that progressive alterations of the superficial cortical circuitry may contribute to the decline of motor function in BACHD mice. The synaptic pathology occurs prior to neuronal degeneration and may therefore prove useful as a target for future therapeutic design.
At the optic chiasm retinal fibers either cross the midline, or remain uncrossed. Here we trace hemispheric pathways through the marmoset chiasm and show that fibers from the lateral optic nerve pass directly toward the ipsilateral optic tract without any significant change in fiber order and without approaching the midline, while those from medial regions of the nerve decussate directly. Anterograde labeling from one eye shows that the two hemispheric pathways remain segregated through the proximal nerve and chiasm with the uncrossed confined laterally. Retrograde labeling from the optic tract confirms this. This clearly demonstrates that hemispheric pathways are segregated through the primate chiasm. Previous chiasmatic studies have been undertaken mainly on rodents and ferrets. In these species there is a major change in fiber order pre-chiasmatically, where crossed and uncrossed fibers mix, reflecting their embryological history when all fibers approach the midline prior to their commitment to innervate either hemisphere. This pattern was thought to be common to placental mammals. In marsupials there is no change in fiber order and uncrossed fibers remain confined laterally through nerve and chiasm, again, reflecting their developmental history when all uncrossed fibers avoid the midline. Recently it has been shown that this distinction is not a true dichotomy between placental mammals and marsupials, as fiber order in tree shrews and humans mirrors the marsupial pattern. Architectural differences in the mature chiasm probably reflect different developmental mechanisms regulating pathway choice. Our results therefore suggest that both the organization and development of the primate optic chiasm differ markedly from that revealed in rodents and carnivores.
Histone deacetylase (HDAC) plays an important role in chromatin remodeling in response to a variety of neurochemical signalings and behavioral manipulations, and may be a therapeutic target for modulation of psychostimulant behavioral sensitization. In this study, we investigated the molecular interaction between histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) and psychostimulant in vivo of mice after repeated treatment with the HDACi, butyric acid (BA) and valproic acid (VPA), alone or in combination with amphetamine. Repeated treatment with amphetamine produced HDACi-like effects: enhanced global histone H4 acetylation level by Western blot as well as specific histone H4 acetylation associated with fosB promoter by chromatin immunoprecipitation in the striatum. Conversely, repeated treatment with BA or VPA produced amphetamine-like effects: enhanced cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation at Ser(133) position and increased DeltaFosB protein levels in the striatum. Furthermore, co-administration of BA or VPA with amphetamine produced additive effects on histone H4 acetylation as well as CREB phosphorylation in the striatum. The interplay of HDAC and CREB was also supported by co-immunoprecipitation assays demonstrating that repeated treatment with VPA reduced the association of CREB and HDAC1 in the striatum. Finally, the additive effect of VPA/BA and amphetamine on histone H4 acetylation, phosphorylated CREB, and DeltaFosB was associated with potentiated amphetamine-induced locomotor activity. Thus, HDACi may interact additively with psychostimulants at both histone acetylation and CREB phosphorylation through the CREB:HDAC protein complex in the striatum to modulate DeltaFosB protein levels and psychomotor behavioral sensitization.
Preganglionic parasympathetic neurons (PPNs) reside in the intermediolateral (IML) nucleus of the rat lumbosacral spinal cord and contribute to the autonomic control of visceral pelvic organs. PPNs provide the final common pathway for efferent parasympathetic information originating in the spinal cord. We examined the detailed ultrastructure of the type and organization of synaptic inputs to the cell body and proximal dendrites of PPNs in the rat conus medullaris. The PPNs were retrogradely labeled by a systemic administration of the B subunit of cholera toxin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. We demonstrate four distinct types of synaptic boutons in apposition with PPN somata and proximal dendrites: S-type boutons show clear, spheroid vesicles; F-type boutons show flattened vesicles; dense-cored vesicle-type (DCV-type) boutons show a mixture of clear and dense-cored vesicles; L-type boutons were rare, but large, exhibited clear spheroid vesicles, and were only encountered in apposition with the PPN dendrites in our sample. The membrane surface covered by apposed boutons was markedly higher for the proximal dendrites of PPNs, compared with their somata. The inhibitory synaptic influence was markedly higher over the PPN somata compared with their proximal dendrites, as suggested by the higher proportion of putative inhibitory F-type boutons in apposition with the soma and a higher frequency of S-type boutons per membrane length for the proximal dendrites. Our studies suggest that the synaptic input to PPNs originates from multiple distinct sources and is differentially distributed and integrated over the cell membrane surface.
Clioquinol (CQ) is able to chelate synaptic zinc, which can modulate excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission. In humans, CQ was associated with cases of transient global amnesia (TGA) and with the neurodegenerative syndrome subacute myelo-optico-neuropathy (SMON). We examined the CQ induced loss of synaptic zinc, cell death and c-Fos induction in rats and mice. In rats, we found a strong reduction of histochemically reactive synaptic zinc no later than 4 h after the injection of the lowest dose of CQ (50 mg/kg) and, for all doses used, a return to control levels after 48 h. There was no evidence of cell death for any dose and up to 1 week after CQ injections. Only a slight induction of c-Fos was seen in the hippocampus for the higher doses used (100-200 mg/kg). In mice injected with 100 mg/kg, CQ also resulted in a fast loss of synaptic zinc. c-Fos was induced after 4 h in cell populations of the hippocampal region and other parts of the telencephalon, and substantially increased after 24 h. One day after the injection we found a pattern of cell loss (hilus, parts of CA3, CA1 and layer III of the medial entorhinal cortex) reminiscent of that seen in models of temporal lobe epilepsy. In conjunction with published data on the behavioral effects of zinc chelation and the modulatory effects of zinc in excitatory neurotransmission, our results indicate that the loss of synaptic zinc may have been involved in TGA and the neuropathology associated with SMON.

Competition among different axons to reach the somatodendritic region of the target neuron is an important event during development to achieve the final architecture typical of the mature brain. Trasmitter-receptor matching is a critical step for the signaling between neurons. In the cerebellar cortex, there is a persistent competition between the two glutamatergic inputs, the parallel fibers and the climbing fibers, for the innervation of the Purkinje cells. The activity of the latter input is necessary to maintain its own synaptic contacts on the proximal dendritic domain and to confine the parallel fibers in the distal one. Here, we show that climbing fiber activity also limits the distribution of the GABAergic input in the proximal domain. In addition, blocking the activity by tetrodotoxin infusion in Wistar rat cerebellum, a synapse made by GABAergic terminals onto the recently formed Purkinje cell spines appear in the proximal dendrites. The density of GABAergic terminals is increased, and unexpected double symmetric/asymmetric postsynaptic densities add to the typical symmetric phenotype of the GABAergic shaft synapses. Moreover, glutamate receptors appear in these ectopic synapses even in the absence of glutamate transmitter inside the presynaptic terminal and close to GABA receptors. These results suggest that the Purkinje cell has an intrinsic tendency to develop postsynaptic assemblies of excitatory types, including glutamate receptors, over the entire dendritic territory. GABA receptors are induced in these assemblies when contacted by GABAergic terminals, thus leading to the formation of hybrid synapses.
Testicular Sertoli cells highly express dynamin 2 and amphiphysin 1. Here we demonstrate that dynamin 2 is implicated in phosphatidylserine (PS)-dependent phagocytosis in Sertoli cells. Immunofluorescence and dual-live imaging revealed that dynamin 2 and amphiphysin 1 accumulate simultaneously at ruffles. These proteins are specifically bound in vitro. Over-expression of dominant negative dynamin 2 (K44A) inhibits liposome-uptake and leads to the mis-localization of amphiphysin 1. Thus, the cooperative function of dynamin 2 and amphiphysin 1 in PS-dependent phagocytosis is strongly suggested.







To examine dynamic changes in drug-use trajectories over time we analyzed episode types and predictors of quitting use over the 10 years following drug-use initiation for 1797 heroin, cocaine, and methamphetamine (meth) users. Most episodes reflected high use and incarceration, however these events occurred more frequently among heroin and meth users. Quitting was predicted by current treatment and self-help participation among meth (RR 2.57, 1.79-3.70; 2.57, 1.80-3.67) and cocaine (RR 2.00, 1.42-2.81; 2.10, 1.63-2.72) users, and by a history of quitting for meth users (RR 1.11, 1.06-1.17). Quitting was less likely among all users under legal supervision (RR 0.55-0.69) and among heroin (RR 0.66, 0.45-0.97) and meth users (RR 0.73, 0.60-0.89) with an early drug-use onset. Relative to cocaine or meth use, heroin use was characterized by persistent use at a high-level which was often only interrupted by incarceration. While quitting drug use can be facilitated by treatment and/or self-help participation, few people had these experiences in the 10 years following first use.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a terminal age-associated dementia characterized by early synaptic dysfunction and late neurodegeneration. Although the presence of plaques of fibrillar aggregates of the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) is a signature of AD, evidence suggests that the preplaque small oligomeric Abeta promotes both synaptic dysfunction and neuronal death. We found that young Tg2576 transgenic mice, which accumulate Abeta and develop cognitive impairments prior to plaque deposition, have high central nervous system (CNS) activity of calcineurin (CaN), a phosphatase involved in negative regulation of memory function via inactivation of the transcription factor cAMP responsive element binding proteins (CREB), and display CaN-dependent memory deficits. These results thus suggested the involvement of prefibrillary forms of Abeta. To investigate this issue, we compared the effect of monomeric, oligomeric, and fibrillar Abeta on CaN activity, CaN-dependent pCREB and phosphorylated Bcl-2 Associated death Protein (pBAD) levels, and cell death in SY5Y cells and in rat brain slices, and determined the role of CaN on CREB phosphorylation in the CNS of Tg2576 mice. Our results show that oligomeric Abeta specifically induces CaN activity and promotes CaN-dependent CREB and Bcl-2 Asociated death Protein (BAD) dephosphorylation and cell death. Furthermore, Tg2576 mice display Abeta oligomers and reduced pCREB in the CNS, which is normalized by CaN inhibition. These findings suggest a role for CaN in mediating effects of oligomeric Abeta on neural cells. Because elevated CaN levels have been reported in the CNS of cognitively impaired aged rodents, our results further suggest that abnormal CaN hyperactivity may be a common event exacerbating the cognitive and neurodegenerative impact of oligomeric Abeta in the aging CNS.
Astrocytes comprise a large proportion of the central nervous system support cells and play a critical role in neural injury and repair. The present study examined the impact of ovarian aging using an ex vivo model system, where astrocytes were derived from the olfactory bulb of young, reproductively competent females and reproductive senescent females. Cellular morphology and the spatial pattern of laminin deposition was altered in astrocyte cultures derived from reproductive senescent females. Young adult astrocytes had a flattened polygonal shape with actin bundles at the cell edges, while reproductive senescent astrocytes had a contractile appearance with thick stress fibers visible throughout the cell. Moreover, in reproductive senescent astrocytes, BDNF was elevated with a concomitant reduction in expression of the BDNF receptor, TrkB. To examine the ability of astrocytes derived from young adult and reproductive senescent females to promote neuronal differentiation, neural progenitor cells (NPCs) were co-cultured with astrocytes derived from these groups. At day 4 in vitro, MAP-2(+) NPCs were located in smaller clusters when co-cultured with young adult astrocytes and in large clusters when co-cultured with older astrocytes. At days 6 and 10, neuronal differentiation was significantly reduced in reproductive senescent astrocyte-NPC co-cultures, as determined by NeuN(+) cell numbers and MAP-2(+) process lengths. Furthermore, estrogen only enhanced neuronal differentiation in young adult-NPC co-cultures. The ovarian age-related astrocyte phenotype thus limits the ability of this cell to promote neuronal differentiation in NPC populations and suggests that the astrocyte-mediated microenvironment in older acyclic females is less conducive to repair following neurovascular injury.
Adolescence is a time period when distinct behavioral and neurophysiological changes occur. Novelty seeking is common during this developmental period, and binge alcohol consumption by adolescents is prevalent. Adolescents, as compared to adults, have been shown to display decreased sensitivity to many effects of ethanol, including effects that may serve as cues to moderate consumption. Consequently, reduction of these factors could facilitate drinking behaviors in adolescents, which may disrupt normal developmental processes. Chronic intermittent ethanol exposure (CIEE) to high doses of ethanol in rats has been shown to prevent normal developmental increases in sensitivity to ethanol-induced loss of righting reflex (LORR). However, it is unknown whether the same disruptions would occur following CIEE to more moderate and low alcohol doses. The present study was designed to evaluate the effects of CIEE in rats to several different doses during adolescence on ethanol-induced LORR in adulthood. Male rats were weighed and treated intraperitoneal with 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, or 4.0 g/kg ethanol or equivolume saline (equivalent to 4.0 g/kg dosings) every 48 hours for 20 days beginning on postnatal day (PN) 30. LORR was measured following each ethanol exposure. Finally, LORR was measured in both ethanol and saline-exposed animals following 4.0 g/kg ethanol challenge on PN 50 and following a 12-day withdrawal period (PN62). Duration of LORR remained unchanged throughout the adolescent exposure period. However, when LORR was measured on PN50 and PN62, 4.0 and 3.0 g/kg treatment groups displayed significantly less LORR compared to the free feeding and 1.0 g/kg ethanol treated groups. Animals displayed no tolerance development to LORR throughout the chronic exposure period even though moderate and high doses of ethanol were used. CIEE to high (3.0 or 4.0 g/kg) doses of ethanol disrupted the expected developmental increase in sensitivity to ethanol-induced LORR. These results may have implications for human adolescent drinkers. Specifically due to adolescents' relative resistance to the hypnotic effects of alcohol and their tendency to intake alcohol in an intermittent, or binge-like, manner such tolerance might lead to increases in alcohol abuse in this population of drinkers.
Although adolescent ethanol (EtOH) exposure has been associated with long-lasting changes in brain function, little is known as to whether EtOH exposure during adolescence alters sleep and cortical arousal. This study examined protracted alterations in sleep in adult rats exposed to EtOH during adolescence. Adolescent male Wistar rats were exposed to EtOH vapor for 12 h/day for 5 weeks. Cortical electroencephalograms were obtained during 4-h recording sessions after 5 weeks of withdrawal from EtOH. Adolescent EtOH exposure significantly reduced the mean duration of slow-wave sleep (SWS) episodes and the total amount of time spent in SWS in EtOH-exposed rats, compared to controls. Spectral analysis revealed that adolescent EtOH exposure significantly increased cortical peak frequencies during SWS in the 2-4, 4-6, and 6-8 Hz bands. Taken together, our findings suggest that chronic EtOH exposure in adolescent rats reduces measures of SWS, an effect also seen as part of normal aging. Although the cellular and molecular mechanisms mediating the consequences of EtOH exposure on the aging process are not known, the similarities between adolescent EtOH exposure and aging merits further investigation.
Alcohol readily facilitates social interactions and this effect plays an important role in adolescent drinking behaviors. The ability of social interaction to alter behaviors in response to alcohol in adolescent animals has been assessed using the demonstrator-observer paradigm. The demonstrator is exposed to ethanol and the observer is tested for changes in behaviors in response to ethanol after social interaction between the dyad. The present experiment expanded on previous work to investigate the effects of different types of social interaction on subsequent voluntary ethanol consumption in adolescent male and female rats. Specifically, voluntary ethanol intake was assessed in adolescent observers after social interaction with an alcohol-free or -intoxicated same-sex familiar cage-mate or an age-matched unfamiliar conspecific. Demonstrators were intragastrically administered water or 1.5 g/kg ethanol and allowed to socially interact with observers for 30 min after a 1-h social isolation period. Subsequently, observers were allowed voluntary access to ethanol using a two-bottle choice paradigm overnight for 13 h. Male and female observers that interacted with an alcohol-intoxicated familiar cagemate consumed significantly more ethanol relative to their alcohol-free counterparts. However, adolescent male observers that socially interacted with an alcohol-intoxicated, age-matched unfamiliar conspecific consumed significantly less ethanol than controls. The opposite effect was observed in adolescent female observers. The present results are consistent and extend previous work in support of the idea that exposure to the demonstrator-observer paradigm alters voluntary ethanol intake in a sex- and familiarity-dependent manner. Partner familiarity can induce elevated or reduced ethanol consumption in males. However, females appear to be more sensitive to the elevating effects of social interaction on voluntary ethanol consumption, regardless of familiarity of the partner.






On November 8-9, 2007, a meeting entitled &quot;Setting a Public Health Research Agenda for Down Syndrome&quot; was held to review current knowledge, identify gaps, and develop priorities for future public health research related to Down syndrome. Participants included experts in clinical and molecular genetics, pediatrics, cardiology, psychiatry, psychology, neuroscience, epidemiology, and public health. Participants were asked to identify key public health research questions and discuss potential strategies that could be used to address those questions. The following were identified as priority areas for future public health research: identification of risk and preventive factors for physical health and cognitive outcomes, focusing on understanding the reasons for previously recognized disparities; improved understanding of comorbid conditions, including their prevalence, clinical variability, natural history, and optimal methods for their evaluation and treatment; better characterization of the natural history of cognition, language, and behavior; identification of mental health comorbidities and of risk and protective factors for their development; identification of strategies to improve enrollment in research studies; development of strategies for conveying up-to-date information to parents and health professionals; identification of interventions to improve cognition, language, mental health, and behavior; understanding the impact of educational and social services and supports; identification of improved methods for diagnosis of and interventions for Alzheimer disease; and understanding the effects of different types of health care on outcomes. Participants strongly supported the development of population-based resources for research studies and resources useful for longitudinal studies. This agenda will be used to guide future public health research on Down syndrome.

Improved hygiene has been suggested to influence certain autoimmune disorders, such as multiple sclerosis. In this study, we addressed whether altering the composition of gut flora may affect susceptibility to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS. We administered a mixture of non-absorbing antibiotics, kanamycin, colistin, and vancomycin (KCV), orally to mice induced to develop EAE. The antibiotic treatment, beginning 1 week prior to sensitization, altered the composition of gut flora and, intriguingly, also ameliorated the development of EAE. While this result was associated with a reduced production of pro-inflammatory cytokines from the draining lymph node cells, a reduction of mesenteric Th17 cells was found to correlate with disease suppression. In addition, we found that Valpha14 invariant NKT (iNKT) cells were necessary for maintaining the mesenteric Th17 cells. The homologous effects of KCV treatment and iNKT cell depletion led us to speculate that KCV treatment may suppress EAE by altering the function of iNKT cells. Consistent with this hypothesis, KCV treatment did not suppress EAE that was induced in iNKT cell-deficient mice, although it was efficacious in mice that lacked Valpha19 mucosal-associated invariant T cells. Thus, gut flora may influence the development of EAE in a way that is dependent on iNKT cells, which has significant implications for the prevention and treatment of autoimmune diseases.
Adipose differentiation-related protein (ADRP) is highly expressed in macrophages and human atherosclerotic lesions. We demonstrated that Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4-mediated signals, which are involved in atherosclerosis formation, enhanced the expression of ADRP in macrophages. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) enhanced the ADRP expression in RAW264.7 cells or peritoneal macrophages from wild-type mice, but not in macrophages from TLR4-deficient mice. Actinomycin D almost completely abolished the LPS effect, whereas cycloheximide decreased the expression at 12 h, indicating that the LPS-induced ADRP expression was stimulated at the transcriptional level and was also mediated by new protein synthesis. LPS enhanced the ADRP promoter activity, in part, by stimulating activator protein (AP)-1 binding to the Ets/AP-1 element. In addition, preceding the increase of the ADRP mRNA, LPS induced the expression of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1alpha, and interferon-beta mRNAs, all of which stimulated the ADRP expression. Antibodies against these cytokines or inhibitors of c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB suppressed the ADRP mRNA level. Thus TLR4 signals stimulate the ADRP expression both in direct and indirect manners. Pycnogenol (PYC), an extract of French maritime pine, suppressed the expression of ADRP and the above-mentioned cytokines. PYC suppressed the ADRP promoter activity and enhancer activity of AP-1 and NF-kappaB, whereas it did not affect the LPS-induced DNA binding of these factors. In conclusion, TLR4-mediated signals stimulate the ADRP expression in macrophages while PYC antagonizes this process. PYC, a widely used dietary supplement, might be useful for prevention of atherosclerosis.
We have employed microarray technology using Affymetrix 230 2.0 genome chips to initially catalog the transcriptome of the subfornical organ (SFO) under control conditions and to also evaluate the changes (common and differential) in gene expression induced by the challenges of fluid and food deprivation. We have identified a total of 17,293 genes tagged as present in one of our three experimental conditions, transcripts, which were then used as the basis for further filtering and statistical analysis. In total, the expression of 46 genes was changed in the SFO following dehydration compared with control animals (22 upregulated and 24 downregulated), with the largest change being the greater than fivefold increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression, while significant changes in the expression of the calcium-sensing (upregulated) and apelin (downregulated) receptors were also reported. In contrast, food deprivation caused greater than twofold changes in a total of 687 transcripts (222 upregulated and 465 downregulated), including significant reductions in vasopressin, oxytocin, promelanin concentrating hormone, cocaine amphetamine-related transcript (CART), and the endothelin type B receptor, as well as increases in the expression of the GABA(B) receptor. Of these regulated transcripts, we identified 37 that are commonly regulated by fasting and dehydration, nine that were uniquely regulated by dehydration, and 650 that are uniquely regulated by fasting. We also found five transcripts that were differentially regulated by fasting and dehydration including BDNF and CART. In these studies we have for the first time described the transcriptome of the rat SFO and have in addition identified genes, the expression of which is significantly modified by either water or food deprivation.



How to localize the neural electric activities within brain effectively and precisely from the scalp electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings is a critical issue for current study in clinical neurology and cognitive neuroscience. In this paper, based on the charge source model and the iterative re-weighted strategy, proposed is a new maximum neighbor weight based iterative sparse source imaging method, termed as CMOSS (Charge source model based Maximum neighbOr weight Sparse Solution). Different from the weight used in focal underdetermined system solver (FOCUSS) where the weight for each point in the discrete solution space is independently updated in iterations, the new designed weight for each point in each iteration is determined by the source solution of the last iteration at both the point and its neighbors. Using such a new weight, the next iteration may have a bigger chance to rectify the local source location bias existed in the previous iteration solution. The simulation studies with comparison to FOCUSS and LORETA for various source configurations were conducted on a realistic 3-shell head model, and the results confirmed the validation of CMOSS for sparse EEG source localization. Finally, CMOSS was applied to localize sources elicited in a visual stimuli experiment, and the result was consistent with those source areas involved in visual processing reported in previous studies.
Neurotransmitter- or neurotrophin-regulated intracellular signaling in the hippocampus is hypothesized to contribute to depression and antidepressant (ADT) efficacy. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) is downstream of several receptor types and regulates transcriptional activity of many targets; ERK1/2 may thereby influence mood and affect. Using a novel, ADT-sensitive depression model in mice, we show that prior corticosterone exposure decreases motivated behavior, sucrose consumption, and pERK1/2 in the dentate gyrus, but not in CA1/CA3. Notably, prefrontal cortical targets were also regulated. Our data suggest ADTs restore hippocampal pERK1/2 after stress-related insult, and potentially reveal a novel role for prefrontal neurotrophins in depressive-like symptomology.
Exposure to some predominantly emotional (electric shock) and systemic (interleukin-1beta) stressors has been found to induce long-term sensitization of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) responsiveness to further superimposed stressors. Since exposure to immobilization on wooden boards (IMO) is a severe stressor and may have interest regarding putative animal models of post-traumatic stress disorders (PTSD), we have characterized long-lasting effects of a single exposure to IMO and other stressors on the HPA response to the same (homotypic) and to novel (heterotypic) stressors and the putative mechanisms involved. A single exposure to IMO caused a long-lasting reduction of peripheral and central responses of the HPA axis, likely to be mediated by some brain areas, such as the lateral septum and the medial amygdala. This desensitization is not explained by changes in negative glucocorticoid feedback, and, surprisingly, it is positively related to the intensity of the stressors. In contrast, the HPA response to heterotypic stressors (novel environments) was enhanced, with maximal sensitization on the day after IMO. Sensitization progressively vanished over the course of 1-2 weeks and was not modulated by IMO-induced corticosterone release. Moreover, it could not be explained by changes in the sensitivity of the HPA axis to fast or intermediate/delayed negative feedback, as evaluated 1 week after exposure to IMO, using shock as the heterotypic stressor. Long-lasting stress-induced behavioral changes reminiscent of enhanced anxiety and HPA sensitization are likely to be parallel but partially independent phenomena, the former being apparently not related to the intensity of stressors.
Depressive illness is frequently associated with life stress. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is believed to be a key brain mediator of behaviors associated with stress, and abnormalities in the function of CRF have been associated with depression. Therefore, we have studied the effects of acute and chronic footshock and restraint in tests used in rodents to assess depression-like activity and antidepressant effects: the forced swim test in rats and mice, and the tail suspension test in mice. We also tested the effect of intracerebroventricular (icv) CRF administration. The results were complex. In the forced swim test in rats, acute footshock and restraint reduced floating, whereas chronic footshock increased floating as did icv CRF. However, chronic restraint induced opposite effects, decreasing floating in the forced swim test. The results from mice were significantly different. In the forced swim test, acute footshock and restraint decreased floating, while chronic footshock increased floating, and chronic restraint decreased floating as it did in rats. However, icv CRF decreased floating. The results from the tail-suspension test paralleled those from the forced swim test except that chronic footshock tended to decrease the time spent immobile. Thus in rats, the behavioral effects of the chronic footshock in the forced swim test could be explained by a desensitization of the CRF systems, either decreased activation of CRF, or desensitization of its receptors. However, such an effect cannot explain the responses to restraint, nor the behavioral effects of chronic footshock and restraint in mice.
A large body of evidence from postmortem brain tissue and genetic analysis in humans and biochemical and pathological studies in animal models (transgenic and toxin) of neurodegeneration suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction is a common pathological mechanism. Mitochondrial dysfunction from oxidative stress, mitochondrial DNA deletions, pathological mutations, altered mitochondrial morphology, and interaction of pathogenic proteins with mitochondria leads to neuronal demise. Therefore, therapeutic approaches targeting mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage hold great promise in neurodegenerative diseases. This review discusses the potential therapeutic efficacy of creatine, coenzyme Q10, idebenone, synthetic triterpenoids, and mitochondrial targeted antioxidants (MitoQ) and peptides (SS-31) in in vitro studies and in animal models of Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease. We have also reviewed the current status of clinical trials of creatine, coenzyme Q10, idebenone, and MitoQ in neurodegenerative disorders. Further, we discuss newly identified therapeutic targets, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma-coactivator and sirtuins, which provide promise for future therapeutic developments in neurodegenerative disorders.
Neurons are excitable cells that require large amounts of energy to support their survival and functions and are therefore prone to excitotoxicity, which involves energy depletion. By examining bioenergetic changes induced by glutamate, we found that the cellular nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) level is a critical determinant of neuronal survival. The bioenergetic effects of mitochondrial uncoupling and caloric restriction were also examined in cultured neurons and rodent brain. 2, 4-dinitrophenol (DNP) is a chemical mitochondrial uncoupler that stimulates glucose uptake and oxygen consumption on cultured neurons, which accelerates oxidation of NAD(P)H to NAD(+) in mitochondria. The NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylase sirtulin 1 (SIRT1) and glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) mRNA are upregulated mouse brain under caloric restriction. To examine whether NAD(+) mediates neuroprotective effects, nicotinamide, a precursor of NAD(+) and inhibitor of SIRT1 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) (two NAD(+)-dependent enzymes), was employed. Nicotinamide attenuated excitotoxic death and preserved cellular NAD(+) levels to support SIRT1 and PARP 1 activities. Our findings suggest that mild mitochondrial uncoupling and caloric restriction exert hormetic effects by stimulating bioenergetics in neurons thereby increasing tolerance of neurons to metabolic stress.
Considerable data support the hypothesis that mitochondrial abnormalities link gene defects and/or environmental insults to the neurodegenerative process. The interaction of oxidants with calcium and the mitochondrial enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid cycle are central to that relationship. Abnormalities that were discovered in brains or fibroblasts from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been modeled in vitro and in vivo to assess their pathophysiological importance and to determine how they might be reversed. The conclusions are consistent with the hypothesis that the AD-related abnormalities result from oxidative stress. The selection of compounds for reversal is complex because the actions of the relevant compounds vary under different conditions, such as cell redox states and acute versus chronic changes. However, the models that have been developed are useful for testing the effectiveness of the potential medications. The results suggest that the reversal of mitochondrial deficits and a reduction in oxidative stress will reduce clinical and pathological changes and benefit patients.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common and often devastating neurodegenerative disease affecting up to one million individuals in the United States alone. Multiple lines of evidence support mitochondrial dysfunction as a primary or secondary event in PD pathogenesis; a better understanding, therefore, of how mitochondrial function is altered in vivo in brain tissue in PD is a critical step toward developing potential PD biomarkers. In vivo study of mitochondrial metabolism in human subjects has previously been technically challenging. However, proton and phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H and (31)P MRS) are powerful noninvasive techniques that allow evaluation in vivo of lactate, a marker of anaerobic glycolysis, and high energy phosphates, such as adenosine triphosphate and phosphocreatine, directly reflecting mitochondrial function. This article reviews previous (1)H and (31)P MRS studies in PD, which demonstrate metabolic abnormalities consistent with mitochondrial dysfunction, and then presents recent (1)H MRS data revealing abnormally elevated lactate levels in PD subjects.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common, disabling, neurodegenerative disease. Our knowledge of the molecular events leading to PD is being greatly enhanced by the study of relatively rare familial form of the disease. Nevertheless, the pathways leading from the genetic mutations to nigral cell degeneration and the other features in PD remain poorly understood. The identification of PINK1, a mitochondrial putative protein kinase, has helped understand the pathophysiology of mitochondria and their potential role in PD. Mutations in PINK1 are associated with the PARK6 autosomal recessive, early-onset, PD-susceptibility locus. Point mutations in another mitochondrial protein, HtrA2, are a susceptibility factor for PD (PARK13 locus). We report here the results of investigations into the interactors and pathways of these two mitochondrial molecules (PINK1 and HtrA2) in a range of models and human PD tissue.
Patients with disorders from mutations in the mitochondrial genome have variable phenotypes, but common to many of these disorders are underlying changes in postmitotic cells, particularly neurons and muscle fibers. The mitochondrial dysfunction caused by these mutations has been shown to be associated with signs of apoptosis and to cause cell loss. Mutations of the mitochondrial genome have also been shown to accumulate with age and in common neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease. This review presents recent data to show that the information gained from studying patients with mitochondrial disorders can help our understanding of the role of mitochondrial DNA mutations in brain aging and neurodegeneration.
Several neuroimaging studies in developmental dyslexia (DD) have mainly focused on brain regions subserving phonological processes. However, additional deficits characterize subjects with DD, such as an impairment of visual and rapid stimuli processing and deficits in implicit learning (IL). Little is known about structural abnormalities in brain regions not directly related to phonology and reading processes. The aim of this study was to investigate, using voxel-based morphometry, whether subjects with DD exhibit any structural grey matter (GM) abnormalities in regions that have previously shown abnormal functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) activation during an IL task. Significantly smaller GM volumes were found in the right posterior superior parietal lobule and precuneus and in the right supplementary motor area (SMA) of subjects with DD compared to controls. Moreover, a larger GM volume in parietal cortex was associated with an increase of IL effect in controls but not in subjects with DD. These structural abnormalities are consistent with functional changes and reinforce the hypothesis that an impairment of IL might play a relevant role in learning to read.
A selective review is presented of empirical evidence from different languages concerning phonological development and reading development in children. It is demonstrated that the development of reading depends on phonological awareness in all languages so far studied. However, because languages vary in syllable structure and in the consistency with which phonology is represented by the orthography, there are developmental differences in the grain size of lexical representations and in the reading strategies that develop across languages. It is argued that these cross-language data can be explained by a psycholinguistic grain size theory of reading and its development, as proposed by Ziegler and Goswami.
The pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease is reviewed in light of recent advances in the understanding of the functional organization of the basal ganglia (BG). Current emphasis is placed on the parallel interactions between corticostriatal and corticosubthalamic afferents on the one hand, and internal feedback circuits modulating BG output through the globus pallidus pars interna and substantia nigra pars reticulata on the other. In the normal BG network, the globus pallidus pars externa emerges as a main regulatory station of output activity. In the parkinsonian state, dopamine depletion shifts the BG toward inhibiting cortically generated movements by increasing the gain in the globus pallidus pars externa-subthalamic nucleus-globus pallidus pars interna network and reducing activity in &quot;direct&quot; cortico-putaminal-globus pallidus pars interna projections. Standard pharmacological treatments do not mimic the normal physiology of the dopaminergic system and, therefore, fail to restore a functional balance between corticostriatal afferents in the so-called direct and indirect pathways, leading to the development of motor complications. This review emphasizes the concept that the BG can no longer be understood as a &quot;go-through&quot; station in the control of movement, behavior, and emotions. The growing understanding of the complexity of the normal BG and the changes induced by DA depletion should guide the development of more efficacious therapies for Parkinson's disease.
The experimental field of restorative neurology continues to advance with implantation of cells or transfer of genes to treat patients with neurological disease. Both strategies have generated a consensus that demonstrates their capacity for structural and molecular brain modification in the adult brain. However, both approaches have yet to successfully address the complexities to make such novel therapeutic modalities work in the clinic. Prior experimental cell transplantation to patients with PD utilized dissected pieces of fetal midbrain tissue, containing mixtures of cells and neuronal types, as donor cells. Stem cell and progenitor cell biology provide new opportunities for selection and development of large batches of specific therapeutic cells. This may allow for cell composition analysis and dosing to optimize the benefit to an individual patient. The biotechnology used for cell and gene therapy for treatment of neurological disease may eventually be as advanced as today's pharmaceutical drug-related design processes. Current gene therapy phase 1 safety trials for PD include the delivery of a growth factor (neurturin via the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor receptor) and a transmitter enzyme (glutamic acid decarboxylase and aromatic acid decarboxylase). Many new insights from cell biological and molecular studies provide opportunities to selectively express or suppress factors relevant to neuroprotection and improved function of neurons involved in PD. Future gene and cell therapies are likely to coexist with classic pharmacological therapies because their use can be tailored to individual patients' underlying disease process and need for neuroprotective or restorative interventions.
There is increasing evidence to challenge the traditional view that the initiation of drug treatment in Parkinson's disease (PD) should be delayed until the patient has significant disability such as to affect work or social function. Firstly, to delay treatment sentences the patient to protracted impairment of quality of life that could be improved by therapy. Secondly, there is evidence to support the notion that earlier rather than later initiation of treatment leads to better long term motor benefit. The selection of which drug to begin must be tailored to the patient's individual characteristics and circumstances. Monoamine oxidase B inhibitors result in a mild improvement in motor function compared to dopamine agonists or levodopa. They are well tolerated, easy to use once a day drugs and there is evidence that early use of Rasagiline improves motor outcome. Dopamine agonists lead to a substantial improvement in motor function and are, or will shortly be, available as once a day drugs. They are generally well tolerated but can be associated with exacerbating confusion or hallucinations and with behavioral changes. Levodopa is the most potent of the dopaminergic drugs. It is routinely combined with a dopa decarboxylase inhibitor and can also be used with a catecholo-o-methyl transferase inhibitor for enhanced absorption. The most important limiting factor for the use of levodopa is the emergence of motor complications. These are related to a number of factors including the dose of levodopa and the duration of its use.


The conception by Ren Descartes of the human brain, notorious as it is for placing the soul or mind in the pineal gland, had yet within it the basic idea of the brain as a highly organized mechanism with topographical sensory mapping and different functions localized in specific areas. Descartes was directly led to this idea by his appreciation of what the retinal image conceived by Johannes Kepler implied, not only for the nature of vision, but for the operation of the brain in general. The linkage between Kepler and Descartes is not widely appreciated but is one of the best examples of synergism in the history of science.


Traumatic Brain Injury produces long term disabling effects in a young population of normal life expectancy, yet very little is known about its medium to long-term outcome with the underlying pathologies often invisible to standard brain imaging methods. This collection of papers offers a major advance in defining the course of recovery following TBI, and demonstrating the utility of new brain imaging techniques such as diffusion-tensor imaging to predict outcome and detect hitherto concealed pathologies. These pathologies partly explain the profound behavioral deficits that have been widely demonstrated in TBI but often disputed in courts and elsewhere because of the lack of correlates in underlying brain structure. This edition also offers the first clear evidence of progressive postinsult long-term brain atrophy in some cases of TBI, as well as highlighting important neuropsychological and behavioral predictive variables for recovery, and including the possibility of effective behavioral treatments to mitigate some of these profoundly disabling deficits. This collection of papers is outstanding in a number of ways - in giving the clinician a sense of what can be said to the worried family and what cannot, and in offering researchers important insights from imaging and neuropsychology into the possible mechanisms for the postacute recovery process. But they are important in a third, even more important way - in yielding some real pointers as to how the course of recovery may be influenced.
The results of several studies have shown that homosexual men have an increased prevalence of non-right-handedness and atypical patterns of hemispheric functional asymmetry. Non-right-handedness in men has been associated with increased size of the corpus callosum (CC), particularly of the isthmus, which is the posterior region of the callosal body connecting parietotemporal cortical regions. We hypothesized that isthmal area would be greater in homosexual men, even among right handers. Twelve homosexual and ten heterosexual healthy young men, all consistently right-handed, underwent a research-designed magnetic resonance imaging scan. We found that the isthmal area was larger in the homosexual group, adding to the body of findings of structural brain differences between homosexual and heterosexual men. This result suggests that right-handed homosexual men have less marked functional asymmetry compared to right-handed heterosexual men. The results also indicate that callosal anatomy and laterality for motoric functions are dissociated in homosexual men. A logistic regression analysis to predict sexual orientation category correctly classified 21 of the 22 men (96% correct classification) based on area of the callosal isthmus, a left-hand performance measure, water level test score, and a measure of abstraction ability. Our findings indicate that neuroanatomical structure and cognition are associated with sexual orientation in men and support the hypothesis of a neurobiological basis in the origin of sexual orientation.
The serotonin system is known to play a pivotal role for mood, behaviour and psychic illness as e.g. alcoholism. Alcoholism in both males and females has been associated with polymorphisms in genes encoding for proteins of importance for central serotonergic function. Genotyping of two functional polymorphisms in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter and monoamine oxidase-A, respectively, (5-HTT-LPR and MAOA-VNTR), was performed in a group of women with severe alcohol addiction. A large sample of adolescent females from a normal population was used as controls. A significantly higher frequency of the LL 5-HTT genotype (high activity) was found in female addicts without a known co-morbid psychiatric disorder than in the controls. Genotype of the MAOA-VNTR polymorphism did not differ significantly between addicts and controls. However, within the group of alcoholics, when the patients with known co-morbid psychiatric disorders were excluded, aggressive anti-social behaviour was significantly linked to the presence of the high activity MAOA allele. The pattern of associations between genotypes of 5-HTT-LPR and MAOA-VNTR in women with severe alcoholism differs from most corresponding studies on males.

This paper reports on findings from a sample of 63 children at 6 years old, and 49 children at 11 years old, all from the same cohort who had been observed with mother in the Strange Situation at 1-year-old. At 6 and 11 years, the children responded to the task of providing verbal labels for line-drawn (caricatures of) emotion faces. The faces comprised the six basic emotions identified as such by Darwin (sadness, happiness, anger, fear, surprise, and disgust) as well as a neutral face and two more complex (blended) emotions (mischievousness and disappointment). Infant-mother attachment was linked significantly with children's emotion judgments 5 years and, to a lesser extent, 10 years after the Strange Situation assessment. Results are discussed in terms of the long-term but attenuating influence of early learning experiences in the relationship with mother, and implications for how we think about the functioning of internal working models of attachment.
The encounter with different environmental antigens during immune maturation from childhood through early adulthood could play a role in the development of autoimmune disease in individuals with a susceptible genetic background. Autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is an experimental treatment for autoimmunity that could offer a second possibility to correct for an aberrant immune reactivity. The premise is that eradication of the existing and pathogenic immune repertoire, in combination with the reinfusion of precursor cells, could reset the immunological clock to an earlier, latent phase of disease. Re-education of the adaptive immune system would occur during the reconstitution of cells under extreme lymphopenia, in which the antigenic priming takes place with a different sequence and timing than during the previous immunological history of the individual, resulting in a different immune repertoire. In this article, we discuss different mechanisms that could contribute to the development of tolerance during immune re-education and address the role of immune renewal and the qualitative reshaping of immunological memory.
Recent reports have highlighted that adult stem cells are granted with yet poorly understood properties other than multipotentiality. In particular, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) represent a subset of adult stromal cells that can down-regulate several functions of the immune cells. In addition, MSCs may promote survival of damaged cells and tissues through paracrine mechanisms, possibly under the guidance of environmental cues. Thus, MSCs clinical application in autoimmune diseases seems an appealing opportunity and preclinical results in different experimental models of autoimmunity further support this strategy. Despite the absolute need for caution related to several clinical and technical issues, MSCs are now on the edge of a new era of clinical applications.
A growing body of evidence has pointed to the blockade of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor signaling as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of major depression. The present study was aimed to evaluate behavioural and molecular effects of the chronic treatment with ketamine and imipramine in rats. To this aim, rats were 14 days treated once a day with ketamine (5, 10 and 15 mg/kg) and imipramine (10, 20 and 30 mg/kg) and then subjected to the forced swimming and open-field tests. Ketamine and imipramine, at the all doses tested, reduced immobility time, and increased both climbing and swimming time of rats compared to the saline group, without affecting spontaneous locomotor activity. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) hippocampal levels were assessed in imipramine- and ketamine-treated rats by ELISA sandwich assay. Chronic administration of both drugs, ketamine and imipramine, did not modify BDNF protein levels in the rat hippocampus. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate for the first time that chronic administration of acute inactive doses of ketamine (5 mg/kg) becomes active after chronic treatment, while no signs of tolerance to the behavioural effects of ketamine were observed after chronic administration of acute active doses (10 and 15 mg/kg). Finally, these findings further support the hypothesis that NMDA receptor could be a new pharmacological target for the treatment of mood disorders.
Chronic high levels of corticosterone (CORT) are known to facilitate learning and memory of aversive events. Whether this effect of chronic CORT also generalizes to unconditioned or unlearned fear behavior is not known. The present study investigated whether high levels of chronic CORT enhance unconditioned fear to a predator odor, trimethylthiazoline (TMT), an innate fear stimulus to rodents. TMT induces a dose-related freezing response, a prototypical behavior to fearful stimuli, in rats. The first experiment demonstrated that dose-related freezing to repeated exposures of TMT does not habituate, sensitize or produce contextually conditioned fear, and therefore can be used to measure the effects of chronic CORT on unconditioned fear to repeated exposures of TMT. In Experiment 2, 21-day release corticosterone pellets (200mg) were implanted subcutaneously in male, Sprague-Dawley rats. Control rats received sham implantation. On days when TMT was not present, chronic CORT rats froze significantly more than sham rats. However, while TMT-induced freezing in both chronic CORT and sham rats, freezing during exposure to TMT was not further enhanced in chronic CORT rats. Thus, chronic CORT appears to increase fear as measured by freezing, possibly by enhancing vigilance, but does not facilitate fear behavior induced by the innate fear stimulus, TMT.
Detailed memories for unique episodes from an individual's past can be triggered, often effortlessly, when that individual is exposed to a stimulus that was present during the original event. The aim of Kesner et al. is to understand the neural basis of memory encoding that supports this cued recall of episodic memories. Kesner and colleagues make novel use of an object-place paired-associate task for rats to provide evidence for a critical role of dorsal CA3 in certain aspects of episodic memory encoding. Using one-trial cued recall versions of the task they show that when rats are cued with an object stimulus, they can be trained to revisit the location in which the object appeared previously. Conversely, when rats are cued with a location, they can learn to choose the object with which it was associated. Rats with dorsal CA3 lesions are severely impaired at these tasks. These data are consistent with the theory that the autoassociative network in CA3 supports the rapid formation of novel associations and may allow pattern completion--the phenomenom whereby a subset of the cues present at an encoding event triggers recall of the whole event. Although flexible recall of arbitrary associations is not fully demonstrated, the study contributes 2 novel behavioral tasks to the previously limited repertoire for studying paired associate recall in rats. It also builds on previous data to specify the role of the hippocampal CA3 subregion in cued recall--a critical aspect of episodic memory.
Rats avoid intake of a gustatory cue following pairings with a drug of abuse, such as morphine or cocaine. Despite the well-established rewarding properties of these drugs, the reduction in intake of the taste cue has been interpreted as a conditioned taste aversion for decades. In 1997, I proposed the reward comparison hypothesis suggesting that rats avoided intake of the drug-associated taste cue because the value of the taste cue pales in comparison to the highly rewarding drug of abuse expected in the near future. In this issue of Behavioral Neuroscience, A. C. W. Huang and S. Hsiao challenge the reward comparison hypothesis by showing parallels between amphetamine and LiCl-induced suppression of CS intake. This commentary addresses the current state of the reward comparison hypothesis in the context of the experiments completed by Huang and Hsiao and their new task-dependent drug effects hypothesis.
Interest in classical conditioning is usually focused on anticipatory responses to a stimulus associated with a significant event, and it is assumed that responses to the event itself are reflexive, involuntary, and relatively invariant. However, there is compelling evidence that both the rabbit nictitating membrane response (NMR) and heart rate response (HR), well-known reflexive reactions to aversive events, can change quite dramatically as a function of learning when measured in the absence of the conditioned stimulus. In the case of NMR conditioning, a simple blink is transformed into a larger and more complex response. For HR conditioning, reflexive heart rate acceleration can actually change to heart rate deceleration. In both cases, the reflex comes to resemble the conditioned response and follows some of the same behavioral laws. This change in response to the aversive event itself or weaker forms of that event is called conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM). CRM may force us to reevaluate the behavioral and neural consequences of classical conditioning and may have important consequences for the treatment of conditions such as posttraumatic stress disorder.
Opioid withdrawal is known to be anxiogenic in humans and, using the elevated plus maze (EPM), was demonstrated to also be anxiogenic in rats. Thus, this study characterizes EPM behaviors of mice during naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal. Naloxone did not significantly change EPM behaviors of drug-nave mice. Additionally, morphine-dependent mice in which withdrawal was not precipitated (i.e. morphine-dependent mice receiving saline) spent less time in the open-arms compared to the controls. Surprisingly, increased open-arm time was observed in morphine-dependent mice undergoing naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. This increase was not because of total motor activity, as no significant differences in total activity were observed. Moreover, morphine dependency was necessary, given that there was not a significant increase in open-arm time for mice undergoing withdrawal from acute morphine. Increased open-arm time during withdrawal is unexpected, given that opioid withdrawal is usually associated with anxiety. Additionally, even in mice, naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal is known be aversive and increases plasma corticosterone levels. In conclusion, this study demonstrates somewhat unexpected EPM behavior in mice undergoing naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal. Possible interpretations of these EPM results, though somewhat speculative, raise the possibility that EPM behaviors might not be driven exclusively by anxiety levels but rather by other withdrawal-induced behaviors.
This study examined the effect of environmental enrichment on sucrose seeking in rats made abstinent from sucrose for 1 month, as measured by response for a tone+light cue previously associated with 10% sucrose self-administration. Rats were either enriched throughout the study (experiment 1) or only after sucrose self-administration training (experiment 2). Enrichment consisted of either housing the rats in pairs or grouping four rats (ENR4) in a large environment, both with novel objects. Controls (CON) were singly housed without novel objects. In experiment 1, ENR4 rats responded less to the sucrose-paired cue versus CON rats, but this difference was not statistically significant. In contrast, the decrease in response of ENR4 rats versus CON rats in experiment 2 was dramatic and significant. These findings, along with findings from other laboratories, support a hypothesis that the enrichment may provide individuals with a greater ability to discriminate the availability of reward. This may impart a decreased vulnerability to relapse behavior. Therefore, these results are relevant to both eating disorder and drug addiction - disorders characterized by relapse.
Current therapies for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder comprise psychostimulants, which block the dopamine transporter and/or stimulate the release of dopamine, leading to a global elevation in extrasynaptic dopamine. These drugs are, however, associated with a series of unwanted side effects such as insomnia, anorexia, headache, stomach problems and potential drug abuse. Recent evidence suggests that the dopamine D4 receptor may represent a selective dopamine target that could mediate cognitive as well as striatal motor processes. In this study we compare the effects of a selective D4 receptor agonist, A-412997, with methylphenidate or amphetamine in preclinical models of efficacy versus abuse liability. Both methylphenidate and A-412997 improved a temporally induced deficit in the rat novel object recognition task at doses 10-fold lower than those stimulating activity. In both cases, procognitive doses were associated with elevated extracellular levels of dopamine and acetylcholine in the medial prefrontal cortex. In contrast to amphetamine, A-412997 did not mediate reward-related behaviour in the conditioned place preference paradigm, a preclinical rodent test used to assess potential abuse liability. Collectively, these data suggest that selective activation of the D4 receptor may represent a target for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder without the potential drug abuse liability associated with current psychostimulant therapies.
Bone scintigraphy and X-ray are complementary in the assessment of Paget's disease. Whereas bone scintigraphy allows visualization of the whole skeleton and 'hot spots', X-ray enables visualization of more detailed images of the pagetic bone lesion. X-ray may be invaluable in the diagnosis of osteomalacia, especially in children. As osteomalacia is characterized by impaired bone mineralization, the use of bone density measures may lead to misinterpretation of the condition as osteoporosis. Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry at the femoral neck is the 'gold standard' for the assessment of osteoporosis. However, all devices are useful to predict the risk of fracture. In the future, high-resolution computer tomography and magnetic resonance imaging may become valuable clinical tools, capturing the architectural aspect of bone strength and improving fracture prediction models.
Sanguinarine (SANG) is an alkaloid recognized to have anti-proliferative activity against various human tumour cell lines. No data is available on the susceptibility of advanced malignant melanoma to SANG, although this disease has a very poor prognosis if not detected in time due to the resistance to conventional chemotherapy. The present work was designed to study the nuclear and mitochondrial involvement in the pro-apoptotic effect of SANG in an invasive mouse melanoma cell line. The results obtained show that SANG is primarily accumulated by the cell nuclei, causing inhibition of cell proliferation and inducing cell death, as confirmed by an increase in sub-G1 peaks. At low concentrations, SANG induces mitochondrial depolarization in a sub-population of melanoma cells, which also generally displayed strong nuclear labelling of phosphorylated histone H2AX. Western blotting revealed an increase in p53, but not Bax protein, in both whole-cell extracts and in mitochondrial fractions. Isolated hepatic mitochondrial fractions revealed that SANG affects the mitochondrial respiratory chain, and has dual effects on mitochondrial calcium loading capacity. We suggest that SANG is able to induce apoptosis in metastatic melanoma cells. The knowledge of mitochondrial vs. nuclear effects of SANG is important in the development of this promising compound for clinical use against aggressive melanoma.
EDMD (Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy) is caused by mutations in either the gene encoding for lamin A/C (LMNA) located at 1q21.2-q21.3 or emerin (EMD) located at Xq28. Autosomal dominant EDMD caused by LMNA mutations is more common than the X-linked form and often more severe, with an earlier onset. At the histological and histochemical levels, both X-linked and autosomal dominant EDMD appear similar. However, individuals with the same genetic disorder often show remarkable differences in clinical severity, a finding generally attributed to the genetic background. The clinical and pathological findings in EDMD patients found to have mutations in more than one gene are also discussed. There is now much interest in the phenotype of several animal models for EDMD which should lead to an increased insight into the pathogenesis of this disorder, particularly that relating to the heart phenotype.
Two decades ago, patients lacking circulating serum ceruloplasmin (Cp) presented with neurodegeneration associated with brain iron accumulation. These patients, with mutations in the MCO (multi-copper oxidase), Cp, revealed an essential role for Cp in iron homoeostasis. The patients were diagnosed in adulthood with CNS (central nervous system) disease and progressed rapidly, making understanding the mechanism of disease imperative. We now know that (i) Cp regulates the efficiency of iron efflux, (ii) Cp stabilizes ferroportin membrane expression, (iii) GPI (glycosylphosphatidylinositol)-linked Cp is the predominant form expressed in brain, (iv) Cp functions as a ferroxidase and regulates the oxidation of Fe(2+) to Fe(3+), (v) Cp does not bind to transferrin directly, and (vi) Cp is one member of a family of mammalian MCOs, which includes hephaestin. It is still unclear how an absence of Cp results in neurodegeneration: is the iron accumulation a primary or secondary injury? Although it is attractive to invoke an iron-mediated oxidative stress mechanism for the neuronal injury and degeneration in aceruloplasminaemia, our data suggest limited redox injury in the brains of mice lacking MCO. In fact, we propose a role for neuronal iron starvation with associated astrocyte and microglial iron overload. With the defect in aceruloplasminaemia being one of inefficient iron efflux from macrophages, we believe that the iron is trapped in a compartment not readily available to participate in oxyradical injury. It is likely that different mechanisms of neuronal cell protection are offered by astrocytes and microglia, and, once these cells are damaged, neuronal survival is compromised.
Radioligand binding, photoaffinity labeling, and docking and molecular dynamics were used to characterize the tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) binding sites in the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). Competition experiments indicate that the noncompetitive antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) inhibits [3H]imipramine binding to resting (closed) and desensitized nAChRs. [3H]2-azidoimipramine photoincorporates into each subunit from the desensitized nAChR with approximately 25% of the labeling specifically inhibited by TCP (a PCP analog), whereas no TCP-inhibitable labeling was observed in the resting (closed) state. For the desensitized nAChR and within the alpha subunit, the majority of specific [3H]2-azidoimipramine labeling mapped to a approximately 20 kDa Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease fragment (alphaV8-20; Ser173-Glu338). To further map the labeling site, the alphaV8-20 fragment was further digested with endoproteinase Lys-C and resolved by Tricine SDS-PAGE. The principal labeled fragment (11 kDa) was further purified by rpHPLC and subjected to N-terminal sequencing. Based on the amino terminus (alphaMet243) and apparent molecular weight, the 11 kDa fragment contains the channel lining M2 segment. Finally, docking and molecular dynamics results indicate that imipramine and PCP interact preferably with the M2 transmembrane segments in the middle of the ion channel. Collectively, these results are consistent with a model where PCP and TCA bind to overlapping sites within the lumen of the Torpedo nAChR ion channel.
Structural instability of wild-type fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-1 and its dependence on exogenous heparin for optimal activity diminishes its potential utility as a therapeutic agent. Here we evaluated FGFC, an FGF1:FGF2 chimeric protein, for its receptor affinity, absolute heparin-dependence, stability and potential clinical applicability. Using BaF3 transfectants overexpressing each FGF receptor (FGFR) subtype, we found that, like FGF1, FGFC activates all of the FGFR subtypes (i.e., FGFR1c, FGFR1b, FGFR2c, FGFR2b, FGFR3c, FGFR3b and FGFR4) in the presence of heparin. Moreover, FGFC activates FGFRs even in the absence of heparin. FGFC stimulated keratinocytes proliferation much more strongly than FGF2, as would be expected from its ability to activate FGFR2b. FGFC showed greater structural stability, biological activity and resistance to trypsinization, and less loss in solution than FGF1 or FGF2. When FGFC was intraperitoneally administered to BALB/c mice prior to whole body gamma-irradiation, survival of small intestine crypts was significantly enhanced, as compared to control mice. These results suggest that FGFC could be useful in a variety of clinical applications, including promotion of wound healing and protection against radiation-induced damage.
The vacuolar (H(+))-ATPase (V-ATPase) is crucial for multiple processes within the eukaryotic cell, including membrane transport and neurotransmitter secretion. How the V-ATPase is regulated, e.g. by an accessory subunit, remains elusive. Here we explored the role of the neuroendocrine V-ATPase accessory subunit Ac45 via its transgenic expression specifically in the Xenopus intermediate pituitary melanotrope cell model. The Ac45-transgene product did not affect the levels of the prohormone proopiomelanocortin nor of V-ATPase subunits, but rather caused an accumulation of the V-ATPase at the plasma membrane. Furthermore, a higher abundance of secretory granules, protrusions of the plasma membrane and an increased Ca(2+)-dependent secretion efficiency were observed in the Ac45-transgenic cells. We conclude that in neuroendocrine cells Ac45 guides the V-ATPase through the secretory pathway, thereby regulating the V-ATPase-mediated process of Ca(2+)-dependent peptide secretion.
Somatotropin (GH) and insulin (INS) low dose, long-term brain rejuvenation effect was studied in the cerebral cortex using NE, EPI, DA and 5-HT receptor subtypes of young (group I-treatment started 4 weeks continued to 16 weeks) and old rats (group II-treatment started 60 weeks continued to 90 weeks). GH and INS treatment showed significant decrease in NE and EPI content in cerebral cortex of both young and old rats. alpha(2A)-adrenergic receptors showed decreased expression whereas beta(2)-adrenergic receptors showed enhanced expression with age. GH and INS treatment significantly increased alpha(2A)-adrenergic receptor protein in group I rats whereas INS treatment could increase beta(2)-adrenergic receptor protein expression in group II rats. DA and 5-HT content decrease with age. GH and INS administration showed increase in DA and 5-HT content in the brain regions-corpus striatum and brainstem of both young and old rats. Also, DA D(2) and 5-HT(2C) receptor gene expression were increased significantly by GH and INS treatment in both young and old rats. In conclusion, low dose, long-term treatment of INS and GH to ageing rats improved the adrenergic, dopaminergic and serotonergic receptor subtypes activity and rejuvenation of brain function.
The integrated information theory (IIT) starts from phenomenology and makes use of thought experiments to claim that consciousness is integrated information. Specifically: (i) the quantity of consciousness corresponds to the amount of integrated information generated by a complex of elements; (ii) the quality of experience is specified by the set of informational relationships generated within that complex. Integrated information (Phi) is defined as the amount of information generated by a complex of elements, above and beyond the information generated by its parts. Qualia space (Q) is a space where each axis represents a possible state of the complex, each point is a probability distribution of its states, and arrows between points represent the informational relationships among its elements generated by causal mechanisms (connections). Together, the set of informational relationships within a complex constitute a shape in Q that completely and univocally specifies a particular experience. Several observations concerning the neural substrate of consciousness fall naturally into place within the IIT framework. Among them are the association of consciousness with certain neural systems rather than with others; the fact that neural processes underlying consciousness can influence or be influenced by neural processes that remain unconscious; the reduction of consciousness during dreamless sleep and generalized seizures; and the distinct role of different cortical architectures in affecting the quality of experience. Equating consciousness with integrated information carries several implications for our view of nature.
Human beings have direct access to their own mental states, but can only indirectly observe cosmic radiation and enzyme kinetics. Why then can we measure the temperature of far away galaxies and the activation constant of kinases to the third digit, yet we only gauge our happiness on a scale from 1 to 7? Here we propose a radical research paradigm shift to embrace the subjective conscious mind into the realm of objective empirical science. Key steps are the axiomatic acceptance of first-person experiences as scientific observables; the definition of a quantitative, reliable metric system based on natural language; and the careful distinction of subjective mental states (e.g., interpretation and intent) from physically measurable sensory and motor behaviors (input and output). Using this approach, we propose a series of reproducible experiments that may help define a still largely unexplored branch of science. We speculate that the development of this new discipline will be initially parallel to, and eventually converging with, neurobiology and physics.

Gender differences in brain activity while processing emotional stimuli have been demonstrated by neuroimaging and electrophysiological studies. However, the possible differential effects of emotion on attentional mechanisms between women and men are less understood. The present study aims to elucidate any gender differences in the modulation of unexpected auditory stimulus processing using an emotional context elicited by aversive images. Fourteen men and fourteen women performed a well-established auditory-visual distraction paradigm in which distraction was elicited by novel stimuli within a neutral or negative emotional context induced by images from the IAPS. Response time increased after unexpected novel sounds as a behavioral effect of distraction, and this increase was larger for women, but not for men, within the negative emotional context. Novelty-P3 was also modulated by the emotional context for women but not for men. These results reveal stronger novelty processing in women than in men during a threatening situation.
Local anesthetics bind to ion channels in a state-dependent manner. For noninactivating voltage-gated K channels the binding mainly occurs in the open state, while for voltage-gated inactivating Na channels it is assumed to occur mainly in inactivated states, leading to an allosterically caused increase in the inactivation probability, reflected in a negative shift of the steady-state inactivation curve, prolonged recovery from inactivation, and a frequency-dependent block. How local anesthetics bind to N-type inactivating K channels is less explored. In this study, we have compared bupivacaine effects on inactivating (Shaker and K(v)3.4) and noninactivating (Shaker-IR and K(v)3.2) channels, expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Bupivacaine was found to block these channels time-dependently without shifting the steady-state inactivation curve markedly, without a prolonged recovery from inactivation, and without a frequency-dependent block. An analysis, including computational testing of kinetic models, suggests binding to the channel mainly in the open state, with affinities close to those estimated for corresponding noninactivating channels (300 and 280 microM for Shaker and Shaker-IR, and 60 and 90 microM for K(v)3.4 and K(v)3.2). The similar magnitudes of K(d), as well as of blocking and unblocking rate constants for inactivating and noninactivating Shaker channels, most likely exclude allosteric interactions between the inactivation mechanism and the binding site. The relevance of these results for understanding the action of local anesthetics on Na channels is discussed.
The measurement of Nitric oxide (NO) in real-time has been a major concern due to the involvement of this ubiquitous free radical modulator in several physiological and pathological pathways in tissues. Here we performed a study aiming at evaluating different types of carbon fibers, namely Textron, Amoco, Courtaulds and carbon nanotubes (University of Kentucky) covered with Nafion/o-phenylenediamine (o-PD) for NO measurement in terms of sensitivity, LOD, response time and selectivity against major potential interferents in the brain (ascorbate, nitrite and dopamine). The results indicate that, as compared with the other carbon fibers and nanotubes, Textron carbon fiber microelectrodes coated with two layers of Nafion and o-PD exhibited better characteristics for NO measurement as they are highly selective against ascorbate (&gt;30,000:1), nitrite (&gt;2000:1) and dopamine (&gt;80:1). These coated Textron microelectrodes showed an average sensitivity of 341+/-120pA/microM and a detection limit of 16+/-11nM. The better performance of the Textron fibers is likely related to a stronger adhesion or more uniform coating of the Nafion and o-PD polymers to the fiber surface. In addition, the background current of the Textron carbon fibers is low, contributing to the excellent signal-to-noise for detection of NO.



Recently, intense interest in the potential use of neural stem cells (NSC) in the clinical therapy of brain disease and injury has resulted in rapid progress in research on the properties of NSC, their innate and directed differentiation potential and the induced reprogramming of differentiated somatic cells to revert to a pluripotent NSC-like state. The aim of this review is to give an overview of our current operational definitions of the NSC lineage, the growing understanding of extrinsic and intrinsic mechanisms, including heritable but reversible epigenetic chromatin modifications that regulate the maintenance and differentiation of NSC in vivo, and to emphasize ground-breaking efforts of cellular reprogramming with the view to generating patient-specific stem cells for cell replacement therapy. This is set against a summary of current practical procedures for the isolation, research and application of NSC, and of the state of the art in NSC-based regenerative medicine of the nervous system. Both provide the backdrop for the translation of recent findings into innovative clinical applications, with the hope of increasing the safety, efficiency and ethical acceptability of NSC-based therapies in the near future.
Within the recent development of brain-machine-interfaces deep brain stimulation (DBS) has become one of the most promising approaches for neuromodulation. After its introduction more than 20 years ago, it has in clinical routine become a successful tool for treating neurological disorders like Parkinson's disease, essential tremor and dystonia. Recent evidence also demonstrates efficacy in improving emotional and cognitive processing in obsessive-compulsive disorder and major depression, thus allowing new treatment options for treatment refractory psychiatric diseases, and even indicating future potential to enhance functioning in healthy subjects. We demonstrate here that DBS is neither intrinsically unethical for psychiatric indications nor for enhancement purposes. To gain normative orientation, the concept of &quot;personality&quot; is not useful--even if a naturalistic notion is employed. As an alternative, the common and widely accepted bioethical criteria of beneficence, non-maleficence, and autonomy allow a clinically applicable, highly differentiated context- and case-sensitive approach. Based on these criteria, an ethical analysis of empirical evidence from both DBS in movement disorders and DBS in psychiatric disease reveals that wide-spread use of DBS for psychiatric indications is currently not legitimated and that the basis for enhancement purposes is even more questionable. Nevertheless, both applications might serve as ethically legitimate, promising purposes in the future.
The public interest in neural implants has grown considerably in recent years. Progress within related research areas in combination with increasing--albeit overly optimistic and indiscriminate--mass media coverage have led to the impression that the possibilities of neural prosthetics have grown enormously. But a closer look reveals that the reasons for the intensified interest are varied and cannot be attributed to technical progress alone. Some neural prostheses that have been under development for many years have not left the clinical development phase despite intensive research activities. Other implants, like cardiac pacemakers and cochlea implants, are mature products that have already been implanted in a large number of patients. From the public perspective and in media reports, progress in the development of neural implants is associated with new achievements in other fields of neuroscience. Communications on new applications of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) may suggest that a number of cognitive functions are now easily accessible with technological means. The fact that the interpretation of the results of fMRI studies depends on many conditions and is partly disputed also within the scientific community has been discussed in many publications but only very limited, in the general media. Besides this, research results and implementations in the area of electroencephalography and magnetoencephalography have sparked further debate on the question of free will, on determinism and indeterminism, and have attracted a large media response. The purpose of this paper is to discuss some societal and ethical aspects of neural implants from a technology assessment perspective. Technology assessment (TA) aims at providing knowledge about impacts and consequences of (new) technologies as well as about political and societal ways of dealing with them. It reflects about implementation conditions of technology and potential technology conflicts. Over the last years, neural implants became a subject for TA since they have gained a higher attention in both the political arena and the general public. Especially the ethical and social implications of technologies that electrically stimulate the brain and the possibilities of changing personality traits, changing moods, and perhaps enhancing human cognitive capabilities are central issues in related discussions. In this paper, we want to briefly summarize some of the key arguments as well as topics for future discussion and research.
Modern brain technology is a highly dynamic and innovative field of research with great potential for medical applications. Recent advances in recording neural signals from the brain by brain-machine interfacing presage new therapeutic options for paralyzed people by means of neural motor prostheses. This paper examines foreseeable ethical questions related to the research on brainmachine interfaces and their possible future applications. It identifies four major topics that need to be considered: first, the questions of personality and its possible alterations; second, responsibility and its possible constraints; third, therapeutic applications and their possible exceedance; and fourth, questions of research ethics that arise when progressing from animal experimentation to application to human subjects. This paper, in identifying and addressing the ethical questions raised by brain-machine interfaces, presents concerns that need to be considered if possible prosthetics based on modern brain technology are to be used cautiously and responsibly.


We report two patients with spinal epithelioid hemangioendothelioma (EH), an uncommon vascular, potentially malignant tumour. Neurological signs, diagnostic images, surgical techniques and complications, histology and the role of adjuvant therapy are discussed. Primary manifestation of EH of the vertebral column is rare. Thorough preoperative clinical and radiological workup, radical surgical excision, and close postoperative follow-up are recommended.
Recently, the Surgical Trial in IntraCerebral Haemorrhage (STICH) was unable to show an overall benefit from 'early surgery' compared with a policy of 'initial conservative treatment'. Here, we evaluated the impact of the STICH results on the management of spontaneous supratentorial intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) in the Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals. The STICH results were released to the Neurosurgery Department at Newcastle General Hospital in November 2003; using ICD-10 data, we analysed ICH admissions before (2002) and after (2004, 2006, 2007) this. We assessed numbers of Neurosurgery and Stroke Unit admissions, numbers of clot evacuation procedures, and 30-day mortality rate (Neurosurgery vs. Stroke Unit admissions). Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) admissions data were also collected to corroborate our findings. There were 478 spontaneous supratentorial ICH admissions in total; 156 in 2002, 120 in 2004, 106 in 2006 and 96 in 2007. SAH admissions remained remarkably constant over this period. Neurosurgery admissions decreased significantly across the four time periods, from 71% of total ICH admissions (n = 156) in 2002 to 55% (n = 96) in 2007, and Stroke Unit admissions increased significantly from 8% (n = 156) in 2002 to 30% (n = 96) in 2007 (chi(2) = 20.968, p &lt; 0.001, df = 3). Clot evacuation procedures also decreased significantly from 32% (n = 111) of Neurosurgery admissions in 2002 to 17% (n = 53) in 2007 (chi(2) = 11.919, p = 0.008, df = 3). 30-day mortality increased in Neurosurgery from 14% of Neurosurgery admissions (n = 111) in 2002 to 26% (n = 53) in 2007, and decreased in the Stroke Unit, from 42% of Stroke Unit admissions (n = 12) in 2002 to 17% (n = 29) in 2007. The STICH results have significantly impacted ICH management in Newcastle, with a trend towards fewer Neurosurgery admissions and clot evacuations, and increased Stroke Unit admissions. The role of surgery for ICH remains controversial, and randomization continues in STICH II for patients with superficial lobar ICH.
Multiple brain lesions are usually due to metastatic spread. The authors describe an unusual case of a 56-year-old male presenting with visual loss secondary to multiple intracranial lesions, with infiltration of the optic chiasm and an incidental renal lesion. Open biopsy of the brain lesion confirmed glioblastoma multiforme.
A 33-year-old man developed diffuse subarachnoid haemorrhage following attempted radiofrequency ablation for trigeminal neuralgia. Over the next 2 weeks, he progressively developed multiple bilateral cranial nerve palsies, bilateral cerebellar signs, hypotonia of all four limbs and diminished vision in both eyes. A visual-evoked potential study revealed anterior visual pathway defect. A possibility of demyelination was considered and he was treated with corticosteroids. His neurological deficits improved gradually over the next 4 months. He later underwent microvascular decompression uneventfully with good pain relief. This complication has not been reported earlier and needs to be kept in mind while performing radiofrequency ablation.
Cerebral sparganosis is a rare cestode larval parasitic infestation of the nervous system. We report a 28-year-old female from South India with a temporo-occipital mass lesion, which mimicked a tuberculoma on imaging. She received antituberculous therapy for 7 months. Surgical excision of the mass revealed a parasitic abscess containing larval form of Sparganum mansoni. Cerebral sparganosis can closely mimic tuberculoma or neoplastic lesions. Hence, in areas endemic for tuberculosis, such as India, it is appropriate to suggest that histological diagnosis be sought in tuberculoma mimicking lesions, especially when the lesion is not responding to treatment.

We describe how upper limb amputees can be made to experience a rubber hand as part of their own body. This was accomplished by applying synchronous touches to the stump, which was out of view, and to the index finger of a rubber hand, placed in full view (26 cm medial to the stump). This elicited an illusion of sensing touch on the artificial hand, rather than on the stump and a feeling of ownership of the rubber hand developed. This effect was supported by quantitative subjective reports in the form of questionnaires, behavioural data in the form of misreaching in a pointing task when asked to localize the position of the touch, and physiological evidence obtained by skin conductance responses when threatening the hand prosthesis. Our findings outline a simple method for transferring tactile sensations from the stump to a prosthetic limb by tricking the brain, thereby making an important contribution to the field of neuroprosthetics where a major goal is to develop artificial limbs that feel like a real parts of the body.
Insulin deficiency in type I diabetes may lead to cognitive impairment, cerebral atrophy and white matter abnormalities. We studied the impact of a novel delivery system using intranasal insulin (I-I) in a mouse model of type I diabetes (streptozotocin-induced) for direct targeting of pathological and cognitive deficits while avoiding potential adverse systemic effects. Daily I-I, subcutaneous insulin (S-I) or placebo in separate cohorts of diabetic and non-diabetic CD1 mice were delivered over 8 months of life. Radio-labelled insulin delivery revealed that I-I delivered more rapid and substantial insulin levels within the cerebrum with less systemic insulin detection when compared with S-I. I-I delivery slowed development of cognitive decline within weekly cognitive/behavioural testing, ameliorated monthly magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities, prevented quantitative morphological abnormalities in cerebrum, improved mouse mortality and reversed diabetes-mediated declines in mRNA and protein for phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt and for protein levels of the transcription factors cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta) within different cerebral regions. Although the murine diabetic brain was not subject to cellular loss, a diabetes-mediated loss of protein and mRNA for the synaptic elements synaptophysin and choline acetyltransferase was prevented with I-I delivery. As a mechanism of delivery, I-I accesses the brain readily and slows the development of diabetes-induced brain changes as compared to S-I delivery. This therapy and delivery mode, available in humans, may be of clinical utility for the prevention of pathological changes in the diabetic human brain.
Transsexuality is an individual's unshakable conviction of belonging to the opposite sex, resulting in a request for sex-reassignment surgery. We have shown previously that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTc) is female in size and neuron number in male-to-female transsexual people. In the present study we investigated the hypothalamic uncinate nucleus, which is composed of two subnuclei, namely interstitial nucleus of the anterior hypothalamus (INAH) 3 and 4. Post-mortem brain material was used from 42 subjects: 14 control males, 11 control females, 11 male-to-female transsexual people, 1 female-to-male transsexual subject and 5 non-transsexual subjects who were castrated because of prostate cancer. To identify and delineate the nuclei and determine their volume and shape we used three different stainings throughout the nuclei in every 15th section, i.e. thionin, neuropeptide Y and synaptophysin, using an image analysis system. The most pronounced differences were found in the INAH3 subnucleus. Its volume in thionin sections was 1.9 times larger in control males than in females (P &lt; 0.013) and contained 2.3 times as many cells (P &lt; 0.002). We showed for the first time that INAH3 volume and number of neurons of male-to-female transsexual people is similar to that of control females. The female-to-male transsexual subject had an INAH3 volume and number of neurons within the male control range, even though the treatment with testosterone had been stopped three years before death. The castrated men had an INAH3 volume and neuron number that was intermediate between males (volume and number of neurons P &gt; 0.117) and females (volume P &gt; 0.245 and number of neurons P &gt; 0.341). There was no difference in INAH3 between pre-and post-menopausal women, either in the volume (P &gt; 0.84) or in the number of neurons (P &lt; 0.439), indicating that the feminization of the INAH3 of male-to-female transsexuals was not due to estrogen treatment. We propose that the sex reversal of the INAH3 in transsexual people is at least partly a marker of an early atypical sexual differentiation of the brain and that the changes in INAH3 and the BSTc may belong to a complex network that may structurally and functionally be related to gender identity.
A major feature of Alzheimer's disease is the accumulation of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) in the brain both in the form of plaques in the cerebral cortex and in blood vessel as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). Experimental models and human clinical trials have shown that accumulation of Abeta plaques can be reversed by immunotherapy. In this study, we hypothesized that Abeta in plaques is solubilized by antibodies generated by immunization and drains via the perivascular pathway, detectable as an increase in cerebrovascular Abeta. We have performed a follow up study of Alzheimer's disease patients immunized against Abeta42. Neuropathological examination was performed on nine patients who died between four months and five years after their first immunization. Immunostaining for Abeta40 and Abeta42 was quantified and compared with that in unimmunized Alzheimer's disease controls (n = 11). Overall, compared with these controls, the group of immunized patients had approximately 14 times as many blood vessels containing Abeta42 in the cerebral cortex (P&lt;0.001) and seven times more in the leptomeninges (P = 0.013); among the affected blood vessels in the immunized cases, most of them had full thickness and full circumference involvement of the vessel wall in the cortex (P = 0.001), and in the leptomeninges (P = 0.015). There was also a significantly higher level of cerebrovascular Abeta40 in the immunized cases than in the unimmunized cases (cortex: P = 0.009 and leptomeninges: P = 0.002). In addition, the immunized patients showed a higher density of cortical microhaemorrhages and microvascular lesions than the unimmunized controls, though none had major CAA-related intracerebral haemorrhages. The changes in cerebral vascular Abeta load did not appear to substantially influence the structural proteins of the blood vessels. Unlike most of the immunized patients, two of the longest survivors, four to five years after first immunization, had virtually complete absence of both plaques and CAA, raising the possibility that, given time, Abeta is eventually cleared from the cerebral vasculature. The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that Abeta immunization results in solubilization of plaque Abeta42 which, at least in part, exits the brain via the perivascular pathway, causing a transient increase in the severity of CAA. The extent to which these vascular alterations following Abeta immunization in Alzheimer's disease are reflected in changes in cognitive function remains to be determined.
Appearance of dyskinesia is a common problem of long-term l-DOPA treatment in Parkinson's disease patients and represents a major limitation for the pharmacological management of the motor symptoms in advanced disease stages. We have recently demonstrated that dopamine released from serotonin neurons is responsible for l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats, raising the possibility that blockade of serotonin neuron activity by combination of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) agonists could reduce l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. In the present study, we have investigated the efficacy of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) agonists to counteract l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 1-methyl-4-phenyl 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated macaques, the gold standard model of Parkinson's disease. In addition, we have studied the ability of this treatment to prevent development of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. The results demonstrate the existence of a potent synergistic effect between 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) agonists in their ability to dampen l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the MPTP-treated macaques. Sub-threshold doses of the drugs, which individually produced no effect, were able to reduce the abnormal involuntary movements by up to 80% when administered in combination, without affecting the anti-parkinsonian properties of l-DOPA. Furthermore, chronic administration of low doses of the 5-HT(1) agonists in combination was able to prevent development of dyskinesia, and reduce the up-regulation of FosB after daily treatment with l-DOPA in the rat 6-OHDA model. Our results support the importance of a clinical investigation of the effect of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) agonists, particularly in combination, in dyskinetic l-DOPA-treated Parkinson's disease patients.
Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is overproduced in human and rodent epileptogenic tissue and it exacerbates seizures upon brain application in rodents. Moreover, pharmacological prevention of IL-1beta endogenous synthesis, or IL-1 receptor blockade, mediates powerful anticonvulsive actions indicating a significant role of this cytokine in ictogenesis. The molecular mechanisms of the proconvulsive actions of IL-1beta are not known. We show here that EEG seizures induced by intrahippocampal injection of kainic acid in C57BL6 adult mice were increased by 2-fold on average by pre-exposure to IL-1beta and this effect was blocked by 3-O-methylsphingomyelin (3-O-MS), a selective inhibitor of the ceramide-producing enzyme sphingomyelinase. C2-ceramide, a cell permeable analog of ceramide, mimicked IL-1beta action suggesting that ceramide may be the second messenger of the proconvulsive effect of IL-1beta. The seizure exacerbating effects of either IL-1beta or C2-ceramide were dependent on activation of the Src family of tyrosine kinases since they were prevented by CGP76030, an inhibitor of this enzyme family. The proconvulsive IL-1beta effect was associated with increased Tyr(418) phosphorylation of Src-family of kinases indicative of its activation, and Tyr(1472) phosphorylation of one of its substrate, the NR2B subunit of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor, which were prevented by 3-O-MS and CGP76030. Finally, the proconvulsive effect of IL-1beta was blocked by ifenprodil, a selective NR2B receptor antagonist. These results indicate that the proconvulsive actions of IL-1beta depend on the activation of a sphingomyelinase- and Src-family of kinases-dependent pathway in the hippocampus which leads to the phosphorylation of the NR2B subunit, thus highlighting a novel, non-transcriptional mechanism underlying seizure exacerbation in inflammatory conditions.
The pathophysiology of auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) is largely unknown. Several functional imaging studies have measured cerebral activation during these hallucinations, but sample sizes were relatively small (one to eight subjects) and findings inconsistent. In this study cerebral activation was measured using fMRI in 24 psychotic patients while they experienced AVH in the scanner and, in another session, while they silently generated words. All patients were right handed and diagnosed with schizophrenia, schizo-affective disorder or psychotic disorder not otherwise specified. Group analysis for AVH revealed activation in the right homologue of Broca's area, bilateral insula, bilateral supramarginal gyri and right superior temporal gyrus. Broca's area and left superior temporal gyrus were not activated. Group analysis for word generation in these patients yielded activation in Broca's and Wernicke's areas and to a lesser degree their right-sided homologues, bilateral insula and anterior cingulate gyri. Lateralization of activity during AVH was not correlated with language lateralization, but rather with the degree to which the content of the hallucinations had a negative emotional valence. The main difference between cerebral activity during AVH and activity during normal inner speech appears to be the lateralization. The predominant engagement of the right inferior frontal area during AVH may be related to the typical low semantic complexity and negative emotional content.
The genetics of complex disease is entering a new and exciting era. The exponentially growing knowledge and technological capabilities emerging from the human genome project have finally reached the point where relevant genes can be readily and affordably identified. As a result, the last 12 months has seen a virtual explosion in new knowledge with reports of unequivocal association to relevant genes appearing almost weekly. The impact of these new discoveries in Neuroscience is incalculable at this stage but potentially revolutionary. In this review, an attempt is made to illuminate some of the mysteries surrounding complex genetics. Although focused almost exclusively on multiple sclerosis all the points made are essentially generic and apply equally well, with relatively minor addendums, to any other complex trait, neurological or otherwise.
We have assessed the utility of five new long-wavelength fluorescent voltage-sensitive dyes (VSD) for imaging the activity of populations of neurons in mouse brain slices. Although all the five were capable of detecting activity resulting from activation of the Schaffer collateral-CA1 pyramidal cell synapse, they differed significantly in their properties, most notably in the signal-to-noise ratio of the changes in dye fluorescence associated with neuronal activity. Two of these dyes, Di-2-ANBDQPQ and Di-1-APEFEQPQ, should prove particularly useful for imaging activity in brain tissue and for combining VSD imaging with the control of neuronal activity via light-activated proteins such as channelrhodopsin-2 and halorhodopsin.
Smooth pursuit impairment is recognized clinically by the presence of saccadic tracking of a small object and quantified by reduction in pursuit gain, the ratio of smooth eye movement velocity to the velocity of a foveal target. Correlation of the site of brain lesions, identified by imaging or neuropathological examination, with defective smooth pursuit determines brain structures that are necessary for smooth pursuit. Paretic, low gain, pursuit occurs toward the side of lesions at the junction of the parietal, occipital and temporal lobes (area V5), the frontal eye field and their subcortical projections, including the posterior limb of the internal capsule, the midbrain and the basal pontine nuclei. Paresis of ipsiversive pursuit also results from damage to the ventral paraflocculus and caudal vermis of the cerebellum. Paresis of contraversive pursuit is a feature of damage to the lateral medulla. Retinotopic pursuit paresis consists of low gain pursuit in the visual hemifield contralateral to damage to the optic radiation, striate cortex or area V5. Craniotopic paresis of smooth pursuit consists of impaired smooth eye movement generation contralateral to the orbital midposition after acute unilateral frontal or parietal lobe damage. Omnidirectional saccadic pursuit is a most sensitive sign of bilateral or diffuse cerebral, cerebellar or brainstem disease. The anatomical and physiological bases of defective smooth pursuit are discussed here in the context of the effects of lesion in the human brain.
A multitude of cognitive functions can easily be tested by a number of relatively simple saccadic eye movement tasks. This approach has been employed extensively with patient populations to investigate the functional deficits associated with psychiatric disorders. Neurophysiological studies in non-human primates performing the same tasks have begun to provide us with insights into the neural mechanisms underlying many cognitive functions. Here, we review studies that have investigated single neuron activity in the superior colliculus (see glossary), frontal eye field, supplementary eye field, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate (see glossary) cortex and lateral intraparietal area associated with the performance of visually guided saccades, anti-saccades and memory-guided saccades in awake behaving monkeys.
This review discusses the neurophysiology and neuroanatomy of the cortical control of reflexive and volitional saccades in humans. The main focus is on classical lesion studies and studies using the interference method of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). To understand the behavioural function of a region, it is essential to assess oculomotor deficits after a focal lesion using a variety of oculomotor paradigms, and to study the oculomotor consequences of the lesion in the chronic phase. Saccades are controlled by different cortical regions, which could be partially specialised in the triggering of a specific type of saccade. The division of saccades into reflexive visually guided saccades and intentional or volitional saccades corresponds to distinct regions of the neuronal network, which are involved in the control of such saccades. TMS allows to specifically interfere with the functioning of a region within an intact oculomotor network. TMS provides advantages in terms of temporal resolution, allowing to interfere with brain functioning in the order of milliseconds, thereby allowing to define the time course of saccade planning and execution. In the first part of the paper, we present an overview of the cortical structures important for saccade control, and discuss the pro's and con's of the different methodological approaches to study the cortical oculomotor network. In the second part, the functional network involved in reflexive and volitional saccades is presented. Finally, studies concerning recovery mechanisms after a lesion of the oculomotor cortex are discussed.
Abnormal smooth pursuit eye-tracking is one of the most replicated deficits in the psychophysiological literature in schizophrenia [Levy, D. L., Holzman, P. S., Matthysse, S., &amp; Mendell, N. R. (1993). Eye tracking dysfunction and schizophrenia: A critical perspective. Schizophrenia Bulletin, 19, 461-505]. We used meta-analytic procedures to quantify patient-control differences in eye-tracking and to evaluate potential moderators of effect size including patient and target characteristics and characteristics of the control population (matched or not). The magnitude of patient-control differences in pursuit depended on the measure. Global measures had large effect sizes. Among specific measures, maintenance gain and leading saccades yielded large effect sizes, with gain also yielding the narrowest confidence interval. Effect sizes associated with specific measures of smooth pursuit vs. specific measures of intrusive saccades did not clearly implicate one system over the other. Patient demographics and target characteristics generally had little influence on effect sizes. However, studies that failed to sex-match patients and controls tended to have smaller effect sizes for maintenance gain and catch-up saccade rate. Average effect sizes and confidence limits for global measures of pursuit and for maintenance gain place these measures alongside the very strongest neurocognitive measures in the literature [Heinrichs, R. W. (2004). Meta-analysis, and the science of schizophrenia: Variant evidence or evidence of variants? Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews, 28, 379-394] for distinguishing between patients with schizophrenia and controls.
This review provides a summary of the contributions made by human functional neuroimaging studies to the understanding of neural correlates of saccadic control. The generation of simple visually guided saccades (redirections of gaze to a visual stimulus or pro-saccades) and more complex volitional saccades require similar basic neural circuitry with additional neural regions supporting requisite higher level processes. The saccadic system has been studied extensively in non-human (e.g., single-unit recordings) and human (e.g., lesions and neuroimaging) primates. Considerable knowledge of this system's functional neuroanatomy makes it useful for investigating models of cognitive control. The network involved in pro-saccade generation (by definition largely exogenously-driven) includes subcortical (striatum, thalamus, superior colliculus, and cerebellar vermis) and cortical (primary visual, extrastriate, and parietal cortices, and frontal and supplementary eye fields) structures. Activation in these regions is also observed during endogenously-driven voluntary saccades (e.g., anti-saccades, ocular motor delayed response or memory saccades, predictive tracking tasks and anticipatory saccades, and saccade sequencing), all of which require complex cognitive processes like inhibition and working memory. These additional requirements are supported by changes in neural activity in basic saccade circuitry and by recruitment of additional neural regions (such as prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices). Activity in visual cortex is modulated as a function of task demands and may predict the type of saccade to be generated, perhaps via top-down control mechanisms. Neuroimaging studies suggest two foci of activation within FEF - medial and lateral - which may correspond to volitional and reflexive demands, respectively. Future research on saccade control could usefully (i) delineate important anatomical subdivisions that underlie functional differences, (ii) evaluate functional connectivity of anatomical regions supporting saccade generation using methods such as ICA and structural equation modeling, (iii) investigate how context affects behavior and brain activity, and (iv) use multi-modal neuroimaging to maximize spatial and temporal resolution.
Smooth pursuit eye movements enable us to focus our eyes on moving objects by utilizing well-established mechanisms of visual motion processing, sensorimotor transformation and cognition. Novel smooth pursuit tasks and quantitative measurement techniques can help unravel the different smooth pursuit components and complex neural systems involved in its control. The maintenance of smooth pursuit is driven by a combination of the prediction of target velocity and visual feedback about performance quality, thus a combination of retinal and extraretinal information that has to be integrated in various networks. Different models of smooth pursuit with specific in- and output parameters have been developed for a better understanding of the underlying neurophysiological mechanisms and to make quantitative predictions that can be tested in experiments. Functional brain imaging and neurophysiological studies have defined motion sensitive visual area V5, frontal (FEF) and supplementary (SEF) eye fields as core cortical smooth pursuit regions. In addition, a dense neural network is involved in the adjustment of an optimal smooth pursuit response by integrating also extraretinal information. These networks facilitate interaction of the smooth pursuit system with multiple other visual and non-visual sensorimotor systems on the cortical and subcortical level. Future studies with fMRI advanced techniques (e.g., event-related fMRI) promise to provide an insight into how smooth pursuit eye movements are linked to specific brain activation. Applying this approach to neurological and also mental illness can reveal distinct disturbances within neural networks being present in these disorders and also the impact of medication on this circuitry.
Data from lesion studies suggest that the ability to perceive speech sounds, as measured by auditory comprehension tasks, is supported by temporal lobe systems in both the left and right hemisphere. For example, patients with left temporal lobe damage and auditory comprehension deficits (i.e., Wernicke's aphasics), nonetheless comprehend isolated words better than one would expect if their speech perception system had been largely destroyed (70-80% accuracy). Further, when comprehension fails in such patients their errors are more often semantically-based, than-phonemically based. The question addressed by the present study is whether this ability of the right hemisphere to process speech sounds is a result of plastic reorganization following chronic left hemisphere damage, or whether the ability exists in undamaged language systems. We sought to test these possibilities by studying auditory comprehension in acute left versus right hemisphere deactivation during Wada procedures. A series of 20 patients undergoing clinically indicated Wada procedures were asked to listen to an auditorily presented stimulus word, and then point to its matching picture on a card that contained the target picture, a semantic foil, a phonemic foil, and an unrelated foil. This task was performed under three conditions, baseline, during left carotid injection of sodium amytal, and during right carotid injection of sodium amytal. Overall, left hemisphere injection led to a significantly higher error rate than right hemisphere injection. However, consistent with lesion work, the majority (75%) of these errors were semantic in nature. These findings suggest that auditory comprehension deficits are predominantly semantic in nature, even following acute left hemisphere disruption. This, in turn, supports the hypothesis that the right hemisphere is capable of speech sound processing in the intact brain.
We used fMRI to investigate competition during language production in two word production tasks: object naming and color naming of achromatic line drawings. Generally, fMRI activation was higher for color naming. The line drawings were followed by a word (the distractor word) that referred to either the object, a related object, or an unrelated object. The effect of the distractor word on the BOLD response was qualitatively different for the two tasks. The activation pattern suggests two different kinds of competition during lexical retrieval: (1) Task-relevant responses (e.g., red in color naming) compete with task-irrelevant responses (i.e., the object's name). This competition effect was dominant in prefrontal cortex. (2) Multiple task-relevant responses (i.e., target word and distractor word) compete for selection. This competition effect was dominant in ventral temporal cortex. This study provides further evidence for the distinct roles of frontal and temporal cortex in language production, while highlighting the effects of competition, albeit from different sources, in both regions.
A 61-year-old female developed left hemiparesis after the onset of high fever and a consciousness disturbance. Fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) MR imaging showed high signal intensity lesions in the right temporal lobe, cingulate gyrus, and parietal lobe. Encephalitis caused by a herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection was suspected and the administration of intravenous aciclovir was thus immediately initiated. Her consciousness disturbance rapidly became exacerbated; however, the brain lesions progressively expanded to the midbrain and left hemisphere. The addition of intravenous high-dose corticosteroids to the treatment regimen ameliorated the consciousness disturbance. Although no HSV DNA was detected by repeated PCR using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimens, real time PCR using a biopsied brain tissue specimens detected HSV type 1 DNA. A pathological examination showed destruction of the grey matter and a perivascular aggregation of lymphocytes, thus suggesting a diagnosis of necrotizing viral encephalitis. Immunohistochemical analysis did not reveal the presence of the HSV antigen. Hence, in the present patient failure of PCR or a serological diagnosis using CSF specimens can be ascribed to the paucity of viral particles in the brain. We therefore concluded that real-time PCR using biopsied brain tissue specimens is a novel, sensitive method for detecting causative agents in patient with prolonged and undiagnosed encephalitis.
MicroRNAs have emerged as a new regulatory factor of gene expression. They mediate translational repression or degradation of their target mRNAs by RNA interference (RNAi). The expression of each microRNA is tightly regulated in a development- and cell-specific manner by various mechanisms such as blockade of let-7 family expression by Lin-28 or RNA editing. They also act as regulatory switches for development, organogenesis, and cellular differentiation or for controlling distinct functions that are required for the maintenance of each tissue and cell subtypes. The abundant expression of microRNAs as well as the exclusive expression of certain microRNAs in the central nervous system highlights their biological importance at all stages of neural development and in postmitotic and differentiated neurons. Further, some microRNAs, such as miRNA-134, and miRNA-132 are localized and are synthesized in part at synaptic sites in dendrites to regulate synaptic formation and plasticity. In addition to the imparting of basic knowledge about the biogenesis and mechanism of action of microRNAs, this review focuses on the recent advances in microRNA studies in neurobiology, including the expression pattern of microRNAs in the mammalian brain, the role of microRNAs in neural differentiation and maturation, formation and plasticity of synaptic connections, and maintenance of neural function such as the synthesis of the neurotransmitters in selected neurons. Finally, the possible connection between microRNA dysfunction and neurological diseases, and future implications for diagnosis, and treatment of defects in human brain development and neurodegenerative diseases are discussed.
Many brain regions show metabolic and perfusion abnormalities in major depressive disorder (MDD), including anterior cingulate and prefrontal cortices. Some of these same areas also show abnormal function with low resolution electromagnetic tomography (LORETA). However, LORETA results are not always consistent across studies, nor with findings from other imaging modalities. These discrepancies may be due, among other factors, to the sensitivity of EEG source localization to different electrode montages. Thirty-six channel EEG was collected from healthy controls and age- and gender-matched unmedicated subjects with MDD (n = 74). EEGs were analyzed with LORETA to assess resting state current density at each of 2,394 cortical voxels. For comparison to previous studies, LORETA was performed using all electrodes or with specific prefrontal electrodes removed. Voxel-by-voxel differences between the depressed and healthy groups were calculated using non-parametric statistics. MDD subjects showed significantly elevated current density in delta, theta, alpha, beta1, and beta2 frequency bands relative to controls in anterior cingulate and prefrontal cortices. Removal of certain prefrontal electrodes from input to LORETA decreased or eliminated significant differences between groups. LORETA detects differences in brain activity between MDD subjects and healthy controls that are consistent with previous findings using other imaging modalities. Inconsistent findings among LORETA studies, and between LORETA studies and those using other functional imaging techniques, may result from differences in electrode montages.

Gonadal and stress hormones modulate neuroplasticity and behaviour. This review focuses on our findings over the past decade on the effects of estrogens and androgens on hippocampal neurogenesis, hippocampus-dependent learning and memory and the effects of reproductive experience in the rodent. Evidence suggests that acute estradiol initially enhances and subsequently suppresses cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of adult female rodents. Repeated exposure to estradiol modulates hippocampal neurogenesis and cell death in adult female, but not male, rodents while, testosterone and dihydrotestosterone upregulate hippocampal neurogenesis in adult male rodents. Estradiol dose-dependently affects different brain regions involved in working memory (prefrontal cortex, hippocampus), reference memory (hippocampus) and conditioned place preference (amygdala). Pregnancy and motherhood differentially regulate adult hippocampal neurogenesis and spatial working memory in the dam after weaning. These studies and others demonstrate that the female brain responds to steroid hormones differently than the male brain. It is of the upmost importance to investigate the effects on neuroplasticity and behaviour in both the male and the female, particularly when modelling diseases that exhibit sex differences in incidence, etiology or treatment.

Sulforaphane (SFN), a prominent isothiocyanate present in cruciferous vegetables, is believed to be responsible along with other isothiocyanates for the cancer preventive activity of such vegetables. SFN arrests mitosis, possibly by affecting spindle microtubule function. A critical property of microtubules is their rapid and time-sensitive growth and shortening dynamics (dynamic instability), and suppression of dynamics by antimitotic anticancer drugs (e.g. taxanes and the vinca alkaloids) is central to the anticancer mechanisms of such drugs. We found that at concentrations that inhibited proliferation and mitosis of MCF7-green fluorescent protein-alpha-tubulin breast tumor cells by approximately 50% (~15 microM), SFN significantly modified microtubule organization in arrested spindles without modulating the spindle microtubule mass, in a manner similar to that of much more powerful antimitotic drugs. By using quantitative fluorescence video microscopy, we determined that at its mitotic concentration required to inhibit mitosis by 50%, SFN suppressed the dynamic instability of the interphase microtubules in these cells, strongly reducing the rate and extent of growth and shortening and decreasing microtubule turnover, without affecting the polymer mass. SFN suppressed the dynamics of purified microtubules in a similar fashion at concentrations well below those required to depolymerize microtubules, indicating that the suppression of dynamic instability by SFN in cells is due to a direct effect on the microtubules. The results indicate that SFN arrests proliferation and mitosis by stabilizing microtubules in a manner weaker than but similar to more powerful clinically used antimitotic anticancer drugs and strongly support the hypothesis that inhibition of mitosis by microtubule stabilization is important for SFN's chemopreventive activity.
Enteroendocrine cells, which secrete peptide hormones in response to sensation of food and gut microbiota products, can now be genetically tagged, isolated, cultured, and characterized for expression of the elusive chemosensors, as shown in publications in PNAS (Samuel et al., 2008) and in this issue (Reimann et al., 2008).
Endothelins regulate cellular functions in the mammalian brain through the endothelin receptors A and B (EDNRA and EDNRB). In this study, we investigated the role of EDNRB on cell proliferation in the cerebellum by using the spotting lethal (sl) rat, which carries a naturally occurring deletion in the EDNRB gene. Proliferating cells in the three genotypes, wild-type (+/+), heterozygous (+/sl) and homozygous mutant (sl/sl) rats were labelled by intraperitoneal injection of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) at postnatal day 2. The density of BrdU-positive cells (per mm(2)) in the external germinal layer of sl/sl rats (Mean +/- SEM, 977 +/- 388) was significantly reduced compared to +/+ (4915 +/- 631) and +/sl (2304 +/- 557) rats. Subsequently, we examined the effects of EDNRB mutation on neural apoptosis by terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labelling assay. This showed that the density of apoptotic cells in the cerebella of sl/sl rats (9.3 +/- 0.5/mm(2)) was significantly more increased than +/+ rats (4 +/- 0.7). The expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) were measured with standard ELISA, but were unchanged in all genotypes. These results suggest that ENDRB mediates neural proliferation and have anti-apoptotic effects in the cerebellum of the postnatal rat, and that these effects are independent of changes in the expression of BDNF and GDNF. Our findings will lead to better understanding of the morphological changes in the cerebellum of Hirschsprung's disease patients with congenital EDNRB mutation.
The involvement of the Nuclear distribution element-like (Ndel1; Nudel) protein in the recruitment of the dynein complex is critical for neurodevelopment and potentially important for neuronal disease states. The PDE4 family of phosphodiesterases specifically degrades cAMP, an important second messenger implicated in learning and memory functions. Here we show for the first time that Ndel1 can interact directly with PDE4 family members and that the interaction of Ndel1 with the PDE4D3 isoform is uniquely disrupted by elevation of intracellular cAMP levels. While all long PDE4 isoforms are subject to stimulatory PKA phosphorylation within their conserved regulatory UCR1 domain, specificity for release of PDE4D3 is conferred due to the PKA-dependent phosphorylation of Ser13 within the isoform-specific, unique amino-terminal domain of PDE4D3. Scanning peptide array analyses identify a common region on Ndel1 for PDE4 binding and an additional region that is unique to PDE4D3. The common site lies within the stutter region that links the second coiled-coil region to the unstable third coiled-coil regions of Ndel1. The additional binding region unique to PDE4D3 penetrates into the start of the third coiled-coil region that can undergo tail-to-tail interactions between Ndel1 dimers to form a 4 helix bundle. We demonstrate Ndel1 self-interaction in living cells using a BRET approach with luciferase- and GFP-tagged forms of Ndel1. BRET assessed Ndel1-Ndel1 self-interaction is amplified through the binding of PDE4 isoforms. For PDE4D3 this effect is ablated upon elevation of intracellular cAMP due to PKA-mediated phosphorylation at Ser13, while the potentiating effects of PDE4B1 and PDE4D5 are resistant to cAMP elevation. PDE4D long isoforms and Ndel1 show a similar sub-cellular distribution in hippocampus and cortex and locate to post-synaptic densities. We show that Ndel1 sequesters EPAC, but not PKA, in order to form a cAMP signalling complex. We propose that a key function of the Ndel1 signalling scaffold is to signal through cAMP by sequestering EPAC, whose activity may thus be specifically regulated by sequestered PDE4 that also stabilizes Ndel1-Ndel1 self-interaction. In the case of PDE4D3, its association with Ndel1 is dynamically regulated by PKA input through its ability to phosphorylate Ser13 in the unique N-terminal region of this isoform, triggering the specific release of PDE4D3 from Ndel1 when cAMP levels are elevated. We propose that Ser13 may act as a redistribution trigger in PDE4D3, allowing it to dynamically re-shape cAMP gradients in distinct intracellular locales upon its phosphorylation by PKA.
In this study we aimed to assess the brain distribution of 5-HT(1A) receptors in migraine patients without aura. Ten female migraine patients and 24 female healthy volunteers underwent magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography using a radioligand antagonist of 5-HT(1A) receptors [4-(2'-methoxyphenyl)-1-[2'-(N-2-pirydynyl)-p-fluorobenzamido]-ethylpiperazine ((18)F-MPPF)]. A simplified reference tissue model was used to generate parametric images of 5-HT(1A) receptor binding potential (BP) values. Statistical Parametrical Mapping (SPM) analysis showed increased MPPF BP in posterior cortical areas and hippocampi bilaterally in patients compared with controls. Region of interest (ROI) analysis showed a non-significant trend in favour of a BP increase patients in cortical regions identified by the SPM analysis except in hippocampi, left parietal areas and raphe nuclei. During the interictal period of migraine patients without aura, the increase of MPPF BP in posterior cortical and limbic areas could reflect an increase in receptor density or a decrease of endogenous serotonin, which could explain their altered cortical excitability.
Biological and behavioral differences between the sexes range from obvious to subtle or nonexistent. Neuroanatomical differences are particularly controversial, perhaps due to the implication that they might account for behavioral differences. In this sample of 200 men and women, large effect sizes (Cohen's d &gt; 0.8) were found for sex differences in total cerebral gray and white matter, cerebellum, and gray matter proportion (women had a higher proportion of gray matter). The only one of these sex differences that survived adjustment for the effect of cerebral volume was gray matter proportion. Individual differences in cerebral volume accounted for 21% of the difference in gray matter proportion, while sex accounted for an additional 4%. The relative size of the corpus callosum was 5% larger in women, but this difference was completely explained by a negative relationship between relative callosal size and cerebral volume. In agreement with Jancke et al., individuals with higher cerebral volume tended to have smaller corpora callosa. There were few sex differences in the size of structures in Broca's and Wernicke's area. We conclude that individual differences in brain volume, in both men and women, account for apparent sex differences in relative size.
Neuropsychological studies suggest that patients with left parietal lesions may show impaired localization of parts of either their own or the examiner's body, despite preserved ability to identify isolated body parts. This deficit, called autotopagnosia, may result from damage to the Body Structural Description (BSD), a representation which codes spatial relationships among body parts. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify the neural mechanisms underlying the BSD. Two human body or building parts (factor: STIMULI) were shown to participants who either identified them or evaluated their distance (factor: TASK). The analysis of the interaction between STIMULI and TASK, which isolates the neural mechanism underlying BSD, revealed an activation of left posterior intraparietal sulcus (IPS) when the distance between body parts was evaluated. The results show that the left IPS processes specifically the information about spatial relationships among body parts and thereby suggest that damage to this area may underlie autotopagnosia.
Chromatin remodeling plays an important role in coordinating gene expression during cortical development, however the identity of molecular complexes present in differentiating cortical neurons that mediate the process remains poorly understood. The A + U-rich element-binding factor 1 (AUF1) is a known regulator of messenger RNA stability and also acts as a transcription factor upon binding to AT-rich DNA elements. Here we show that AUF1 is specifically expressed in subsets of proliferating neural precursors and differentiating postmitotic neurons of the developing cerebral cortex. Moreover, AUF1 is coexpressed with histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and metastasis-associated protein 2 (MTA2), members of the nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase complex. AUF1 specifically and simultaneously binds to HDAC1, MTA2, and AT-rich DNA element, its gene regulatory function is modulated by the extent of histone acetylation and in animals lacking AUF1, the composition of the complex is modified. These results suggest that AUF1 is involved in integrating genetic and epigenetic signals during cortical development through recruiting HDAC1 and MTA2 to AT-rich DNA elements.
Classically regarded as motor structures, the basal ganglia subserve a wide range of functions, including motor, cognitive, motivational, and emotional processes. Consistent with this broad-reaching involvement in brain function, basal ganglia dysfunction has been implicated in numerous neurological and psychiatric disorders. Despite recent advances in human neuroimaging, models of basal ganglia circuitry continue to rely primarily upon inference from animal studies. Here, we provide a comprehensive functional connectivity analysis of basal ganglia circuitry in humans through a functional magnetic resonance imaging examination during rest. Voxelwise regression analyses substantiated the hypothesized motor, cognitive, and affective divisions among striatal subregions, and provided in vivo evidence of a functional organization consistent with parallel and integrative loop models described in animals. Our findings also revealed subtler distinctions within striatal subregions not previously appreciated by task-based imaging approaches. For instance, the inferior ventral striatum is functionally connected with medial portions of orbitofrontal cortex, whereas a more superior ventral striatal seed is associated with medial and lateral portions. The ability to map multiple distinct striatal circuits in a single study in humans, as opposed to relying on meta-analyses of multiple studies, is a principal strength of resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging. This approach holds promise for studying basal ganglia dysfunction in clinical disorders.
Motion can be perceived when static images are successively presented with a spatial shift. This type of motion is an illusion and is termed apparent motion (AM). Here we show, with a voltage sensitive dye applied to the visual cortex of the ferret, that presentation of a sequence of stationary, short duration, stimuli which are perceived to produce AM are, initially, mapped in areas 17 and 18 as separate stationary representations. But time locked to the offset of the 1st stimulus, a sequence of signals are elicited. First, an activation traverses cortical areas 19 and 21 in the direction of AM. Simultaneously, a motion dependent feedback signal from these areas activates neurons between areas 19/21 and areas 17/18. Finally, an activation is recorded, traveling always from the representation of the 1st to the representation of the next or succeeding stimuli. This activation elicits spikes from neurons situated between these stimulus representations in areas 17/18. This sequence forms a physiological mechanism of motion computation which could bind populations of neurons in the visual areas to interpret motion out of stationary stimuli.
Stimulation of the amygdala produces pupil dilation in animal and human subjects. The present study examined whether the amygdala is sensitive to variations in the pupil size of others. Male subjects underwent event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging while passively viewing unfamiliar female faces whose pupils were either unaltered (natural variations in large and small pupils) or altered to be larger or smaller than their original size. Results revealed that the right amygdala and left amygdala/substantia innominata were sensitive to the pupil size of others, exhibiting increased activity for faces with relatively large pupils. Upon debrief, no subject reported being aware that the pupils had been manipulated. These results suggest a function for the amygdala in the detection of changes in pupil size, an index of arousal and/or interest on the part of a conspecific, even in the absence of explicit knowledge.
We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to determine whether neural activity can differentiate between true memory, false memory, and deception. Subjects heard a series of semantically related words and were later asked to make a recognition judgment of old words, semantically related nonstudied words (lures for false recognition), and unrelated new words. They were also asked to make a deceptive response to half of the old and unrelated new words. There were 3 main findings. First, consistent with the notion that executive function supports deception, 2 types of deception (pretending to know and pretending not to know) recruited prefrontal activity. Second, consistent with the sensory reactivation hypothesis, the difference between true recognition and false recognition was found in the left temporoparietal regions probably engaged in the encoding of auditorily presented words. Third, the left prefrontal cortex was activated during pretending to know relative to correct rejection and false recognition, whereas the right anterior hippocampus was activated during false recognition relative to correct rejection and pretending to know. These findings indicate that fMRI can detect the difference in brain activity between deception and false memory despite the fact that subjects respond with &quot;I know&quot; to novel events in both processes.
We reported previously that as monkeys used abstract response strategies to choose spatial goals, 1 population of prefrontal cortex neurons encoded future goals (F cells), whereas a largely separate population encoded previous goals (P cells). Here, to better understand the mechanisms of goal selection and maintenance, we studied correlated activity among pairs of these neurons. Among the 3 possible types of pairs, F-F and F-P pairs often exhibited significant correlations when and after monkeys selected future goals but P-P pairs rarely did. These correlations were stronger when monkeys shifted from a previous goal than when they stayed with that goal. In addition, members of F-F pairs usually preferred the same goal and thus shared both prospective coding and spatial tuning properties. In contrast, cells composing F-P pairs usually had different spatial preferences and thus shared neither coding nor spatial tuning properties. On the assumption that the neurons composing a pair send convergent outputs to target neurons, their correlated activity could enhance their efficacy in context-dependent goal selection, goal maintenance, and the transformation of goal choices into action.
Women show a higher prevalence for depression than men. However, the biological basis of gender differences in stress response and recovery still remain poorly understood. Therefore, the aim of the study was to assess the gender differences in response to acute stress, chronic stress and recovery in rats. Our results showed that stress decreased male body weight but had no effect on female rats. Open field test demonstrated behavioral changes in grooming and velocity after chronic stress and recovery. Increased activity of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis was reflected by adrenal hypertrophy and increase of plasma corticosterone levels except in the socially housed female rats after stress. Gender and brain region differences in response to stress and recovery were found in the expression of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and phosphorylated CREB (pCREB). On the whole, expression of CREB and pCREB in male dentate gyrus (DG) and prefrontal cortex (PFC) was sensitive but in female DG and PFC it was resistant to acute and chronic stress. Interestingly, recovery restored the measured parameters to the normal level in male rats but not in female rats. In conclusion, these results suggest that male and female rats responded to stress and recovery in a different way.
A simple synthesis involving a key coupling reaction and biological activity of N-protected cyclopropylethylcarbamates (18-21) are described. The key fragments are amine.HCl salt (13) and acids (16 and 17) which were smoothly coupled by using 2-(7-aza-1H-benzotriazol-1-yl)-1,1,3,3-tetramethyluroniumhexafluorophosphate in high yield. We have found that the in vitro growth inhibitory potency of new compound 19 exhibited good histone deacetylase activity.
Because individual differences in emotion regulation are associated with risk for childhood behavioral problems, multidisciplinary investigation of the genetic and neural underpinnings of emotion regulation should be a research priority. Here, we summarize research findings from three independent laboratories to demonstrate the ways in which a variety of developmental human neuroscience-based approaches can address critical conceptual issues in the emergence of emotion regulation. To do so, we present three perspectives on how developmental neurobiology constrains and enriches theories of ER. The three perspectives of (1) genetics, (2) brain structure and function, and (3) plasticity of development are illustrated with empirical results derived from both typical and atypical samples of children and adults. These perspectives are complementary and sometimes represent different levels of analysis of the same question.

Vanishing white matter (VWM) disease, also known as childhood ataxia with central nervous system hypomyelination (CACH) syndrome, is an autosomal recessive transmitted leukodystrophy. Classically characterised by early childhood onset, adult onset formed with slower progression have been recently recognized. The course of neurological impairment is usually progressive with possible occasional episodes of acute deterioration following febrile illnesses or head trauma. Neurological features are dominated by cerebellar ataxia and spasticity with relatively preserved mental abilities. Brain MRI shows diffuse abnormal signal of the cerebral white matter and cystic degeneration. Mutations in one of the genes coding for the five subunits of the translation factor eukaryotic initiation factor 2B (eIF2B) have been identified. We report here on two sisters affected by adult onset VWM with variable phenotypic expression. The proband is remarkable by the very late age of the disease onset (age of 42). A homozygous p.Arg113His mutation in the eIF2Bvarepsilon gene was identified. This mutation had been recurrently associated with adult onset VWM establishing phenotype-genotype correlations. We will show an important intra-familial phenotypic variability and discuss it in the light of recent molecular progresses. External precipitating factors are contributing for some of the differences observed.


The effects of an intravitreal or subretinal injection of soluble or aggregated forms of Abeta(1-42) on retinal nestin-immunoreactivity (-IR) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-IR in astrocytes and Mller glial cells and the integrity of the blood-retinal barrier (BRB) were tested in the in vivo rat vitreal-retinal model. Retinas were exposed for 1, 2, 3, 5 or 30 days. We present novel data demonstrating that aggregated Abeta(1-42) up-regulates nestin-IR in astrocytes and Mller cells, with a graded response directly related to the length of pre-injection aggregation time. Similar results were obtained with GFAP-IR, but the signal was weaker. An intravitreal injection of aggregated Abeta(1-42) led to VEGF-IR up-regulation, particularly in the GCL and to a lesser extent in the INL. VEGFR1-IR (Flt1) was also increased, particularly in Mller cells and this was accompanied by marked leakage of albumin into the retinal parenchyma of the injected eye, but not in the contralateral eye.

Growing evidence has shown that the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) may play important roles in controlling neuronal survival or cell apoptosis within the central nervous system in development, and in pathological or neural injury. Recent studies have further revealed that p75NTR acts as a &quot;molecular signal switch&quot; that determines cell death or survival by three processes. First, pro-nerve growth factor (proNGF) triggers cell apoptosis by its high affinity binding to p75NTR, while NGF induces neuronal survival with low-affinity binding. Second, p75NTR mediates cell death by combining with co-receptor sortilin, whereas it promotes neuronal survival through combination with proNGF. Third, release of the intracellular domain chopper or cleavaged &quot;short p75NTR&quot; can independently initiate neuronal apoptosis. We have identified the cell self-destructive proNGF-p75NTR-sortilin signalling apparatus assembled in ventral tier dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta, suggesting that p75NTR signalling might be involved in selective cell death mechanisms of substantia nigra neurons or disease progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). In addition, experimental manipulation of p75NTR benefited cell survival of cholinergic or motor neurons and improved disease progression of the neurodegenerative diseases Alzheimer's disease and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The proNGF-p75NTR-sortilin signalling complex may thus provide new target for neuroprotection of substantia nigra neurons and the therapeutic treatment of PD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical drug development and patient care depend on rating instruments, research designs and methods, and translations of clinical trial (CT) results into the clinic without support from standardized protocols able to control (i) random measurement error intrusions into observations, (ii) inaccuracy and bias introduced by clinical evaluators, (iii) conformity of research sites to conditions of research protocols, (iv) the ability of the CT to model for practitioners the most effective use of the drug with individual patients, and (v) other factors able to invalidate research and patient care data. This relaxed attitude with regard to AD methods may be changing now with Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) evidence that carefully standardized protocols are needed to validate biomarkers for use in AD diagnosis, drug development, and patient care. In the fields of psychiatry and AD, recent studies have detected serious inaccuracies, imprecision, biases and compromises of study protocols able to invalidate CT outcome data and conclusions drawn from these data. This limited but troubling evidence reinforces ADNI calls for more detailed methodological protocols. Based on the limits to precision and accuracy associated with rated outcomes in CTs and patient care, we call for priority to be given to the qualification and use of biomarkers as outcome variables in AD drug development and patient care and, to insure effective uses of biomarkers, to development of protocol guided practices being modeled in ADNI research. To meet clinical pharmacology's therapeutic aims we conclude that AD CTs need to set for clinicians the conditions of use of drugs shown efficacious, biomarker surrogate endpoints as drug targets, and not to function merely as tests for efficacy conducted under field conditions determined by current clinical practices.
Decision making is a core competence for animals and humans acting and surviving in environments they only partially comprehend, gaining rewards and punishments for their troubles. Decision-theoretic concepts permeate experiments and computational models in ethology, psychology, and neuroscience. Here, we review a well-known, coherent Bayesian approach to decision making, showing how it unifies issues in Markovian decision problems, signal detection psychophysics, sequential sampling, and optimal exploration and discuss paradigmatic psychological and neural examples of each problem. We discuss computational issues concerning what subjects know about their task and how ambitious they are in seeking optimal solutions; we address algorithmic topics concerning model-based and model-free methods for making choices; and we highlight key aspects of the neural implementation of decision making.
Emerging evidence suggests that the long-established distinction between habit-based and goal-directed decision-making mechanisms can also be sustained in humans. Although the habit-based system has been extensively studied in humans, the goal-directed system is less well characterized. This review brings to that task the distinction between conceptual and nonconceptual representational mechanisms. Conceptual representations are structured out of semantic constituents (concepts)--the use of which requires an ability to perform some language-like syntactic processing. Decision making--as investigated by neuroscience and psychology--is normally studied in isolation from questions about concepts as studied in philosophy and cognitive psychology. We ask what role concepts play in the &quot;goal-directed&quot; decision-making system. We argue that one fruitful way of studying this system in humans is to investigate the extent to which it deploys conceptual representations.
The dynamics of neuronal systems, briefly neurodynamics, has developed into an attractive and influential research branch within neuroscience. In this paper, we discuss a number of conceptual issues in neurodynamics that are important for an appropriate interpretation and evaluation of its results. We demonstrate their relevance for selected topics of theoretical and empirical work. In particular, we refer to the notions of determinacy and stochasticity in neurodynamics across levels of microscopic, mesoscopic and macroscopic descriptions. The issue of correlations between neural, mental and behavioral states is also addressed in some detail. We propose an informed discussion of conceptual foundations with respect to neurobiological results as a viable step to a fruitful future philosophy of neuroscience.
We assessed the effect of suggestion on the Deese-Roediger-McDermott paradigm and associated it with the Remember-Know-Guess paradigm. Undergraduate students were given either lists of semantically related words or texts containing these words. After the recall task, if participants did not produce the critical lure, the experimenter suggested that the word had been present, using either a question (moderate suggestion) or an assertion (strong suggestion); these conditions were compared to a condition without suggestion. Afterwards, participants took a recognition test. The results showed that strong suggestions lead to more false recognitions than other conditions and the state of consciousness associated with false recognitions tends to be a feeling of knowing rather than remembering, regardless of the verbal version (list or text). Therefore moderate suggestions did not lead to more false recognitions compare to no suggestion. We discuss the impact of suggestion on consciousness associated with false memories.
We experience our own body through both touch and vision. We further see that others' bodies are similar to our own body, but we have no direct experience of touch on others' bodies. Therefore, relations between vision and touch are important for the sense of self and for mental representation of one's own body. For example, seeing the hand improves tactile acuity on the hand, compared to seeing a non-hand object. While several studies have demonstrated this visual enhancement of touch (VET) effect, its relation to the 'bodily self', or mental representation of one's own body remains unclear. We examined whether VET is an effect of seeing a hand, or of seeing my hand, using the rubber hand illusion. In this illusion, a prosthetic hand which is brushed synchronously--but not asynchronously--with one's own hand is felt to actually be one's hand. Thus, we manipulated whether or not participants felt like they were looking directly at their hand, while holding the actual stimulus they viewed constant. Tactile acuity was measured by having participants judge the orientation of square-wave gratings. Two characteristic effects of VET were observed: (1) cross-modal enhancement from seeing the hand was inversely related to overall tactile acuity, and (2) participants near sensory threshold showed significant improvement following synchronous stroking, compared to asynchronous stroking or no stroking at all. These results demonstrate a clear functional relation between the bodily self and basic tactile perception.
The global neuronal workspace theory [Dehaene, S., &amp; Naccache, L. (2001). Towards a cognitive neuroscience of consciousness: basic evidence and a workspace framework. Cognition, 79, 1-37.] proposes that it is impossible for an unconscious stimulus to be used strategically to enhance task performance (bottom-up effect), while a fully consciously perceived stimulus can be used to improve task performance (top-down effect). Two experiments were designed to investigate these hypotheses. In a first experiment we investigated whether a manipulation of the proportion of Arabic/number word targets had a top-down effect. Since the subjects were fully aware of the target, we expected that this manipulation could be used to enhance task performance. In a second experiment we determined whether a manipulation of the proportion of Arabic/number word primes had a bottom-up effect. Since the subjects were unaware of the prime, we hypothesized that they would be unable to use the manipulation to enhance task performance and therefore the manipulation would have no effect. Both hypotheses were largely confirmed.
The Beacon Award for Critical Care Excellence recognizes individual critical care units that have met rigid criteria for excellence, exhibiting high-quality standards and exceptional care of patients and their families. Used as a framework for quality, the award criteria focus on structure, process, and outcomes that enable quality to emerge in the critical care environment. The journey toward meeting Beacon Award criteria can produce long-lasting changes that transform unit-based culture and lead to sustained excellence.
INTRODUCTIONPrimary cultures of granule neurons from the post-natal rat cerebellum provide an excellent model system for molecular and cell biological studies of neuronal development and function. The cerebellar cortex, with its highly organized structure and few neuronal subtypes, offers a well-characterized neural circuitry. Many fundamental insights into the processes of neuronal apoptosis, migration, and differentiation in the mammalian central nervous system have come from investigating granule neurons in vitro. Granule neurons are the most abundant type of neurons in the brain. In addition to the sheer volume of granule neurons, the homogeneity of the population and the fact that they can be transfected with ease render them ideal for elucidating the molecular basis of neuronal development. This protocol for isolating granule neurons from post-natal rats is relatively straightforward and quick, making use of standard enzymatic and mechanical dissociation methods. In a serum-based medium containing an inhibitor of mitosis, cerebellar granule neurons can be maintained with high purity. Axons and dendrites can be clearly distinguished on the basis of morphology and markers. For even greater versatility, this protocol for culturing granule neurons can be combined with knockout or transgenic technologies, or used in cerebellar slice overlay assays.
Non-invasive energy metabolism measurements in brain tumors in vivo are now performed widely as molecular imaging by positron emission tomography. This capability has developed from a large number of basic and clinical science investigations that have cross fertilized one another. Apart from precise anatomical localization and quantification, the most intriguing advantage of such imaging is the opportunity to investigate the time course (dynamics) of disease-specific molecular events in the intact organism. Most importantly, molecular imaging represents a key-technology in translational research, helping to develop experimental protocols that may later be applied to human patients. Common clinical indications for molecular imaging of primary brain tumors therefore contain (i) primary brain tumor diagnosis, (ii) identification of the metabolically most active brain tumor reactions (differentiation of viable tumor tissue from necrosis), and (iii) prediction of treatment response by measurement of tumor perfusion, or ischemia. The key-question remains whether the magnitude of biochemical alterations demonstrated by molecular imaging reveals prognostic value with respect to survival. Molecular imaging may identify early disease and differentiate benign from malignant lesions. Moreover, an early identification of treatment effectiveness could influence patient management by providing objective criteria for evaluation of therapeutic strategies for primary brain tumors. Specially, its novel potential to visualize metabolism and signal transduction to gene expression is used in reporter gene assays to trace the location and temporal level of expression of therapeutic and endogenous genes. The authors present here illustrative data of PET imaging: the thymidine kinase gene expression in experimentally transplanted F98 gliomas in cat brain indicates, that [(18)F]FHBG visualizes cells expressing TK-GFP gene in transduced gliomas as well as quantities and localizes transduced HSV-1-TK expression if the blood brain barrier is disrupted. The higher uptake of [(18)F]FLT in the wild-type compared to the transduced type may demonstrate the different doubling time of both tumor tissues suggesting different cytosolic thymidine kinase activity. Molecular imaging probes are developed to image the function of targets without disturbing them or as drug in oder to modify the target's function. This is transfer of gene therapy's experimental knowledge into clinical applications. Molecular imaging closes the gap between in vitro to in vivo integrative biology of disease.
Sigma (sigma) receptors, initially described as a subtype of opioid receptors, are now considered unique receptors. Pharmacological studies have distinguished two types of sigma receptors, termed sigma(1) and sigma(2). Of these two subtypes, the sigma(1) receptor has been cloned in humans and rodents, and its amino acid sequence shows no homology with other mammalian proteins. Several psychoactive drugs show high to moderate affinity for sigma(1) receptors, including the antipsychotic haloperidol, the antidepressant drugs fluvoxamine and sertraline, and the psychostimulants cocaine and methamphetamine; in addition, the anticonvulsant drug phenytoin allosterically modulates sigma(1) receptors. Certain neurosteroids are known to interact with sigma(1) receptors, and have been proposed to be their endogenous ligands. These receptors are located in the plasma membrane and in subcellular membranes, particularly in the endoplasmic reticulum, where they play a modulatory role in intracellular Ca(2+) signaling. Sigma(1) receptors also play a modulatory role in the activity of some ion channels and in several neurotransmitter systems, mainly in glutamatergic neurotransmission. In accordance with their widespread modulatory role, sigma(1) receptor ligands have been proposed to be useful in several therapeutic fields such as amnesic and cognitive deficits, depression and anxiety, schizophrenia, analgesia, and against some effects of drugs of abuse (such as cocaine and methamphetamine). In this review we provide an overview of the present knowledge of sigma(1) receptors, focussing on sigma(1) ligand neuropharmacology and the role of sigma(1) receptors in behavioral animal studies, which have contributed greatly to the potential therapeutic applications of sigma(1) ligands.
Adenosine is perhaps the most important and universal modulator in the brain. The current consensus is that it is primarily produced in the extracellular space from the breakdown of previously released ATP. It is also accepted that it can be released directly, as adenosine, during pathological events primarily by equilibrative transport. Nevertheless, there is a growing realization that adenosine can be rapidly released from the nervous system in a manner that is dependent upon the activity of neurons. We consider three competing classes of mechanism that could explain neuronal activity dependent adenosine release (exocytosis of ATP followed by extracellular conversion to adenosine; exocytotic release of an unspecified transmitter followed by direct non-exocytotic adenosine release from an interposed cell; and direct exocytotic release of adenosine) and outline discriminatory experimental tests to decide between them. We review several examples of activity dependent adenosine release and explore their underlying mechanisms where these are known. We discuss the limits of current experimental techniques in definitively discriminating between the competing models of release, and identify key areas where technologies need to advance to enable definitive discriminatory tests. Nevertheless, within the current limits, we conclude that there is evidence for a mechanism that strongly resembles direct exocytosis of adenosine underlying at least some examples of neuronal activity dependent adenosine release.
Action potential propagation along myelinated nerve fibers requires high-density protein complexes that include voltage-gated Na(+) channels at the nodes of Ranvier. Several complementary mechanisms may be involved in node assembly including: (1) interaction of nodal cell adhesion molecules with the extracellular matrix; (2) restriction of membrane protein mobility by paranodal junctions; and (3) stabilization of ion channel clusters by axonal cytoskeletal scaffolds. In the peripheral nervous system, a secreted glial protein at the nodal extracellular matrix interacts with axonal cell adhesion molecules to initiate node formation. In the central nervous system, both glial soluble factors and paranodal axoglial junctions may function in a complementary manner to contribute to node formation.
Vertebrate neural crest cells are embryonic neuroepithelial cells that undergo an epithelial-mesenchymal transition, migrate throughout the embryo and form a wide variety of derivatives, including peripheral neurons and glia, pigment cells, and craniofacial cartilage, bone and teeth. Neural crest cell evolution and elaboration is intimately bound up with vertebrate evolution: the most primitive living vertebrates, lampreys and hagfishes, have most but not all neural crest derivatives. A torrent of recent molecular information has changed our understanding of vertebrate phylogenetic relationships, expanded our understanding of the gene circuitry underlying neural crest development, and given interesting information on the deployment of homologues of these genes in invertebrate relatives such as ascidians and amphioxus. New molecular insights into the evolutionary origin of cartilage, as well as into the nature and evolution of the cells and genes involved in tooth and bone formation, enable tentative hypotheses to be framed for the evolution of skeletal neural crest derivatives.
Many neuroscience studies of arm control have attempted to explain how aimed movements are planned, generated, and corrected. The mechanisms of subconscious online reaching correction to a target shift are now being widely examined from computational, physiological, and pathological viewpoints. Recent evidence of a quick manual response to surrounding visual motion suggests an additional online compensatory mechanism in reaching movements for bodily and/or external environmental changes, although the computational principle underlying this process remains controversial. Together with preprogrammed voluntary motor command generation, it appears that multiple online visually guided correction mechanisms implicitly govern reaching control to bring the hand to the goal. It is important to reveal unknown mechanisms and underlying neural substrates of generating the response to visual motion, which is additionally modulated by action contexts.
Interacting with objects in the environment introduces several new challenges for motor control: the potential for instability, external constraints on possible motions and novel dynamics. Grasping and manipulating objects provide the most elaborate examples of such motor tasks. We review each of these topics and suggest that when sensory feedback is reliable, it is used to adapt the motion to the requirements imposed by the object. When sensory feedback is unreliable, subjects adapt the stiffness of muscles and joints to the task's requirements. One of the simplifications introduced in the control of such movements is a reduction in the effective number of degrees of freedom (sensorimotor axes and muscle synergies) and recent findings and methodological considerations relevant to this topic are discussed.
A central question in neuroscience is how interactions between neurons give rise to behavior. In many electrophysiological experiments, the activity of a set of neurons is recorded while sensory stimuli or movement tasks are varied. Tools that aim to reveal underlying interactions between neurons from such data can be extremely useful. Traditionally, neuroscientists have studied these interactions using purely descriptive statistics (cross-correlograms or joint peri-stimulus time histograms). However, the interpretation of such data is often difficult, particularly as the number of recorded neurons grows. Recent research suggests that model-based, maximum likelihood methods can improve these analyses. In addition to estimating neural interactions, application of these techniques has improved decoding of external variables, created novel interpretations of existing electrophysiological data, and may provide new insight into how the brain represents information.
A salient event in the environment can initiate a complex orienting response that includes a shift in gaze. The midbrain superior colliculus (SC) contains the appropriate circuitry to generate and distribute a signal of the priority of this event, and co-ordinate the orienting response. The magnitude and timing of the short-latency transient visual response in the SC, when combined with cortical inputs signaling stimulus relevance and expectation, influences the type and latency of the orienting response. This signal in the SC is distributed to higher cortical areas to influence visual processing, to the reinforcement learning system to influence future actions, and to premotor circuits, including neck and shoulder muscles, to influence immediate action.
Movements are necessary to engage the world, but every movement results in sensorimotor ambiguity. Self-movements cause changes to sensory inflow as well as changes in the positions of objects relative to motor effectors (eyes and limbs). Hence the brain needs to monitor self-movements, and one way this is accomplished is by routing copies of movement commands to appropriate structures. These signals, known as corollary discharge (CD), enable compensation for sensory consequences of movement and preemptive updating of spatial representations. Such operations occur with a speed and accuracy that implies a reliance on prediction. Here we review recent CD studies and find that they arrive at a shared conclusion: CD contributes to prediction for the sake of sensorimotor harmony.
Canonically, 'mirror neurons' are cells in area F5 of the ventral premotor cortex that are active during both observation and execution of goal-directed movements. Recently, cells with similar properties have been observed in a number of other areas in the motor system, including the primary motor cortex. Mirror neurons are a part of a system whose function is thought to involve the prediction and interpretation of the sensory consequences of our own actions as well as the actions of others. Mirror-like responses are relevant to the development of brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) because they provide a robust way to map neural activity to behavior, and because they represent high-level information about goals and intentions that may have utility in future BMI applications.




Annexin A1 (ANXA1, formerly termed lipocortin 1 or macrocortin) is an important protein mediator of the feedback actions of glucocorticoids within the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis. Here we consider the mechanisms by which ANXA1 exerts these actions, with particular reference to the potential role of the formyl peptide receptors (FPRs), a family of G-protein-coupled receptors which has only very recently been implicated in the regulation of neuroendocrine function. In addition, we discuss evidence that ANXA1 contributes to the regulation of other aspects of endocrine and metabolic function and to the aetiology of sexual dimorphisms.
Kennedy disease (KD, or spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy) is caused by a CAG/polyglutamine expansion in the androgen receptor (AR) gene. Both motoneurons and muscles are affected by KD, but where mutant ARs act to initiate this disease is not clear. We discuss recent insights into this disease with two main themes. (1) KD is androgen-dependent, suggesting that blocking androgen action may be an effective treatment. (2) Androgens may trigger KD by acting in muscles, which indirectly affects the motoneurons, suggesting that blocking AR function in muscles may rescue motoneurons from disease and provide an effective treatment. Future research will provide a better understanding of how androgens trigger KD and the relative contributions of motoneurons versus muscles in this disease.
Over the past decade, the failed promise of animal models and preclinical pharmacology, and a changing landscape in the regulatory perspectives have impacted the development of drugs for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). In general, animal models have failed to predict efficacy of medications developed for visceral pain. On the contrary, extensive experience with different endpoints in large, randomized, and controlled trials has generated some data on psychometric validation and unprecedented information about responsiveness of binary or global endpoints. However, it has now become necessary to pursue further validation studies in the run-up to or during pivotal trials. Guidance documents from regulatory agencies in Europe and the United States have focused on patient response outcomes (PROs) and associated impact on quality of life. These extra validation steps will undoubtedly result in delays in drug development. Providing relief to patients should galvanize all parties to achieve effective and fair strategies for regulatory approval.
The question of whether tension-type headache (TTH) and migraine represent two points on a continuum has been debated for decades. Skeptics of the continuum model support their view by noting that the characteristics of these two headaches and the demographics of the individuals who suffer from them are undeniably distinct. In the clinical setting, however, these disorders exhibit more similarities than differences. TTH and migraine may exhibit similar associated features (even within the constraints of diagnostic criteria), respond effectively to similar medications, share similar demographics among certain age groups, and may each have genetic influences. These findings suggest that TTH and migraine may be more intimately related than would be suggested by their diagnostic criteria.
This unit provides detailed protocols for dissecting embryonic organs and performing organ culture to study questions in developmental biology. Procedures are described here for dissecting organs such as kidney, lung, and salivary gland. The unit also contains commentary including troubleshooting for embryonic organ culture.
Described in this unit is the ultrasonic distress vocalization test in rat pups. This test is a reliable method for detecting anxiolytic properties of test compounds. In this test, ultrasonic vocalizations (30 to 50 kHz) are elicited by separating rat pups of 9 to 11 days of age from their mother and littermates for a brief period of time. The test can be performed under two different stress conditions. Pups are placed in isolation in either a warm (37C) or cold (18C) environment for 5 min. The total number and duration of ultrasonic calls emitted by the pups during this period is used as an index of anxiety. Established anxiolytic compounds, including benzodiazepines, serotonin(1A) receptor agonists, and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), consistently reduce the number and cumulative duration of these ultrasonic distress vocalizations.
We examined whether individual differences in shyness and context influenced the amount of computer-mediated self-disclosure and use of affective language during an unfamiliar dyadic social interaction. Unfamiliar young adults were selected for high and low self-reported shyness and paired in mixed dyads (one shy and one nonshy). Each dyad was randomly assigned to either a live webcam or no webcam condition. Participants then engaged in a 20-minute online free chat over the Internet in the laboratory. Free chat conversations were archived, and the transcripts were objectively coded for traditional communication variables, conversational style, and the use of affective language. As predicted, shy adults engaged in significantly fewer spontaneous self-disclosures than did their nonshy counterparts only in the webcam condition. Shy versus nonshy adults did not differ on spontaneous self-disclosures in the no webcam condition. However, context did not influence the use of computer-mediated affective language. Although shy adults used significantly less active and pleasant words than their nonshy counterparts, these differences were not related to webcam condition. The present findings replicate and extend earlier work on shyness, context, and computer-mediated communication to a selected sample of shy adults. Findings suggest that context may influence some, but not all, aspects of social communication in shy adults.
A common way to attract Internet users to complete an online questionnaire is to offer the opportunity to win money in a lottery. If participants hurry through the questionnaire to head for a reward, Cronbach's alpha, an indicator for internal consistency and therefore reliability of a questionnaire, could be affected, because these participants probably do not read the items carefully but instead click randomly through the questionnaire. We developed a system to measure the total time needed to complete the questionnaire in order to identify different groups of participants according to differences in fill-in time (speed). Five hundred seventy-five respondents participated in an online study testing the reliability of the Affective Neuroscience Personality Scales (ANPS). Results showed that speed has no influence on Cronbach's alpha with the exception of a lie scale, which consisted in contrast to the personality scales (12-14 items) only of five items. Only 2% of all participants were suspected to be cheaters with respect to the time spent on answering 110 items of the ANPS. Interestingly, Cronbach's alpha remained stable in this extremely fast group, which spent less than 2 SD below mean-completion time on the questionnaire.
We have generated clones (L2.3 and RG3.6) of neural progenitors with radial glial properties from rat E14.5 cortex that differentiate into astrocytes, neurons, and oligodendrocytes. Here, we describe a different clone (L2.2) that gives rise exclusively to neurons, but not to glia. Neuronal differentiation of L2.2 cells was inhibited by bone morphogenic protein 2 (BMP2) and enhanced by Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) similar to cortical interneuron progenitors. Compared with L2.3, differentiating L2.2 cells expressed significantly higher levels of mRNAs for glutamate decarboxylases (GADs), DLX transcription factors, calretinin, calbindin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), and somatostatin. Increased levels of DLX-2, GADs, and calretinin proteins were confirmed upon differentiation. L2.2 cells differentiated into neurons that fired action potentials in vitro, and their electrophysiological differentiation was accelerated and more complete when cocultured with developing astroglial cells but not with conditioned medium from these cells. The combined results suggest that clone L2.2 resembles GABAergic interneuron progenitors in the developing forebrain.
Hippocampal function, including spatial cognition and stress responses, matures during adolescence. In addition, hippocampal neuron structure is modified by gonadal steroid hormones, which increase dramatically at this time. This study investigated pubertal changes in dendritic complexity of dentate gyrus neurons. Dendrites, spines, and cell bodies of Golgi-impregnated neurons from the granule cell layer were traced in pre-, mid-, and late-pubertal male Syrian hamsters (21, 35, and 49 days of age). Sholl analysis determined the number of intersections and total dendritic length contained in concentric spheres set at 25-microm increments from the soma. Spine densities were quantified separately in proximal and distal segments of a subset of neurons used for the Sholl analysis. We found that the structure of neurons in the lower, but not upper, blade of the dentate gyrus changed during adolescence. The lower, infrapyramidal blade showed pruning of dendrites close to the cell body and increases in distal dendritic spine densities across adolescence. These data demonstrate that dentate gyrus neurons undergo substantial structural remodeling during adolescence and that patterns of maturation are region specific. Furthermore, these changes in dendrite structure, which alter the electrophysiological properties of granule cells, are likely related to the adolescent development of hippocampal-dependent cognitive functions such as learning and memory, as well as hippocampus-mediated stress responsivity.
In the novel Racists by Kunal Basu (2006), two competing scientists initiate an experiment that they believe will prove which race is superior. The research subjects, one white and one black infant, are sequestered on an isolated island in the care of a mute nurse. The contest must be waged in a 'natural laboratory' with no artificial interventions and with the prospect that one will die at the hands of the other. The politics of empire, the slave trade and the advent of a new scientific way of viewing life, Darwinism, set the stage for the fictional experiment, but the ramifications of such thinking extend into the present. Coming from the disciplines of nursing, philosophy and science, we discuss how a novel can illuminate the moral dimensions of science and healthcare. The critical distance afforded by the novel provides a rich terrain for the examination of issues such as race, care and the purity of science. Despite the recent dominance of social explanations of race, science requires the examination of the differences between human beings at the biological level. The view that biology is destiny is a powerful one with dangerous consequences, especially since the belief that certain human beings' destinies are far worthier than others is a corollary of such a view. In this paper, we present the cross-disciplinary conversation, which has been facilitated by this novel. We hope this will inform ethics educators of the rich potential of using fiction as a pedagogical tool.
When nutrients are depleted, Dictyostelium cells undergo cell cycle arrest and initiate a differentiation program for survival. We have found a novel gene, srsA, which is rapidly expressed in the first 5 min following the removal of nutrients and is turned off within an hour. This gene encodes a small protein with no significant similarity to previously characterized proteins. Disruption of srsA results in delayed expression of the early genes acaA and carA that encode adenylyl cyclase and the cAMP receptor necessary for chemotactic aggregation, respectively. Streaming is delayed several hours and the aggregates are larger than normal in the mutant strains. These phenotypes are cell-autonomous. Overexpression of srsA also results in delayed aggregation. Some of the slugs of the srsA(OE) strains showed stalked migration reminiscent of the slugs of the related species Dictyostelium mucoroides. The terminal structures formed by srsA(OE) cells were grossly abnormal and contained very few viable spores. When cells overexpressing srsA were developed together with an excess of wild-type cells, the fruiting bodies were still abnormal, indicating that the mutant cells have a dominant effect on late development. These findings suggest that srsA may be involved in both the starvation response and late differentiation.

A number of antidepressants inhibit the activity of the cytochrome P450 2D6 enzyme system, which can lead to drug-drug interactions. Based on its metabolic profile, desvenlafaxine, administered as desvenlafaxine succinate, a new serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, is not expected to have an impact on activity of CYP2D6. This single-center, randomized, open-label, four-period, crossover study was undertaken to evaluate the effect of multiple doses of desvenlafaxine (100 mg/day, twice the recommended therapeutic dose for major depressive disorder in the United States) and duloxetine (30 mg b.i.d.) on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of a single dose of desipramine (50 mg). A single dose of desipramine was given first to assess its PK. Desvenlafaxine or duloxetine was then administered, in a crossover design, so that steady-state levels were achieved; a single dose of desipramine was then coadministered. The geometric least-square mean ratios (coadministration versus desipramine alone) for area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) and peak plasma concentrations (C(max)) of desipramine and 2-hydroxydesipramine were compared using analysis of variance. Relative to desipramine alone, increases in AUC and C(max) of desipramine associated with duloxetine administration (122 and 63%, respectively) were significantly greater than those associated with desvenlafaxine (22 and 19%, respectively; P &lt; 0.001). Duloxetine coadministered with desipramine was also associated with a decrease in 2-hydroxydesipramine C(max) that was significant compared with the small increase seen with desvenlafaxine and desipramine (-24 versus 9%; P &lt; 0.001); the difference between changes in 2-hydroxydesipramine AUC did not reach statistical significance (P = 0.054). Overall, desvenlafaxine had a minimal impact on the PK of desipramine compared with duloxetine, suggesting a lower risk for CYP2D6-mediated drug interactions.


The liver plays a pivotal role in the regulation of glucose metabolism because it is the key organ that maintains glucose levels during fasting. An emerging body of literature has demonstrated the important role of the hypothalamus in controlling hepatic glucose production (HGP). The hypothalamus senses circulating nutrients and hormones, conveying the energy status to the central nervous system, which, in turn, controls HGP in part by way of the autonomic nervous system. Overfeeding results in the failure of the hypothalamus to sense circulating nutrients and hormones, and in a loss of the central control of HGP.


While it is generally accepted that phospholipase C (PLC) and protein kinase C (PKC) are down-stream proteins involved in metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5)-related signal transduction, we still do not know which subtype of PLC or PKC is specifically regulated after mGluR5 activation. In the present study in mGluR5 wild-type (mGluR5+/+) mice, we showed induced PKCbeta2 or PKCgamma expression at the border between the stratum oriens and alveus (O/A border) at 2h during pilocarpine induced status epilepticus (SE), and in the stratum pyramidale in CA1 area at 1 day after pilocarpine induced SE; at 1 day, induced expression of PLCbeta4 in the stratum pyramidale of CA1 area was observed. Furthermore, double labeling revealed the co-localization of induced PKCbeta2 or PKCgamma with mGluR5 or with induced PLCbeta4 in the stratum pyramidale of CA1 area. These induced expression, however, were not found in mGluR5 mutant (mGluR5-/-) mice. It suggests that induced PLCbeta4-PKCbeta2/PKCgamma at 1 day after pilocarpine induced SE in pyramidal neurons or PKCbeta2 or PKCgamma in interneurons at O/A border at 2h during pilocarpine induced SE may be specifically linked to the activation of mGluR5. When compared to mGluR5+/+ mice, significant shorter latency (from pilocarpine injection to the occurrence of status epilepticus) and maintenance period (from beginning to the end of status epilepticus) for status epilepticus in mGluR5-/- mice were also demonstrated. It is possible that mGluR5 may play a negative role in initiation of status epilepticus by interacting with muscarinic acetylcholine receptor in mGluR5+/+ mice.
It has been reported that the clinical presentation of forced normalization can vary from paranoid hallucinatory states to anxiety and conversion phenomena, and that it may occur in both generalised and focal epilepsies. On the basis of the evaluation of a video recording, we found that forced normalization was concomitant with catatonic psychosis in a patient with epilepsy, intellectual disability and pervasive developmental disorder. Catatonic psychosis accompanying forced normalization has not been previously reported. As the psychotic symptoms and quality of life worsen seizure control improves, we believe it may be better for the patient to tolerate some seizures, thus preserving their capacity to interact socially.
Many investigators found that iron deficiency anemia (IDA) had a great influence on cognitive functions in infants and children. However, studies of such topic in adults are few and controversial. We prospectively assessed the possible influence of IDA and iron supplementation (for 3 months) on cognitive function and intelligence of 28 young adults with IDA. We used group of hematological, cognitive, neurophysiological tests for assessment including: mini-mental state examination (MMSE), Wechsler memory scale-revised (WMS-R), Wechsler adult intelligence scale-revised (WAIS-R), event-related potentials (ERPs), and electroencephalography (EEG). Compared to controls, patients demonstrated lower scores of different cognitive tests (MMSE, WMS-R, and WAIS-R), which showed significant improvement after treatment. Prolongation of ERPs latencies (N200 and P300) and reduction in their amplitudes (P200 and P300) were identified with significant increase in amplitude occurred after treatment. EEG abnormalities were observed in 55% of patients which showed improvement in 35% after treatment. Positive correlation was identified before and after treatment between hemoglobin levels and MMSE (P=0.01, 0.05), total verbal (P=0.04) and performance (P=0.05, 0.04) IQ scores. Negative correlation was identified between before and after treatment between P300 latency and total IQ of WAIS-R (P=0.03, 0.008) and hemoglobin level (P=0.4, 0.01). Positive correlation was found before and after treatment between P300 amplitude and total IQ (P=0.028, 0.01) and serum iron (P=0.01, 0.001). In conclusion, IDA is a significant factor in cognitive performance in adult population, which can be partially reversed by treatment.
The GH/IGF1 axis may play an important role in cognitive function. This theory is supported by the finding that both GH and IGF1 receptors are located in several brain areas such as the hippocampus, a brain area that is known to play an essential role in cognitive processes, especially memory and learning. However, the exact mechanism by which the GH/IGF1 axis influences the cognitive functions is still unknown. Furthermore, little is known about the cognition in adults with both childhood-onset and adult-onset GH deficiency (CO-GHD and AO-GHD). Recent data indicate that cognitive function, particularly attention and memory, in adults with GHD might be impaired. To date, only a limited number of studies have been conducted to study the effects of GH replacement therapy on cognitive function in adults with GHD. In this paper, the results of studies on cognitive functioning in GHD patients, in particular the results of the studies performed in adults with CO-GHD, and the effects of GH replacement therapy in these patients, will be discussed.





In mammals, the rhythmic synthesis of melatonin by the pineal gland is tightly controlled by the master clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). In behaviourally arrhythmic SCN-lesioned rats, we investigated the effects of daily restricted feeding (RF) on pineal melatonin synthesis. RF restored not only a rhythmic transcription of the rate-limiting enzyme for melatonin biosynthesis [arylalkylamine-N-acetyltransferase (AANAT)] and a rhythmic expression of c-FOS but also a rhythmic synthesis of melatonin in the pineal gland. In control rats without functional SCN and fed ad libitum, a daily immobilization stress did not restore any rhythmicity in the pineal gland. Interestingly, a combination of RF and daily stress prior to the time of food access did not markedly impair AaNat mRNA and c-FOS rhythmicity but did abolish the restoration of rhythmic pineal melatonin. These data indicate that the synchronizing effects of RF on the pineal rhythmicity are not due to, and cannot be mimicked by, high levels of circulating glucocorticoids. In keeping with the multi-oscillatory nature of the circadian system, the rhythmicity of pineal melatonin in mammals, until now an exclusive output of the SCN, can also be controlled by daily feeding cues when the SCN clock is lacking. Thus, the present study demonstrates that daily RF in SCN-lesioned rats provides, probably via sympathetic fibres, synchronizing stimuli strong enough to drive rhythmicity in the pineal gland.

The foundation of modern neuroscience and psychology about intention for action was laid by B. Libet et al. [(1983) Brain 106, 623-642]. They reported the time of awareness of wanting to move to be about 0.2 s before voluntary movement onset. However, despite repeated confirmation of the result, their method has been criticised for its dependence on self-reported timing and subjective memory, and the interpretation has been widely debated without general consensus. Here, we show that the mean time of the conscious intention to move was 1.42 s before movement, estimated based on the subject's real-time decision of whether or not there was a thought to move when a tone occurred. This event is after the onset of the bereitschaftspotential, an electroencephalographic activity preceding voluntary movement, but about 1 s earlier than the timing of intention reported previously based on the subject's recall. Our result solves some problems of the conventional method, thus giving a clearer answer to the controversies. The difference between the conventional result and our result suggests that the perception of intention rises through multiple levels of awareness, starting just after the brain initiates movement.
The neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is transiently expressed in cerebellar climbing fibers during development while its receptor is mainly expressed in astrocytes, in particular Bergmann glial cells. Here, we analyzed the effects of CGRP on astrocytic calcium signaling. Mouse cultured astrocytes from cerebellar or cerebral cortex as well as Bergmann glial cells from acutely isolated cerebellar slices were loaded with the Ca(2+) sensor Fura-2. CGRP triggered transient increases in intracellular Ca(2+) in astrocytes in culture as well as in acute slices. Responses were observed in the concentration range of 1 nm to 1 mm, in both the cell body and its processes. The calcium transients were dependent on release from intracellular stores as they were blocked by thapsigargin but not by the absence of extracellular calcium. In addition, after CGRP application a further delayed transient increase in calcium activity could be observed. Finally, cerebellar astrocytes from neonatal mice expressed receptor component protein, a component of the CGRP receptor, as revealed by immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy. It is thus proposed that the CGRP-containing afferent fibers in the cerebellum (the climbing fibers) modulate calcium in astrocytes by releasing the neuropeptide during development and hence possibly influence the differentiation of Purkinje cells.
Damage to the human thalamus has been associated with selective anterograde recognition memory impairments. Recently, recognition memory has been subdivided into relational and non-relational memory. The aim of the present study was to assess the potentially differential involvement of the human thalamus in relational and non-relational memory. Ten patients with focal ischemic thalamic lesions were compared to individualized control groups of healthy subjects matched to each individual patient on age and IQ. Six patients showed poorer relational memory than their respective control samples. None of the 10 patients showed a significant deficit on the non-relational memory task. These observations suggest an involvement of the thalamus in relational memory, and are discussed in terms of disruption of mediotemporal-thalamic and thalamic-fronto-striatal circuits.
A role of serotonin receptors (5-HTRs) in spinal rhythmogenesis has been proposed several years ago based mainly upon data showing that bath-applied 5-HT could elicit locomotor-like rhythms in in vitro isolated spinal cord preparations. Such a role was partially confirmed in vivo after revealing that systemically administered 5-HTR(2) agonists, such as quipazine, could induce some locomotor-like movements (LM) in completely spinal cord-transected (Tx) rodents. However, given the limited binding selectivity of currently available 5-HTR(2) agonists, it has remained difficult to determine clearly if one receptor subtype is specifically associated with LM induction. In situ hybridization, data using tissues from L1-L2 spinal cord segments, where critical locomotor network elements have been identified in mice, revealed greater 5-HTR(2A) mRNA levels in low-thoracic Tx than non-Tx animals. This expression level remained elevated for several days, specifically in the lateral intermediate zone, where peak values were detected at 1 week post-Tx and returned to normal at 3 weeks post-Tx. Behavioral and kinematic analyses revealed quipazine-induced LM in 1-week Tx mice either non-pretreated or pretreated with selective 5-HTR(2B) and/or 5-HTR(2C) antagonists. In contrast, LM completely failed to be induced by quipazine in animals pretreated with selective 5-HTR(2A) antagonists. Altogether, these results provide strong evidence suggesting that 5-HTR(2A) are specifically associated with spinal locomotor network activation and LM generation induced by quipazine in Tx animals. These findings may contribute to design drug treatments aimed at promoting locomotor function recovery in chronic spinal cord-injured patients.
The basis of Synchrotron Stereotactic Radio-Therapy (SSRT) is the incorporation of high atomic number atoms (iodine, for example) into the tumour mass followed by an irradiation with a monochromatic, low energy, X-ray beam from a synchrotron source. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether polymer gel dosimetry could be used to measure the enhancement of absorbed energy induced by the iodine in the media. We have used a standard nPAG formulation, loaded with NaI and the irradiations were performed either with monochromatic X-rays at the ESRF medical beamline or with a conventional 6 MV X-ray beam from a linear accelerator at the Grenoble University Hospital. We observed sensitivity increase with iodine loaded gels irradiated at low energies, in good agreement with the theoretical iodine dose-enhancement. As expected, the response of the iodine-doped polymer gel was not increased after irradiation with mega-voltage X-rays. We demonstrate in this study that polymer gel dosimeters can be used for measuring dose-enhancement due to iodine presence in SSR treatment.
Current antidepressants have a delayed onset of action and disturbing side effects, including inhibition of sexual behavior. It is hypothesized that novel drugs, hitting multiple disease-relevant targets, may yield a new generation of superior antidepressants. One such approach is simultaneous inhibition of serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine transporters. We tested the triple uptake inhibitor (TUI), DOV 216,303 (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg) after 1, 7 and 14 days administration in the olfactory bulbectomized (OBX) rat depression model, and in a model of rat sexual behavior to detect putative sexual side effects. Chronic, but not acute treatment of DOV 216,303 (20 mg/kg) normalized OBX-induced hyperactivity in the open field, similar to the effect of imipramine (20 mg/kg). None of the doses of DOV 216,303 had any effect on sexual behavior at any time point. The results indicate that DOV 216,303 displays antidepressant efficacy and is devoid of sexual side effects.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) produces a direct causal effect on brain activity that can now be studied by new approaches that simultaneously combine TMS with neuroimaging methods, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In this review we highlight recent concurrent TMS-fMRI studies that illustrate how this novel combined technique may provide unique insights into causal interactions among brain regions in humans. We show how fMRI can detect the spatial topography of local and remote TMS effects and how these may vary with psychological factors such as task-state. Concurrent TMS-fMRI may furthermore reveal how the brain adapts to so-called virtual lesions induced by TMS, and the distributed activity changes that may underlie the behavioural consequences often observed during cortical stimulation with TMS. We argue that combining TMS with neuroimaging techniques allows a further step in understanding the physiological underpinnings of TMS, as well as the neural correlated of TMS-evoked consequences on perception and behaviour. This can provide powerful new insights about causal interactions among brain regions in both health and disease that may ultimately lead to developing more efficient protocols for basic research and therapeutic TMS applications.
Adaptation to visual motion can induce marked distortions of the perceived spatial location of subsequently viewed stationary objects. These positional shifts are direction specific and exhibit tuning for the speed of the adapting stimulus. In this study, we sought to establish whether comparable motion-induced distortions of space can be induced in the auditory domain. Using individually measured head related transfer functions (HRTFs) we created auditory stimuli that moved either leftward or rightward in the horizontal plane. Participants adapted to unidirectional auditory motion presented at a range of speeds and then judged the spatial location of a brief stationary test stimulus. All participants displayed direction-dependent and speed-tuned shifts in perceived auditory position relative to a 'no adaptation' baseline measure. To permit direct comparison between effects in different sensory domains, measurements of visual motion-induced distortions of perceived position were also made using stimuli equated in positional sensitivity for each participant. Both the overall magnitude of the observed positional shifts, and the nature of their tuning with respect to adaptor speed were similar in each case. A third experiment was carried out where participants adapted to visual motion prior to making auditory position judgements. Similar to the previous experiments, shifts in the direction opposite to that of the adapting motion were observed. These results add to a growing body of evidence suggesting that the neural mechanisms that encode visual and auditory motion are more similar than previously thought.
A key goal of gerontology is to discover the factors that influence the rate of senescence, which in this context refers to the age-dependent acceleration of mortality, inversely related to the morality rate doubling time. In contrast factors that influence only initial mortality rate are thought to be less relevant to the fundamental processes of aging. To resolve these two determinants of mortality rate and lifespan, initial morality rate and rate of senescence are calculated using the Gompertz equation. Despite theoretical and empirical evidence that the Gompertz parameters are most consistently and reliably estimated by maximum-likelihood techniques, and somewhat less so by non-linear regression, many researchers continue to use linear regression on the log-transformed hazard rate. The present study compares these three methods in the analysis of several published studies. Estimates of the mortality rate parameters were then used to compare the theoretical values to the actual values of the following parameters: maximal lifespan, 50% survival times, variance in control groups and agreement with the distribution of deaths. These comparisons indicate that maximum-likelihood and non-linear regression estimates provide better estimates of mortality rate parameters than log-linear regression. Of particular interest, the improved estimates indicate that most genetic manipulations in mice that increase lifespan do so by decreasing initial mortality rate, not rate of senescence, whereas most genetic manipulations that decrease lifespan surprisingly do so by increasing the rate of senescence, not initial mortality rate.
Both caloric and chemosensory mechanisms influence lifespan, but the relative importance of each of these mechanisms in mediating effects of dietary restriction on lifespan has been unclear. Here we demonstrate that chemosensory mechanisms consistently influence initial mortality rate, whereas caloric mechanisms consistently influence age-dependent acceleration of mortality rate. Based on this analysis, life-extending effects of dietary restriction are mediated primarily by caloric mechanisms in rats and nematodes and by both mechanisms in mice and flies.
The objectives of this study were: (i) to identify regions of the aged mouse brain in which advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) were increased, and (ii) assess the functional significance of AGEs by determining the extent to which they could predict age-related brain dysfunction. Densitometric analyses of immunoblots for N epsilon-(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML), a predominant AGE, and receptor for AGE (RAGE), were performed in different brain regions of mice aged 8 or 25 months. The 25-month-old mice were tested for ability to perform on tests of cognitive and psychomotor function prior to assessment of CML or RAGE, to determine if immunostaining results could predict functional impairment among the older mice. The amounts of CML increased with age in cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and midbrain, but were unchanged in the brainstem and cerebellum. Increases in RAGE were evident in all brain regions but the hippocampus, and were not linked to increased amounts of CML. Different statistical approaches each failed to reveal any strong association between the degree of age-related functional impairment among individual mice and amounts of CML or RAGE in any particular region of the brain. The findings from this study suggest that accrual of CML and expression of RAGE in different brain regions are time-related phenomena that do not account for individual differences in brain aging or cognitive decline.
The potential of MUNE as a unique electrophysiological tool to detect early motor unit abnormalities during a clinically silent period was investigated in the plasma membrane calcium ATPase 2 (PMCA2)-heterozygous mice. There was a significant reduction in MUNE in the PMCA2-heterozygous mice as compared to the wild type littermates at two months of age. In contrast, the compound motor action potential (CMAP) was not altered. The conduction velocity (CV) of the sensory nerve and sensory nerve action potentials (SNAP) were not modified indicating lack of major sensory deficits. Interestingly, despite a decline in MUNE at this age, no changes were detected in choline acetyl transferase (ChAT) positive motor neuron number in the ventral horn of the lumbar spinal cord. Hindlimb grip strength, a test that evaluates clinical dysfunction, was also similar to that of the wild type controls. However, motor neuron number significantly decreased by five months suggesting that a drop in MUNE preceded motor neuron loss. In the two-month-old PMCA2-null mice, reduced MUNE measurements coincided with lower motor neuron number and decreased hindlimb grip strength. The fall in motor neuron number was already detectable at three weeks, the earliest time studied, and became more pronounced by five months. Our results show that even partial reductions in PMCA2 levels are sufficient to cause delayed death of motor neurons and that MUNE may be a reliable and sensitive approach to detect pathology prior to cell loss and in the absence of overt clinical signs.
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS), used in the treatment of epilepsy, was approved recently for treatment-resistant depression. The mechanisms of action of the VNS anti-depressive effects are not yet fully elucidated. Modulation of hippocampal neurogenesis has been proposed as an important factor in depression pathogenesis. We evaluated the effects of VNS on hippocampal progenitor turnover in the adult rat brain. Rats receiving VNS at the output current of 0.75 mA VNS for 2 days showed a significant 50% increase in dentate gyrus BrdU-incorporation consistent with an increase in progenitor proliferation. Output currents of 0.5 or 1.5 mA yielded non-significant trends for increased BrdU-labeling indicating an inverted U-shaped proliferative dose response to VNS as previously reported for other VNS-induced effects. Specific analysis for progenitor survival revealed no effects by VNS on dentate gyrus BrdU-labeling. These results suggest that VNS induced an increase in the number of available progenitor cells in the adult rat dentate gyrus by a mechanism presumably involving increased progenitor proliferation.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a bioactive phospholipid that accumulates during ischemia-reperfusion and is involved in the activation of platelets, neutrophils, and pro-inflammatory signaling. PAF has been suggested to enhance brain ischemia-reperfusion damage. LAU-0901, a novel PAF receptor antagonist, was examined in models of focal cerebral ischemia in rats and mice. Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized and received 2-hour middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) by intraluminal suture. LAU-0901 (30, 60, 90 mg/kg; n=9-11) or vehicle (n=11) was administered i.p. at 2 h after onset of MCAo. The neurological status was evaluated at 60 min, and on days 1, 2, 3 and 7 after MCAo. In the dose-response study in mice, C57BL/6 mice were anesthetized and received 1 h MCAo by intraluminal suture. LAU-0901 (15, 30, 60 mg/kg; n=7-9) or vehicle (n=8) was given i.p. at 1 h after onset of MCAo. Local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) was measured at 1, 2, 4, and 6 h after MCAo in mice. LAU-0901 treated rats showed improved neurological score throughout the 7-day survival period. LAU-0901 treatment (30, 60 and 90 mg/kg) reduced total corrected infarct volume compared to vehicle rats by 76, 88 and 90%, respectively. Mice treated with LAU-0901 (30 and 60 mg/kg) reduced total infarction by 29% and 66%, respectively. LCBF was improved by treatment with LAU-0901 (30 mg/kg) by 77% of baseline at 6 h. In conclusion, we demonstrate for the first time that LAU-0901 improves behavioral scores, LCBF and reduces infarct volume after focal cerebral ischemia in rats and mice. Thus, this PAF receptor antagonist exhibits potent and sustained neuroprotection that may be of value for the design of stroke therapies.
Niemann-Pick A (NP-A) is an inherited metabolic (lysosomal storage) disease characterized by neurovisceral accumulation of sphingomyelin due to deficiency of acid sphingomyelinase (ASM). An ASM knockout (ASMKO) mouse model of NP-A is available through targeted disruption of the parent gene. This study presents the pattern and time course of lysosomal pathology and neurodegeneration in the ASMKO mouse nervous system. Cells throughout the nervous system developed the classic foamy appearance associated with lysosomal storage disorders. Despite this, neurons were capable of retrogradely transporting dyes within established brain pathways comparable to control animals. A silver degeneration staining method demonstrated widespread damage in the form of 'classic' impregnation of cells, fibers and synaptic terminals. Of particular interest was the degeneration of Purkinje cells (PC) within the cerebellum, beginning by 7 weeks of age in parasagittal bands and culminating with near complete degeneration of this cell type by 20 weeks. In parallel, ASMKO mice had progressively deteriorating motor performance on two versions of the rotating rod test (accelerating and rocking). ASMKO mice at 5-7 weeks of age performed similarly to controls on both rotating rod tests, but performance sharply deteriorated between 7 and 20 weeks of age. This study further characterized the neuropathology associated with ASM deficiency, and identifies quantitative histological and behavioral endpoints for evaluation of therapeutic intervention in this authentic NP-A mouse model.


Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that primarily presents with features of bradykinesia, rigidity and tremor, and has, as part of its core pathology, the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. There is a great need for the development of a reliable diagnostic tool to improve promptness of diagnosis, definition of disease subtypes, and to monitor disease progression and demonstrate treatment efficacy in the case of disease modifying therapies. Current biomarkers range from objective clinical tools, to neuroimaging, to 'wet' markers involving blood and cerebrospinal fluid. To date, all candidate biomarkers for PD have failed to be developed into a clinically useful tool. Ideally, a combination of sensitive markers will be needed, not only to predict the onset of PD, but also to help in subtype classification and to follow progression. Here, we critically review various PD biomarker studies.
This study examines the impact of HIV-related stigma on families living with HIV/AIDS in China. In-depth, semistructured interviews were conducted with 30 people living with HIV/AIDS and with 15 of their family members, including spouses, parents, and siblings. Findings show that HIV-related stigma is associated with bringing shame to the family, losing family &quot;face,&quot; and damaging within-family relations and broader family social networks. HIV/AIDS stigma was reported to have major impacts on family identity and interactions. In order to cope with these pressures, families reported joining self-support programs, educating family members, and helping other families. This study illustrates that HIV-related stigma is an issue faced by entire families in China, points to specific aspects of family life in which these impacts take place, and suggests the importance of including families in HIV/AIDS and stigma reduction interventions.
Several human characteristics that influence scientific research performance, including set goals, mental and physical abilities, education, and experience, may vary considerably during the life cycle of scientists. We sought to answer the question of whether high-quality research productivity is associated with investigator's age. We randomly selected 300 highly cited scientists (50 from each of 6 different biomedical fields, specifically immunology, microbiology, neuroscience, psychology-psychiatry, clinical medicine, and biology-biochemistry). Then, we identified the top 5 highly cited articles (within 10 yr after publication adjusted for the expansion of the literature) as first author of each of them. Subsequently, we plotted the distribution of the 1500 analyzed articles of the 300 studied scientists in the eight 5-year intervals of investigator's age during the year of article publication (21-25 to 55-60 yr of age), adjusted for person-years of contribution of each scientist in the various age groups. Highly cited research productivity plotted a curve that peaked at the age group of 31-35 yr of age and then gradually decreased with advancing age. However, a considerable proportion of this highly cited research was produced by older scientists (in almost 20% of the analyzed articles, researchers were older than 50 yr). The results were similar in another analysis of the single most cited article of each studied scientist. In conclusion, high-quality scientific productivity in the biomedical fields as a function of investigator's age plots an inverted U-shaped curve, in which significant decreases take place from around 40 yr of age and beyond.
Rare, inherited mutations causing familial forms of Parkinson's disease have provided insight into the molecular mechanisms that underlie the genetic and sporadic forms of this disease. Loss of protein function resulting from autosomal-recessive mutations in PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), Parkin and DJ-1 has been linked to mitochondrial dysfunction, accumulation of abnormal and misfolded proteins, impaired protein clearance and oxidative stress. Accumulating evidence suggests that wild-type PINK1, Parkin and DJ-1 may be key components of neuroprotective signalling cascades that run in parallel, interact via cross talk or converge in a common pathway.
The last decade has seen clear links emerge between the genetic determinants and neuropathological hallmarks of parkinsonism and dementia, notably with the discovery of mutations in alpha-synuclein and tau. Following the description of mutations in LRRK2 linked to Parkinson's disease, characterized by variable pathology including either alpha-synuclein or tau deposition, it has been suggested that LRRK2 functions as an upstream regulator of Parkinson's disease pathogenesis. This minireview explores this model, in the context of our current understanding of the biochemistry of LRRK2, alpha-synuclein and tau.

Neuro-cognitive deficits, neuronal injury, and neurodegeneration are well documented in alcoholics, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Oxidative damage of mitochondria and cellular proteins intertwines with the progression of neuroinflammation and neurological disorders initiated by alcohol abuse. Here, we present the evidence that metabolism of ethanol in primary human neurons by alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) or cytochrome P450-2E1 (CYP2E1) generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO) via induction of NADPH/xanthine oxidase (NOX/XOX) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in human neurons. The acetaldehyde-mediated increase in NOX, XOX, or NOS activity is regulated as a transcriptional rather than a translational process. Marked increase in the lipid peroxidation product (4-hydroxynonenal) and enhanced ROS generation coincides with decreased neuronal viability and diminished expression of neuronal marker (neurofilaments). Novel quantitative methods of ROS and NO detection help dissect the mechanisms of alcohol-induced neurodegeneration. Uncovering the basic mechanisms of oxidative neuronal injury will serve as the basis for development of new therapies.
Complex cognitive tasks present a range of computational and algorithmic challenges for neural accounts of both learning and inference. In particular, it is extremely hard to solve them using the sort of simple policies that have been extensively studied as solutions to elementary Markov decision problems. There has thus been recent interest in architectures for the instantiation and even learning of policies that are formally more complicated than these, involving operations such as gated working memory. However, the focus of these ideas and methods has largely been on what might best be considered as automatized, routine or, in the sense of animal conditioning, habitual, performance. Thus, they have yet to provide a route towards understanding the workings of rule-based control, which is critical for cognitively sophisticated competence. Here, we review a recent suggestion for a uniform architecture for habitual and rule-based execution, discuss some of the habitual mechanisms that underpin the use of rules, and consider a statistical relationship between rules and habits.
The neural circuits involved in learning and executing goal-directed actions, which are governed by action-outcome contingencies and sensitive to changes in the expected value of the outcome, have been shown to be different from those mediating habits, which are less dependent on action-outcome relations and changes in outcome value. Extended training, different reinforcement schedules, and substances of abuse have been shown to induce a shift from goal-directed performance to habitual performance. This shift can be beneficial in everyday life, but can also lead to loss of voluntary control and compulsive behavior, namely during drug seeking in addiction. Although the brain circuits underlying habit formation are becoming clearer, the molecular mechanisms underlying habit formation are still not understood. Here, we review a recent study where Hilario et al. (2007) established behavioral procedures to investigate habit formation in mice in order to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying habit formation. Using those procedures, and a combination of genetic and pharmacological tools, the authors showed that endocannabinoid signaling is critical for habit formation.
The rich repertoire of mouse social behaviors makes it possible to use mouse models to study neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by social deficits. The fact that mice are naturally nocturnal animals raises a critical question of whether behavioral experiments should be strictly conducted in the dark phase and whether light phase testing is a major methodologically mistake. Although mouse social tasks have been performed in both phases in different laboratories, there seems to be no general consensus on whether testing phase is a critical factor or not. A recent study from our group showed remarkably similar social scores obtained from inbred mice tested in the light and the dark phase, providing evidence that light phase testing could yield reliable results as robust as dark phase testing for the sociability test. Here we offer a comprehensive review on mouse social behaviors measured in light and dark phases and explain why it is reasonable to test laboratory mice in experimental social tasks in the light phase.
Multiple local neuronal circuits support different, discrete frequencies of network rhythm in neocortex. Relationships between different frequencies correspond to mechanisms designed to minimise interference, couple activity via stable phase interactions, and control the amplitude of one frequency relative to the phase of another. These mechanisms are proposed to form a framework for spectral information processing. Individual local circuits can also transform their frequency through changes in intrinsic neuronal properties and interactions with other oscillating microcircuits. Here we discuss a frequency transformation in which activity in two co-active local circuits may combine sequentially to generate a third frequency whose period is the concatenation sum of the original two. With such an interaction, the intrinsic periodicity in each component local circuit is preserved - alternate, single periods of each original rhythm form one period of a new frequency - suggesting a robust mechanism for combining information processed on multiple concurrent spatiotemporal scales.


Recent advances in our understanding of basic neuroenteric mechanisms and the role of effectors and transmitters in the brain-gut axis have provided opportunities to develop new therapeutic agents for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Furthermore, human pharmacodynamic studies utilizing transit, colonic, or rectal sensitivity and brain imaging have been useful in determining therapeutic efficacy (particularly for drugs that act on motor function). This review provides an overview of medications that have not yet been approved for treatment of patients with IBS yet have shown promise in phase IIB trials. These include drugs that act on the serotonin receptor and transporter system: antidepressants, norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, opioids, cholecystokinin antagonists, neurokinin-antagonists, chloride channel activators, guanylate cyclase C agonists, atypical benzodiazepines, probiotics, and antibiotics. The changing landscape in the regulatory approval process has impacted the development of IBS drugs. Guidance documents from regulatory agencies in Europe and the United States have focused on patients' reported outcomes and associated quality of life. After a decade of experience with different end points that have generated some data on psychometric validation and unprecedented information about responsiveness of the binary or global end points to drug therapy, it is necessary to pursue further validation studies before or during pivotal phase IIB or III trials. The hope of providing relief to patients should galvanize all parties to achieve these goals.
Axonal transport mediated by microtubule-dependent motors is vital for neuronal function and viability. Selective sets of cargoes, including macromolecules and organelles, are transported long range along axons to specific destinations. Despite intensive studies focusing on the motor machinery, the regulatory mechanisms that control motor-cargo assembly are not well understood. Here we show that UNC-51/ATG1 kinase regulates the interaction between synaptic vesicles and motor complexes during transport in Drosophila. UNC-51 binds UNC-76, a kinesin heavy chain (KHC) adaptor protein. Loss of unc-51 or unc-76 leads to severe axonal transport defects in which synaptic vesicles are segregated from the motor complexes and accumulate along axons. Genetic studies show that unc-51 and unc-76 functionally interact in vivo to regulate axonal transport. UNC-51 phosphorylates UNC-76 on Ser(143), and the phosphorylated UNC-76 binds Synaptotagmin-1, a synaptic vesicle protein, suggesting that motor-cargo interactions are regulated in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. In addition, defective axonal transport in unc-76 mutants is rescued by a phospho-mimetic UNC-76, but not a phospho-defective UNC-76, demonstrating the essential role of UNC-76 Ser(143) phosphorylation in axonal transport. Thus, our data provide insight into axonal transport regulation that depends on the phosphorylation of adaptor proteins.
Lentiviral gene transfer has a significant impact on the development of biomedical research. One of the most important features of lentiviruses is the capability to infect both dividing and nondividing cells. However, little is known whether integration preference exists, specifically in early embryos. An in-depth genome analysis on 112 independent lentiviral integration sites from 43 transgenic founder mice was performed to determine if there are preferable sites for lentiviral integration in early embryonic genome. Our results demonstrated that lentiviruses were biased in integrating within intragenic regions, especially in the introns. However, no integration preference was found associated with specific chromosomes, repetitive elements, or CpG islands, nor was there any preference for integrating at close proximity to transcription start sites. Our findings suggested that lentiviruses were biased to integrate into the intragenic regions of early embryonic genome of mouse.


We applied a data-driven analysis based on self-organizing group independent component analysis (sogICA) to fMRI data from a three-stimulus visual oddball task. SogICA is particularly suited to the investigation of the underlying functional connectivity and does not rely on a predefined model of the experiment, which overcomes some of the limitations of hypothesis-driven analysis. Unlike most previous applications of ICA in functional imaging, our approach allows the analysis of the data at the group level, which is of particular interest in high order cognitive studies. SogICA is based on the hierarchical clustering of spatially similar independent components, derived from single subject decompositions. We identified four main clusters of components, centered on the posterior cingulate, bilateral insula, bilateral prefrontal cortex, and right posterior parietal and prefrontal cortex, consistently across all participants. Post hoc comparison of time courses revealed that insula, prefrontal cortex and right fronto-parietal components showed higher activity for targets than for distractors. Activation for distractors was higher in the posterior cingulate cortex, where deactivation was observed for targets. While our results conform to previous neuroimaging studies, they also complement conventional results by showing functional connectivity networks with unique contributions to the task that were consistent across subjects. SogICA can thus be used to probe functional networks of active cognitive tasks at the group-level and can provide additional insights to generate new hypotheses for further study.
Although previous studies have suggested the importance of the bilateral anterior temporal (ATL) and medial temporal lobes (MTL) in the retrieval of person identity information, there is little evidence concerning how these regions differentially contribute to the process. Here we investigated this question using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Before scanning, subjects learned associations among faces (F), names (N), and job titles (as a form of person-related semantics, S). During retrieval with fMRI, subjects were presented with previously learned and new S stimuli, and judged whether the stimuli were old or new. Successful retrieval (H) trials were divided into three conditions: retrieval of S and associated F and N (HSFN); retrieval of S and associated F (HSF); and retrieval of S only (HS). The left ATL was significantly activated in HSFN, compared to HSF or HS, whereas the right ATL and MTL were significantly activated in HSFN and HSF relative to HS. In addition, activity in bilateral ATL was significantly correlated with reaction time for HSFN, whereas we found no significant correlation between activity in the right MTL and reaction time in any condition. The present findings suggest that the left ATL may mediate associations between names and person-related semantic information, whereas the right ATL mediates the association between faces and person-related semantic information in memory for person identity information. In addition, activation of the right MTL region implies that this area may contribute to a more general relational processing of associative components, including memory for person identity information.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) and celiac disease (CD) are considered to be T-cell-mediated autoimmune diseases. We describe a woman affected by a relapsing-remitting demyelinating disease of the central nervous system and occult CD (MS-CD), who showed during neurologic exacerbations a strong increased expression of T-bet, the key transcription factor for the development of Th1 cells, in circulating T, B cells and monocytes. Conversely, no difference of T-bet expression was observed in B cells from relapsing-remitting MS patients, either in relapse or in remission, and in controls. In the MS-CD patient, the interaction between MS- and CD-related inflammatory processes may result in an amplification of Th1 immune response.
Mutations in the aristaless-related homeobox (ARX) gene are associated with multiple neurologic disorders in humans. Studies in mice indicate Arx plays a role in neuronal progenitor proliferation and development of the cerebral cortex, thalamus, hippocampus, striatum, and olfactory bulbs. Specific defects associated with Arx loss of function include abnormal interneuron migration and subtype differentiation. How disruptions in ARX result in human disease and how loss of Arx in mice results in these phenotypes remains poorly understood. To gain insight into the biological functions of Arx, we performed a genome-wide expression screen to identify transcriptional changes within the subpallium in the absence of Arx. We have identified 84 genes whose expression was dysregulated in the absence of Arx. This population was enriched in genes involved in cell migration, axonal guidance, neurogenesis, and regulation of transcription and includes genes implicated in autism, epilepsy, and mental retardation; all features recognized in patients with ARX mutations. Additionally, we found Arx directly repressed three of the identified transcription factors: Lmo1, Ebf3 and Shox2. To further understand how the identified genes are involved in neural development, we used gene set enrichment algorithms to compare the Arx gene regulatory network (GRN) to the Dlx1/2 GRN and interneuron transcriptome. These analyses identified a subset of genes in the Arx GRN that are shared with that of the Dlx1/2 GRN and that are enriched in the interneuron transcriptome. These data indicate Arx plays multiple roles in forebrain development, both dependent and independent of Dlx1/2, and thus provides further insights into the understanding of the mechanisms underlying the pathology of mental retardation and epilepsy phenotypes resulting from ARX mutations.
Joubert syndrome (JS) is a developmental brain disorder characterized by cerebellar vermis hypoplasia, abnormal eye movement, ataxia and mental retardation. Mutations in CEP290 mutations are responsible for the cerebello-oculo-renal subtype of JS that includes kidney cysts and retinal degeneration, two phenotypes commonly linked to ciliopathies. CEP290 mutations are also associated with Meckel-Gruber syndrome and Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS). Here we demonstrate that CEP290 interacts with a centriolar satellite protein PCM-1, which is implicated in BBS4 function. CEP290 binds to PCM-1 and localizes to centriolar satellites in a PCM-1- and microtubule-dependent manner. The depletion of CEP290 disrupts subcellular distribution and protein complex formation of PCM-1. In accord with PCM-1's role in microtubule organization, CEP290 knockdown causes the disorganization of the cytoplasmic microtubule network. Moreover, we show that both CEP290 and PCM-1 are required for ciliogenesis and are involved in the ciliary targeting of Rab8, a small GTPase shown to collaborate with BBS protein complex to promote ciliogenesis. Our results suggest that PCM-1 is a potential mediator that may link CEP290 with BBS proteins in common molecular pathways.
Skeletal muscles of the mdx mouse, a model of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, show an excessive reduction in the maximal tetanic force following eccentric contractions. This specific sign of the susceptibility of dystrophin-deficient muscles to mechanical stress can be used as a quantitative test to measure the efficacy of therapeutic interventions. Using inducible transgenesis in mice, we show that when Akt activity is increased the force drop induced by eccentric contractions in mdx mice becomes similar to that of wild-type mice. This effect is not correlated with muscle hypertrophy and is not blocked by rapamycin treatment. The force drop induced by eccentric contractions is similar in skinned muscle fibers from mdx and Akt-mdx mice when stretch is applied directly to skinned fibers. However, skinned fibers isolated from mdx muscles exposed to eccentric contractions in vivo develop less isometric force than wild-type fibers and this force depression is completely prevented by Akt activation. These experiments indicate that the myofibrillar-cytoskeletal system of dystrophin-deficient muscle is highly susceptible to a damage caused by eccentric contraction when elongation is applied in vivo, and this damage can be prevented by Akt activation. Microarray and PCR analyses indicate that Akt activation induces up-regulation of genes coding for proteins associated with Z-disks and costameres, and for proteins with anti-oxidant or chaperone function. The protein levels of utrophin and dysferlin are also increased by Akt activation.
Loss-of-function mutations in progranulin (GRN) cause ubiquitin- and TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43)-positive frontotemporal dementia (FTLD-U), a progressive neurodegenerative disease affecting approximately 10% of early-onset dementia patients. Here we expand the role of GRN in FTLD-U and demonstrate that a common genetic variant (rs5848), located in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of GRN in a binding-site for miR-659, is a major susceptibility factor for FTLD-U. In a series of pathologically confirmed FTLD-U patients without GRN mutations, we show that carriers homozygous for the T-allele of rs5848 have a 3.2-fold increased risk to develop FTLD-U compared with homozygous C-allele carriers (95% CI: 1.50-6.73). We further demonstrate that miR-659 can regulate GRN expression in vitro, with miR-659 binding more efficiently to the high risk T-allele of rs5848 resulting in augmented translational inhibition of GRN. A significant reduction in GRN protein was observed in homozygous T-allele carriers in vivo, through biochemical and immunohistochemical methods, mimicking the effect of heterozygous loss-of-function GRN mutations. In support of these findings, the neuropathology of homozygous rs5848 T-allele carriers frequently resembled the pathological FTLD-U subtype of GRN mutation carriers. We suggest that the expression of GRN is regulated by miRNAs and that common genetic variability in a miRNA binding-site can significantly increase the risk for FTLD-U. Translational regulation by miRNAs may represent a common mechanism underlying complex neurodegenerative disorders.


The basic reciprocity between individual parts and collective organization constitutes a key scientific question spanning the biological and social sciences. Such reciprocity is accompanied by the absence of direct linkages between levels of description giving rise to what is often referred to as the aggregation or nonequivalence problem between levels of analysis. This issue is encountered both in neuroscience and economics. So far, in spite of being identified and extensively discussed in various (other) scientific fields, the problem of understanding the nature of the interactions and coordination dynamics between individual (neuron approximately agent) and collective (neural networks approximately population of humans) behaviors has received little, if any attention in the growing field of neuroeconomics. The present contribution focuses on bringing a theoretical perspective to the interpretation of experiments recently published in this field and addressing how the concepts and methods of coordination dynamics may impact future research. First, we very briefly discuss the links between biology and economics. Second, we address the nonequivalence problem between different levels of analysis and the concept of reciprocal causality. Third, neuroeconomics studies that investigate the neural underpinnings of social decision making in the context of two economic games (trust and ultimatum) are reviewed to highlight issues that arise when experimental results exist at multiple scales of observation and description. Finally, in the last two sections, we discuss how coordination dynamics might provide novel routes to studying and modelling the relation between brain activity and decision making.
Despite growing interest in applying machine learning to neuroimaging analyses, few studies have gone beyond classifying sensory input to directly predicting behavioral output. With spatial resolution on the order of millimeters and temporal resolution on the order of seconds, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a promising technology for such applications. However, fMRI data's low signal-to-noise ratio, high dimensionality, and extensive spatiotemporal correlations present formidable analytic challenges. Here, we apply different machine-learning algorithms to previously acquired data to examine the ability of fMRI activation in three regions-the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), and insula-to predict purchasing. Our goal was to improve spatiotemporal interpretability as well as classification accuracy. To this end, sparse penalized discriminant analysis (SPDA) enabled automatic selection of correlated variables, yielding interpretable models that generalized well to new data. Relative to logistic regression, linear discriminant analysis, and linear support vector machines, SPDA not only increased interpretability but also improved classification accuracy. SPDA promises to allow more precise inferences about when specific brain regions contribute to purchasing decisions. More broadly, this approach provides a general framework for using neuroimaging data to build interpretable models, including those that predict choice.
Recently, a rapidly growing approach within consumer research has developed under the label of &quot;consumer neuroscience.&quot; Its goal is to use insights and methods from neuroscience to enhance the understanding of consumer behavior. In this paper we aim to provide an overview of questions of interest to consumer researchers, to present initial research findings, and to outline potential implications for consumer research. In order to do so, we first discuss the term &quot;consumer neuroscience&quot; and give a brief description of recently discussed issues in consumer research. We then provide a review and short description of initial empirical evidence from past studies in consumer neuroscience. Next, we present an example of how consumer research or, more specifically, customer loyalty research, may benefit from the consumer neuroscience approach. The paper concludes with a discussion of potential implications and suggestions for future research in the nascent field of consumer neuroscience.


Relapsing fever (RF) is a spirochetal infection characterized by periods of sickness with fever at time of high bacteremia that alternate with afebrile periods of relative well being during low bacteremia. Patients with epidemic RF who are doing relatively well have extraordinarily high levels of interleukin-10 (IL-10) in the circulation. We investigated the possibility that IL-10 plays an important protective role in this infection using wild-type and IL-10-deficient mice inoculated with virulent serotype 2 of the RF spirochete Borrelia turicatae. During peak bacteremia there was increased systemic production of IL-10 that quickly resolved in the postpeak period; in contrast, IL-6 and CXCL13 production increased during the peak but remained elevated during postpeak bacteremia. IL-10 deficiency resulted in lower bacteremia, increased specific antibody production, higher production of CXCL13 and IL-6, and thrombotic and hemorrhagic complications affecting multiple organs with secondary tissue injury. Our results revealed that production of IL-10 is highly regulated during RF and plays an important protective role in the prevention of hemorrhagic and thrombotic complications at the cost of reduced pathogen control.


The prevalence and types of crime offences, as well as predictors of relapse, among drivers suspected of driving under influence (DUI) were investigated. A total of 1830 Swedish DUI drivers responded to the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test--AUDIT. Information about previous DUI offences, other traffic offences along with other types of criminal offences was taken from a crime register. A total criminality (including all traffic offences) of 64% in the period of five years before investigation was analyzed. 40% of the sample had other criminality besides traffic violations during that period. 14.3% of the drivers relapsed to DUI in the two-year period after the investigation. In terms of DUI relapse, the following factors were the main predictors: previous traffic violations, previous DUI offences, previous other criminality (frauds or other acts of dishonesty) and detection hours between 12.00 and 19.00. Detection in general traffic controls and high BAC (blood alcohol concentration) when detected were the strongest factors with negative correlation to DUI re-offence.
Despite limited understanding of the pathophysiology of depression and the underlying mechanisms mediating antidepressant effects, there are several efficient treatments. The anhedonia symptoms of depression are characterized by decreased motivation and drive and imply possible malfunctioning of the mesolimbic dopamine system, whereas cognitive deficits might reflect decreased plasticity in hippocampus. In female Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats, a model of depression, we compared the effects of three long-term antidepressant treatments: voluntary running, escitalopram and the combination of both on antidepressant-like behaviour in the Porsolt swim test (PST), and on regulation of mRNA for dopamine and neuropeptides in striatal dopamine pathways and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in hippocampus. Escitalopram diet attenuated running behaviour in FSL rats but not in non-depressed controls rats. In the PST the running group had increased climbing activity (noradrenergic/dopaminergic response), whereas the combination of escitalopram and running-wheel access increased swimming (serotonergic response). Running elevated mRNA for dynorphin in caudate putamen and BDNF in hippocampus. The combined treatment down-regulated D1 receptor and enkephalin mRNA in accumbens. Escitalopram alone did not affect behaviour or mRNA levels. We demonstrate a novel behavioural effect of escitalopram, i.e. attenuation of running in 'depressed' rats. The antidepressant-like effect of escitalopram was dependent on the presence of a running wheel, but not actual running indicating that the environment influenced the antidepressant effect of escitalopram. Different patterns of mRNA changes in hippocampus and brain reward pathways and responses in the PST by running and escitalopram suggest that antidepressant-like responses by running and escitalopram are achieved by different mechanisms.

The original aim of psychology was to study and understand the spirit-from the Latin spiritus, literally &quot;breath.&quot; The limitations of scientific methods in the past favoured psychology's aloofness in terms of studying the &quot;intangible,&quot; while medicine developed methods of examining the body (Latin corpus: essential part). Until 20 years ago, knowledge of the localization of brain functions was limited to inferences from clinical observation of brain-lesioned patients or parallel studies of primate brains. Current neuroscience, with its integrative approach, is bringing together research from molecular through cognitive levels, and psychotherapy has benefited from these findings. Functional neuroimaging studies may make specific and more far-reaching contributions in this respect, since cerebral dynamics may be observed in vivo and in controlled situations. Methods such as single photon emission tomography, positron emission tomography, and functional magnetic resonance imaging have been able to evaluate the neural correlates involved in psychotherapy for individuals with obsessive-compulsive disorder, major depression, social phobia, specific phobia, and post-traumatic disorder. Researchers have found that psychotherapy has the potential to modify dysfunctional neural circuits associated with these disorders. However, precautions are required in constructing feasible designs for neurofunctional investigations. This article reviews the 21 studies that have been published on the subject, and sets out the main advantages and limitations of the technologies used most frequently in protocols involving psychotherapies, and prerequisites for experimental designs. We also pose ways in which the findings from neuroimaging may produce knowledge to guide psychotherapeutic interventions by specifying what should be stimulated in these individuals in order to normalize deficient neural activities.
Due to undisputable effects of noise on sleep structure, especially in terms of sleep fragmentation, the expected development of railway transportation in the next few years might represent a potential risk factor for people living alongside the rail tracks. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of different types of train (freight, automotive, passenger) on arousal from sleep and to determine any differential impact as a function of sound level and age. Twenty young (16 women, 4 men; 25.8 years+/-2.6) and 18 middle-aged (15 women, 3 men; 52.2 years+/-2.5) healthy subjects participated in three whole-night polysomnographic recordings including one control night (35 dBA), and two noisy nights with equivalent noise levels of 40 or 50 dB(A), respectively. Arousal responsiveness increased with sound level. It was the highest in S2 and the lowest in REM sleep. Micro-arousals (3-10 s) occurred at a rate of 25-30%, irrespective of the type of train. Awakenings (&gt;10 s) were produced more frequently by freight train than by automotive and passenger trains. Normal age-related changes in sleep were observed, but they were not aggravated by railway noise, thus questioning whether older persons are less sensitive to noise during sleep. These evidences led to the conclusion that microscopic detection of sleep fragmentation may provide advantageous information on sleep disturbances caused by environmental noises.
A healthy 40-year-old man developed unilateral ocular ischemic syndrome as the only manifestation of a spontaneous internal carotid artery dissection.

Psychopathology is usually recognized as an important clinical and research tool in psychiatric textbooks. However, in the era of operationalized psychiatric diagnosis, therapeutic guidelines and strong neuroscientific impact on the self-understanding of psychiatry, its role became somewhat insecure in recent decades. And it has even been argued that psychopathology will sooner or later be fully replaced by neuroscientific concepts. This paper elucidates the theoretical (and, partly, historical) framework of this debate and argues for a modern understanding of psychopathology. This understanding will, on the one hand, be compatible with neurobiological and social sciences appoaches to mental illness, and, on the other hand, will not abandon psychopathology's demand to be an indispensable foundation of psychiatry.
We studied the relationship of arterial stiffness, measured by carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity and inflammation, measured by serum erythrocyte sedimentation rate among 334 ischaemic stroke patients. There was a significant correlation between carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (P = 0.001), a relationship independent of age, hypertension, diabetes and smoking. Arterial stiffness and inflammation are associated among ischaemic stroke patients and are independent of established vascular risk factors.
The vertebrate retina has a unique position within the panoply of the nervous system networks: Our understanding of its complex circuitry of interacting neurons and glia has become the gold standard of our current knowledge of network operations. This presentation is about work from my laboratory that contributed to some of the concepts that support our contemporary views of the functional retina. Early in the pursuit of retinal function, a vital issue was that of understanding the synaptic mechanisms and neurotransmitters required for information to flow from the photoreceptors to the ganglion cells. My research contributions to this effort include the discovery of inhibition and the GABA and glycine modes of inhibitory mechanisms. Our work on inhibition was followed by the discovery of the APB (mGluR6) receptor of On bipolars, the first metabotropic glutamate receptor described in the nervous system. This finding was followed by a body of work carried out in salamander and rabbit retinas on the pathways of glutamatergic excitation revealed through the use of agonists and antagonists of increasing selectivity. We separated sign-conserving from sign-inverting responses in the outer retina and provided compelling evidence that bipolars, like photoreceptors, had a glutamatergic mode of neurotransmission. We identified NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate) and KA (kainic acid)/AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid) receptors in amacrine and ganglion cells and revealed that both receptor classes are activated by light. Additional studies on neuropeptides illustrated how many of these, including substance P, somatostatin, and neurotensin have actions such that they should be considered major neuromodulators in the retina. My laboratory also made significant contributions to structure-function relationships and mechanisms of glial-neuronal interactions.

This study provides data concerning the characteristics of internal noise that limits binaural detection at 500 Hz under &quot;pulsed&quot; masking conditions and evaluates whether the parameters of such internal noise depend upon masker/signal duration. A single-interval adaptive procedure was employed to measure NoSpi detection thresholds as a joint function of the level of broadband masking noise and masker/signal duration. Spi detection thresholds were also measured as a joint function of the interaural correlation of the masker and masker/signal duration. Findings include : (1) changes in Spi thresholds taken either as a function of diotic masker level or as a function of masker interaural correlation are independent of masker/signal duration; (2) 500-Hz &quot;quiet&quot; So and Spi thresholds yield a masking-level difference of -2.0; (3) reductions in thresholds with increasing duration are similar regardless of masker level. Analyses indicate: (1) the presence of stimulus-independent, interaurally-negatively-correlated, additive internal noise and stimulus-dependent internal noise having a level proportional to that of the external masker while being independent of masker/signal duration; (2) that NoSpi thresholds taken as a joint function of masker/signal duration and masker spectrum level are, quantitatively, well described by taking into account effects produced by the combination of internal and external noises.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of senile dementia, and a cure is desperately needed. The amyloid-beta42 (Abeta42) has been suggested to play a central role in the pathogenesis of AD. However, the mechanism by which Abeta42 causes AD remains unclear. To understand the pathogenesis and to develop therapeutic avenues, it is crucial to generate animal models of AD in genetically tractable organisms. Drosophila is a well-established model system for which abundant genetic tools are available. Moreover, its well organized brain permits the study of complex behaviors such as learning and memory. We have established transgenic flies that express human Abeta42 in the nervous system. These flies developed age-dependent short-term memory impairment and neurodegeneration. In this review, we will first describe transgenic Abeta42 fly models and discuss the unique features of this system compared to mouse AD models. Secondly, we will discuss the usage of the fly models to evaluate currently proposed therapeutic strategies. Thirdly, we will briefly review the results of a genetic screen for modifiers of Abeta42 toxicity in the fly model. Finally, we will discuss how to dissect the complex mechanisms of Abeta42 toxicity focusing on its aggregation propensity using the fly model system.

Animals exposed to noise trauma show augmented synchronous neural activity in tonotopically reorganized primary auditory cortex consequent on hearing loss. Diminished intracortical inhibition in the reorganized region appears to enable synchronous network activity that develops when deafferented neurons begin to respond to input via their lateral connections. In humans with tinnitus accompanied by hearing loss, this process may generate a phantom sound that is perceived in accordance with the location of the affected neurons in the cortical place map. The neural synchrony hypothesis predicts that tinnitus spectra, and heretofore unmeasured &quot;residual inhibition functions&quot; that relate residual tinnitus suppression to the center frequency of masking sounds, should cover the region of hearing loss in the audiogram. We confirmed these predictions in two independent cohorts totaling 90 tinnitus subjects, using computer-based tools designed to assess the psychoacoustic properties of tinnitus. Tinnitus spectra and residual inhibition functions for depth and duration increased with the amount of threshold shift over the region of hearing impairment. Residual inhibition depth was shallower when the masking sounds that were used to induce residual inhibition showed decreased correspondence with the frequency spectrum and bandwidth of the tinnitus. These findings suggest that tinnitus and its suppression in residual inhibition depend on processes that span the region of hearing impairment and not on mechanisms that enhance cortical representations for sound frequencies at the audiometric edge. Hearing thresholds measured in age-matched control subjects without tinnitus implicated hearing loss as a factor in tinnitus, although elevated thresholds alone were not sufficient to cause tinnitus.

Quantitative measures of corticosteroids in biological samples that can be obtained noninvasively, such as saliva, feces, and body hair, have important potential as contributing elements in assessing the quality of captive environments and the severity of experimental procedures. Egg-laying chickens may be of particular interest because the corticosterone contents of the egg may have potential as a convenient measure of preceding adrenocortical activity. To develop methods to reliably quantify corticosterone content in the egg white and yolk, corticosterone content in eggs from 15 egg-laying chickens housed in single production cages were compared with that of eggs from 15 sister chickens, group housed in 1450 cm2 cages equipped with bedding, straw nests, sand baths, and perches. Approximately 80% of the total amount of corticosterone in the eggs was found in the yolk, and there was a positive correlation between yolk corticosterone concentration and total egg corticosterone (r = 0.90, n = 30, P &lt; .001). The egg white contained approximately 20% of the total amount of corticosterone, but there was no correlation between concentrations in the white and the total corticosterone content of the eggs (r = 0.003). There was no difference in the white and yolk corticosterone concentrations or total egg corticosterone between singly housed and group-housed egg-laying hens. Quantitative analyses of corticosterone concentration in eggs may assist when analyzing the stressfulness of experimental procedures and major changes to the birds' environment that affect the activity of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Biological tissues are multicompartmental heterogeneous media composed of cellular and subcellular domains. Randomly walking water molecules may have different diffusion coefficients and densities (concentrations) in different domains, namely within cells and within the outer medium. Results of the proposed effective media scale-averaging iterative scheme are used to explore the effects of a large range of microstructural and compositional parameters on the apparent (effective) diffusion coefficient. A self-consistent modelling framework for predicting the steady-state effective diffusion coefficient is presented; the framework reveals the strong dependence of the apparent diffusion coefficient on the ratio of the microscopic diffusion coefficients of the comprising phases, permeability of the cells, and their volume fractions.
The major defining pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the accumulation of amyloid beta protein (Abeta), a small peptide derived from beta- and gamma-secretase cleavages of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Recent studies have shown that the Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) plays a pivotal role in the trafficking of APP and generation of Abeta. In particular, we recently showed that the soluble cytoplasmic tail of LRP (LRP-ST) without a membrane tether was sufficient to promote Abeta generation. In this study, we demonstrate that the last 37 residues of LRP cytoplasmic tail (LRP-C37) lacking the NPxY motifs and FE65 binding mediate the core pro-amyloidogenic activity of LRP-ST. Moreover, we show that the conserved dileucine motif within the LRP-C37 region is a key determinant of its Abeta promoting activity. Finally, results from a yeast two-hybrid screen using LRP-C37 region as bait reveal four new LRP-binding proteins implicated in intracellular signalling and membrane protein trafficking. Our findings indicate that the LRP-C37 sequence represents a new protein-binding domain that may be useful as a therapeutic target and tool to lower Abeta generation in AD.
Myoblast migration is a key step in myogenesis and regeneration. It allows myoblast alignment and their fusion into myotubes. The process has been shown to involve m-calpain or mu-calpain, two Ca(2+)-dependent cysteine proteases. Here we measure calpain activity in cultured cells and show a peak of activity at the beginning of the differentiation process. We also observed a concomitant and transient increase of the influx of Ca(2+) and expression of TRPC1 protein. Calpains are specifically activated by a store-operated entry of Ca(2+) in adult skeletal muscle fibres. We therefore repressed the expression of TRPC1 in myoblasts and studied the effects on Ca(2+) fluxes and on differentiation. TRPC1-depleted myoblasts presented a largely reduced store-operated entry of Ca(2+) and a significantly diminished transient influx of Ca(2+) at the beginning of differentiation. The concomitant peak of calpain activity was abolished. TRPC1-knockdown myoblasts also accumulated myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS), an actin-binding protein and substrate of calpain. Their fusion into myotubes was significantly slowed down as a result of the reduced speed of cell migration. Accordingly, migration of control myoblasts was inhibited by 2-5 microM GsMTx4 toxin, an inhibitor of TRP channels or by 50 microM Z-Leu-Leu, an inhibitor of calpain. By contrast, stimulation of control myoblasts with IGF-1 increased the basal influx of Ca(2+), activated calpain and accelerated migration. These effects were not observed in TRPC1-knockdown cells. We therefore suggest that entry of Ca(2+) through TRPC1 channels induces a transient activation of calpain and subsequent proteolysis of MARCKS, which allows in turn, myoblast migration and fusion.
Cerebral small vessel disease (SVD) is a major cause of stroke and dementia. Pathologically, three lesions are seen: small vessel arteriopathy, lacunar infarction, and diffuse white matter injury (leukoaraiosis). Appropriate experimental models would aid in understanding these pathologic states and also in preclinical testing of therapies. The objective was to perform a systematic review of animal models of SVD and determine whether these resemble four key clinicopathologic features: (1) small, discrete infarcts; (2) small vessel arteriopathy; (3) diffuse white matter damage; (4) cognitive impairment. Fifteen different models were included, under four categories: (1) embolic injuries (injected blood clot, photochemical, detergent-evoked); (2) hypoperfusion/ischaemic injury (bilateral common carotid occlusion/stenosis, striatal endothelin-1 injection, striatal mitotoxin 3-NPA); (3) hypertension-based injuries (surgical narrowing of the aorta, or genetic mutations, usually in the renin-angiotensin system); (4) blood vessel damage (injected proteases, endothelium-targeting viral infection, or genetic mutations affecting vessel walls). Chronic hypertensive models resembled most key features of SVD, and shared the major risk factors of hypertension and age with human SVD. The most-used model was the stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR-SP). No model described all features of the human disease. The optimal choice of model depends on the aspect of pathophysiology being studied.
Oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein (OMgp) has been thought to be expressed in the oligodendrocytes and inhibit the regeneration of the nerves by binding to the Nogo receptor expressed in neurons in the central nervous system (CNS). However, OMgp is expressed in the CNS in the neurons as well as oligodendrocytes. In order to help understanding the physiological role of neuronal OMgp, we examined the change of OMgp expression in the facial nucleus after the facial nerve transection. Real-time RT-PCR and Western blot analysis showed a down-regulation of OMgp expression in the facial nucleus 5-7 (mRNA) or 5-14 (protein) days after transection. Thereafter, expression of OMgp returned to the control level at 28 days after axotomy. Subsequent analysis using in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry established that the decrease of OMgp expression was attributable to the expression in facial motoneurons, but not in oligodendrocytes. These findings suggest a possibility that the change of neuronal OMgp expression might be involved in reconnection of neural circuit between axotomized facial neuron and upper motor neuron after transection.
The periaqueductal gray (PAG) is involved in many gonadal steroid-sensitive behaviors, including responsiveness to pain. The PAG projects to the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), comprising the primary circuit driving pain inhibition. Morphine administered systemically or directly into the PAG produces greater analgesia in male compared to female rats, while manipulation of gonadal hormones alters morphine potency in both sexes. It is unknown if these alterations are due to steroidal actions on PAG neurons projecting to the RVM. The expression of androgen (AR) and estrogen (ERalpha) receptors in the PAG of female rats and within this descending inhibitory pathway in both sexes is unknown. The present study used immunohistochemical techniques (1) to map the distribution of AR and ERalpha across the rostrocaudal axis of the PAG; and (2) to determine whether AR and/or ERalpha were colocalized on PAG neurons projecting to the RVM in male and female rats. AR and ERalpha immunoreactive neurons (AR-IR, ERalpha-IR) were densely distributed within the caudal PAG of male rats, with the majority localized in the lateral/ventrolateral PAG. Females had significantly fewer AR-IR neurons, while the quantity of ERalpha was comparable between the sexes. In both sexes, approximately 25-50% of AR-IR neurons and 20-50% of ERalpha-IR neurons were retrogradely labeled. This study provides direct evidence of the expression of steroid receptors in the PAG and the descending pathway driving pain inhibition in both male and female rats and may provide a mechanism whereby gonadal steroids modulate pain and morphine potency.

The clinical manifestations and histopathologic and neuroimaging findings in 4 Indian patients with a variant form of mucolipidosis IV are described. The presenting symptoms were psychomotor delay, spastic paraplegia, and mild mental retardation. One patient also had visual deterioration due to optic atrophy. None had corneal or retinal abnormalities. Magnetic resonance imaging in 3 patients showed a uniformly thin corpus callosum in all patients and white matter changes in 2 patients. Electron microscopic examination of skin biopsy specimens revealed storage bodies characteristic of mucolipidosis IV. These patients differ from previously described patients with this disorder in the absence of corneal abnormalities and in their presentation with spastic paraplegia during the second decade of life. Correct diagnosis is needed for genetic counseling, prognostication. and reduction of additional familial burden of this rare disease.

Stroke is associated with high disability and mortality burdens worldwide, but there are few effective and widely available therapies. There is therefore a need to develop treatments that promote the repair and regeneration of ischemic brain tissue. In this regard, a population of adult stem cells-called endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs)-has been identified in peripheral blood that could provide novel approaches in regenerative medicine for curing patients with acute ischemic stroke. There is accumulating evidence that EPCs can repair damaged endothelia and attenuate the development and progression of atherosclerosis. Also, EPCs can be recruited in response to acute ischemic events and participate in reparative vasculogenesis. Most studies related to EPCs have involved patients with cardiovascular diseases, and there is emerging evidence that EPCs represent a risk marker and a potential therapeutic agent in cerebrovascular disease. Here we review the characteristics and biology of EPCs in cerebrovascular disease and discuss the challenges that must be addressed to clarify the role and therapeutic applicability of EPCs in cerebrovascular disease.
Xanthogranulomas are a group of benign lesions with an incidence of 1.6-7.0% in various autopsy series. Although the lateral ventricle is the most frequent intracranial site involved, most symptomatic cases occur in the choroid plexus, involving the third ventricle. Multicentric bilateral symptomatic cerebellar xanthogranuloma has not been reported previously. We describe a 35-year-old man who presented with a complaint of vertigo, with nystagmus and left-side cerebellar signs found on clinical examination. Radiological evaluation revealed bilateral cerebellar lesions abutting the cerebellopontine angle cistern. The left-side lesion was excised and diagnosed as xanthogranuloma up on histopathological examination. The right-side lesion was subsequently excised 4 years later when it became symptomatic. The role of histopathology cannot be overemphasized in the diagnosis of this rare lesion and long-term follow-up is advised in cases managed conservatively owing to the propensity of this tumor to grow over time.
The superior temporal sulcus (STS) is the chameleon of the human brain. Several research areas claim the STS as the host brain region for their particular behavior of interest. Some see it as one of the core structures for theory of mind. For others, it is the main region for audiovisual integration. It plays an important role in biological motion perception, but is also claimed to be essential for speech processing and processing of faces. We review the foci of activations in the STS from multiple functional magnetic resonance imaging studies, focusing on theory of mind, audiovisual integration, motion processing, speech processing, and face processing. The results indicate a differentiation of the STS region in an anterior portion, mainly involved in speech processing, and a posterior portion recruited by cognitive demands of all these different research areas. The latter finding argues against a strict functional subdivision of the STS. In line with anatomical evidence from tracer studies, we propose that the function of the STS varies depending on the nature of network coactivations with different regions in the frontal cortex and medial-temporal lobe. This view is more in keeping with the notion that the same brain region can support different cognitive operations depending on task-dependent network connections, emphasizing the role of network connectivity analysis in neuroimaging.
We have carried out a detailed analysis of the intrinsic connectivity of the Macaca fascicularis monkey hippocampal formation. Here we report findings on the topographical organization of the major connections of the dentate gyrus. Localized anterograde tracer injections were made at various rostrocaudal levels of the dentate gyrus, and we investigated the three-dimensional organization of the mossy fibers, the associational projection, and the local projections. The mossy fibers travel throughout the transverse extent of CA3 at the level of the cells of origin. Once the mossy fibers reach the distal portion of CA3, they change course and travel for 3-5 mm rostrally. The associational projection, originating from cells in the polymorphic layer, terminates in the inner one-third of the molecular layer. The associational projection, though modest at the level of origin, travels both rostrally and caudally from the injection site for as much as 80% of the rostrocaudal extent of the dentate gyrus. The caudally directed projection is typically more extensive and denser than the rostrally directed projection. Cells in the polymorphic layer originate local projections that terminate in the outer two-thirds of the molecular layer. These projections are densest at the level of the cells of origin but also extend several millimeters rostrocaudally. Overall, the topographic organization of the intrinsic connections of the monkey dentate gyrus is largely similar to that of the rat. Such extensive longitudinal connections have the potential for integrating information across much of the rostrocaudal extent of the dentate gyrus.
Since their inception, computational models have become increasingly complex and useful counterparts to laboratory experiments within the field of neuroscience. Today several software programs exist to solve the underlying mathematical system of equations, but such programs typically solve these equations in all parts of a cell (or network of cells) simultaneously, regardless of whether or not all of the cell is active. This approach can be inefficient if only part of the cell is active and many simulations must be performed. We have previously developed a numerical method that provides a framework for spatial adaptivity by making the computations local to individual branches rather than entire cells (Rempe and Chopp, SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing, 28: 2139-2161, 2006). Once the computation is reduced to the level of branches instead of cells, spatial adaptivity is straightforward: the active regions of the cell are detected and computational effort is focused there, while saving computations in other regions of the cell that are at or near rest. Here we apply the adaptive method to four realistic neuronal simulation scenarios and demonstrate its improved efficiency over non-adaptive methods. We find that the computational cost of the method scales with the amount of activity present in the simulation, rather than the physical size of the system being simulated. For certain problems spatial adaptivity reduces the computation time by up to 80%.
Experiments with rodents demonstrate that visual cues play an important role in the control of hippocampal place cells and spatial navigation. Nevertheless, rats may also rely on auditory, olfactory and somatosensory stimuli for orientation. It is also known that rats can track odors or self-generated scent marks to find a food source. Here we model odor supported place cells by using a simple feed-forward network and analyze the impact of olfactory cues on place cell formation and spatial navigation. The obtained place cells are used to solve a goal navigation task by a novel mechanism based on self-marking by odor patches combined with a Q-learning algorithm. We also analyze the impact of place cell remapping on goal directed behavior when switching between two environments. We emphasize the importance of olfactory cues in place cell formation and show that the utility of environmental and self-generated olfactory cues, together with a mixed navigation strategy, improves goal directed navigation.
Humans can estimate the duration of intervals of time, and psychophysical experiments show that these estimations are subject to timing errors. According to standard theories of timing, these errors increase linearly with the interval to be estimated (Weber's law), and both at longer and shorter intervals, deviations from linearity are reported. This is not easily reconciled with the accumulation of neuronal noise, which would only lead to an increase with the square root of the interval. Here, we offer a neuronal model which explains the form of the error function as a result of a constrained optimization process. The model consists of a number of synfire chains with different transmission times, which project onto a set of readout neurons. We show that an increase in the transmission time corresponds to a superlinear increase of the timing errors. Under the assumption of a fixed chain length, the experimentally observed error function emerges from optimal selection of chains for each given interval. Furthermore, we show how this optimal selection could be implemented by competitive spike-timing dependent plasticity in the connections from the chains to the readout network, and discuss implications of our model on selective temporal learning and possible neural architectures of interval timing.
The secondary skin malignancies arising in seborrheic keratosis (SK) are uncommon, and the causal association between the pre-existing lesion and subsequent malignant transformation remains uncertain. Among these enigmatic conditions, trichilemmal differentiation and/or neoplasms in SK have rarely been reported thus far. Herein, we describe a case of invasive trichilemmal carcinoma arising in a long-standing SK of the abdominal skin, and clinicopathologically review this rare complication with a computerized medical published work search (PubMed) and citations from earlier reports. To our knowledge, only four cases of trichilemmal tumors arising in SK have been observed, and, interestingly, all cases, including ours, were Japanese. Four of five cases (80%) developed the tumors in non-sun-exposed SK, and indeed had no apparent actinic damage in the histology. The pre-existing SK itself is more likely to act as the primary pathogenic event for developing the secondary trichilemmal tumors than a coincidental phenomenon and a consequence of skin damage by cumulative sun exposure.
The insulin-like growth factors, IGF-I and IGF-II, have endocrine as well as autocrine-paracrine actions on tissue growth. Both IGF ligands are expressed within developing mammary tissue throughout postnatal stages with specific sites of expression in the epithelial and stromal compartments. The elucidation of circulating versus local actions and of epithelial versus stromal actions of IGFs in stimulating mammary epithelial development has been the focus of several laboratories. The recent studies addressing IGF ligand function provide support for the hypotheses that (1) the diverse sites of IGF expression may mediate different cellular outcomes, and (2) IGF-I and IGF-II are distinctly regulated and have diverse functions in mammary development. The mechanisms for IGF function likely are mediated, in part, through diverse IGF signaling receptors. The local actions of the IGF ligands and receptors as revealed through recent publications are the focus of this review.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been shown to influence monoamine transmitter synthesis, metabolism and release. We investigated possible relationships between four BDNF gene polymorphisms and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), homovanillic acid (HVA), and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) in healthy volunteers (n = 132). All BDNF polymorphisms (270 C/T, -633 T/A, Val66Met, and 11757 G/C) were associated with MHPG (P &lt; 0.02), but not with 5-HIAA and HVA concentrations. At a second clinical investigation 8-20 years after CSF sampling 30% of the subjects had experienced various psychiatric disorders. Development of a psychiatric disorder was predicted by low 5-HIAA concentrations (P = 0.01). The results suggest that BDNF gene variation participates in regulation of norepinephrine turnover rates in the central nervous system of human subjects.
Notch is an integral membrane protein that functions as receptor for ligands such as jagged and delta that are associated with the surface of neighboring cells. Upon ligand binding, notch is proteolytically cleaved within its transmembrane domain by presenilin-1 (the enzymatic component of the gamma-secretase complex) resulting in the release of a notch intracellular domain which translocates to the nucleus where it regulates gene expression. Notch signaling plays multiple roles in the development of the CNS including regulating neural stem cell (NSC) proliferation, survival, self-renewal and differentiation. Notch is also present in post-mitotic neurons in the adult CNS wherein its activation influences structural and functional plasticity including processes involved in learning and memory. Recent findings suggest that notch signaling in neurons, glia, and NSCs may be involved in pathological changes that occur in disorders such as stroke, Alzheimer's disease and CNS tumors. Studies of animal models suggest the potential of agents that target notch signaling as therapeutic interventions for several different CNS disorders.
We previously reported that nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain and its underlying mechanisms are initiated by lysophosphatidic acid. In the present study, by measuring cell-rounding in a biological assay using lysophosphatidic acid 1 receptor-expressing B103 cells, we evaluated the molecular mechanism underlying lysophosphatidic acid biosynthesis following intense stimulation of primary afferents. Lysophosphatidic acid production was induced by treatment of spinal cord slices with capsaicin (10 microM), an intense stimulator of primary afferents, in the presence of recombinant autotaxin, but not in its absence. Lysophosphatidic acid was also induced by combination treatment of slices with high doses (10 and 30 microM) of substance P and NMDA, but not by other combinations of substance P, NMDA, calcitonin gene-related peptide and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (30 microM each) in the presence of recombinant autotaxin. We also found that following neurokinin 1 and NMDA receptor activation, activation of both cytosolic phospholipase A(2) and calcium-independent intracellular phospholipase A(2) signalling pathways through protein kinase C and mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation and intracellular calcium elevation were required for lysophosphatidic acid production. These findings suggest that simultaneous intense stimulation of neurokinin 1 and NMDA receptors in the spinal dorsal horn triggers lysophosphatidic acid production from lysophosphatidylcholine through extracellular autotaxin.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motoneuron degeneration resulting in paralysis and eventual death. ALS is regarded as a motoneuron-specific disorder but increasing evidence indicates non-neuronal cells play a significant role in disease pathogenesis. Although the precise aetiology of ALS remains unclear, mutations in the superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene are known to account for approximately 20% of familial ALS. We examined the influence of SOD1(G93A) expression in astrocytes on mitochondrial homeostasis in motoneurons in a primary astrocyte : motoneuron co-culture model. SOD1(G93A) expression in astrocytes induced changes in mitochondrial function of both SOD1(G93A) and wild-type motoneurons. In the presence of SOD1(G93A) astrocytes, mitochondrial redox state of both wild-type and SOD1(G93A) motoneurons was more reduced and mitochondrial membrane potential decreased. While intra-mitochondrial calcium levels [Ca(2+)](m) were elevated in SOD1(G93A) motoneurons, changes in mitochondrial function did not correlate with [Ca(2+)](m). Thus, expression of SOD1(G93A) in astrocytes directly alters mitochondrial function even in embryonic motoneurons, irrespective of genotype. These early deficits in mitochondrial function induced by surrounding astrocytes may increase the vulnerability of motoneurons to other neurotoxic mechanisms involved in ALS pathogenesis.
Kisspeptin, a neuropeptide product of the KiSS-1 gene, has recently been implicated in the regulation of seasonal breeding in a number of species, including Siberian hamsters. In this species, kisspeptin expression is reduced in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) following exposure to inhibitory day lengths, and exogenous kisspeptin activates the reproductive neuroendocrine axis of reproductively quiescent animals. Because sex steroids can impact kisspeptin expression, it is unclear whether changes in kisspeptin occur in direct response to photoperiodic cues or secondarily in response to changes in sex steroid concentrations resulting from the transition to reproductive quiescence. The present study aimed to assess the relative contributions of photoperiod and testosterone in regulating kisspeptin expression in Siberian hamsters. Animals housed in long or short day lengths for 8 weeks were either castrated or received sham surgeries. Half of the hamsters in each photoperiod were given testosterone to mimic long-day sex steroid concentrations. The results obtained indicate that kisspeptin neurones in the AVPV and arcuate nuclei were influenced by both photoperiod and testosterone. In the AVPV, removal of testosterone or exposure to inhibitory day lengths led to a marked reduction in kisspeptin-immunoreactive cells, and testosterone treatment increased cell numbers across conditions. Importantly, long-day castrates exhibited significantly more kisspeptin cells than short-day castrates or intact short-day animals with empty capsules, suggesting the influences of photoperiod, independent of gonadal steroids. In general, the opposite pattern emerged for the arcuate nuclei. Collectively, these data suggest a role for both gonadal-dependent and independent (i.e. photoperiodic) mechanisms regulating seasonal changes in kisspeptin expression in Siberian hamsters.
Manufactured nanoparticles of aluminum oxide (nano-alumina) have been widely used in the environment; however, their potential toxicity provides a growing concern for human health. The present study focuses on the hypothesis that nano-alumina can affect the blood-brain barrier and induce endothelial toxicity. In the first series of experiments, human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMEC) were exposed to alumina and control nanoparticles in dose- and time-responsive manners. Treatment with nano-alumina markedly reduced HBMEC viability, altered mitochondrial potential, increased cellular oxidation, and decreased tight junction protein expression as compared to control nanoparticles. Alterations of tight junction protein levels were prevented by cellular enrichment with glutathione. In the second series of experiments, rats were infused with nano-alumina at the dose of 29 mg/kg and the brains were stained for expression of tight junction proteins. Treatment with nano-alumina resulted in a marked fragmentation and disruption of integrity of claudin-5 and occludin. These results indicate that cerebral vasculature can be affected by nano-alumina. In addition, our data indicate that alterations of mitochondrial functions may be the underlying mechanism of nano-alumina toxicity.
OTK18 is a C2H2 type zinc finger protein expressed by human macrophages following HIV infection. OTK18 possesses antiretroviral activity, and its processing products accumulate in the cytoplasm of perivascular brain macrophages in advanced HIV encephalitis cases. Since the regulation of OTK18 expression in living patients following human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection is unknown, our objective is to investigate the first cohort study on OTK18 protein levels in living patients. We assessed OTK18 levels in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in 44 living patients with or without HIV-1 infection, with diverse demographic and clinical background. A novel high-sensitivity OTK18 ELISA system was developed to measure OTK18 levels in CSF and plasma using custom made biotinylated monoclonal antibodies against OTK18. The correlation of OTK18 levels with epidemiological parameters was statistically analyzed. Multiple linear regression modeling suggested that plasma OTK18 levels for HIV-1-positive subjects were only about one sixth of that for HIV-1-negative subjects. Higher CD8 T-cell counts were associated with higher levels of OTK18. Using proportional odds logistic regression, we showed that HIV-1-positive patients have significantly lower OTK18 in CSF samples, but we did not observe significant correlation between CD8 T-cell counts and CSF OTK18 levels. OTK18 levels in both plasma and CSF are significantly lower in HIV-1-positive subjects as compared to HIV-1-negative subjects. Plasma OTK18 levels are positively correlated to CD8 T-cell counts, independent of HIV-1 status.
While methamphetamine-induced changes in brain neurotransmitters, their receptors, and transporters are well studied, the means by which methamphetamine abuse results in cognitive and behavioral abnormalities is unknown. Here, we administered methamphetamine chronically, in doses relevant to recreational usage patterns, to nonhuman primates. Neurostructural analysis revealed decreased dendritic material and loss of spines in frontal lobe neurons. Molecular examination demonstrated that type I interferons (interferon-alpha and interferon-beta) increased in the frontal lobe in response to chronic methamphetamine treatment, in correlation with the neuronal changes. Chronic methamphetamine thus results in significant changes in the primate brain, inducing cytokines and altering neuronal structure, both of which can contribute to functional abnormalities.


The expression patterns of tumor necrosis factor-like weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK), a pleiotropic cytokine with proinflammatory and cell death-inducing activities, and its receptor, fibroblast growth factor-inducible 14 (Fn14), were examined in postmortem brain tissue samples from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and controls. Immunohistochemical analysis and real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction demonstrated that both TWEAK and Fn14 were upregulated in the MS compared with control unaffected brain samples. Perivascular and meningeal macrophages and astrocytes and microglia associated with lesions were identified as the main sources of TWEAK in the MS brains. The highest frequency of TWEAK+ cells was found at edges of chronic active white matter lesions and in subpial cortical lesions inMS cases with abundant meningeal inflammation and ectopic B-cell follicles. Neurons and reactive astrocytes expressing Fn14 were mainly localized in the cerebral cortex in highly infiltrated MS brains. Numerous TWEAK-expressing microglia were associated with the extensive loss of myelin and astrocytosis, neuronal damage, and vascular abnormalities in subpial cortical lesions; this suggests that TWEAK could synergize with other cytotoxic factors diffusing from the inflamed meninges to promote cortical injury. Taken together, these findings indicate that the TWEAK/Fn14 pathway contributes to inflammation and tissue injury and is, therefore, a potential therapeutic target in MS.
The amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) are thought to subserve distinct functions, with the former mediating rapid fear responses to discrete sensory cues and the latter longer &quot;anxiety-like&quot; states in response to diffuse environmental contingencies. However, these structures are reciprocally connected and their projection sites overlap extensively. To shed light on the significance of BNST-amygdala connections, we compared the antidromic response latencies of BNST and central amygdala (CE) neurons to brain stem stimulation. Whereas the frequency distribution of latencies was unimodal in BNST neurons (approximately 10-ms mode), that of CE neurons was bimodal (approximately 10- and approximately 30-ms modes). However, after stria terminalis (ST) lesions, only short-latency antidromic responses were observed, suggesting that CE axons with long conduction times course through the ST. Compared with the direct route, the ST greatly lengthens the path of CE axons to the brain stem, an apparently disadvantageous arrangement. Because BNST and CE share major excitatory basolateral amygdala (BL) inputs, lengthening the path of CE axons might allow synchronization of BNST and CE impulses to brain stem when activated by BL. To test this, we applied electrical BL stimuli and compared orthodromic response latencies in CE and BNST neurons. The latency difference between CE and BNST neurons to BL stimuli approximated that seen between the antidromic responses of BNST cells and CE neurons with long conduction times. These results point to a hitherto unsuspected level of temporal coordination between the inputs and outputs of CE and BNST neurons, supporting the idea of shared functions.
Acute alcohol consumption causes deficits in motor coordination and gait, suggesting an involvement of cerebellar circuits, which play a role in the fine adjustment of movements and in motor learning. It has previously been shown that ethanol modulates inhibitory transmission in the cerebellum and affects synaptic transmission and plasticity at excitatory climbing fiber (CF) to Purkinje cell synapses. However, it has not been examined thus far how acute ethanol application affects long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation (LTP) at excitatory parallel fiber (PF) to Purkinje cell synapses, which are assumed to mediate forms of cerebellar motor learning. To examine ethanol effects on PF synaptic transmission and plasticity, we performed whole cell patch-clamp recordings from Purkinje cells in rat cerebellar slices. We found that ethanol (50 mM) selectively blocked PF-LTD induction, whereas it did not change the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents at PF synapses. In contrast, ethanol application reduced voltage-gated calcium currents and type 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1)-dependent responses in Purkinje cells, both of which are involved in PF-LTD induction. The selectivity of these effects is emphasized by the observation that ethanol did not impair PF-LTP and that PF-LTP could readily be induced in the presence of the group I mGluR antagonist AIDA or the mGluR1a antagonist LY367385. Taken together, these findings identify calcium currents and mGluR1-dependent signaling pathways as potential ethanol targets and suggest that an ethanol-induced blockade of PF-LTD could contribute to the motor coordination deficits resulting from alcohol consumption.
The interpretation of changes in the soleus H reflex is problematic in the face of reflex gain changes, a nonlinear input/output relationship for the motoneuron pool, and a nonhomogeneous response of different motoneurons to afferent inputs. By altering the stimulus intensity to maintain a constant reflex output, threshold tracking allows a relatively constant population of alpha-motoneurons to be studied. This approach was used to examine postactivation (&quot;homosynaptic&quot;) depression of the H reflex (HD) in 23 neurologically healthy subjects. The H reflex was elicited by tibial nerve stimulation at 0.05, 0.1, 0.3, 1, and 2 Hz at rest and during voluntary plantar flexion at 2.5, 5, and 10% of maximum. A computerized threshold tracking procedure was used to set the current needed to generate a target H reflex 10% of M(max). The current needed to produce the target reflex increased with stimulus rate but not significantly beyond 1 Hz. In three subjects, the current needed to produce H reflexes of 5, 10, 15, and 20% M(max) at 0.3, 1, and 2 Hz increased with rate and with the size of the test H reflex. HD was significantly reduced during voluntary contractions. Using threshold tracking, HD was maximal at lower frequencies than previously emphasized, probably because HD is greater the larger the test H reflex. This would reinforce the greater sensitivity of small motoneurons to reflex inputs.
Magnetic stimulation with a double-cone-coil over the back of the head activates the motor tracts at the level of pyramidal decussation (brain stem stimulation [BST]). However, single-pulse BST (single BST) sometimes cannot elicit motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in patients with corticospinal tract involvement. We developed a technique using double-pulse BST (double BST) to elicit MEPs even in patients whose threshold is abnormally elevated. Subjects were 11 healthy volunteers and 12 patients with corticospinal tract involvement in whom single BST evoked no discernible MEP. Double BST was performed at the intensities of resting and active motor threshold for single BST; MEPs were recorded from the first dorsal interosseous muscle. Interstimulus intervals (ISIs) between two pulses were 1.5, 2, 3, 5, and 10 ms in healthy subjects. Double BST enlarged MEPs at ISIs of 1.5-5 ms with a peak at 2 ms in the relaxed condition, but not in the active condition. At an ISI of 2 ms in the relaxed condition, the MEP amplitude was 15 times as large as that to single BST in relaxed muscles. The onset latency of the enlarged MEP from the second pulse in relaxed muscles was the same as that by single BST in active muscles. Double BST at a 2-ms interval elicited MEPs in eight patients. Double BST can enhance MEPs probably by temporal summations of excitatory postsynaptic potentials at the spinal motoneurons. Using this new technique, we can obtain more information about the central motor conduction even when single BST fails to elicit any MEP.
In addition to its effects on neuronal survival and differentiation, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in modulating synaptic transmission and plasticity in many brain areas, most notably the neocortex and hippocampus. These effects may underlie a role for BDNF in learning and memory as well as developmental plasticity. Consistent with localization of the tropomyosin-related kinase B receptor to both sides of the synapse, BDNF appears to have pre- and postsynaptic effects, but the underlying cellular mechanisms are unclear and it is not known whether pre- and postsynaptic modulations by BDNF occur simultaneously. To address these issues, we recorded dual-component (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid [AMPA] and N-methyl-D-aspartate [NMDA]) miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) from cortical and hippocampal pyramidal neurons and dentate gyrus granule cells from acute brain slices. BDNF had no effect on the fast component of mEPSC decay or on the peak amplitude, suggesting that BDNF did not modulate postsynaptic AMPA receptors, although BDNF rapidly modulated NMDA receptors, as seen by an enhancement of the slow component of mEPSC decay that was prevented by blocking postsynaptic NMDA receptors. At the same time, BDNF acted presynaptically to enhance mEPSC frequency. Surprisingly, the effect on frequency was also NMDA receptor dependent, but required activation of presynaptic, not postsynaptic, NMDA receptors. BDNF also enhanced action potential-dependent glutamate release via presynaptic NMDA receptors, an effect that was unmasked when voltage-gated calcium channels were partially inhibited. Our results indicate that BDNF acutely modulates presynaptic release and postsynaptic responsiveness through simultaneous effects on pre- and postsynaptic NMDA receptors.
During prolonged fixation, visual objects presented in the periphery of the visual field often fade from awareness. This phenomenon, known as the Troxler effect, has been largely attributed to adaptation of neurons responding to peripheral targets. Here, we hypothesized that perceptual disappearance might result from degeneration of feedback from attention-related cortical areas to early visual areas and that visual transients disrupt the feedback loop sustaining low-level signals and thereby trigger perceptual fading. We examined this hypothesis by briefly disrupting the functions of attention-related regions in the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). The hypothesis predicted that temporary disruption of IPS would trigger perceptual disappearances. We measured perceptual disappearance using a task in which participants were asked to discriminate the presence or absence (fading) of a peripheral green target immediately after a TMS pulse. On one half of the trials, the target remained on the screen until the end of a trial, and on the other half of the trials, it gradually faded. The results of this experiment show that brief disruption of the IPS with a single pulse TMS is sufficient to trigger perceptual disappearance. TMS over the IPS resulted in a fewer reports of continuous percepts (i.e., more fading) without changes in the perception of physically fading stimuli. Our control experiment shows the loss of sensitivity is not caused by suppression of microsaccades in response to the sound produced by TMS. This study supports the idea that conscious visual perception requires a coupling between the early visual areas representing sensory data and the parietal areas subserving spatial localization functions.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a potent modulator of synaptic transmission, is known to influence associative synaptic plasticity and refinement of neural connectivity. We now show that BDNF modulation of glutamate currents in hippocampal neurons exhibits the additional property of use dependence, a postsynaptic mechanism resulting in selective modulation of active channels. We demonstrate selectivity by varying the repetition rate of iontophoretically applied glutamate pulses during BDNF exposure. During relatively high-frequency glutamate pulses (0.1 Hz), BDNF application elicited a doubling of the glutamate current. During low-frequency pulses (0.0033 Hz), however, BDNF evoked a dramatically diminished response. This effect was apparently mediated by calcium because manipulations that prevented elevation of intracellular calcium largely eliminated the action of BDNF on glutamate currents. To confirm N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor involvement and assess spatial requirements, we made cell-attached single-channel recordings from somatic NMDA receptors. Inclusion of calcium in the pipette was sufficient to produce enhancement of channel activity by BDNF. Substitution of EGTA for calcium prevented BDNF effects. We conclude that BDNF modulation of postsynaptic NMDA receptors requires concurrent neuronal activity potentially conferring synaptic specificity on the neurotrophin's actions.
The rhythmic voltage oscillations in motor neurons (MNs) during locomotor movements reflect the operation of the pre-MN central pattern generator (CPG) network. Recordings from MNs can thus be used as a method to deduct the organization of CPGs. Here, we use continuous conductance measurements and decomposition methods to quantitatively assess the weighting and phase tuning of synaptic inputs to different flexor and extensor MNs during locomotor-like activity in the isolated neonatal mice lumbar spinal cord preparation. Whole cell recordings were obtained from 22 flexor and 18 extensor MNs in rostral and caudal lumbar segments. In all flexor and the large majority of extensor MNs the extracted excitatory and inhibitory synaptic conductances alternate but with a predominance of inhibitory conductances, most pronounced in extensors. These conductance changes are consistent with a &quot;push-pull&quot; operation of locomotor CPG. The extracted excitatory and inhibitory synaptic conductances varied between 2 and 56% of the mean total conductance. Analysis of the phase tuning of the extracted synaptic conductances in flexor and extensor MNs in the rostral lumbar cord showed that the flexor-phase-related synaptic conductance changes have sharper locomotor-phase tuning than the extensor-phase-related conductances, suggesting a modular organization of premotor CPG networks consisting of reciprocally coupled, but differently composed, flexor and extensor CPG networks. There was a clear difference between phase tuning in rostral and caudal MNs, suggesting a distinct operation of CPG networks in different lumbar segments. The highly asymmetric features were preserved throughout all ranges of locomotor frequencies investigated and with different combinations of locomotor-inducing drugs. The asymmetric nature of CPG operation and phase tuning of the conductance profiles provide important clues to the organization of the rodent locomotor CPG and are compatible with a multilayered and distributed structure of the network.
TRPV1 receptors are activated and/or modulated by noxious heat, capsaicin, protons and other endogenous agents released following tissue injury. There is a growing appreciation that this molecular integrator may also have a role in mechanosensation. To further understand this role, we investigated the systemic and site-specific effects of a selective TRPV1 receptor antagonist, A-889425, on low-intensity mechanical stimulation in inflamed rats. Systemic administration of A-889425 (30 and 100 micromol/kg po) reduced mechanical allodynia in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-inflamed rats. Systemic A-889425 (3 and 10 micromol/kg iv) also decreased the responses of spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons to low-intensity mechanical stimulation in CFA-inflamed but not uninjured rats. This effect of A-889425 was likely mediated via multiple sites since local injection of A-889425 into the spinal cord (1-3 nmol), ipsilateral hindpaw (200 nmol), and cerebral ventricles (30-300 nmol) all attenuated WDR responses to low-intensity mechanical stimulation. In addition to an effect on mechanotransmission, systemic administration of A-889425 reduced the spontaneous firing of WDR neurons in inflamed but not uninjured rats. Spontaneous firing is elevated after injury and may reflect ongoing pain in the animal. Local injection experiments indicated that this effect of A-889425 on spontaneous firing was mainly mediated via TRPV1 receptors in the spinal cord. Thus the current data demonstrate that TRPV1 receptors have an enhanced role after an inflammatory injury, impacting both low-intensity mechanotransmission and possibly spontaneous pain. Furthermore this study delineates the differential contribution of central and peripheral TRPV1 receptors to affect spontaneous or mechanically evoked firing of WDR neurons.


Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) is a multisystem genetic disorder that primarily affects the skin (freckling and caf-au-lait macules), nervous system (neurofibromas, optic gliomas, and learning disabilities), and skeletal system (pseudoarthroses). The interest in pharmacological intervention for patients with NF1 has grown in recent years. However, little is known about the attitudes and priorities of patients, families, and physicians regarding participation in clinical trials. We surveyed 74 adult patients or parents of patients with NF1 and 69 care providers participating in a neurofibromatosis clinic to assess their willingness to participate in clinical trials and their opinions about which conditions they thought were most important to treat. Both patients and care providers are willing to participate in clinical trials for NF1 and both groups rate malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors as the most urgent for new treatments. There are concordant views among patients and physicians concerning clinical trials for NF1, and patients do not dismiss participation in placebo-controlled trials. Neuroscience nurses are poised to facilitate the research process from conception through implementation as they take the viewpoints of our study populations into consideration.
Unilateral neglect (UN) is a disorder associated primarily with right-brain damage; it causes individuals to behave as if the contralesional half of their world has become unimportant or has simply ceased to exist. This is the first known case study to describe and measure UN caused by an infectious process, meningoencephalitis. The patient was immune compromised as a result of antirejection drugs following a kidney and pancreas transplant, as well as from a baseline vulnerability common to patients with hemodialysis. She was reassessed serially during hemodialysis treatments over 12 months and demonstrated improvement in some measures of UN but not in others. UN is a recognized nursing diagnosis and can be assessed, treated, and researched by nurses. Neuroscience nurses need to better understand and investigate UN to improve their own practice and the practice of other specialties.


Blood-brain barrier (BBB) opening occurs under many physiological and pathological conditions. BBB opening will lead to the leakage of large circulating molecules into the brain parenchyma. These invasive molecules will induce immune responses. Microglia and astrocytes are the two major cell types responsible for immune responses in the brain, and Fc gamma receptor I (FcgammaRI) and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) are the two important receptors mediating these processes. Data suggest that activation of the FcgammaRI pathway mediates antiinflammatory processes, whereas activation of TLR4 pathway leads to proinflammatory activities. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that BBB opening could lead to alterations in FcgammaRI and TLR4 pathways in microglia and astrocytes, thus limiting excessive inflammation in the brain. The transient BBB opening was induced by adrenaline injection through a caudal vein in Sprague-Dawley rats. We found that the FcgammaRI pathway was significantly activated in both microglia and astrocytes, as exhibited by the up-regulation of FcgammaRI and its key downstream molecule Syk, as well as the increased production of the effector cytokines, interleukin (IL)-10 and IL-4. Interestingly, after transient BBB opening, TLR4 expression was also increased. However, the expression of MyD88, the central adapter of the TLR4 pathway, was significantly inhibited, with decreased production of the effector cytokines IL-12a and IL-1beta. These results indicate that, after transient BBB opening, FcgammaRI-mediated antiinflammatory processes were activated, whereas TLR4-mediated proinflammatory activities were inhibited in microglia and astrocytes. This may represent an important neuroprotective mechanism of microglia and astrocytes that limits excessive inflammation after BBB opening.
The stability of expression of an internal control is required for accurate and reliable normalization in quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) experiments. However, expression of commonly used reference genes can be regulated under specific experimental conditions, particularly in response to stimuli that exert multiple effects on gene expression. The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) regulates gene expression through activation of multiple signaling cascades, and we have conducted an expression study for the proper validation of internal control genes in BDNF-stimulated cultured hippocampal neurons. geNorm and NormFinder were applied to eight potential genes to identify the most stable genes to be used in the relative quantification of the effects of BDNF on gene expression. Our data show that Tbp (TATA box binding protein), Ppia (peptidylprolyl isomerase A), Pgk1 (phosphoglycerate kinase 1), and Hprt1 (hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase I) are the most stable genes under the experimental conditions used, contrasting with Tuba1 (tubulin alpha1-A chain) and Gapdh (glyceraldehydes-3-phosphate dehydrogenase), two genes widely used as control genes, which showed an unstable expression in hippocampal neurons stimulated with BDNF. Analysis of the BDNF-induced changes in expression of Sars, Tufm, and Egr3 by using different sets of control genes showed distinct results, with a combination of three to four of the genes Tbp/Ppia/Pgk1/Hprt1 providing the most consistent results. Our data reinforce the need for proper validation of the internal control genes for an accurate quantification of qRT-PCR results, particularly when analyzing cellular responses to agents (e.g., neurotrophins) that cause multiple changes in gene expression.
Perinatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) occurs in 0.2%-0.4% of all live births, with 100% O(2) resuscitation (HHI) remaining a standard clinical treatment. HI produces a broad spectrum of neuronal death phenotypes ranging from a more noninflammatory apoptotic death to a more inflammatory necrotic cell death that may be responsible for the broad spectrum of reported dysfunctional outcomes. However, the mechanisms that would account for this phenotypic spectrum of cell death are not fully understood. Here, we provide evidence that Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) can shuttle to different subcellular compartments in response to HI, thus triggering the different organelle-associated cell death signaling cascades resulting in cell death phenotype diversity. There was an early increase in intranuclear and total nuclear Bax protein levels followed by a later Bax redistribution to the mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Associated with the organelle-specific Bax shuttling time course, there was an increase in nuclear phosphorylated p53, cytosolic cleaved caspase-3, and caspase-12. When HI-treated P7 rats were resuscitated with 100% O(2) (HHI), there were increased lesion volumes as determined by T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging with no change in cortical apoptotic signaling compared with HI treatment alone. There was, however, increased inflammatory (cytosolic-cleaved interleukin-1beta) and necrotic (increased nuclear 55-kDa-cleaved PARP-1 [poly-ADP-ribose 1] and decreased nuclear HMGB1 [nuclear high-mobility group box 1]) after HHI. Furthermore, HHI increased ER calpain activation and ER Bax protein levels compared with HI alone. These data suggest that 100% O(2) resuscitation increases Bax-mediated activation of ER cell death signaling, inflammation, and lesion volume by increasing necrotic-like cell death. In light of these findings, the use of 100% O(2) treatment for neonatal HI should be reevaluated.

The authors report the de novo occurrence and treatment of an arteriovenous lesion within an anaplastic oligodendroglioma in a patient with previously unremarkable brain imaging. Intracranial arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are believed to be congenitally acquired lesions, and their association with brain neoplasms is extremely rare. Diagnostic imaging revealed a mass lesion with large arteriovenous shunts and a vascular nidus mimicking a true AVM. Histological and immunohistochemical testing showed an anaplastic oligodendroglioma mixed with an AVM. The clinical, radiological, and operative data are reviewed, as are the histopathological findings. To the authors' knowledge this is the first case of de novo occurrence of an arteriovenous lesion with large shunts and a vascular nidus within an anaplastic oligodendroglioma.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are important contributors to the secondary injury cascade following traumatic brain injury (TBI), and ROS inhibition has consistently been shown to be neuroprotective following experimental TBI. NXY-059, a nitrone free radical trapping compound, has been shown to be neuroprotective in models of ischemic stroke but has not been evaluated in experimental TBI. In the present study, a continuous 24-h intravenous infusion of NXY-059 or vehicle was initiated 30 min following a severe lateral fluid percussion brain injury (FPI) in adult rats (n=22), and histological and behavioral outcomes were evaluated. Sham-injured animals (n=22) receiving identical drug infusion were used as controls. Visuospatial learning was evaluated in the Morris water maze at post-injury days 11-14, followed by a probe trial (memory test) at day 18. The animals were sacrificed at day 18, and loss of hemispheric brain tissue was measured in microtubule-associated protein (MAP)-2 stained sections. Brain-injured, NXY-059-treated animals showed a significant reduction of visuospatial learning deficits when compared to the brain-injured, vehicle-treated control animals (p &lt; 0.05). NXY-059-treated animals significantly reduced the loss of hemispheric tissue compared to brain-injured controls (43.0 +/- 11 mm3 versus 74.4 +/- 19 mm3, respectively; p &lt; 0.01). The results show that post-injury treatment with NXY-059 significantly attenuated the loss of injured brain tissue and improved cognitive outcome, suggesting a major role for ROS in the pathophysiology of TBI.
The dietary essential PUFA docosahexaenoic acid [DHA; 22:6(n-3)] is a critical contributor to cell structure and function in the nervous system, and deficits in DHA abundance are associated with cognitive decline during aging and in neurodegenerative disease. Recent studies underscore the importance of DHA-derived neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1) in the homeostatic regulation of brain cell survival and repair involving neurotrophic, antiapoptotic and antiinflammatory signaling. Emerging evidence suggests that NPD1 synthesis is activated by growth factors and neurotrophins. Evolving research indicates that NPD1 has important determinant and regulatory interactions with the molecular-genetic mechanisms affecting beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) and amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide neurobiology. Deficits in DHA or its peroxidation appear to contribute to inflammatory signaling, apoptosis, and neuronal dysfunction in Alzheimer disease (AD), a common and progressive age-related neurological disorder unique to structures and processes of the human brain. This article briefly reviews our current understanding of the interactions of DHA and NPD1 on betaAPP processing and Abeta peptide signaling and how this contributes to oxidative and pathogenic processes characteristic of aging and AD pathology.

Fragile X syndrome is an X-linked disorder caused by the inactivation of the FMR1 gene, with symptoms ranging from impaired cognitive functions to seizures, anxiety, sensory abnormalities, and hyperactivity. Although fragile X syndrome is considered a typical Mendelian disorder, we have recently reported that the environment, specifically the fmr1(+/-) or fmr1(-/-) [H or knockout (KO)] maternal environment, elicits on its own a partial fragile X-like phenotype and can contribute to the overall phenotype of fmr1(-/0) (KO) male offspring. Genetically fmr1(+/0) (WT) males born to H females (H(maternal) &gt; WT(offspring)), similar to KO male offspring born to H and KO mothers (H &gt; KO and KO &gt; KO), exhibit locomotor hyperactivity. These mice also showed reduced D(2) autoreceptor function, indicating a possible diminished feedback inhibition of dopamine (DA) release in the nigrostriatal and mesolimbic systems. The GABAergic system also regulates DA release, in part via presynaptic GABA(B) receptors (Rs) located on midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Here, we show that the locomotor inhibitory effect of the GABA(B)R agonist baclofen [4-amino-3-(4-chlorophenyl)-butanoic acid] is enhanced in all progeny of mutant mothers (H &gt; WT, H &gt; KO, and KO &gt; KO) compared with WT &gt; WT mice, irrespective of their own genotype. However, increased sensitivity to baclofen was selective and limited to the locomotor response because the muscle-relaxant and sedative effects of the drug were not altered by the maternal environment. These data show that GABA(B)R sensitization, traditionally induced pharmacologically, can also be elicited by the fmr1-deficient maternal environment.
Cerebellar Purkinje neurons (PNs) receive inhibitory GABAergic input from stellate and basket cells, which are located in the outer and inner portions of the molecular layer, respectively. Ethanol (EtOH) was recently shown to increase GABAergic transmission at PNs via a mechanism that involves enhanced calcium release from presynaptic internal stores (J Pharmacol Exp Ther 323:356-364, 2007). Here, we further characterized the effect of EtOH on GABA release and assessed its impact on PN excitability. Using whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques in cerebellar vermis parasagittal slices, we found that EtOH acutely increases the frequency but not the amplitude or half-width of miniature and spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs). EtOH significantly increased the amplitude and decreased the paired pulse ratio of IPSCs evoked by stimulation in the outer but not inner molecular layer. In current clamp, EtOH decreased both the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked in PNs by granule cell axon stimulation and the number of action potentials triggered by these events; these effects depended on GABA(A) receptor activation because they were not observed in presence of bicuculline. Loose-patch cell-attached PN recordings revealed that neither the spontaneous action potential firing frequency nor the coefficient of variation of the interspike interval was altered by acute EtOH exposure. These findings suggest that EtOH differentially affects GABAergic transmission at stellate cell- and basket cell-to-PN synapses and that it modulates PN firing triggered by granule cell axonal input. These effects could be in part responsible for the cerebellar impairments associated with acute EtOH intoxication.
Positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu5) enhance N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor function and may represent a novel approach for the treatment of schizophrenia. ADX47273 [S-(4-fluoro-phenyl)-{3-[3-(4-fluoro-phenyl)-[1,2,4]oxadiazol-5-yl]-piperidin-1-yl}-methanone], a recently identified potent and selective mGlu5 PAM, increased (9-fold) the response to threshold concentration of glutamate (50 nM) in fluorometric Ca(2+) assays (EC(50) = 170 nM) in human embryonic kidney 293 cells expressing rat mGlu5. In the same system, ADX47273 dose-dependently shifted mGlu5 receptor glutamate response curve to the left (9-fold at 1 microM) and competed for binding of [(3)H]2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (K(i) = 4.3 microM), but not [(3)H]quisqualate. In vivo, ADX47273 increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase and cAMP-responsive element-binding protein phosphorylation in hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, both of which are critical for glutamate-mediated signal transduction mechanisms. In models sensitive to antipsychotic drug treatment, ADX47273 reduced rat-conditioned avoidance responding [minimal effective dose (MED) = 30 mg/kg i.p.] and decreased mouse apomorphine-induced climbing (MED = 100 mg/kg i.p.), with little effect on stereotypy or catalepsy. Furthermore, ADX47273 blocked phencyclidine, apomorphine, and amphetamine-induced locomotor activities (MED = 100 mg/kg i.p.) in mice and decreased extracellular levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, but not in the striatum, in rats. In cognition models, ADX47273 increased novel object recognition (MED = 1 mg/kg i.p.) and reduced impulsivity in the five-choice serial reaction time test (MED = 10 mg/kg i.p.) in rats. Taken together, these effects are consistent with the hypothesis that allosteric potentiation of mGlu5 may provide a novel approach for development of antipsychotic and procognitive agents.
Ligand-gated ion channels are activated by agonist binding, but may also be modulated by membrane voltage. N-Methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) exhibit especially strong voltage dependence due to channel block by external Mg(2+) (Mg(o)(2+)). Here we demonstrate that activity of NMDARs composed of NR1 and NR2B subunits (NR1/2B receptors) is enhanced by depolarization even in 0 Mg(o)(2+), causing slow current relaxations in response to rapid voltage changes. We present a kinetic model of receptor activation that incorporates voltage-dependent gating-associated NR2B subunit conformational changes. The model accurately reproduces current relaxations during depolarizations and subsequent repolarizations in 0 Mg(o)(2+). Model simulations in physiological Mg(o)(2+) concentrations show that voltage-dependent receptor gating also underlies the slow component of Mg(o)(2+) unblock, a phenomenon that previously was shown to influence Mg(o)(2+) unblock kinetics during dendritic spikes. We propose that voltage-dependent gating of NR1/2B receptors confers enhanced voltage and time dependence on NMDAR-mediated signalling.
The subthreshold-operating A-type K(+) current in neurons (I(SA)) has important roles in the regulation of neuronal excitability, the timing of action potential firing and synaptic integration and plasticity. The channels mediating this current (Kv4 channels) have been implicated in epilepsy, the control of dopamine release, and the regulation of pain plasticity. It has been proposed that Kv4 channels in neurons are ternary complexes of three types of protein: pore forming subunits of the Kv4 subfamily and two types of auxiliary subunits, the Ca(2+) binding proteins KChIPs and the dipeptidyl peptidase-like proteins (DPPLs) DPP6 (also known as DPPX) and DPP10 (4 molecules of each per channel for a total of 12 proteins in the complex). Here we consider the evidence supporting this hypothesis. Kv4 channels in many neurons are likely to be ternary complexes of these three types of protein. KChIPs and DPPLs are required to efficiently traffic Kv4 channels to the plasma membrane and regulate the functional properties of the channels. These proteins may also be important in determining the localization of the channels to specific neuronal compartments, their dynamics, and their response to neuromodulators. A surprisingly large number of additional proteins have been shown to modify Kv4 channels in heterologous expression systems, but their association with native Kv4 channels in neurons has not been properly validated. A critical consideration of the evidence suggests that it is unlikely that association of Kv4 channels with these additional proteins is widespread in the CNS. However, we cannot exclude that some of these proteins may associate with the channels transiently or in specific neurons or neuronal compartments, or that they may associate with the channels in other tissues.
Studies have shown that methamphetamine (MA) is rapidly becoming the drug of choice for a large number of substance-abusing offenders and is associated with significantly higher levels of HIV risk behaviors prior to their incarceration. Despite these findings, there has been little follow-up research to determine whether these patterns persist among recently paroled offenders after attendance in an in-prison treatment program. This study uses the self-reported data from 812 substance-abusing offenders in a multisite NIDA-funded project to determine whether, either before incarceration or nine months after release from an in-prison substance abuse program, MA use in the past 30 days was associated with increased HIV risk behaviors. The findings indicate that offenders who used MA prior to and after incarceration and treatment report higher levels of HIV risk behaviors compared with offenders with no MA use. Clinical and policy implications of the findings are discussed.


To explore why some Proposition 36 offenders do not enter drug treatment, we analyzed self-reported and administrative data to compare the characteristics, perceptions, and rearrest rates of 124 untreated and 1,335 treated offenders assessed by 30 sites in five California counties. Offenders were comparable in many domains at assessment; however, untreated offenders were younger, not employed, more criminally severe, and less motivated for treatment. To avoid incarceration was the primary reason for choosing Proposition 36, but there were fewer untreated offenders who felt ready for treatment (12.9% vs. 35.7%) and there were more who accepted the Proposition 36 program only upon recommendation by others (37.9% vs. 11.7%). Reasons for not entering treatment included rearrest (31.6%), no desire for treatment (23.9%), and assignment to a program that was too far away (11.1%). Both groups had fewer total arrests after assessment, but recidivism was higher among untreated offenders. Understanding untreated Proposition 36 offenders can aid efforts to improve treatment entry rates and related outcomes.
Little is known about the association between psychosis and treatment outcomes in methamphetamine (MA) users. Using data from 526 adults in the largest psychosocial clinical trial of MA users conducted to date, this study examined psychiatric, substance use, and functional outcomes of MA users with concomitant psychotic illness 3 years after treatment. The presence of a psychotic disorder was associated with increased health service utilization and higher levels of psychiatric symptomatology across multiple domains over time. MA users with co-occurring psychotic illness may therefore benefit from early psychosocial and/or pharmacologic interventions to address psychiatric symptoms.
The ability to mimic cell-matrix interactions in a way that closely resembles the natural environment is of a great importance for both basic neuroscience and for fabrication of potent scaffolding materials for nervous tissue engineering. Such scaffolding materials should not only facilitate cell attachment but also create a microenvironment that provides essential developmental and survival cues. We previously found that porous aragonite crystalline matrices of marine origin are an adequate and active biomaterial that promotes neural cell growth and tissue development. Here we studied the mechanism underlying these neural cell-material interactions, focusing on the three-dimensional (3D) surface architecture and matrix activity of these scaffolds. We introduced a new cloning technique of the hydrozoan Millepora dichotoma, through which calcein or (45)Ca(2+) were incorporated into the organism's growing skeleton and neuronal cells could then be cultured on the labelled matrices. Herein, we describe the role of matrix 3D architecture on neural cell type composition and survival in culture, and report for the first time on the capacity of neurons and astrocytes to exploit calcium ions from the supporting biomatrix. We found that hippocampal cells growing on the prelabelled aragonite lattice took up aragonite-derived Ca(2+), and even enhanced this uptake when extracellular calcium ions were chelated by EGTA. When the aragonite-derived Ca(2+) uptake was omitted by culturing the cells on coral skeletons coated with gold, cell survival was reduced but not arrested, suggesting a role for matrix architecture in neural survival. In addition, we found that the effects of scaffold architecture and chemistry on cell survival were more profound for neurons than for astrocytes. We submit that translocation of calcium from the biomaterial to the cells activates a variety of membrane-bound signalling molecules and leads to the subsequent cell behaviour. This kind of cell-material interaction possesses great potential for fabricating advanced biomaterials for neural tissue-engineering applications.

The antiviral role of CD4(+) T cells in virus-induced pathologies of the central nervous system (CNS) has not been explored extensively. Control of neurotropic mouse hepatitis virus (JHMV) requires the collaboration of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, with CD8(+) T cells providing direct perforin and gamma interferon (IFN-gamma)-mediated antiviral activity. To distinguish bystander from direct antiviral contributions of CD4(+) T cells in virus clearance and pathology, memory CD4(+) T cells purified from wild type (wt), perforin-deficient (PKO), and IFN-gamma-deficient (GKO) immune donors were transferred to immunodeficient SCID mice prior to CNS challenge. All three donor CD4(+) T-cell populations controlled CNS virus replication at 8 days postinfection, indicating IFN-gamma- and perforin-independent antiviral function. Recipients of GKO CD4(+) T cells succumbed more rapidly to fatal disease than untreated control infected mice. In contrast, wt and PKO donor CD4(+) T cells cleared infectious virus to undetectable levels and protected from fatal disease. Recipients of all CD4(+) T-cell populations exhibited demyelination. However, it was more severe in wt CD4(+) T-cell recipients. These data support a role of CD4(+) T cells in virus clearance and demyelination. Despite substantial IFN-gamma-independent antiviral activity, IFN-gamma was crucial in providing protection from death. IFN-gamma reduced neutrophil accumulation and directed macrophages to white matter but did not ameliorate myelin loss.
Sometimes, spinal cord injury (SCI) results in various chronic neuropathic pain syndromes that occur diffusely below the level of the injury. It has been reported that behavioral signs of neuropathic pain are expressed in the animal models of contusive SCI. However, the observation period is relatively short considering the natural course of pain in human SCI patients. Therefore, this study was undertaken to examine the time course of mechanical and cold allodynia in the hindpaw after a spinal cord contusion in rats for a long period of time (30 weeks). The hindpaw withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimulation was applied to the plantar surface of the hindpaw, and the withdrawal frequency to the application of acetone was measured before and after a spinal contusion. The spinal cord contusion was produced by dropping a 10 g weight from a 6.25 and 12.5 mm height using a NYU impactor. After the injury, rats showed a decreased withdrawal threshold to von Frey stimulation, indicating the development of mechanical allodynia which persisted for 30 weeks. The withdrawal threshold between the two experimental groups was similar. The response frequencies to acetone increased after the SCI, but they were developed slowly. Cold allodynia persisted for 30 weeks in 12.5 mm group. The sham animals did not show any significant behavioral changes. These results provide behavioral evidence to indicate that the below-level pain was well developed and maintained in the contusion model for a long time, suggesting a model suitable for pain research, especially in the late stage of SCI or for long term effects of analgesic intervention.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a progressive disease of the CNS that is characterised by widespread lesions in the brain and spinal cord. MS results in motor, cognitive, and neuropsychiatric symptoms, all of which can occur independently of one another. The common cognitive symptoms include deficits in complex attention, efficiency of information processing, executive functioning, processing speed, and long-term memory. These deficits detrimentally affect many aspects of daily life, such as the ability to run a household, participate fully in society, and maintain employment--factors that can all affect the overall quality of life of the patient. The increased use of neuroimaging techniques in patients with MS has advanced our understanding of structural and functional changes in the brain that are characteristic of this disease, although much remains to be learned. Moreover, examination of efforts to treat the cognitive deficits in MS is still in the early stages.
The simulation theory assumes we understand actions and intentions of others through a direct matching process. This matching process activates a complex brain network involving the mirror neuron system (MNS), which is self-related and active when one does something or observes someone else acting. Because social psychology admits that mutual intention's understanding grows in close relationship as love grows, we hypothesize that mirror mechanisms take place in love relationships. The similarities between the mirror matching process and the mutual intention's understanding that occurs when two persons are in love suggest that exposure to love might affect functional and neural mechanisms, thus facilitating the understanding of the beloved's intentions. Congruent with our hypothesis, our preliminary results from 38 subjects strongly suggest a significant facilitation effect of love on understanding the intentions of the beloved (as opposed to control stimuli). Based on these phenomenological, and neurofunctional findings we suggest that the mirror mechanisms are involved in the facilitation effects of love for understanding intentions, and might further be extended to any types of love (e.g., passionate love, maternal love). Love experiences are important not only to the beloved himself, but also to any societal, cultural, and institutional patterns that relate to love. Yet, concerning its subjective character, love experiences are difficult to access. The modern procedures and techniques of socio-cognitive neuroscience make it possible to understand love and self-related experiences not only by the analysis of subjective self-reported questionnaires, but also by approaching the automatic (non-conscious) mirror experiences of love in healthy subjects, and neurological patients with a brain damage within the mirror neuron system. Although the psychology of love is now well admitted, the systematic study of the automatic facilitation effect of love through mirror mechanisms might open a new avenue towards the social mind and also self consciousness.

Thiamine, in its diphosphate form, is a required cofactor for enzymes of glucose metabolism and branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase (BCKDH). Although metabolic impairments in glucose metabolism have been found to occur in selectively vulnerable brain regions of the thiamine-deficient (TD) brain, the effects of thiamine deficiency on BCKDH have not been studied. BCKDH activity was assayed radiochemically in brain extracts of vulnerable (medial thalamus; MT) versus non-vulnerable (frontal cortex; FC) brain regions of rats made TD by administration of the central thiamine antagonist, pyrithiamine. A significant regional variation in BCKDH within the TD rat brain was noted, with a higher capacity for branched-chain amino acid oxidation in FC compared to MT: BCKDH activity was significantly reduced in MT of TD rats, resulting in selective accumulation of BCAAs in this brain region. Leucine concentrations were elevated over fivefold in the MT of symptomatic TD rats, compared with pair-fed control (PFC) rats. Impaired branched-chain ketoacid metabolism in rats may contribute to the neuronal dysfunction and ultimate thalamic neuronal cell death observed in thiamine deficiency.
Gaining insight into how the nervous system functions is a challenge for scientists, particularly because the static morphology of the brain and the cells within tell little about how they actually work. Fixed specimens can provide critical structural information, but the jump to functional neurobiology in living cells is obviated with these preparations. In order to grasp the complexity of neuronal activity, it is necessary to observe the brain in action, from the level of subcellular signaling to the whole organism. Recent advances in nonlinear microscopy have given rise to a new era for biological research. In particular, the introduction of multiphoton excitation has drastically improved the depth and speed to which we can probe brain function. In order to better appreciate recent contributions of multiphoton microscopy to our current and future understanding of biological systems, an historical awareness of past microscopy applications is useful.
Incorporating service learning into a medical school curriculum can have significant benefits for both the students and the communities they serve. The University of Minnesota Medical School-Duluth Campus has integrated an established neuroscience literacy program into a community service requirement for second-year medical students. Since 2005, medical students taking part in the program have made presentations about the brain and how it works to more than 10,000 elementary school students throughout Minnesota and northwestern Wisconsin. This article describes this initiative and the potential benefits to both the medical and elementary school students.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an increasingly reported pathology, characterized by fat accumulation within the hepatocyte. Growing evidences suggest specific effects on mitochondrial metabolism, but it is still unclear the relationship between fatty liver progression and mitochondrial function. In the present work we have investigated the impact of fatty liver on mitochondrial bioenergetic functions and susceptibility to mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) induction in animals fed a choline-deficient diet (CDD) for 4, 8, 12 or 16 weeks. Mitochondria isolated from CDD animals always exhibited higher state 4 respiration. Mitochondrial membrane potential was decreased in CDD animals at 4 and 16 weeks. At 12 weeks, oxidative phosphorylation was more efficient in CDD animals, suggesting a possible early response trying to revert the deleterious effect of increased triglyceride storage in the liver. However, mitochondrial dysfunction was evident in CDD animals at 16 weeks as indicated by decreased RCR and ADP/O, with a corresponding decrease in respiratory chain enzymes activities. Such loss of respiratory efficiency was associated with accumulation of protein oxidation products, in tissue and mitochondrial fraction. Additionally, although no differences in ATPase activity, the lag phase was increased in mitochondria from CDD animals at 16 weeks, associated with decreased content of the adenine nucleotide translocator. Increased susceptibility to calcium-induced MPT was evident in CDD animals at all time points. These results suggest a dynamic mechanism for the development of NALFD associated with altered mitochondrial function.
Integrins are heterodimeric transmembrane proteins, which mediate cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix (ECM) interaction. We show, that an inhibitor of alpha5 beta1 integrin (alpha5beta1), JSM6427, attenuated glioma growth and decreased the density of microglia at the tumor border. 21 days after glioma cell injection into an experimental mouse model, the tumor volume was significantly smaller after treating animals for 14 days with JSM6427 as compared to controls. We could demonstrate the expression of integrin alpha5beta1 on both microglia and glioma cells using flow cytometry. In a slice culture we could compare glioma growth in the presence and absence of microglia. Slices injected with glioma cells were treated with the integrin inhibitor JSM6427 and showed a significant reduction in tumor size as compared to control. Depleting microglial cells from the slice culture by treatment with clodronate liposomes abrogated the effect of JSM6427 on glioma invasion indicating that the presence of microglia is required. We show further, that microglial migration, and proliferation was attenuated dose-dependently by JSM6427.
LRRK2, alpha-synuclein, UCH-L1 and DJ-1 are implicated in the etiology of Parkinson's disease. We show for the first time that increase in striatal alpha-synuclein levels induce increased Lrrk2 mRNA levels while Dj-1 and Uch-L1 are unchanged. We also demonstrate that a mouse strain lacking the dopamine signaling molecule DARPP-32 has significantly reduced levels of both Lrrk2 and alpha-synuclein, while mice carrying a disabling mutation of the DARPP-32 phosphorylation site T34A or lack alpha-synuclein do not show any changes. To test if striatal dopamine depletion influences Lrrk2 or alpha-synuclein expression, we used the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine in rats and MitoPark mice in which there is progressive degeneration of dopamine neurons. Because striatal Lrrk2 and alpha-synuclein levels were not changed by dopamine depletion, we conclude that Lrrk2 and alpha-synuclein mRNA levels are possibly co-regulated, but they are not influenced by striatal dopamine levels.
The tangential migration from the dorsal rhombomere (r) 1 to the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum is a crucial event in the development of locus coeruleus (LC), but the molecular mechanisms underlying the migration are not well understood. We show that the Netrin receptor DCC is expressed in LC neurons and is required for their tangential migration. In DCC(-/-) embryos, fate determination of LC neurons appeared normal but tangential migration failed to initiate properly. Although many LC neurons eventually reached the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum in DCC(-/-) embryos at late embryonic stages, a substantial number of LC neurons were abnormally distributed in the rostral pons and cerebellum. In DCC(kanga) mice that lack the intracellular P3 domain of DCC, these defects were not observed. In addition, although Unc5h3, another Netrin receptor, was expressed in the dorsal r1, Unc5h3(-/-) mice exhibited the normal LC morphology and gene expression profiles in the LC compared with wild-type mice. Thus, our findings demonstrate that DCC is a key regulator of tangential migration of LC neurons during the embryonic development.
delta-catenin is a protein that binds to the classical cadherins and to synaptic scaffolding proteins in a manner which allows the protein to serve as a link between the adherens junction and the postsynaptic complex. Here we show the regulatory role of delta-catenin on synaptic transmission. delta-catenin increased the AMPA receptor-mediated EPSC, but had no significant effect on the NMDA receptor-mediated EPSC. The effect of delta-catenin on the AMPAR EPSC was mediated by its PDZ ligand. delta-catenin regulates the surface expression of GluR2 in the dendritic spines of neurons. Immunoprecipitation revealed that delta-catenin bound to GRIP-1. In COS7 cells, co-transfection of delta-catenin, GRIP and GluR2 showed that delta-catenin regulates the membrane localization of GRIP through its PDZ ligand and increased the surface expression of GluR2. This study directly shows that delta-catenin is essential for the trafficking and positioning GluR2 in the spine and thus further links delta-catenin to neuronal plasticity.
It has been over forty years since dopamine neuron degeneration in the substantia nigra and Lewy body formation within surviving cells were described as the pathological hallmarks of Parkinson's disease (PD). Although research in the intervening decades particularly in the last twenty-five years has yielded a variety of robust animal models and invaluable mechanistic insights into PD-associated neuronal dysfunction and cell death, therapeutic agents have not been forthcoming to alter the course of PD. Recently, the screening of experimental therapeutics for PD has been pursued through the use of genetically tractable models, such as the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. This simple worm remarkably recapitulates the basic cellular and molecular pathways associated with PD, is amenable to facile genetic methods, and through the use of high-throughput screening technologies, provides powerful new opportunities for the in vivo identification of therapeutic targets. In this review we briefly describe the utility that the C. elegans model system may have for PD drug discovery.
Actin and microtubules (MT) are targets of numerous molecular pathways that control neurite outgrowth. To generate a neuronal protrusion, coordinated structural changes of the actin and MT cytoskeletons must occur. Neurite formation occurs when actin filaments (F-actin) are destabilized, filopodia are extended, and MTs invade filopodia. This process results in either axon or dendrite formation. Axonal branching involves interplay between F-actin and MTs, with F-actin and MTs influencing polymerization, stabilization, and maintenance of each other. Our knowledge of the mechanisms regulating development of the axon, however, far eclipses our understanding of dendritic development and branching. The two classes of neurites, while fundamentally similar in their ability to elongate and branch, dramatically differ in growth rate, orientation of polarized MT bundles, and mechanisms that initiate branching. In this review, we focus on how F-actin, MTs, and proteins that link the two cytoskeletons coordinate to specifically initiate dendritic events.
In the forebrain, synaptic glycine concentrations are regulated through the glycine transporter GlyT1. Because glycine is a coagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR), which has been implicated in schizophrenia, inhibition of GlyT1 is thought to provide an option for the treatment of schizophrenia. In support of this hypothesis, GlyT1 inhibitors facilitate in vivo NMDAR function and demonstrate antipsychotic-like effects in animal models. Among the specific GlyT1 inhibitors, substituted N-methyl-glycine (sarcosine) derivatives (e.g., (R)-N[3-(4'fluorophenyl)-3-(4'phenyl-phenoxy)propyl]-sarcosine [NFPS], (R)-N[3-phenyl-3-(4'-(4-toluoyl)phenoxy)-propyl]sarcosine [(R)-NPTS], and (R,S)-(+/-)N-methyl-N-[(4-trifluoromethyl)phenoxy]-3-phenyl-propylglycine [Org24589]), and non-sarcosine-containing inhibitors, such as 2-chloro-N-[(S)-phenyl[(2S)-piperidin-2-yl] methyl]-3-trifluoromethyl benzamide, monohydrochloride (SSR504734), have been described. In the present study, we analyzed the mode of interaction of these compounds with GlyT1 by using electrophysiological measurements in Xenopus laevis oocytes, and with two binding assays, using [(3)H](R)-NPTS or 2-chloro-N-[(S)-phenyl[(2S)-N-methylpiperidin-2-yl]-methyl]-3-trifluoromethyl benzamide monohydrochloride ([(3)H]N-methyl-SSR504734) as radioligands. Inhibition of electrogenic glycine transport by sarcosine-based compounds was apparently irreversible and independent of glycine concentration. The latter indicates a noncompetitive mode of action. In contrast, both SSR504734 and N-methyl-SSR504734 exhibited reversible and competitive inhibition of glycine transport. In GlyT1-expressing membranes, the binding of the novel radioligand [(3)H]N-methyl-SSR504734 to a single site on GlyT1 was competitively displaced by glycine and SSR504734 but noncompetitively by sarcosine-based compounds. Inversely, [(3)H](R)-NPTS binding was competitively inhibited by sarcosine-based compounds, whereas glycine, SSR504734, and N-methyl-SSR504734 noncompetitively decreased maximal binding. Our data indicate that besides exerting an apparently irreversible or reversible inhibition, GlyT1 inhibitors differ by exhibiting either a noncompetitive or competitive mode of inhibition. The divergent modes of inhibition may significantly affect the efficacy and tolerability of these drugs.
Stress increases vulnerability and causes relapse to drugs of abuse. The usually rare read-through variant of acetylcholinesterase (AChE-R) is causally involved in stress-related behaviors, and transgenic mice constitutively overexpressing AChE-R (TgR) show behaviors characteristic of chronic stress. We measured anxiety-like behavior on TgR and control mice under normal conditions and under long-term nicotine treatment. In addition, we measured epibatidine binding in the brain and transcription status in the striatum, using microarrays, in wild-type and TgR mice. TgR mice behaved as more anxious than controls, an effect normalized by long-term nicotine intake. In control mice, long-term nicotine augmented epibatidine binding in several areas of the brain, including the hippocampus and striatum. In TgR transgenics, long-term nicotine increased epibatidine binding in some areas but not in the hippocampus or the striatum. Because the striatum is involved in the mechanisms of drug addiction, we studied how the transgene affected striatal gene expression. Whole-genome DNA microarray showed that 23 transcripts were differentially expressed in TgR mouse striata, including 15 known genes, 7 of which are anxiety-related. Subsequent reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction validated changes in 7 of those 15 genes, confirmed the increase trend in 5 more transcripts, and further revealed changes in 5 genes involved in cholinergic signaling. In summary, we found that nicotine acts as an anxiolytic in TgR mice but not in control mice and that continuously overexpressed AChE-R regulates striatal gene expression, modulating cholinergic signaling and stress-related pathways.
Opioid receptors are a class of G protein-coupled receptors that mediate the effects of the different families of endogenous opioid peptides and natural alkaloid drugs such as morphine and its synthetic derivatives. In particular, the mu opioid receptor (MOR) represents the principal molecular target for morphine and it plays key roles in opioid analgesia and addiction. In this work, new putative MORs from different vertebrate species were identified in silico and their gene organization and predicted protein products are compared with the previously characterized MORs. Also, for the first time a new genomic organization in euteleleostei teleosts has been identified. Moreover, we suggest that MORs may be specific to craniate lineage. The analysis of functional mapping of MORs we present is an important contribution to the identification of their evolutionarily conserved regions.
Bioelectrical neural interfaces provide a means of recording the activity from the nervous system and delivering therapeutic stimulation to restore neurological function lost during disease or injury. Although neural interfaces have reached clinical utility, reducing the size of the bioelectrical interface to minimize damage to neural tissue and maximize selectivity has proven problematic. Nanotechnology may offer a means of interfacing with the nervous system with unprecedented specificity. Emergent applications of nanotechnology to neuroscience include molecular imaging, drug delivery across the BBB, scaffolds for neural regeneration and bioelectrical interfaces. In particular, carbon nanotubes offer the promises of material stability and low electrical impedance at physical dimensions that could have a significant impact on the future on neural interfaces. The purpose of this review is to present recent advances in carbon nanotube-based bioelectrical interfaces for the nervous system and discuss research challenges and opportunities.
Glioblastoma tumour cells release microvesicles (exosomes) containing mRNA, miRNA and angiogenic proteins. These microvesicles are taken up by normal host cells, such as brain microvascular endothelial cells. By incorporating an mRNA for a reporter protein into these microvesicles, we demonstrate that messages delivered by microvesicles are translated by recipient cells. These microvesicles are also enriched in angiogenic proteins and stimulate tubule formation by endothelial cells. Tumour-derived microvesicles therefore serve as a means of delivering genetic information and proteins to recipient cells in the tumour environment. Glioblastoma microvesicles also stimulated proliferation of a human glioma cell line, indicating a self-promoting aspect. Messenger RNA mutant/variants and miRNAs characteristic of gliomas could be detected in serum microvesicles of glioblastoma patients. The tumour-specific EGFRvIII was detected in serum microvesicles from 7 out of 25 glioblastoma patients. Thus, tumour-derived microvesicles may provide diagnostic information and aid in therapeutic decisions for cancer patients through a blood test.
This Practice Point commentary discusses a study by Kastrup et al. that demonstrates that the early detection of blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption as detected on post-contrast enhanced T1-weighted MRI after thrombolysis for acute ischemic stroke predicts subsequent intracerebral hemorrhage. No parenchymal enhancements were detected on scans before thrombolysis; however, after thrombolysis, 3 of 48 patients had parenchymal enhancement in the areas of the initial insult and these patients later developed symptomatic hemorrhages at these sites. These data suggest that assessment of BBB integrity might be a useful addition to a multimodal MRI study, potentially improving the overall efficacy of thrombolysis and broadening the effective time window. Further work is needed to optimize an imaging sequence that will be short and sufficiently sensitive to detect early damage to the BBB before treatment. Meanwhile, prudent clinicians should select patients for therapy on the basis of accepted guidelines and best clinical judgment.
Chronic pain hypersensitivity depends on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs). However, clinical use of NMDAR blockers is limited by side effects resulting from suppression of the physiological functions of these receptors. Here we report a means to suppress pain hypersensitivity without blocking NMDARs, but rather by inhibiting the binding of a key enhancer of NMDAR function, the protein tyrosine kinase Src. We show that a peptide consisting of amino acids 40-49 of Src fused to the protein transduction domain of the HIV Tat protein (Src40-49Tat) prevented pain behaviors induced by intraplantar formalin and reversed pain hypersensitivity produced by intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant or by peripheral nerve injury. Src40-49Tat had no effect on basal sensory thresholds, acute nociceptive responses or cardiovascular, respiratory, locomotor or cognitive functions. Thus, through targeting of Src-mediated enhancement of NMDARs, inflammatory and neuropathic pain are suppressed without the deleterious consequences of directly blocking NMDARs, an approach that may be of broad relevance to managing chronic pain.
Activity-induced long-term modification of glutamatergic synapses depends on the frequency of synaptic activation. We found that long-term modification of developing rat hippocampal GABAergic synapses that was induced by repetitive coincident pre- and postsynaptic spiking was also frequency dependent. Spiking at 20-50 Hz resulted in synaptic potentiation, whereas spiking at 5 Hz led to synaptic depression. The potentiation was abolished by blocking GABA(B) receptors (GABA(B)Rs), whereas the depression was independent of GABA(B)R activation and could be converted to potentiation by elevating GABA(B)R activity. The potentiation could be attributed to a local postsynaptic increase in Na(+)/K(+)/2Cl(-) co-transporter activity near activated synapses. The activity of postsynaptic Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II was necessary for long-term potentiation of these developing GABAergic synapses and its phosphorylation at Thr286 could be enhanced by activating GABA(B)Rs with baclofen. Together with our finding that activation of GABA(B)Rs is frequency dependent, these results indicate that postsynaptic GABA(B)R activation mediates frequency-dependent potentiation of developing GABAergic synapses.
Abnormalities of striatal function have been implicated in several major neurological and psychiatric disorders, including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia and depression. Adenosine, via activation of A(2A) receptors, antagonizes dopamine signaling at D2 receptors and A(2A) receptor antagonists have been tested as therapeutic agents for Parkinson's disease. We found a direct physical interaction between the G protein-coupled A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) and the receptor tyrosine kinase fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR). Concomitant activation of these two classes of receptors, but not individual activation of either one alone, caused a robust activation of the MAPK/ERK pathway, differentiation and neurite extension of PC12 cells, spine morphogenesis in primary neuronal cultures, and cortico-striatal plasticity that was induced by a previously unknown A(2A)R/FGFR-dependent mechanism. The discovery of a direct physical interaction between the A(2A) and FGF receptors and the robust physiological consequences of this association shed light on the mechanism underlying FGF functions as a co-transmitter and open new avenues for therapeutic interventions.

The capacity for voluntary action is seen as essential to human nature. Yet neuroscience and behaviourist psychology have traditionally dismissed the topic as unscientific, perhaps because the mechanisms that cause actions have long been unclear. However, new research has identified networks of brain areas, including the pre-supplementary motor area, the anterior prefrontal cortex and the parietal cortex, that underlie voluntary action. These areas generate information for forthcoming actions, and also cause the distinctive conscious experience of intending to act and then controlling one's own actions. Volition consists of a series of decisions regarding whether to act, what action to perform and when to perform it. Neuroscientific accounts of voluntary action may inform debates about the nature of individual responsibility.
Fast oscillations and in particular gamma-band oscillation (20-80 Hz) are commonly observed during brain function and are at the center of several neural processing theories. In many cases, mathematical analysis of fast oscillations in neural networks has been focused on the transition between irregular and oscillatory firing viewed as an instability of the asynchronous activity. But in fact, brain slice experiments as well as detailed simulations of biological neural networks have produced a large corpus of results concerning the properties of fully developed oscillations that are far from this transition point. We propose here a mathematical approach to deal with nonlinear oscillations in a network of heterogeneous or noisy integrate-and-fire neurons connected by strong inhibition. This approach involves limited mathematical complexity and gives a good sense of the oscillation mechanism, making it an interesting tool to understand fast rhythmic activity in simulated or biological neural networks. A surprising result of our approach is that under some conditions, a change of the strength of inhibition only weakly influences the period of the oscillation. This is in contrast to standard theoretical and experimental models of interneuron network gamma oscillations (ING), where frequency tightly depends on inhibition strength, but it is similar to observations made in some in vitro preparations in the hippocampus and the olfactory bulb and in some detailed network models. This result is explained by the phenomenon of suppression that is known to occur in strongly coupled oscillating inhibitory networks but had not yet been related to the behavior of oscillation frequency.
One of the most critical challenges in systems neuroscience is determining the neural code. A principled framework for addressing this can be found in information theory. With this approach, one can determine whether a proposed code can account for the stimulus-response relationship. Specifically, one can compare the transmitted information between the stimulus and the hypothesized neural code with the transmitted information between the stimulus and the behavioral response. If the former is smaller than the latter (i.e., if the code cannot account for the behavior), the code can be ruled out. The information-theoretic index most widely used in this context is Shannon's mutual information. The Shannon test, however, is not ideal for this purpose: while the codes it will rule out are truly nonviable, there will be some nonviable codes that it will fail to rule out. Here we describe a wide range of alternative indices that can be used for ruling codes out. The range includes a continuum from Shannon information to measures of the performance of a Bayesian decoder. We analyze the relationship of these indices to each other and their complementary strengths and weaknesses for addressing this problem.
Understanding the design principle of reward functions is a substantial challenge both in artificial intelligence and neuroscience. Successful acquisition of a task usually requires not only rewards for goals, but also for intermediate states to promote effective exploration. This paper proposes a method for designing 'intrinsic' rewards of autonomous agents by combining constrained policy gradient reinforcement learning and embodied evolution. To validate the method, we use Cyber Rodent robots, in which collision avoidance, recharging from battery packs, and 'mating' by software reproduction are three major 'extrinsic' rewards. We show in hardware experiments that the robots can find appropriate 'intrinsic' rewards for the vision of battery packs and other robots to promote approach behaviors.
Recent attempts to map reward-based learning models, like Reinforcement Learning [Sutton, R. S., &amp; Barto, A. G. (1998). Reinforcement Learning: An introduction. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press], to the brain are based on the observation that phasic increases and decreases in the spiking of dopamine-releasing neurons signal differences between predicted and received reward [Gillies, A., &amp; Arbuthnott, G. (2000). Computational models of the basal ganglia. Movement Disorders, 15(5), 762-770; Schultz, W. (1998). Predictive reward signal of dopamine neurons. Journal of Neurophysiology, 80(1), 1-27]. However, this reward-prediction error is only one of several signals communicated by that phasic activity; another involves an increase in dopaminergic spiking, reflecting the appearance of salient but unpredicted non-reward stimuli [Doya, K. (2002). Metalearning and neuromodulation. Neural Networks, 15(4-6), 495-506; Horvitz, J. C. (2000). Mesolimbocortical and nigrostriatal dopamine responses to salient non-reward events. Neuroscience, 96(4), 651-656; Redgrave, P., &amp; Gurney, K. (2006). The short-latency dopamine signal: A role in discovering novel actions? Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 7(12), 967-975], especially when an organism subsequently orients towards the stimulus [Schultz, W. (1998). Predictive reward signal of dopamine neurons. Journal of Neurophysiology, 80(1), 1-27]. To explain these findings, Kakade and Dayan [Kakade, S., &amp; Dayan, P. (2002). Dopamine: Generalization and bonuses. Neural Networks, 15(4-6), 549-559.] and others have posited that novel, unexpected stimuli are intrinsically rewarding. The simulation reported in this article demonstrates that this assumption is not necessary because the effect it is intended to capture emerges from the reward-prediction learning mechanisms of Reinforcement Learning. Thus, Reinforcement Learning principles can be used to understand not just reward-related activity of the dopaminergic neurons of the basal ganglia, but also some of their apparently non-reward-related activity.
An explanation of consciousness is one of the major unsolved problems of modern science. The modern view of consciousness arose in the nineteenth century; the view presumed that mental activity correlates with distinct physical states. Is the problem of consciousness real? Crick and Koch made a tentative assumption that all different aspects of consciousness (pain, seeing, thinking, emotion, self-consciousness) are connected by a basic common mechanism. The next step towards understanding involved the neuronal theories of consciousness (correlates of consciousness), often referred as the NNC (neural correlates of consciousness). Many neuroscientists presume that consciousness must have a neuronal correlate. The neuroscience of anaesthesia can be defined as studying the effect of anaesthetic agents on consciousness and the preconsciousness brain mechanisms of cognitive function. Some of these mechanisms, such as recognition of the novel stimuli, are still present in deep anaesthesia, during continuous suppression. Anaesthesia is not &quot;an all or nothing&quot; phenomenon and consciousness awareness with explicit memory represents only one part of the spectrum of cognitive functions. The introduction of safe general anaesthesia represents one of the most important, although under-appreciated, advances in modern surgery. There is some difficulty in defining the term &quot;consciousness&quot; in relation to the anaesthetic state. The difference in brain activity between those under anaesthesia and those not under any such influence.
In the present study we described the role of alpha9beta1 integrin in glioblastoma progression following its interaction with nerve growth factor (NGF). The level of expression of alpha9beta1 on astrocytomas is correlated with increased grade of this brain tumor and is highest on glioblastoma, whereas normal astrocytes do not express this integrin. Two glioblastoma cell lines, LN229 and LN18, that are alpha9beta1 integrin positive and negative, respectively, were used for alpha9beta1 integrin-dependent NGF-induced tumor progression. NGF was a significant promoter of promigratory and pro-proliferative activities of glioblastoma cells through direct interaction with alpha9beta1 integrin and activation of MAPK Erk1/2 pathway. The level of NGF increases approximately threefold in the most malignant glioma tissue when compared with normal brain. This increase is related to secretion of NGF by tumor cells. Specific inhibitors of alpha9beta1 integrin or gene silencing inhibited NGF-induced proliferation of LN229 cell line to the level shown by LN18 cells. VLO5 promoted alpha9beta1-dependent programmed cell death by induction of intrinsic apoptosis pathway in cancer cells. LN229 cells were rescued from proapoptotic effect of VLO5 by the presence of NGF. This disintegrin significantly inhibited tumor growth induced by implantation of LN229 cells to the chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) of quail embryonic model, and this inhibitory effect was significantly abolished by the presence of NGF. alpha9beta1 integrin appears to be an interesting target for blocking the progression of malignant gliomas, especially in light of the stimulatory effect of NGF on the development of these tumors and its ability to transfer proapoptotic signals in cancer cells.
One view of the etiology of age-related pathology is that a single genetic abnormality or some other single factor causes the disorder. An alternative view is that multiple combinations of factors produce variants of pathology. For example, the occurrence of stroke increases with age and has been linked to neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's disease (AD). The current experiments test the hypothesis that a vascular insult and aging are co-factors that contribute to dementia by evaluating the neuronal and functional integrity of the hippocampus following small, localized strokes induced by the potent vasoconstrictor, endothelin-1 (ET-1) in the rat model of hippocampal aging. The neurotoxic effects of a low dose of ET-1 injected into the hippocampus measured by lesion size (volumetrics) and cell death (Fluorojade-B) were amplified in aged rats. The aged rats also showed hippocampal-dependent memory deficits that were not present in young rats. Overall, our pattern of results suggest that the aged hippocampus is more vulnerable to the same insult that has little or no effect on the young hippocampus.
Previous studies of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have described reduced brain serotonin 2A (5-HT(2A)) receptor density. It is unclear whether this abnormality sets in early in the course of the disease and whether it is related to early cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms. We assessed cerebral 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and related 5-HT(2A) receptor binding to clinical symptoms. Sixteen patients with MCI of the amnestic type (mean age 73, mean MMSE 26.1) and 17 age and sex matched control subjects were studied with MRI and [(18)F]altanserin PET in a bolus-infusion approach. A significant global reduction of 20-30% in 5-HT(2A) binding (atrophy corrected) was found in most neocortical areas. Reduced 5-HT(2A) binding in the striatum correlated significantly with Neuropsychiatric Inventory depression and anxiety scores. We conclude that widespread reductions in 5-HT(2A) receptor binding were found in amnestic MCI, pointing at the presence of serotonergic dysfunction in prodromal AD. This may provide some of the pathophysiological background for the neuropsychiatric symptoms found in early AD.
Huntington's disease is characterized by striatal degeneration and progressive motor deficits. To examine striatal compartment-specific pathology and its relation to motor symptoms, we used immunohistochemistry to identify and measure the striosomes and matrix of 7-13-month-old YAC128 and wild type (WT) mice that were previously tested on motor tasks. Compared to WTs, 13-month-old YAC128s showed volume shrinkage in striosomes, and cell loss in both compartments. The percent cell loss was greater in striosomes than matrix. Striosome volume and cell loss was greatest in the dorsolateral striatum. YAC128 rotarod and balance beam deficits preceded volume and cell loss. At 13 months, YAC128 balance beam slips and striosome cell number were inversely correlated. The results show that pathology in older YAC128s manifests as an abnormal striosome to matrix ratio and suggest that this imbalance can contribute to some motor symptoms.
Mitochondria play a pivotal role in mammalian cell metabolism, hosting a number of important biochemical pathways including oxidative phosphorylation. As might be expected from this fundamental contribution to cell function, abnormalities of mitochondrial metabolism are a common cause of human disease. Primary mutations of mitochondrial DNA result in a diverse group of disorders often collectively referred to as the mitochondrial encephalomyopathies. Perhaps more importantly in numerical terms are those neurodegenerative diseases caused by mutations of nuclear genes encoding mitochondrial proteins. Finally there are mitochondrial abnormalities induced by secondary events e.g. oxidative stress that may contribute to senescence, and environmental toxins that may cause disease either alone or in combination with a genetic predisposition.
In vivo remyelination promoted by a combination of four oligodendrocyte specific growth factors (GFs) in cuprizone-induced demyelinated mice brains was described recently by our group. Here we report activation of inflammatory response in mice brain following cuprizone-induced demyelination and its further enhancement immediately after injection of growth factors in vivo, while no significant inflammatory response was evident in GFs-injected normal brains. Cuprizone-induced demyelination was accompanied by increased expression of inflammatory cytokines, TNFalpha and IL-1beta, anti-inflammatory cytokines TGFbeta, IL-10 and increased levels of chemokines, CCL2, CCL5, and CXCL10, produced by resident microglia and astrocytes. During demyelination, involvement of oxidative stress was evident by disruption of mitochondrial structure and temporal decline in reduced glutathione levels, later returning to normal. Increase in the cytokines and chemokines was further enhanced within 2 days post injection (dpi) of GFs, coinciding with signal for repair via activation of pAkt and NFkappaB transcription factor reported earlier. Upregulation of mRNA and protein level of antioxidant genes, metallothionein (MT) I/II and activity of a cytosolic oxidoreductase enzyme, glycerolphosphate-3 dehydrogenase (cGPDH) occurred, resulting in a metabolic shuttle with an increase in glycerol in mice brains during period of demyelination and early GF-mediated repair.
The unexpected finding of astrocytes to release glutamate as gliotransmitter challenges the traditional concepts on astrocyte being &quot;passive&quot; in CNS communications. Glutamate is the major excitatory transmitter in transferring information between neurons, but is now also known to activate astrocyte through transporters and receptors. Together with the sensitive swelling response, astrocytes could respond directly to glutamate and neuronal activity. Other new functions of astrocytes include modulation of synaptic plasticity and cerebral blood flow (CBF). The classic glutamate deplenishment through glutamine synthesis and CO(2) production does not account for the total glutamate internalized into astrocytes. This leads us to speculate there are many hidden functions of glutamate in neurons and astrocytes waiting to be discovered. In this review, we attempted to reexamine some of these new and older functions of glutamate and to reevaluate the roles of glutamate intoning these two cell types.
The mechanism of fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) activation by the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is not well understood. A motif in the second NCAM fibronectin type III (FN3) module, termed FGL, has by means of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) analyses been demonstrated to be involved in NCAM-FGFR interactions. An FGFR activation motif (FRM) in the first NCAM FN3 module also has been suggested to take part in NCAM interactions with FGFR. Here, we show for the first time that a peptide motif in the second NCAM FN3 module, different from the previously described FGL motif (NLIKQDDGGSPIRHY; termed BCL) binds and activates FGFR and induces FGFR-dependent neurite outgrowth in cultures of cerebellar granule neurons. Our results provide evidence that the BCL motif is one of the multiple FGFR binding sites in NCAM.
To acquire, improve, and pass on expertise in the operating room and at the bedside is the essential mission of the neurosurgeon. However, this is not sufficient. Learning scientific reasoning with an eye turned to applied research is the key to continually evolving neurosurgery, which should occur in close interaction with the dynamics of the fundamental neurosciences. The current reorganization of the education program should make this official and budget a systematic initiation to research during training, essential for the future of French neurosurgery.

This study aims at segregating the neural substrate for the 3D-form and 3D-motion attributes in structure-from-motion perception, and at disentangling the stimulus-driven and endogenous-attention-driven processing of these attributes. Attention and stimulus were manipulated independently: participants had to detect the transitions of one attribute--form, 3D motion or colour--while the visual stimulus underwent successive transitions of all attributes. We compared the BOLD activity related to form and 3D motion in three conditions: stimulus-driven processing (unattended transitions), endogenous attentional selection (task) or both stimulus-driven processing and attentional selection (attended transitions). In all conditions, the form versus 3D-motion contrasts revealed a clear dorsal/ventral segregation. However, while the form-related activity is consistent with previously described shape-selective areas, the activity related to 3D motion does not encompass the usual &quot;visual motion&quot; areas, but rather corresponds to a high-level motion system, including IPL and STS areas. Second, we found a dissociation between the neural processing of unattended attributes and that involved in endogenous attentional selection. Areas selective for 3D-motion and form showed either increased activity at transitions of these respective attributes or decreased activity when subjects' attention was directed to a competing attribute. We propose that both facilitatory and suppressive mechanisms of attribute selection are involved depending on the conditions driving this selection. Therefore, attentional selection is not limited to an increased activity in areas processing stimulus properties, and may unveil different functional localization from stimulus modulation.
Lately, neuroscience is showing a great interest in examining the functional and neural mechanisms which support action observation and understanding. Recent studies have suggested that our motor skills crucially affect the way in which we perceive the actions generated by others, by showing stronger motor resonance for observation of actions that are established in one's motor repertoire. In the present study we extend previous findings that were based on expert motor skills in adults to the natural development of actions in infants. To investigate the effect of natural motor experience on motor resonance during action observation, 14- to 16-month-old infants' EEG was recorded during observation of action videos. Stronger mu- and beta-desynchronizations were found for observation of crawling compared to walking videos and the size of the effect was strongly related to the infant's own crawling experience. This suggests that already early in life one's own action experience is closely related to how actions of others are perceived.




Levodopa is still recognised to be the &quot;gold standard&quot; symptomatic treatment for Parkinson's disease. After 4-5 years however, its clinical efficacy declines and patients may experience the so-called &quot;long-term levodopa syndrome&quot;, which represents the clinical counterpart of the changes of pharmacodynamic response to the drug. Long duration response (LDR) is substituted by the short duration response (SDR), which is responsible for the fluctuations of the clinical response. Strategies aimed at maintaining the clinical benefits for as long as possible and postponing the occurrence of motor complications as late as possible have been at the centre of scientific debates in recent years. We are still far from optimal use of the drug in the different stages or the disease, both regarding mode of administration and dose adjustment to individual needs.

A 21-year-old man with a muscular atrophy of the left distal upper extremity is presented. The disorder had been progressive over a few years, showing an exacerbation of the hand's weakness when the patient worked in a chilled environment (i.e., in a cold room). The patient's diagnostic work-up was extensive and the MRI documented the presence of a cervical myelopathy, associated to an inversion of the physiological lordosis at the C5-C6 level, with a phenotype highly resembling Hirayama disease. This case indirectly supports the debated hypothesis that juvenile amyotrophy of the upper limb (Hirayama disease) is actually a type of cervical myelopathy, with a likely ischaemic pathogenesis of the ventral horns.
Four-and-a-half LIM domain 1 gene (FHL1) has recently been identified as the causative gene for reducing body myopathy (RBM), X-linked scapuloperoneal myopathy (SPM) and X-linked myopathy with postural muscle atrophy (XMPMA). Rigid spine is a common clinical feature of the three diseases. We searched for FHL1 mutations in eighteen patients clinically diagnosed as rigid spine syndrome (RSS). We identified one RSS patient with FHL1 mutation. Reducing bodies were observed in few fibers of the patient's muscle sample. Amount of FHL1 protein was decreased on immunoblotting. In conclusion, FHL1 can be one of the causative genes for RSS.


Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE), a post-measles progressive neurological disorder is still common in India because of indifferent vaccination compliance. However, the acute fulminant form of SSPE is extremely rare. An unusual case of fulminant SSPE in an 18-year-old man from south India with an ultra-short course of 19 days presenting with hemiparesis in absence of myoclonus and progressive cognitive decline, is reported. MRI showed frontal and parieto-occipital demyelination extending to nuclear areas. Antimeasles antibodies were demonstrable in CSF and serum with oligoclonal bands in CSF despite normal CSF protein and cell count. At autopsy, unlike classical SSPE, oligodendroglia containing measles viral antigen was sparse despite florid necrotizing leukoencephalitis with acute demyelination. Measles virus was isolated from the brain with hypermutation in M gene confirming the diagnosis. Phylogenetic analysis of the viral genotype indicated that it belonged to D7 genotype which is considered rare in India.
One of the current hypotheses of pharmacoresistant epilepsy proposes that transport of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) by drug efflux transporters such as P-glycoprotein (Pgp) at the blood-brain barrier may play a significant role in pharmacoresistance in epilepsy by extruding AEDs from their intended site of action. However, several recent in vitro studies using cell lines that overexpress efflux transporters indicate that human Pgp may not transport AEDs to any relevant extent. In this respect it has to be considered that most AEDs are highly permeable, so that conventional bi-directional transport assays as used in these previous studies may fail to identify AEDs as Pgp substrates, particularly if these drugs are not high-affinity substrates for Pgp. In the present study, we used a modified transport assay that allows evaluating active transport independently of the passive permeability component. In this concentration equilibrium transport assay (CETA), the drug is initially added at identical concentration to both sides of a polarized, Pgp-overexpressing cell monolayer instead of applying the drug to either the apical or basolateral side for studying bi-directional transport. Direct comparison of the conventional bi-directional (concentration gradient) assay with the CETA, using MDR1-transfected LLC cells, demonstrated that CETA, but not the conventional assay, identified phenytoin and phenobarbital as substrates of human Pgp. Furthermore, directional transport was determined for lamotrigine and levetiracetam, but not carbamazepine. Transport of AEDs could be completely or partially (&gt;50%) inhibited by the selective Pgp inhibitor, tariquidar. However, transport of phenobarbital and levetiracetam was also inhibited by MK571, which preferentially blocks transport by multidrug resistance transporters (MRPs), indicating that, in addition to Pgp, these AEDs are substrates of MRPs. The present study provides the first direct evidence that several AEDS are substrates of human Pgp, thus further substantiating the transporter hypothesis of pharmacoresistant epilepsy.
Convergent evidence suggests that serotonin 5-HT1A receptor (5-HT1AR) agonists reduce l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia by auto-regulating aberrant release of l-DOPA-derived dopamine (DA) from raphestriatal neurons. However, recent findings indicate that 5-HT1AR stimulation also modifies D1 receptor (D1R)-mediated dyskinesia and rotations implicating a previously unexplored extra-raphe mechanism. In order to characterize the contribution of the striatum to these effects, rats with medial forebrain bundle DA lesions were tested for abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) and rotations following striatal microinfusions of the 5-HT1AR agonist +/-8-OH-DPAT and systemic D1R agonist treatment with SKF81297. Additional rats with multi-site striatal DA lesions were tested for motor disability following systemic or intrastriatal +/-8-OH-DPAT with or without systemic SKF81297. In rats with medial forebrain bundle lesions, striatal infusions of +/-8-OH-DPAT dose-dependently reduced AIMs while conversely increasing rotations. In rats with striatal lesions, +/-8-OH-DPAT alone, both systemic and intrastriatal administration, optimally reversed motor disability. Collectively, these results support an important functional interaction between 5-HT1AR and D1R in the striatum with implications for the improved treatment of Parkinson's disease.
The depression rate of C fibre-evoked spinal field potentials by spinally applied morphine is increased in two states of spinal hyperexcitation, namely the spinal ligation model (SNL) of neuropathic pain and long-term potentiation (LTP) of C fibre-evoked spinal field potentials. This present work sought to determine opioid receptor subtypes involved in such increase in the SNL model. We recorded spinal field potentials during spinal superfusion with increasing, cumulative concentrations of selective subtype-specific agonists in rats subjected to SNL, as well as in non-ligated animals. The mu opioid receptor (MOR) agonist DAMGO significantly depressed field potentials evoked by C (100 nM) or Adelta fibres (1 microM) both in neuropathic and non-ligated rats, whereas the kappa receptor opioid (KOR) agonist +/-U-50488 was ineffective. The delta opioid receptor (DOR) (D-Ala2)-Deltorphin II was more effective in reducing C fibre-evoked spinal field potentials in rats subjected to SNL (100 nM) than in non-ligated rats (100 microM). Subclinical MOR activation (10 nM DAMGO) produced a leftward shift in (D-Ala2)-Deltorphin II dose-response curve in non-ligated rats (IC50 16.59 +/- 0.99 microM vs 120.3 +/- 1.0 microM in the absence of DAMGO), and isobolar analysis revealed synergistic interaction (interaction index 0.25). MOR blockade (100 microM CTOP) disinhibited C fibre-evoked potentials in neuropathic, but not in basal animals, and partially impeded DOR depression in both groups. DOR blockade (1 mM naltrindole) was ineffective in either group. We show that DOR-mediated depression of spinal responses to peripheral unmyelinated fibre-input is increased in the SNL model, an increase that is contributed to by positive interaction with the spinal MOR.
Allosteric modulators act more physiologically than orthosteric ligands, targeting only endogenously activated receptors and not their whole population, which is why they are expected to produce less side effects and tolerance. To inspect the role of the positive allosteric modulator GS39783 in GABAB receptor desensitization, we examined receptor function and cell surface expression in a recombinant GABAB cell line and in primary neuronal cultures upon persistent treatments with GABAB agonists, and combinations of agonists and GS39783. The potency of GABA to inhibit 7beta-forskolin-induced cAMP formation in recombinant cells decreased after the exposure to a saturating GABA concentration, but not after a combination of a low GABA concentration and GS39783, that activated the receptor to the same extent. Concordantly, a significant decrease of cell surface receptors was found after GABA-induced desensitization, unlike after the combined treatment with GABA and GS39783. Similar observations regarding receptor function were found in primary neurons for baclofen-induced inhibition of spontaneous Ca2+ oscillations. However, the cell surface receptor density remained unaffected upon baclofen-induced desensitization in the primary neurons, possibly due to different mechanisms of desensitization in the neurons and the recombinant cell line. These findings indicate that the degree of occupancy of the orthosteric site determines desensitization rather than the degree of receptor activation. In summary, our results conform to predictions that positive allosteric modulators have less propensity for the development of tolerance due to receptor desensitization than classical agonists.
Homomeric P2X receptors differ in their electrophysiological and pharmacological profiles. The rapidly activating and desensitizing P2X3 receptors are known for their involvement in pain signalling pathways. Modulatory effects on P2X3 receptors have been reported for low concentrations of ATP ([ATP]). This includes both, enhancement and reduction of receptor currents. The first has been reported to be mediated by activation of ectoprotein kinases and high affinity desensitization (HAD), respectively. Both processes influence receptor current amplitudes. Here we describe a new phenomenon, the modulatory influence of ambient low [ATP] on P2X3 receptor kinetics. First, we studied in HEK cells whether persistent ATP affects current decay. To this end, P2X3 receptor mediated currents, elicited by pressure application of saturating [ATP], were analyzed after pre-application of low [ATP]. Second, UV-flash photolysis of ATP was employed to investigate whether submicromolar [ATP] affects receptor activation. Finally we confirmed the action of nanomolar [ATP] on native P2X3 receptors of neurons freshly isolated from rat dorsal root ganglia. We found that persistent low [ATP] caused pronounced deceleration of receptor current activation and decay. This priming effect indicates a mechanism different from HAD. It could be explained by a pre-opening receptor isomerization, induced by the occupation of a high affinity binding site already at the resting state. The observed modulation of the receptor kinetics could be considered as a physiological fine tuning mechanism of the nociceptive system, driven by the actual ambient agonist concentration.
NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs) mediate many forms of synaptic plasticity. These tetrameric receptors consist of two obligatory NR1 subunits and two regulatory subunits, usually a combination of NR2A and NR2B. In the neonatal neocortex NR2B-containing NMDARs predominate, and sensory experience facilitates a developmental switch in which NR2A levels increase relative to NR2B. In this review, we clarify the roles of NR2 subunits in synaptic plasticity, and argue that a primary role of this shift is to control the threshold, rather than determining the direction, for modifying synaptic strength. We also discuss recent studies that illuminate the mechanisms regulating NR2 subunits, and suggest that the NR2A/NR2B ratio is regulated by multiple means, which may control the ratio both locally at individual synapses and globally in a cell-wide manner. Finally, we use the visual cortex as a model system to illustrate how activity-dependent modifications in the NR2A/NR2B ratio may contribute to the development of cortical functions.
Cannabinoids and opiates inhibit pain, in part, by activating the periaqueductal gray (PAG). Evidence suggests this activation occurs through distinct mechanisms. If the antinociceptive mechanisms are distinct, then cross-tolerance between opioids and cannabinoids should not develop. This hypothesis was tested by measuring the antinociceptive effect of microinjecting morphine into the ventrolateral PAG of rats pretreated with the cannabinoid HU-210 for two days. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected twice a day for two days with vehicle (0.4 microL), morphine (5 microg/0.4 microL), HU-210 (5 microg/0.4 microL), or morphine combined with HU-210 into the ventrolateral PAG. Repeated injections of morphine caused a rightward shift in the morphine dose-response curve on Day 3 (i.e., tolerance developed). No tolerance was evident in rats pretreated with morphine combined with HU-210. In rats pretreated with HU-210 alone, morphine antinociception was enhanced. This enhancement was blocked by pretreating rats with the cannabinoid receptor antagonist AM-251, and it also disappeared when rats were tested one week later. Acute microinjection of HU-210 into the PAG antagonized morphine antinociception, suggesting that HU-210-induced enhancement of morphine antinociception is a compensatory response. As hypothesized, there was no evidence of cross-tolerance between morphine and HU-210. In fact, cannabinoid pretreatment enhanced the antinociceptive effect of microinjecting morphine into the ventrolateral PAG. These findings suggest that alternating opioid and cannabinoid treatment could be therapeutically advantageous by preventing the development of tolerance and enhancing morphine antinociception.
Voltage-gated Na channels and AMPA receptors play key roles in neuronal physiology. Moreover, both channels have been implicated in the pathophysiology of both grey and white matter in a variety of conditions. Dissecting out the roles of these channels requires specific pharmacological tools. In this study we examined the potential non-specific effects on Na(v)1.6 channels of five widely used AMPA receptor blockers. Using whole-cell patch clamp electrophysiology, we identified a TTX-sensitive persistent Na channel current in HEK cells stably expressing the Na(v)1.6 channel. From a holding potential of -120 mV, slow ramp depolarization to +75 mV generated an inward current that peaked at approximately -15 mV. Superfusion of purportedly specific AMPA antagonists, 1-naphthylacetyl spermine, SYM2206, CP465022, GYKI52466, blocked Na(v)1.6-mediated persistent currents in a dose-dependent manner. Each of these AMPA receptor blockers significantly inhibited (to approximately 70% of control levels) the persistent Na current at concentrations routinely used to selectively block AMPA receptors. The AMPA/kainate blocker, NBQX, did not significantly affect persistent Na channel currents. Furthermore, peak transient current was insensitive to NBQX, but was reversibly inhibited by SYM2206, CP465022 and GYKI52466. These results indicate that many commonly used AMPA receptor antagonists have modest but significant blocking effects on the persistent components of Na(v)1.6 channel activity; therefore caution should be exercised when ascribing actions to AMPA receptors based on use of these inhibitors.
One of the mechanisms proposed for antidepressant drugs is the enhancement of synaptic connections and plasticity in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) is a growth factor essential for the proper formation of synaptic connections in the cerebral cortex, maturation and survival of catecholamine neurons, and neurogenesis. In this report, we attempted to establish a correlation between antidepressant treatments and FGF2 expression in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, two brain areas relevant for depression. Desipramine (DMI, 10mg/kg) or fluoxetine (FLU, 5mg/kg) was injected acutely (single injection) or chronically (daily injection for two weeks) in adult rats. Chronic, but not acute, antidepressant treatments increase FGF2 immunoreactivity in neurons of the cerebral cortex and in both astrocytes and neurons of the hippocampus. FGF2 immunoreactivity in the cortex was increased mainly in the cytoplasm of neurons of layer V. Western blot analyses of nuclear and cytosolic extracts from the cortex revealed that both antidepressants increase FGF2 isoforms in the cytosolic extracts and decrease accumulation of FGF2 immunoreactivity in the nucleus. To characterize the anatomical and cellular specificity of antidepressants, we examined FGF-binding protein (FBP), a secreted protein that acts as an extracellular chaperone for FGF2 and enhances its activity. DMI and FLU increased FBP immunoreactivity in both cortical and hippocampal neurons. Our data suggest that FGF2 and FBP may participate in the plastic responses underlying the clinical efficacy of antidepressants.

In this paper, we review the most recent and often conflicting findings on conventional measures of executive control in autism spectrum disorders. We discuss the obstacles to accurate measurement of executive control, such as: its prolonged developmental trajectory; lack of consensus on its definition and whether it is a unitary construct; the inherent complexity of executive control; and the difficulty measuring executive-control functions in laboratory or clinical settings. We review the potential of an ecological-validity framework to address some of these problems, and describe new tests claiming verisimilitude, or close resemblance to &quot;real life&quot; demands. We also review the concept of veridicality, which allows for the measurement of the ecological validity of any task, and discuss the few studies addressing ecological validity in individuals with autism. Our review suggests that a multi-source approach emphasizing veridicality may provide the most comprehensive assessment of executive control in autism.
To identify patterns of memory-related neural activity in the medial temporal lobes (MTL), a quantitative meta-analysis of 17 functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies was performed. The analysis shows that increased activity in the hippocampus and the parahippocampal cortex predicts subsequent memory strength. During retrieval, activity in the hippocampus increases in association with strong memory. In the perirhinal cortex, increased activity predicts subsequent recognition, whether based on weak or strong memory, whereas during retrieval activity decreases below the level for misses in association with both weak and strong memory. The results are consistent with the claim that the hippocampus selectively subserves recollection, whereas adjacent structures subserve familiarity [Eichenbaum, H., Yonelinas, A., &amp; Ranganath, C. (2007). The medial temporal lobe and recognition memory. The Annual Review of Neuroscience, 30, 123-152]. However, this conclusion depends on a specific dual-process theory of recognition memory that has been used to interpret the results. An alternative dual-process model holds that the behavioral methods used to differentiate recollection from familiarity instead separate strong memories from weak memories. When the fMRI data are interpreted in terms of the alternative theory, the fMRI results do not point to selective roles for the hippocampus or the adjacent MTL structures. The fMRI data alone cannot distinguish between these two models, so other methods are needed to resolve the issue.
In summary, the journal editors' effort to restore faith in science by financial disclosure has been inadequate to the task. The editors could improve matters by demanding access to the raw data supporting claims for product safety and effectiveness. The recent emphasis on a detailed clinical trials registry anteceding the trial is clearly a breakthrough. The mandated clinical trial registries that include outcome data are even better. How well this works in terms of detailed public knowledge remains to be seen.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is implicated in the cognitive and affective abnormalities observed in mood disorders. Bilateral ACC volume reductions have been reported in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) when compared to healthy controls. We compared regional brain volumes in the subgenual prefrontal cortex (SGPFC; Brodmann area (BA) 24(sg)), subcallosal gyrus (BA25), and paracingulate gyrus (BA32) in 65 patients receiving a first course of treatment for MDD and 93 healthy control subjects. Patients with more than three episodes of untreated MDD had smaller subcallosal gyrus volumes than healthy controls, while those with three or fewer past untreated episodes did not differ from controls. We also found preliminary evidence that medication-exposed patients had smaller SGPFC volumes than patients with no exposure to medication and healthy controls. There was no evidence that these effects related to mood state, duration of untreated illness, or to patient age. No differences were apparent in paracingulate gyrus volumes between patients and controls. These findings confirm the presence of ACC volume reductions in untreated patients with MDD and suggest that illness burden and short-term medication exposure mediate this change.
Human neuropsin (NP) (hNP) has been implicated in the progressive change of cognitive abilities during primate evolution. The hNP gene maps to chromosome 19q13, a region reportedly linked to schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Therefore, hNP is a functional and positional candidate gene for association with schizophrenia, mood disorders, and cognitive ability. Polymorphism screening was performed for the entire hNP gene. The core promoter region was determined and whether or not transcriptional activity alters in an allele-dependent manner was examined by using the dual-luciferase system. Allelic and genotypic distributions of five single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were compared between patients with schizophrenia (n=439), major depression (n=409), bipolar disorder (n=207), and controls (n=727). A possible association of the hNP genotype with memory index (assessed with Wechsler Memory Scale, revised, WMS-R) and intelligence quotient (IQ assessed with Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, revised; WAIS-R) was examined in healthy controls (n=166). A total of 28 SNPs, including nine novel SNPs, were identified. No significant effects on transcriptional activity were observed for SNPs in the promoter region. A significant allelic association was found between several SNPs and bipolar disorder (for SNP23 at the 3' regulatory region; odds ratio 1.48, 95% confidential interval 1.16-1.88, P=0.0015). However, such an association was not detected for schizophrenia or depression. Significant differences were observed between SNP23 and attention/concentration sub-scale score of WMS-R (P=0.016) and verbal IQ (P&lt;0.001). Genetic variation of the hNP gene may contribute to molecular mechanisms of bipolar disorder and some aspects of memory and intelligence.
Neurotensin receptor type-1 (Ntsr1) is the main receptor subtype that underlies neurotensin (NT)-mediated modulation of the dopamine (DA) system. Although NT and DA coexist in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA), the function of Ntsr1 in the amygdala is not well characterized. In the present study, we utilized Ntsr1 knockout (Ntsr1-KO) mice to examine the role of Ntsr1 in the amygdala. In acute brain slices of Ntsr1-KO mice, synaptic currents elicited in BLA pyramidal neurons by electrical stimulation of the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) were greatly potentiated by tetanic stimulation (BLA-long-term potentiation (LTP)). Such potentiation was not evident in pyramidal neurons of wild-type mice. In the presence of an antagonist of Ntsr1, SR48692, BLA-LTP was consistently observed in the neurons of wild-type mice, suggesting that both inherited deletion and acute pharmacological blockade of Ntsr1 induce BLA-LTP. BLA-LTP in Ntsr1-KO mice was impaired by sulpiride, a DA D(2)-like receptor antagonist. Conversely, quinpirole, a D(2)-like receptor agonist, induced pronounced BLA-LTP in wild-type mice, suggesting the upregulation of D(2)-like receptor activity in Ntsr1-KO mice. The ratio of NMDA receptor-mediated to non-NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic currents in Ntsr1-KO mouse BLA neurons was approximately double that measured in wild-type mouse neurons. Furthermore, quinpirole potentiated NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic currents in the BLA of wild-type mice. These results suggest that, without Ntsr1, synaptic responses from the LA to BLA pyramidal neurons undergo LTP in response to tetanus stimulation through facilitation of D(2)-like receptor-induced activation of NMDA receptors.
Recent evidence indicates that neuroactive steroids may participate in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia spectrum disorders, yet the mechanisms of this involvement are elusive. As 5-alpha-reductase (5AR) is the rate-limiting enzyme of one of the two major metabolic pathways in brain steroidogenesis, we investigated the effects of its blockade in several rat models of psychotic-like behavior. The 5AR inhibitor finasteride (FIN, 60 or 100 mg/kg, intraperitoneal, i.p.) dose- and time-dependently antagonized prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits induced by apomorphine (APO, 0.25 mg/kg, subcutaneous, s.c.) and d-amphetamine (AMPH, 5 mg/kg, s.c.), in a manner analogous to haloperidol (HAL, 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) and clozapine (CLO, 5 mg/kg, i.p.). Similar results were observed with the other 5AR inhibitors dutasteride (DUT, 40 or 80 mg/kg, i.p.) and SKF 105111 (30 mg/kg, i.p.). FIN (60 or 100 mg/kg, i.p.) also reduced hyperlocomotion induced by AMPH (1 or 3 mg/kg, s.c.) and attenuated stereotyped behaviors induced by APO (0.25 mg/kg, s.c.). Nevertheless, FIN (100 mg/kg, i.p.) did not reverse the PPI disruption induced by the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.). FIN (60-300 mg/kg, i.p.) induced no catalepsy in either the bar test or the paw test. Our results suggest that 5AR inhibitors elicit antipsychotic-like effects in animals and may be proposed as a putative novel target in the management of psychotic disorders.

The periaqueductal gray (PAG)-nucleus retroambiguus (NRA) pathway has been known to be involved in the control of vocalization and sexual behavior. To know how the amygdaloid complex influences the PAG-NRA pathway, here we first examined the synaptic organization between the central amygdaloid nucleus (CeA) fibers and the PAG neurons that project to the NRA by using anterograde and retrograde tract-tracing techniques in the rat. After ipsilateral injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the CeA and cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) into the NRA, the prominent overlapping distribution of BDA-labeled axon terminals and CTb-labeled neurons was found ipsilaterally in the lateral/ventrolateral PAG, where some of the BDA-labeled terminals made symmetrical synaptic contacts with somata and dendrites of the CTb-labeled neurons. After CTb injection into the lateral/ventrolateral PAG, CTb-labeled neurons were distributed mainly in the medial division of the CeA. After BDA injection into the lateral/ventrolateral PAG, BDA-labeled fibers were distributed mainly in and around the NRA within the medulla oblongata. Using a combined retrograde tracing and in situ hybridization technique, we further demonstrated that more than half of the CeA neurons labeled with Fluoro-Gold (FG) injected into the lateral/ventrolateral PAG were positive for glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 mRNA and that the vast majority of PAG neurons labeled with FG injected into the NRA expressed vesicular glutamate transporter 2 mRNA. The present results suggest that the glutamatergic PAG-NRA pathway is under the inhibitory influence of the GABAergic CeA neurons.
Many aspects of synaptic development, plasticity, and neurotransmission are critically influenced by NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs). Moreover, dysfunction of NMDARs has been implicated in a broad array of neurological disorders, including schizophrenia, stroke, epilepsy, and neuropathic pain. Classically, NMDARs were thought to be exclusively postsynaptic. However, substantial evidence in the past 10 years demonstrates that NMDARs also exist presynaptically and that presynaptic NMDA receptors (preNMDARs) modulate synapse function and have critical roles in plasticity at many synapses. Here the authors review current knowledge of the role of preNMDARs in synaptic transmission and plasticity, focusing on the neocortex. They discuss the prevalence, function, and development of these receptors, and their potential modification by experience and in brain pathology.
Two long-standing rules in cellular neuroscience must now be amended with the publication of two studies on myelin-forming glia in the CNS: 1) Neurons can no longer be considered the only cells that fire electric impulses in the brain. 2) Synapses between neurons are not the only way electrical information is regulated as it propagates through neural circuits: oligodendrocytes can cause rapid activity-dependent changes in spike latency. A category of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) has been identified that can fire action potentials, and their excitation is driven by synapses from axons. This finding has relevance to excitotoxicity in ischemia, but the normal function may be to regulate myelination according to functional activity in axons. A second study reveals that action potential propagation through CNS axons can be rapidly regulated by oligodendrocytes. Mature oligodendrocytes in the rat hippocampus are depolarized by theta burst stimulation of axons, and when the oligodendrocytes are depolarized by current injection in paired whole-cell recordings with CA1 pyramidal neurons, the latency of impulse conduction through the axons it ensheathes rapidly decreases. This unprecedented finding suggests a dynamic role for myelin in regulating impulse transmission through axons, promoting neural synchrony among the multiple axons under the domain of an individual oligodendrocyte.
The adult cerebral cortex possesses the remarkable ability to change its neuronal connectivity through experience, a phenomenon termed &quot;synaptic plasticity.&quot; Synaptic plasticity constitutes a cellular mechanism that is thought to underlie information storage and memory formation in the brain, and represents a use-dependent long-lasting increase or decrease in synaptic strength. Recent findings, that the adult visual cortex undergoes dynamic synaptic plasticity that is driven by active visual experience, suggest that it may be involved in information processing that could contribute to memory formation. The visual cortex provides a crucial sensory input to the hippocampus, and is a key component for the creation of spatial memories. An understanding of how visual cortical neurons respond with synaptic plasticity to visual experience, and whether these responses influence the induction of hippocampal plasticity, is fundamental to our understanding of the neuronal mechanisms and functional consequences of visuospatial information processing. In this review, we summarize recent findings with regard to the expression of dynamic synaptic plasticity in the visual cortex and how this plasticity may influence information processing in the hippocampus.
Thomas Willis is best known for the circle of Willis. The life story of this 17th- century medical genius, who remains an inspiration for all neuroscientists 300 years later, is summarized in this article. We outline his academic achievements, including his description of the famous basal arterial circle, and we attempt to obtain insight into his visionary thought process through this historical review.
GSK3beta is prominent for its role in apoptosis signaling and has been shown to be involved in Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. The overall effects of GSK3beta activity on cell fate are well-established, but the effects of mitochondrial GSK3beta activity on mitochondrial function and cell fate are unknown. Here we selectively expressed constitutively active GSK3beta within the mitochondria and found that this enhanced the apoptosis signaling activated by the PD-mimetic NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) inhibitors 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) and rotenone. Additionally, expression of GSK3beta in the mitochondria itself caused a significant decrease in complex I activity and ATP production. Increased mitochondrial a GSK3beta activity also increased reactive oxygen species production and perturbed the mitochondrial morphology. Conversely, chemical inhibitors of GSK3beta inhibited MPP+- and rotenone-induced apoptosis, and attenuated the mitochondrial GSK3beta-mediated impairment in complex I. These results indicate that unregulated mitochondrial GSK3beta activity can mimic some of the mitochondrial insufficiencies found in PD pathology.
Methamphetamine abuse results in lasting, partial depletions of striatal dopamine and cognitive dysfunction. However, the effect of partial dopamine depletions on the expression of an effector immediate early gene, Arc (activity regulated, cytoskeletal-associated protein), known to be involved in synaptic modifications underlying learning and memory, has heretofore not been examined. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were pretreated with a neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine or saline. Seven weeks later, rats were trained in a motor-response task on a T-maze for five days, and then underwent reversal training on day five. Rats were sacrificed 5 min after reaching criterion on the reversal task, and the brains were removed and processed using double-label fluorescent in situ hybridization for Arc and preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA expression in the dorsomedial striatum. Rats pretreated with methamphetamine had an average (+/-SEM) 54.4+/-7.9% loss of dopamine in dorsomedial striatum. Interestingly, there was no difference in reversal trials to criterion in methamphetamine- vs. saline-pretreated rats. However, the expression of Arc mRNA in dorsomedial striatum was attenuated in methamphetamine-pretreated animals, particularly in PPE-negative neurons. Furthermore, the correlation between Arc mRNA expression in dorsomedial striatum and learning was abolished in methamphetamine-pretreated animals. These data suggest that methamphetamine-induced partial monoamine loss is associated with disrupted induction of the effector immediate early gene Arc during a behavioral task, particularly in PPE-negative (presumed striatonigral) neurons, as well as with disruption of the relation between Arc mRNA expression in dorsomedial striatum and reversal learning.
Expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP) is critical to the etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Consequently, regulating APP expression is one approach to block disease progression. To this end, APP can be targeted at the levels of transcription, translation, and protein stability. Little is currently known about the translation of APP mRNA. Here, we report that endogenous APP mRNA is translated in neural cell lines via an internal ribosome entry site (IRES) located in the 5'-untranslated leader. The functional unit of the APP IRES is located within the 5' 50 nucleotides of the 5'-leader. In addition, we found that the APP IRES is positively regulated by two conditions correlated with AD, increased intracellular iron concentration and ischemia. Interestingly, the enhancement of APP IRES activity is dependent upon de novo transcription. Taken together, our data suggest that internal initiation of translation of the APP mRNA is an important mode for synthesis of APP, a mechanism which is regulated by conditions that also contribute to AD.
Gestational vitamin D deficiency causes permanent changes in the developing rat brain. Not only does it alter brain gene and protein expression, deficiency disrupts the balance between neuronal stem cell proliferation and programmed cell death in the offspring. These data are particularly relevant in light of new work showing a high prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in humans.

It has been suggested that spinal cord long-term potentiation (LTP) may contribute to hypersensitivity and hyperalgesia. We have investigated if noxious stimulus-induced spinal cord LTP might have a long lasting effect on supraspinal neuronal activity. First, we verified that spinal LTP was induced by electrical high frequency stimuli (HFS) conditioning applied to the sciatic nerve. The C-fibre response in the dorsal horn reached a twofold increase 150 min after HFS (t-test, p&lt;0.01, n=6). Then, to study the metabolic supraspinal activity following the same stimulation protocol, we used small animal positron emission tomography (PET) and the glucose analog [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). With this combined approach we measured changes in regional supraspinal activity at two time points in HFS conditioned and in sham animals; acute (immediately after HFS/sham, n=4) and late phase (150 min after HFS/sham, n=10). Comparisons between HFS and sham groups revealed that induction of spinal LTP was followed by an acute metabolic response in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1), but also various slower metabolic adaptations in brain regions involved in modulation of nociceptive signaling and descending inhibition, i.e., amygdala, periaqueductal gray (PAG), rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), and the dorsolateral pontomesencephalic tegmentum (DLPT) (t-test, p&lt;0.05). The study demonstrates that PET may be used as an in vivo method to study regional brain metabolic activity between different conditions. It is concluded that noxious sciatic stimuli which induce spinal cord LTP also affect supraspinal metabolic activity. We suggest that these changes might illustrate a supraspinal maladaptive dysfunction involved in pain hypersensitivity and hyperalgesia.
The opioid and endocannabinoid systems mediate analgesia expressed upon re-exposure to a contextually aversive stimulus (fear-conditioned analgesia; FCA), and modulate the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. However, an interaction between the opioid and endocannabinoid systems during FCA has not been investigated at the behavioural or molecular level. FCA was modeled in male Lister-hooded rats by assessing formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour in an arena previously paired with footshock. Administration of the fatty acid amide hydrolase and endocannabinoid catabolism inhibitor, URB597 (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.), enhanced expression of FCA. The opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone, attenuated FCA and attenuated the URB597-induced enhancement of FCA. SR141716A (CB(1) antagonist) and SR144528 (CB(2) antagonist) also attenuated the URB597-mediated enhancement of FCA. Expression of FCA was associated with increased relative phospho-ERK2 expression in the amygdala, an effect blocked by naloxone, SR141716A, and SR144528. Furthermore, URB597-mediated enhancement of FCA was associated with reduced phospho-ERK1 and phospho-ERK2 in the amygdala. Phospho-ERK1/2 expression in the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, and thalamus was unchanged following FCA and drug treatment. None of the drugs affected formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour or phospho-ERK1/2 expression in non-fear-conditioned rats. These data suggest that endocannabinoid-mediated enhancement of FCA is abolished by pharmacological blockade of opioid receptors as well as CB(1) or CB(2) receptors. Both pharmacological enhancement (with URB597) and attenuation (with naloxone) of this form of endogenous analgesia were associated with reduced expression of phospho-ERK1/2 in the amygdaloid complex arguing against a causal role for ERK1/2 signaling in the amygdala during expression of FCA or its modulation by opioids or cannabinoids.
Postherpetic neuralgia is an exceptionally drug-resistant neuropathic pain. To investigate the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying postherpetic neuralgia we clinically investigated sensory disturbances, pains and itching, with an 11-point numerical rating scale in 41 patients with ophthalmic postherpetic neuralgia. In all the patients we recorded the blink reflex, mediated by non-nociceptive myelinated Abeta-fibers, and trigeminal laser evoked potentials (LEPs) related to nociceptive myelinated Adelta- and unmyelinated C-fiber activation. We also sought possible correlations between clinical sensory disturbances and neurophysiological data. Neurophysiological testing yielded significantly abnormal responses on the affected side compared with the normal side (P&lt;0.001). The blink reflex delay correlated with the intensity of paroxysmal pain, whereas the Adelta- and C-LEP amplitude reduction correlated with the intensity of constant pain (P&lt;0.01). Allodynia correlated with none of the neurophysiological data. Our study shows that postherpetic neuralgia impairs all sensory fiber groups. The neurophysiological-clinical correlations suggest that constant pain arises from a marked loss of nociceptive afferents, whereas paroxysmal pain is related to Abeta-fiber demyelination. These findings might be useful for a better understanding of pain mechanisms in postherpetic neuralgia.
Clinically, pain is a complex phenomenon consisting of both sensory and affective aberrations that can persist indefinitely. Pre-clinically, several animal paradigms have been established that reliably mimic both the acute and chronic aspects of pain pertinent to the human condition; however, the commonly used behavioral models only assess the sensory component of pain elicited by an evoked nociceptive stimulus. Since the affective-motivational component of pain is an important determinant of the overall pain experience in man, we investigated how this aspect may be modeled long-term in rats using novel objects and a modified conditioned place aversion (CPA) paradigm. Findings demonstrate that animals subjected to either neuropathic injury or inflammatory insult display a significant conditioned place aversion to a pain-paired environment that is paralleled by an increased number of hind paw withdrawals and fewer number of novel object interactions during painful conditioning sessions. Moreover, this aversion is maintained for 1 month in the absence of further conditioning. We also determined that a non-analgesic, non-rewarding dose of morphine administered prior to pain-paired conditioning sessions attenuates the pain-induced aversion and its relative persistence in both pain models. Together, these findings underscore the importance of negative affect accompanying painful conditions and its long-term persistence even when the injury or insult has resolved. Lastly, these results suggest how both sensory and affective aberrations associated with neuropathic- and inflammatory-like conditions and the memory of such known to impact quality of life in man may be addressed pre-clinically in rodents.



We examined how an acute dopamine (DA) receptor blockade affects locomotor and brain (nucleus accumbens or NAcc), muscle and skin temperature responses to three arousing stimuli (procedure of sc injection, tail-pinch and social interaction with another male rat) and intravenous cocaine (1 mg/kg). DA receptor blockade was induced by mixture of D1- (SCH23390) and D-2 selective (eticlopride) DA antagonists at 0.2 mg/kg doses. Each arousing stimulus and cocaine caused locomotor activation, prolonged increase in NAcc and muscle temperature (0.6-1.0 degrees C for 20-50 min) and transient skin hypothermia (-0.6 degrees C for 1-3 min) in drug-naive conditions. DA receptor blockade strongly decreased basal locomotor activity, but moderately increased brain, muscle and skin temperatures. Therefore, selective interruption of DA transmission does not inhibit the brain, making it more metabolically active and warmer despite skin vasodilatation and the enhanced heat loss to the body and the external environment. DA antagonists strongly decreased locomotor responses to all stimuli and cocaine, had no effects on acute skin vasoconstriction, but differentially affected stimuli- and drug-induced changes in NAcc and muscle temperatures. While brain and muscle temperatures induced by cocaine were fully blocked and both temperatures slightly decreased, temperature increases induced by tail-pinch and social interaction, despite a significant attenuation, persisted during DA receptor blockade. These data are discussed to define the role of the DA system in regulating the central activation processes and behavioral responsiveness to natural arousing and drug stimuli.
Identification of G protein-coupled receptors that are activated by free fatty acids has led to considerable interest in their pharmacology and function because of the wide range of normal physiology and disease states in which fatty acids have been implicated. Free fatty acid receptor (FFA) 1 is activated by medium- to long-chain fatty acids and is expressed in the insulin-producing beta-cells of the pancreas. Activation of FFA1 has been proposed to mediate fatty acid augmentation of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion although it is unclear whether the known long-term detrimental effects of beta-cell exposure to high levels of fatty acids are also mediated through this receptor. The related receptors FFA2 and FFA3 are both activated by short-chain fatty acids although they have key differences in the signaling pathways they activate and tissue expression pattern. The aim of this review is to provide a comprehensive overview of the current understanding of the pharmacology and physiological role of these fatty acid receptors.
Ionotropic AMPA and NMDA glutamate receptors are ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast synaptic transmission in the brain and play a crucial role in learning and memory. Dysfunction of these receptors is believed to be associated with a number of neuropsychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia. As direct activation of these ionotropic receptors can lead to excitoxicity, allosteric modulation of these receptors could minimize side-effects to achieve better therapeutic efficacy. Our review here focuses on the allosteric modulation of the NMDA receptor. Endogenous glycine and D-serine both act as co-agonists on the strychnine-insensitive GlyB site on the NMDA receptor, and along with glutamate, co-activate the NMDA receptor. Forebrain synaptic glycine and d-serine levels are regulated by the Glycine Transporter-1 (GlyT1) and the arginine-serine-cysteine transporter-1 (Asc-1), respectively; in addition to D-serine metabolism by D-Amino Acid Oxidase (DAAO). Together, these processes prevent the GlyB site from being saturated by the high extracellular levels of brain glycine, and perhaps d-serine, in vivo. Blockade of NMDA receptors by phencyclidine induces schizophrenia-like symptoms with the associated cognitive deficits. It was proposed that: a) blockade of GlyT1 mediated reuptake of glycine, or b) inhibition of D-amino Acid Oxidase, or Asc-1 will elevate brain glycine, and D-serine to upregulate NMDA receptor functions via glycine and D-serine co-agonistic allosteric modulation of the GlyB sites on the NMDA receptor. These approaches may provide novel treatments to schizophrenia, provided that some of the known adverse effects associated with existing GlyT1 agents can be safely and adequately dealt with.

Through an assembly of interacting GPCRs, heterodimers and high-order heteromers (termed receptor mosaics) are formed and lead to changes in the agonist recognition, signaling, and trafficking of participating receptors via allosteric mechanisms, sometimes involving the appearance of cooperativity. This field has now become a major research area, and this review deals with their physiology being integrators of receptor signaling in the CNS and their use as targets for novel drug development based on their unique pharmacology.
Changes in synaptic efficacies need to be long-lasting in order to serve as a substrate for memory. Experimentally, synaptic plasticity exhibits phases covering the induction of long-term potentiation and depression (LTP/LTD) during the early phase of synaptic plasticity, the setting of synaptic tags, a trigger process for protein synthesis, and a slow transition leading to synaptic consolidation during the late phase of synaptic plasticity. We present a mathematical model that describes these different phases of synaptic plasticity. The model explains a large body of experimental data on synaptic tagging and capture, cross-tagging, and the late phases of LTP and LTD. Moreover, the model accounts for the dependence of LTP and LTD induction on voltage and presynaptic stimulation frequency. The stabilization of potentiated synapses during the transition from early to late LTP occurs by protein synthesis dynamics that are shared by groups of synapses. The functional consequence of this shared process is that previously stabilized patterns of strong or weak synapses onto the same postsynaptic neuron are well protected against later changes induced by LTP/LTD protocols at individual synapses.


LRRK2-associated Parkinson's disease is common enough to raise clinical questions such as which patients should be tested and what advice should be given. We discuss practical issues in the light of our experiences with real life Parkinson's disease patients. Neurologists should consider testing LRRK2 in Parkinson's disease patients with affected first degree relatives where the onset is over the age of 40 years. A common G2019S mutation makes genetic testing straightforward and cost-effective. Age-related or reduced genetic penetrance means that LRRK2 mutations are also found in sporadic Parkinson's disease patients; however, at present, there is little to support the widespread testing of these patients except in high-risk ethnic groups such as North African Arabs and Ashkenazi Jews. Incomplete penetrance also complicates presymptomatic testing, which is best undertaken in the context of appropriate genetic counselling.


To study false memories in older adults, a lot of experiments used the DRM paradigm (Deese, Roediger et McDermott). Most of the time, the results showed that older adults make more false memories than young adults. To test this hypothesis with a more ecological material, we used a situation of text reading. When we read a text, we activate predictive inferences, which are anticipations of what will happen next. We constructed short texts inducing predictive inferences (represented by a target word not presented) to study false memories in young and older adults. For example, in the text &lt;Charlotte had her breakfast on the terrace when the bees beat about the bush of jam. She made a movement to move them away but one of them succeeds in being posed on its arm&gt;, the target word &quot;sting&quot; is not presented but represents the predictive inference. After the reading of the texts, we propose to the subjects a restitution task consisting in recalling texts with the first sentence as clue. Then, they made a recognition task composed of target words and lures; they had to say if they remembered having read these words in the texts. In these two tasks, the subjects tended to remember not presented target words, creating false memories. This effect was the same for the two age groups showing that, in an ecological situation like text reading, older persons make as many false memories as young adults.
Falls are frequent in the elderly and account for medical complications and loss of autonomy. Affordance, a concept proposed by Gibson, can help to understand a possible cause of falls. An affordance is defined as a potentiality of action offered by the environment in relation with both the properties of this environment and the properties of the organism. Most of our daily activities reflect a perfect adjustment between the perception of these potentialities of action and our actual action abilities. In other words, we correctly perceive affordances. However, in the elderly, postural abilities are reduced and equilibration is more unstable. Thus, some falls could result from a misperception of the affordances of posturability. The aim of our study was to test the hypothesis that cognitive overestimation of real postural abilities in the elderly may cause falls. There would be a gap between what the old subjects believe to be able to do and what they actually can do. Fifteen young adults (mean age = 24 years) and fifteen older adults (mean age = 72 years) had to judge if they were able to stand upright on an inclined surface. The exploration of the inclined surface was made in two conditions: visually and also by haptics (without vision with a cane). In a second part, we measured their real postural stance on the inclined surface. The results show that the perceptual judgments were not different among old and young people. However, as expected, the old subjects had lower postural boundaries than the younger. They could stand on lower inclinations of the surface. These results show an involution of the perception of the affordances in aging. They support the hypothesis of a cognitive overestimation of action abilities in the elderly, possibly due to a difficulty to actualize the new limits for action.
Do consonants and vowels have the same importance during reading? Recently, it has been proposed that consonants play a more important role than vowels for language acquisition and adult speech processing. This proposal has started receiving developmental support from studies showing that infants are better at processing specific consonantal than vocalic information while learning new words. This proposal also received support from adult speech processing. In our study, we directly investigated the relative contributions of consonants and vowels to lexical access while reading by using a visual masked-priming lexical decision task. Test items were presented following four different primes: identity (e.g., for the word joli, joli), unrelated (vabu), consonant-related (jalu), and vowel-related (vobi). Priming was found for the identity and consonant-related conditions, but not for the vowel-related condition. These results establish the privileged role of consonants during lexical access while reading.
Bilinguals often outperform monolinguals on nonverbal tasks that require resolving conflict from competing alternatives. The regular need to select a target language is argued to enhance executive control. We investigated whether this enhancement stems from a general effect of bilingualism (the representation of two languages) or from a modality constraint that forces language selection. Bimodal bilinguals can, but do not always, sign and speak at the same time. Their two languages involve distinct motor and perceptual systems, leading to weaker demands on language control. We compared the performance of 15 monolinguals, 15 bimodal bilinguals, and 15 unimodal bilinguals on a set of flanker tasks. There were no group differences in accuracy, but unimodal bilinguals were faster than the other groups; bimodal bilinguals did not differ from monolinguals. These results trace the bilingual advantage in cognitive control to the unimodal bilingual's experience controlling two languages in the same modality.






Reviews the book, Beyond the reflection: The role of the mirror paradigm in clinical practice by Paulina Kernberg, Bernadette Buhl-Nielsen, and Lina Normandin (see record 2007-00911-000). This modestly presented volume overflows with insight and new ways of looking at the mirroring experience for children and adolescents. Kernberg and her collaborators present the rich history of the image, metaphor, and pervasive role of the mirror in human experience; they carefully describe the &quot;subjective experience of wonder, admiration, and an objective dimension of truth&quot; in the mirror paradigm (2006, p. xv). For the psychotherapist, Kernberg's work provides a rich resource; the review of past and current research and theorizing about the mirroring function of mothers and primary caregivers is thorough and up-to-date with the most recent advances in neuroscience, attachment theory, and infant research. From Freud to Lacan, from Winnicott to Stern, and from Schore to Gergely, Kernberg presents a sweeping exposition of the various images of the mirror. This volume is worthwhile if only for its presentation of this body of recent research. But there is so much more to be found here. While this is not the first time that Kernberg has presented us with her work with mirror observation and interviews (Kernberg, 1984, 1987), this volume integrates the research about early mother- child experience, and the mirroring paradigm in the psychoanalytic theories about child development, with the phenomenology of child and adolescent psychotherapy. The clinician will find a useful application of the theory to clinical practice and diagnosis that is hard to find in the literature. Beebe and Lachmann (2002) have accomplished this integration between infant research and adult treatment, but Kernberg's application of her research and the demonstrated correlation between the findings of mirror experience, attachment histories, and clinical experience is a rare and welcome addition to the literature. There are also valuable links made between the findings around mirror experience and children's trauma histories. This reader came away feeling that a tremendous debt is owed to the authors for helping to ground clinical theory and practice in substantial current research. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2010 APA, all rights reserved).
We investigated the expression of P2X(5), P2X(7), P2Y(1) and P2Y(2) receptor subtypes in adult human anagen hair follicles and in relation to markers of proliferation [proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki-67], keratinocyte differentiation (involucrin) and apoptosis (anticaspase-3). Using immunohistochemistry, we showed that P2X(5), P2Y(1) and P2Y(2) receptors were expressed in spatially distinct zones of the anagen hair follicle: P2Y(1) receptors in the outer root sheath and bulb, P2X(5) receptors in the inner and outer root sheaths and medulla and P2Y(2) receptors in living cells at the edge of the cortex/medulla. P2X(7) receptors were not expressed. Colocalisation experiments suggested different functional roles for these receptors: P2Y(1) receptors were associated with bulb and outer root sheath keratinocyte proliferation, P2X(5) receptors were associated with differentiation of cells of the medulla and inner root sheaths and P2Y(2) receptors were associated with early differentiated cells in the cortex/medulla that contribute to the formation of the hair shaft. The therapeutic potential of purinergic agonists and antagonists for controlling hair growth is discussed.
Mitochondria are inherited maternally via the oocyte, which in the mouse contains 150-250 x 10(3) copies of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). The number of mtDNA copies/embryo is thought to be stable during cleavage, being progressively diluted/cell with each round of cell division, until replication begins at an undefined time post-implantation. Post-natally, tissues differ in copy number of mtDNA/cell, but when and how these differences arise is unclear. A ratiometric quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction assay of the levels of a single mitochondrial gene against a single copy nuclear gene was used to estimate the average copy value of mtDNA/per cell from zygote to birth. A novel Bayesian statistical model was used to identify day 5.15-6.15 as the time at which replication recommences, consistent with the viability patterns of embryos carrying mitochondrial mutations. Mitochondrial DNA copy number/cell in a range of post-day 9.5 fetal and placental tissues showed tissue-specific temporal expression patterns. Western blotting was used to quantify post-day 9.5 tissue markers for oxidative stress and manganese superoxide dismutase, and revealed correlations with the changes in mtDNA copy number. These findings have potential implications for fetal programming, in-vitro embryo culture, and the mechanism underlying the mitochondrial bottleneck.


The contributions of Santiago Ramon y Cajal to Modern medicine are innumerable. This large scientist and humanist, a man ahead of his time, spoke for the first time such concepts as angiogenesis, which represents one of the most innovative fields for oncology today, in addition to conducting experimental research on the degeneration and regeneration of the nervous system by which laid the foundation morphofunctional of neuroscience today. In this case, we wanted to remember the significance of the discovery of so-called &lt;interstitial cells of Cajal&gt;, which have been involved in multiple processes and digestive diseases we collect, and especially his recent relationship with gastrointestinal stromal tumors with the therapeutic implications this could bring.

We perceived a need for relatives' evaluation of geriatric care and rehabilitation during the care period as well as the first few weeks after discharge. The aim of this study was therefore to develop and test a questionnaire for use in telephone interviews with relatives of patients discharged from geriatric wards to measure their perceptions of the quality of care. The instrument development process comprised a literature review, focus group interviews, construction of items, test of content validity, a pilot study and finally the main data collection to test the construct validity and reliability. A Likert-type questionnaire was used containing 26 items with five response alternatives; totally disagree, partly disagree, doubtful, partly agree and totally agree. The main data collection comprised 238 telephone interviews. The factor analysis revealed four factors with an eigenvalue &gt;1.0. Cronbach's alpha coefficient was 0.89, which indicates high reliability. The duration of the telephone interview was approximately 10-20 minutes. The relatives appreciated the opportunity to evaluate the care, and a majority stated that they preferred a telephone interview to answering in writing. The questionnaire is considered reliable, valid and useful for identifying areas in need of quality improvement interventions.
The purpose of this study was to construct a Swedish version of the National Adult Reading Test (NART-SWE), a test for assessment of premorbid IQ, and to investigate its validity and reliability on healthy controls and patients with mild Alzheimer's disease. As Swedish pronunciation rules are fixed, NART-SWE was constructed using loan words. NART-SWE has satisfactory psychometric properties: Inter-rater and retest reliability as well as internal consistency are very high. The NART-SWE demonstrates face validity. In addition, high correlation with IQ was obtained. A significant model emerged when using NART-SWE to predict IQ. Furthermore, no significant differences were observed when comparing performance for healthy controls' with that of patients with Alzheimer's disease on NART-SWE. It does appear that reading of irregular words is intact in mild Alzheimer's disease.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) has previously shown compromised white matter integrity in frontotemporal white matter fibers in patients with schizophrenia, as indicated by reduced fractional anisotropy (FA). In the present study we investigated whether reduced white matter FA is also present in relatives of individuals with schizophrenia who are at high risk (HR) for genetic reasons. Twenty-two HR subjects, 31 patients with schizophrenia and 51 control subjects underwent DTI. We compared FA between the three groups in the cingulum cingulate gyri, the uncinate and the arcuate fasciculi and the anterior limb of the internal capsules (ALIC). A voxel-based analysis showed lower FA in patients with schizophrenia compared to controls in left and right uncinate (p&lt;0.03), the left arcuate (p&lt;0.03) and left and right ALIC (p&lt;0.01). Using an automatic region-of-interest analysis, less sensitive to potential misregistration errors, produced essentially the same results, as well as reduced FA of the ALIC in the HR group compared to controls (p&lt;0.05). This study replicates previous findings showing lower FA in frontotemporal white matter fibers of schizophrenia patients. We also found reduced FA in the ALIC of both patients and subjects at high risk of schizophrenia when compared to controls. This may be a possible indicator of the higher vulnerability of relatives to develop the disorder.
Disrupted-in-schizophrenia-1 (DISC1), located on chromosome 1q42.1, is linked to rare familial schizophrenia in a large Scottish family. The chromosomal translocation that segregates with the disease results in a truncated protein that impairs neurite outgrowth and proper development of the cerebral cortex, suggesting that lost DISC1 function may underlie neurodevelopmental dysfunction in schizophrenia. DISC1 has been associated with schizophrenia in multiple populations, but there is little evidence of convergence across populations. In the present case-control study three Scandinavian samples of 837 individuals affected with schizophrenia and 1473 controls, were used in an attempt to replicate previously reported associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in DISC1 and schizophrenia. No SNP with allele frequency above 10% was significantly associated with the disease after correction for multiple testing. However, the minor allele of rs3737597 (frequency 2%) in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR), previously identified as a risk allele in Finnish families, was significantly and consistently associated with the disorder across the three samples, (p-value corrected for multiple testing was 0.002). Our results suggest that a relatively uncommon DISC1 mutation, which increases the susceptibility for schizophrenia may be segregating in the Scandinavian population, and support the view that common DISC1 SNP alleles are unlikely to account for a substantial proportion of the genetic risk of the disease across populations of European descent.
Investigating the neurobiological basis of schizophrenia is a critical step toward establishing its diagnostic validity, predicting outcome, delineating causative mechanisms and identifying objective targets for treatment research. Over the past two decades, there have been several advances in this field, principally related to developments in neuroimaging, electrophysiological and neuropathological approaches. Several neurobiological alterations in domains of brain structure, physiology and neurochemistry have been documented that may reflect diverse pathophysiological pathways from the &quot;genome to the phenome&quot;. While none of the observed abnormalities are likely to qualify as diagnostic markers at this time, many can serve as potential intermediate phenotypes for elucidating etiological factors including susceptibility genes, and as therapeutic targets for novel drug discovery. Despite several challenges including the substantial phenotypic, pathophysiologic and etiological heterogeneity of schizophrenia, technological limitations, and the less than ideal animal models, considerable progress has been made in characterizing the neurobiological substrate of schizophrenia. The accumulating fact-base on the neurobiology of schizophrenia calls for novel integrative model(s) that may generate new, testable predictions.
Montpellier vitalists upheld a medical perspective akin to modern &quot;holism&quot; in positing the functional unity of creatures imbued with life. While early vitalists focused on the human organism, Jean-Charles-Marguerite-Guillaume Grimaud investigated digestion, growth, and other physiological processes that human beings shared with simpler organisms. Eschewing modern investigative methods, Grimaud promoted a medically-grounded &quot;metaphysics.&quot; His influential doctrine of the &quot;two lives&quot; broke with Montpellier holism, classifying some vital phenomena as &quot;higher&quot; and others as &quot;lower&quot; and attributing the &quot;nobility&quot; of the human species to the predominance of the former. In place of Montpellier teaching that attributed health to the holistic equilibration of vital activities, Grimaud embraced spiritualist dualisms of soul and body, Creator and created. Celebrating the divinely-ordained &quot;wisdom&quot; evident in involuntary physiological processes, he argued that such life functions were incomprehensible to human investigators. While Grimaud's work encouraged inquiry into the division between the central and &quot;vegetative&quot; nervous systems that became paradigmatic in nineteenth-century neuroscience, it also opened Montpellier vitalism to charges of conservatism and obscurantism that are still lodged against it to the present day.
An electrocardiograph (ECG) is recommended as an investigation in all patients with seizures or suspected seizures. However the incidence of abnormal ECGs in patients presenting to the first seizure clinic is unknown. This study examines 161 patients in a first seizure clinic and describes the ECG abnormalities found. Although 17 patients were found to have abnormal ECGs only one was found to have significant cardiac disease. We conclude that serious ECG abnormalities are rare but other abnormalities are common and that close cooperation between cardiology and neurology is important.

Neurons vary greatly in size, shape, and complexity depending on their underlying function. Overall size of neuronal trees affects connectivity, area of influence, and other biophysical properties. Relative distributions of neuronal extent, such as the difference between subtrees at branch points, are also critically related to function and activity. This review covers neuromorphological research that analyzes shape and size to elucidate their functional role for different neuron types. We also introduce a novel morphometric, &quot;caulescence&quot;, capturing the extent to which trees exhibit a main path. Neuronal tree types differ vastly in caulescence, suggesting potential neurocomputational correlates of this property.
A 5-year-old was admitted after an episode of loss of consciousness and an episode of convulsive activity. Information that aids in differentiating seizures and syncope is discussed.




Chronic illness is perceived as a particular kind of event. The aim of this paper is to understand the personal, familial and professional difficulties experienced by patients in France who have a neurodegenerative disease and undergo cerebral implants. This paper is based on the assumption that a treatment using biotechnical techniques is a unique disruptive experience which redefines the patient's life. Thirty patients (13 women and 17 men) from two French hospitals were interviewed at different stages of their medical history. Despite the excellent overall outcome of neurosurgery in patients with Parkinson's disease, there is often a contrast between the improvement in motor disability and the patient's difficulty in returning to normal life. These results allow us to analyse the link between the neurosciences and the experience of chronic illness.


Adult neurogenesis is regulated by both intrinsic programs and extrinsic stimuli. The enhanced proliferation of adult neural stem/progenitor cells (aNPCs) in the subventricular zone and the migration of neuroblasts toward the ischemic region in adult brains present a unique challenge as well as an opportunity to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the extrinsic cue-induced neurogenic responses. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of proteinases known to play a role in extracellular matrix remodeling and cell migration. However, their presence in aNPCs and their potential function in injury-induced aNPC migration remain largely unexplored. Here we demonstrate that in response to two injury-induced chemokines, stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1) and vascular endothelial growth factor, aNPCs differentiated into migratory cells that expressed increased levels of MMP-3 and MMP-9. Whereas differentiated neuroblasts and a subpopulation of astrocytes migrated toward the chemokines, undifferentiated progenitors did not migrate. Blocking the expression of MMP-3 or MMP-9 in aNPCs interfered with both the differentiation of aNPCs and chemokine-induced cell migration. Thus, endogenous MMPs expressed by aNPCs are important for mediating their neurogenic response to extrinsic signals.
Embryonic stem (ES) cell-derived neural progenitor cells (ESNPs) generated in vitro are multipotent progenitors which can differentiate into oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, and neurons. Given the exciting prospects for ES cell-based treatments of neurological disorders, several studies investigated the migration, integration, and differentiation of grafted ESNPs into neurons and glial cells. However, little is known about the functional properties of transplanted ESNPs on the single cell level. In this study, we combined electrophysiology, single cell reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunochemistry to determine the developmental time course of molecular and functional properties of ES cell-derived glial precursors (ESGPs) after deposition onto hippocampal slice cultures. Based on functional criteria, donor cells possessed three different phenotypes. During an observation period of 3 weeks after engraftment, the proportion of donor cells with a passive current pattern (type 3) continuously increased. The majority of these cells expressed astroglial markers. Type 3 host cells underwent similar developmental changes. In contrast, donor and host cells expressing time- and voltage-dependent currents (types 1, 2) displayed different developmental profiles. Importantly, type 2 donor and host cells also differed in the expression of inwardly rectifying K(+) channels. This suggests that despite several similarities in overall current phenotypes and timing of maturation, many donor cells integrated into host tissue but did not acquire the full set of ion channels present in their native counterparts. These findings emphasize the need to carefully characterize ES cell-derived progeny aimed for neural repair and cell-mediated gene transfer strategies.
Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-mediated tissue regeneration is a promising strategy to treat several neurodegenerative diseases and traumatic injuries of the central nervous system. Bone marrow MSCs have great potential as therapeutic agents, since they are easy to isolate and expand and are capable of producing various cell types, including neural cells. Recently we developed a highly efficient methodology to produce neural stem-like and neural precursor-like cells from mice bone marrow-derived MSCs that eventually differentiate into neuronal- and glial-like cells in vitro. The aim of this study is to further elucidate neural expression profile of neurally induced mesenchymal stem cells (NI-MSCs) and their ability to retain neural differentiation potential when grafted into the intact spinal cord of rats. To this end, we further characterized in vitro and in vivo properties of NI-MSCs by immunocytochemistry, Western blot, ELISA, and immunohistochemistry. Immunocytochemical data demonstrated that NI-MSCs express several mature neural markers such as B3T, GFAP MAP-2, NF-200, and NeuN, which were confirmed through Western blot. ELISA data showed that NI-MSCs release nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). In vivo studies demonstrated that grafted NI-MSCs survived after transplantation into intact spinal cord and produced cells that expressed neural markers. All these data suggest that neurally modified MSCs, induced by recently developed methodology, could be a potential source of cells to replace damaged neurons and glia in injured spinal cord, and/or to promote cell survival and axonal growth of host tissue.
Two critical properties of stem cells are self-renewal and multipotency. The maintenance of their &quot;stemness&quot; state and commitment to differentiation are therefore tightly controlled by intricate molecular networks. Epigenetic mechanisms, including DNA methylation, chromatin remodeling and the noncoding RNA-mediated process, have profound regulatory roles in mammalian gene expression. Recent studies have shown that epigenetic regulators are key players in stem cell biology and their dysfunction can result in human diseases such as cancer and neurodevelopmental disorders. Here, we review the recent evidences that advance our knowledge in epigenetic regulations of mammalian stem cells, with focus on embryonic stem cells and neural stem cells.




Circadian rhythms influence cocaine-seeking behavior in rats, and this behavior may be mediated by variability in the rate of extracellular dopamine clearance across the day:night cycle. We used rotating disk electrode voltammetry to examine dopamine clearance and inhibition of clearance by cocaine in the rat medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and nucleus accumbens (NAc). Rats were housed under light:dark conditions (LD, 12 h:12 h) or in constant darkness (DD), the latter given just prior to the day of sacrifice. Tissue was collected at 4-h intervals under LD and DD conditions. Under LD, dopamine clearance in both brain regions was greatest at 4h after lights on. Under DD, there was a blunted but still rhythmic pattern of dopamine clearance across the 24-h cycle. Cocaine-induced inhibition of dopamine clearance in the mPFC was not different across the day:night cycle in rats under LD. Paradoxically, under DD, dopamine clearance in the mPFC was enhanced by cocaine at ZT16, 4 h into the subjective night, and only minimally inhibited at other times. In the NAc, cocaine inhibition of dopamine clearance was lowest at ZT4 under LD, and did not vary under DD. We conclude that dopamine clearance varies both in a diurnal and possibly in a circadian manner in the mPFC, and in a diurnal manner in the NAc. These results indicate that light itself may be used to manipulate molecules implicated in drug addiction.
Cyclosporine is a substrate of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A and of the transporter ABCB1, for which polymorphisms have been described. In particular, CYP3A5 *3/*3 genotype results in the absence of CYP3A5 activity, whereas CYP3A7 *1/*1C genotype results in high CYP3A7 expression in adults. Log-transformed dose-adjusted cyclosporine trough concentration and daily dose per weight were compared 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after transplantation between CYP3A and ABCB1 genotypes in 73 renal (n = 64) or lung (n = 9) transplant recipients. CYP3A5 expressors (*1/*3 genotype; n = 8-10) presented significantly lower dose-adjusted cyclosporine trough concentrations (P &lt; 0.05) and required significantly higher daily doses per weight (P &lt; 0.01) than the nonexpressors (*3/*3 genotype; n = 55-59) 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after transplantation. In addition, 7 days after transplantation, more CYP3A5 expressors had uncorrected trough cyclosporine concentration below the target concentration of 200 ng/mL than the nonexpressors (odds ratio = 7.2; 95% confidence interval = 1.4-37.3; P = 0.009). CYP3A4 rs4646437C&gt;T influenced cyclosporine kinetics, the T carriers requiring higher cyclosporine dose. CYP3A7*1C carriers required a 1.4-fold to 1.6-fold higher cyclosporine daily dose during the first year after transplantation (P &lt; 0.05). In conclusion, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, and CYP3A7 polymorphisms affect cyclosporine metabolism, and therefore, their genotyping could be useful, in association with therapeutic drug monitoring, to prospectively optimize cyclosporine prescription in transplant recipients. The administration of a CYP3A genotype-dependent cyclosporine starting dose should therefore be tested prospectively in a randomized controlled clinical trial to assess whether it leads to an improvement of the patients outcome after transplantation, with adequate immunosuppression and decreased toxicity.
Indirubin, a red colored 3,2'-bisindole isomer, is a component of Indigo naturalis and is an active ingredient used in traditional Chinese medicine for the treatment of chronic diseases. The family of indirubin derivatives, such as indirubin-3'-oxime, has been suggested for various therapeutic indications. However, potential toxic interactions such as indirubin effects on mitochondrial bioenergetics are still unknown. This study evaluated the action of indirubin-3'-oxime on the function of isolated rat liver mitochondria contributing to a better understanding of the biochemical mechanisms underlying the multiple effects of indirubin. Indirubin-3'-oxime incubated with isolated rat liver mitochondria, at concentrations above 10microM, significantly depresses the phosphorylation efficiency of mitochondria as inferred from the decrease in the respiratory control and ADP/O ratios, the perturbations in mitochondrial membrane potential and in the phosphorylative cycle induced by ADP. Furthermore, indirubin-3'-oxime at up to 25microM stimulates the rate of state 4 respiration and inhibits state 3 respiration. The increased lag phase of repolarization was associated with a direct inhibition of the mitochondrial ATPase. Indirubin-3'-oxime significantly inhibited the activity of complex II and IV thus explaining the decreased FCCP-stimulated mitochondrial respiration. Mitochondria pre-incubated with indirubin-3'-oxime exhibits decreased susceptibility to calcium-induced mitochondrial permeability transition. This work shows for the first time multiple effects of indirubin-3'-oxime on mitochondrial bioenergetics thus indicating a potential mechanism for indirubin-3'-oxime effects on cell function.
Stroke is a leading cause of disability in developing countries. It is crucial to identify factors influencing health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in stroke survivors in this setting so that such factors can be efficiently manipulated in order to maximize HRQOL improvement. This is the first study of these determinants in Nigerian stroke patients. One hundred consecutive consenting stroke survivors were studied in Ibadan. The stroke levity scale (SLS) was used to assess stroke severity. HRQOL was assessed using the psychometrically robust HRQOL in stroke patients (HRQOLISP) questionnaire. HRQOL determinants were sought among variables such as age, gender, socio-economic class (SEC), post-stroke duration, side, type and number of strokes, SLS, modified Rankin scale (mRS), social support, and Likert-graded responses to laughter and negative feelings frequencies. Gender, aphasia, handedness, stroke side, type and frequency as well as SEC had no significant impact on HRQOL. The determinants of HRQOL were SLS, mRS, social support, laughter and negative feelings frequencies. Aside from stroke levity and disability, psychosocial factors such as emotional responses and social support determine HRQOL in stroke survivors. Both neuroscience and clinical management of stroke might benefit from a corresponding broader integrative conceptual framework for life after stroke.
We address the importance of understanding initial states of neuronal populations and of state-dependent responses in cognitive neuroscience experiments with special emphasis on brain stimulation studies of perception and cognition. The approach we present is based on evidence that behavioural and perceptual effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) are determined by initial neural activation state; by systematically manipulating neural activation states before application of TMS, one can selectively target specific, even spatially overlapping neural populations within the affected region. This approach is potentially of great benefit to cognitive neuroscience and remediation programmes as it combines high spatial and functional resolution with the ability to assess causality.

The largest part of the primate prefrontal cortex has no homolog in other mammals. Accordingly, it probably confers some advantage that other mammals either lack or attain through the function of other structures. Yet, this advantage remains enigmatic. This is not so for other parts of the cortex. For example, certain visual areas encode, represent and store knowledge about objects. By analogy, perhaps the primate prefrontal cortex encodes, represents and stores knowledge about behaviors, including the consequences of doing (or not doing) something in complex and challenging situations. The long list of functions often attributed to the prefrontal cortex could contribute to knowing what to do and what will happen when rare risks arise or outstanding opportunities knock.
Perception of global patterns requires the integration of local orientation information across space. The present study examined whether this integration ability declines in older age. We measured contrast thresholds for discriminating the global orientation of a &quot;C&quot; shaped contour against a blank background in younger and older subjects. Performance of younger subjects improved when the elements composing the &quot;C&quot; were aligned along the contour path, as opposed to being orthogonal to it or of mixed orientations. However, older subjects' performance was not affected by the orientation of the local elements. This indicates an age-related decline in contour integration.
This study examines the effects of sleep on learning in a face identification task. Five groups of subjects performed a 1-of-10 face identification task in two sessions separated by 3, 12, and 24h. Session 1 consisted of four blocks of 105 trials each; Session 2 consisted of eight blocks of trials. All groups exhibited significant improvement in response accuracy within each session. Furthermore, between-session learning - defined as the difference in proportion correct between sessions 1 and 2 - was significant for all groups. Between-session learning was greater in groups that slept between sessions, but the effect was small and affected performance only in the first block of trials in Session 2. Overall, we find that sleep's contribution is a small proportion of the total amount learned in face identification, with improvements continuing to accrue in its absence.
Human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) among families in China poses many challenges for caregivers and their children. A total of 154 caregivers of HIV/AIDS-affected children were interviewed to examine child behaviour in HIV/AIDS-affected families. Parenting skills were found to be correlated with child delinquency, and this correlation was influenced by the number of children in the family and the child's age. Illiterate caregivers were more likely to have delinquent children, and parenting skills had less of an association with child delinquency among illiterate caregivers. Study findings underscore the necessity of emphasizing good parenting skills in interventions with caregivers of HIV/AIDS-affected children in China in order to improve child behaviour and overall family well-being.

The penetration of drugs into the central nervous system is a composite of both the rate of drug uptake across the blood-brain barrier and the extent of distribution into brain tissue compartments. Clinically, positron emission tomography (PET) is the primary technique for deriving information on drug biodistribution as well as target receptor occupancy. In contrast, rodent models have formed the basis for much of the current understanding of brain penetration within pharmaceutical Drug Discovery. Linking these two areas more effectively would greatly improve the translation of candidate compounds into therapeutic agents. This paper examines two of the major influences on the extent of brain penetration across species, namely plasma protein binding and brain tissue binding. An excellent correlation was noted between unbound brain fractions across species (R(2) &gt; 0.9 rat, pig, and human, n = 21), which is indicative of the high degree of conservation of the central nervous system environment. In vitro estimates of human brain-blood or brain-plasma ratios of marketed central nervous system drugs and PET tracers agree well with in vivo values derived from clinical PET and post-mortem studies. These results suggest that passive diffusion across the blood-brain barrier is an important process for many drugs in humans and highlights the possibility for improved prediction of brain penetration across species.


We recruited 560 unrelated patients with ischemic stroke and 153 unrelated controls to undertake a genetic analysis for association between the NOS3 gene and ischemic stroke. All the subjects were Chinese of Han descent. Because the NOS3 gene spans about 21 kb of DNA and contains 26 exons, we selected a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs3918181, an A to G base change located in intron 14 of the gene, as a DNA marker. PCR-based restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis was applied to genotype rs3918181 (RsaI site). The chi-square (chi(2)) goodness-of-fit test showed that the genotypic distributions of the marker were not deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in both the patient group (chi(2) = 0.166, p = 0.684) and the control group (chi(2) = 0.421, p = 0.517). The cocaphase analysis showed allelic association of rs3918181 with ischemic stroke in males (chi(2) = 4.04, p = 0.044, OR = 1.43, 95% CI 1.01 approximately 2.02) and frequency of allele A was significantly higher in male patients than male control subjects. The chi(2) test revealed genotypic association between rs3918181 and ischemic stroke in males (chi(2) = 4.26, df = 1, p = 0.039, OR = 1.61, 95% CI 1.02 approximately 2.53) but not in females. The present work suggests that rs3918181 is associated with ischemic stroke in male patients. This finding gives further evidence in support of the eNOS association with ischemic stroke in the Chinese population.
The vomeronasal organ (VNO) is a sensory organ that influences social and/or reproductive behavior and, in many cases, the survival of an organism. The VNO is believed to mediate responses to pheromones; however, many mechanisms of signal transduction in the VNO remain elusive. Here, we examined the expression of proteins involved in signal transduction that are found in the main olfactory system in the VNO. The localization of many signaling molecules in the VNO is quite different from those in the main olfactory system, suggesting differences in signal transduction mechanisms between these two chemosensory organs. Various signaling molecules are expressed in distinct areas of VNO sensory epithelium. Interestingly, we found the expressions of groups of these signaling molecules in glandular tissues adjacent to VNO, supporting the physiological significance of these glandular tissues. Our finding of high expression of signaling proteins in glandular tissues suggests that neurohumoral factors influence glandular tissues to modulate signaling cascades that in turn alter the responses of the VNO to hormonal status.
The roles of ion channels in sensory neurons were examined in experimental models of muscle pain in the rat. Rats were injected with 50 microl of 4% carrageenan or subjected to an eccentric exercise (ECC) of the gastrocnemius muscle (GM). The Randall-Selitto and von Frey tests were performed on the calves to evaluate mechanical hyperalgesia of the muscle. The changes in expression of four genes and proteins of ion channels in dorsal root ganglia were examined using quantitative PCR and immunohistochemistry, respectively. Effects of antagonists to transient receptor potential (TRP) channels and acid sensing ion channels (ASICs) on the mechanical hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan injection or ECC were evaluated. The mechanical hyperalgesia was observed 6-24h after carrageenan injection and 1-3 days after ECC in the Randall-Selitto test. Infiltrations of the inflammatory cells in the GM were seen in carrageenan-injected animals but not in those subjected to ECC. Expressions of genes and proteins in sensory neurons showed no changes. Intramuscular injection of antagonists to TRPV1 showed an almost complete suppressive effect on ECC-induced muscle hyperalgesia but not a carrageenan-induced one. Antagonists to TRP channels and ASICs showed suppressive effects for both carrageenan- and ECC-induced muscle hyperalgesia. The carrageenan injection and ECC models are useful models of acute inflammatory pain and delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), respectively, and the time course and underlying etiology might be different. TRP channels and ASICs are closely related to the development of muscle mechanical hyperalgesia, and TRPV1 is involved in ECC-induced DOMS.
Growing evidence has shown that psychometrically identified schizotypes among student populations have subtle cognitive impairments in several domains such as attention, working memory and executive function, but the possible association between psychometric schizotypy in adult populations and cognitive function has not been well documented. Here we examined the association between schizotypal traits as assessed by the Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ) and cognitive function including memory, attention, executive function, and general intelligence in 124 healthy adults. Cognitive functioning was assessed with the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R), the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R), and the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST). SPQ scores showed a significant inverse correlation with verbal IQ and the information, comprehension and similarities subtests. No correlation was found between SPQ scores and memory, attention, performance IQ, or executive functioning. These results indicate that schizotypal traits in healthy adults are associated with verbal IQ decrements, suggesting that schizotypal traits themselves, even at a non-clinical level, may play unfavorable roles in cognitive functioning, which is in line with the viewpoint that schizotypy is on a continuum with normality, with its extreme form being clinically expressed as schizophrenia.
Information is available on aripiprazole as a treatment for borderline personality disorder (BPD), but no data have yet been presented concerning the use of this drug as an adjunctive treatment for drug-resistant BPD patients. This study investigates aripiprazole augmentation of ongoing sertraline therapy in drug-resistant BPD patients. Twenty-one outpatients with a DSM-IV-TR diagnosis of BPD who did not respond to sertraline, 100-200 mg/day for 12 weeks, were treated for 12 weeks with the addition of aripiprazole, 10-15 mg/day. Patients were assessed at baseline, week 4, and week 12 with the Clinical Global Impression Scale - Severity item (CGI-S), the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), the Hamilton scales for depression and anxiety (HAM-D, HAM-A), the Social Occupational Functioning Assessment Scale (SOFAS) for social functioning, the Borderline Personality Disorder Severity Index (BPDSI), and the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-11). Adverse effects were evaluated using the Dosage Record and Treatment Emergent Symptom Scale (DOTES). Sixteen patients completed the study. Five patients (23.8%) dropped out due to anxiety/insomnia or non-compliance. Nine patients (56.3%) were responders. Analysis of variance revealed significant changes in the following measures: CGI-S, BPRS, BPDSI total score, BPDSI &quot;impulsivity&quot; and &quot;dissociation/paranoid ideation&quot; items, and BIS-11. Adverse effects were mild headache, insomnia, and anxiety. Aripiprazole is an efficacious and well-tolerated add-on treatment for sertraline-resistant BPD patients. It acts on impulsive and psychotic-like symptoms.
The determination of disease-specific autoantibodies (Abs) is a challenge in any autoimmune disease. The significance of Abs detected in inflammatory demyelinating diseases (IDD) of the central nervous system (CNS), such as multiple sclerosis (MS), is still unclear. Histopathological reports have demonstrated that a humoral (Abs)-mediated pattern of demyelination is detected in &gt;50% of MS patients and is consistently associated with active demyelination. The observation that these patients specifically respond to plasmapheresis reinforces the hypothesis of a specific humoral MS subtype. One of the most intensively studied antigen targets in MS is a glycoprotein of the myelin sheath called the Myelin Oligodendrocyte Glycoprotein (MOG). Recent advances have shown that epitope specificity of MOG is crucial in terms of specificity of the Ab response. Several other auto-Abs, including anti-myelin, oligodendrocyte and neuronal Abs have been studied in MS. These auto-Abs may have pathogenic or protective properties, but could also have no functional role. Recently, the demonstration of a highly specific auto-Ab in an IDD of the CNS called neuromyelitis optica (NMO), directed against the aquaporin-4 (AQP-4) located at the blood brain barrier (BBB), has allowed a refinement of the diagnostic criteria of NMO and classification of this disease as an autoimmune channelopathy. These recent advances have reinforced the interest in tracking the role of the humoral response in the different IDD of the CNS.

To explore how gene products, required for the initiation of synaptic growth, move from the cell body of the sensory neuron to its presynaptic terminals, and from the cell body of the motor neuron to its postsynaptic dendritic spines, we have investigated the anterograde transport machinery in both the sensory and motor neurons of the gill-withdrawal reflex of Aplysia. We found that the induction of long-term facilitation (LTF) by repeated applications of serotonin, a modulatory transmitter released during learning in Aplysia, requires upregulation of kinesin heavy chain (KHC) in both pre- and postsynaptic neurons. Indeed, upregulation of KHC in the presynaptic neurons alone is sufficient for the induction of LTF. However, KHC is not required for the persistence of LTF. Thus, in addition to transcriptional activation in the nucleus and local protein synthesis at the synapse, our studies have identified a third component critical for long-term learning-related plasticity: the coordinated upregulation of kinesin-mediated transport.
Disruption of the Transient Receptor Potential (TRP) mucolipin 1 (TRPML1) channel results in the neurodegenerative disorder mucolipidosis type IV (MLIV), a lysosomal storage disease with severe motor impairments. The mechanisms underlying MLIV are poorly understood and there is no treatment. Here, we report a Drosophila MLIV model, which recapitulates the key disease features, including abnormal intracellular accumulation of macromolecules, motor defects, and neurodegeneration. The basis for the buildup of macromolecules was defective autophagy, which resulted in oxidative stress and impaired synaptic transmission. Late-apoptotic cells accumulated in trpml mutant brains, suggesting diminished cell clearance. The accumulation of late-apoptotic cells and motor deficits were suppressed by expression of trpml(+) in neurons, glia, or hematopoietic cells. We conclude that the neurodegeneration and motor defects result primarily from decreased clearance of apoptotic cells. Since hematopoietic cells in humans are involved in clearance of apoptotic cells, our results raise the possibility that bone marrow transplantation may limit the progression of MLIV.
We examined whether prenatal psychological stress with little physical stress causes changes in the behavior and neurogenesis of the offspring of Sprague-Dawley rats at one month. Dams in the last trimester of gestation were psychologically stressed by placing them in a social communication box and shocking a rat on the other side of a transparent wall. They suffered little physical stress. Male and female offspring from the dams showed little change in an open field test at postnatal day (PND) 30. To evaluate neurogenesis in the brain, BrdU was intraperitoneally injected at PND 35 into offspring not used in the open field test. Immunohistochemical examinations of BrdU in their dorsal hippocampus at PNDs 42 and 112 revealed that the number of BrdU immunopositive cells in the offspring of prenatally stressed rats was significantly smaller than in the offspring of unstressed ones. These results together with our previous finding that prenatal psychological stress can alter specific behaviors suggest that prenatal psychological stress can suppress neurogenesis in the dorsal hippocampus of rats of both sexes at PND 35 even though impairment in the behavioral task has not yet appeared.
Following repeated exposure to foster pups, virgin female rats acquire and eventually express a full spectrum of maternal caretaking behaviors directed toward pups. Though these behaviors are vigorous, these females are reportedly less motivated to seek out and interact with pups (i.e. maternally motivated) than parturient females during early postpartum. The present study systematically assesses how the length of pup-exposure and nature of interactions between the female-pup dyad affect maternal motivation in the virgin female rat. Virgin females were exposed to young pups consistently (24 h/day) across a prolonged period (21 days), briefly (1 h/day) across a relatively brief period (7 days), or distally (pups inaccessible in mesh bag). During final pup-exposure days, females were conditioned and tested for their preference for a pup-associated chamber (e.g. maternal motivation) using conditioned place preference. Early postpartum females provided a comparison group. Fully maternal behavior only emerged in females given prolonged pup-exposure; this behavior improved significantly over time and was maximally expressed for a duration equivalent to early postpartum. Females given brief pup-exposure expressed only emergent maternal behaviors initiated by pups; distal pup-exposure evoked pup-avoidance. Virgin females given prolonged or brief pup-exposure expressed substantial pup-associated chamber preference, with more females preferring the pup-associated chamber following longer pup-exposures in a subtle stepwise relationship. Maternal motivation was strikingly similar in prolonged pup-exposure virgin and early postpartum females. Females given distal pup-exposure completely lacked maternal motivation. Maternal behavior did not predict chamber preference. Results suggest that pup-exposure, regardless of length, is sufficient to support strong maternal motivation, whereas parity is not required.
cis-4-(Piperazin-1-yl)-5,6,7a,8,9,10,11,11a-octahydrobenzofuro[2,3-h]quinazolin-2-amine, 4 (A-987306) is a new histamine H(4) antagonist. The compound is potent in H(4) receptor binding assays (rat H(4), K(i) = 3.4 nM, human H(4) K(i) = 5.8 nM) and demonstrated potent functional antagonism in vitro at human, rat, and mouse H(4) receptors in cell-based FLIPR assays. Compound 4 also demonstrated H(4) antagonism in vivo in mice, blocking H(4)-agonist induced scratch responses, and showed anti-inflammatory activity in mice in a peritonitis model. Most interesting was the high potency and efficacy of this compound in blocking pain responses, where it showed an ED(50) of 42 mumol/kg (ip) in a rat post-carrageenan thermal hyperalgesia model of inflammatory pain.
In an effort to discover novel CRF-1 receptor antagonists exhibiting improved physicochemical properties, a dihydropirrole[2,3]pyridine scaffold was designed and explored in terms of the SAR of the substitution at the pendent phenyl ring and the nature of the heterocyclic moieties present in the upper region of the molecule. Selective and potent compounds have been discovered endowed with reduced ClogP with respect to compounds known in the literature. Of particular relevance was the finding that the in vitro affinity of the series was maintained by reducing the overall lipophilicity. The results achieved by this exploration enabled the formulation of a novel hypothesis on the nature of the receptor binding pocket of this class of CRF-1 receptor antagonists, making use of in silico docking studies of the putative nonpeptidic antagonist binding site set up in house by homology modeling techniques.


Primary cilia are important sites of signal transduction involved in a wide range of developmental and postnatal functions. Proteolytic processing of the transcription factor Gli3, for example, occurs in primary cilia, and defects in intraflagellar transport (IFT), which is crucial for the maintenance of primary cilia, can lead to severe developmental defects and diseases. Here we report an essential role of primary cilia in forebrain development. Uncovered by N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-mutagenesis, cobblestone is a hypomorphic allele of the IFT gene Ift88, in which Ift88 mRNA and protein levels are reduced by 70-80%. cobblestone mutants are distinguished by subpial heterotopias in the forebrain. Mutants show both severe defects in the formation of dorsomedial telencephalic structures, such as the choroid plexus, cortical hem and hippocampus, and also a relaxation of both dorsal-ventral and rostral-caudal compartmental boundaries. These defects phenocopy many of the abnormalities seen in the Gli3 mutant forebrain, and we show that Gli3 proteolytic processing is reduced, leading to an accumulation of the full-length activator isoform. In addition, we observe an upregulation of canonical Wnt signaling in the neocortex and in the caudal forebrain. Interestingly, the ultrastructure and morphology of ventricular cilia in the cobblestone mutants remains intact. Together, these results indicate a critical role for ciliary function in the developing forebrain.
An emerging theme in the neuroscience of emotion is the question of how acute stress shapes, and distorts, social-emotional behavior. The prevailing neurocircuitry models of social-emotional behavior emphasize the central role of the amygdala. Acute stress leads to increased central levels of norepinephrine (NE) and cortisol (CORT), and evidence suggests that these endogenous neuromodulators synergistically influence amygdala responses to social-emotional stimuli. We therefore hypothesized that amygdala responses to emotional facial expressions would be susceptible to pharmacologically induced increases in central NE and CORT levels. To specifically test this hypothesis, we measured amygdala activation to emotional faces using functional magnetic resonance imaging in 62 healthy subjects under four pharmacological conditions: (1) single oral dose of placebo, (2) 4 mg of the selective NE-reuptake inhibitor reboxetine (RBX), (3) 30 mg of hydrocortisone, or (4) both drugs in combination. We found that a decrease in amygdala activation to positive facial emotion was coupled with an increase in amygdala activation to negative facial emotion in the RBX-CORT combined challenge condition. In conclusion, a pharmacologically induced elevation of central NE and CORT levels in healthy subjects created a negative response bias in the amygdala that did not exist at baseline. Our results implicate a causative role of NE-CORT interactions in the emergence of a negative bias of cognitive and emotional functions which is germane in stress-related affective spectrum disorders.
Interleukin (IL)-18 is an important regulator of innate and acquired immune responses. Here we show that both the IL-18 and IL-18 receptor (IL-18R), which are induced in spinal dorsal horn, are crucial for tactile allodynia after nerve injury. Nerve injury induced a striking increase in IL-18 and IL-18R expression in the dorsal horn, and IL-18 and IL-18R were upregulated in hyperactive microglia and astrocytes, respectively. The functional inhibition of IL-18 signaling pathways suppressed injury-induced tactile allodynia and decreased the phosphorylation of nuclear factor kappaB in spinal astrocytes and the induction of astroglial markers. Conversely, intrathecal injection of IL-18 induced behavioral, morphological, and biochemical changes similar to those observed after nerve injury. Our results indicate that IL-18-mediated microglia/astrocyte interactions in the spinal cord have a substantial role in the generation of tactile allodynia. Thus, blocking IL-18 signaling in glial cells might provide a fruitful strategy for treating neuropathic pain.
Altered expression of the human FEV (fifth Ewing variant) ETS transcription factor gene impacts the level of CNS serotonin (5-HT) neuron gene expression and maternal nurturing. However, the regulatory mechanisms that determine FEV expression are poorly understood. Here, we investigated the cis-regulatory control of FEV to begin to identify the upstream transcription factors that restrict FEV expression to 5-HT neurons. We find that sequences extending only 275 bp upstream of the FEV 5' untranslated region are sufficient to direct FEV transgene expression to embryonic 5-HT neurons, although sequences farther upstream are required for maintenance in adult 5-HT neurons. Two highly conserved consensus GATA factor binding sites within the 275 bp region interact with GATA factors in vitro. Chromatin immunoprecipitations with embryonic hindbrain demonstrated Gata-2 interactions with the orthologous mouse Pet-1 ETS cis-regulatory region. Mutagenesis of GATA sites revealed that one or the other site is required for serotonergic FEV transgene expression. Unexpectedly, FEV-LacZ transgenes enabled determination of 5-HT neuron precursor fate in the adult Pet-1(-/-) dorsal and median raphe nuclei and thus provided additional insight into FEV/Pet-1 function. Comparable numbers of FEV-LacZ-positive cells were detected in Pet-1(+/-) and Pet-1(-/-) adult dorsal raphe nuclei, indicating that the majority of mutant serotonergic precursors are not fated to apoptosis. However, B7 dorsal raphe cells were aberrantly distributed, suggesting a role for FEV/Pet-1 in their midline organization. Our findings identify a direct transcriptional interaction between Gata-2 and FEV and a unique marker for new insight into FEV/Pet-1 function in 5-HT neuron development.
CNS injury-induced hemorrhage and tissue damage leads to excess iron, which can cause secondary degeneration. The mechanisms that handle this excess iron are not fully understood. We report that spinal cord contusion injury (SCI) in mice induces an &quot;iron homeostatic response&quot; that partially limits iron-catalyzed oxidative damage. We show that ceruloplasmin (Cp), a ferroxidase that oxidizes toxic ferrous iron, is important for this process. SCI in Cp-deficient mice demonstrates that Cp detoxifies and mobilizes iron and reduces secondary tissue degeneration and functional loss. Our results provide new insights into how astrocytes and macrophages handle iron after SCI. Importantly, we show that iron chelator treatment has a delayed effect in improving locomotor recovery between 3 and 6 weeks after SCI. These data reveal important aspects of the molecular control of CNS iron homeostasis after SCI and suggest that iron chelator therapy may improve functional recovery after CNS trauma and hemorrhagic stroke.
Animals with a neonatal ventral hippocampal lesion (NVHL) develop abnormal behaviors during or after adolescence, suggesting that early insults can have delayed consequences. Many of these behaviors depend on the prefrontal cortex (PFC), and we have reported that PFC pyramidal neurons of adult rats with an NVHL respond to stimulation of the ventral tegmental area with an increase in firing instead of the characteristic decrease. As the dopamine modulation of cortical interneurons matures during adolescence, these findings raise the possibility that maturation of local inhibitory circuits within the PFC may have been altered in NVHL rats. Here, we assessed the state of PFC interneurons in NVHL rats with in situ hybridization measures of the mRNAs for the calcium binding protein parvalbumin (PV) and the GABA synthesizing enzyme GAD(67), as well as with electrophysiological measures of interneuron function. Although no differences were observed with PV or GAD(67), whole-cell recordings in slices revealed abnormal responses to the D(2) agonist quinpirole in interneurons from NVHL rats. The loss of D(2) modulation of local inhibition in slices from NVHL rats was also evident in the absence of a lasting component in the D(2) attenuation of excitatory synaptic responses in pyramidal neurons, which in sham treated rats was picrotoxin sensitive. The results suggest that the neonatal lesion causes improper maturation, but not loss, of PFC interneurons during adolescence, a finding consistent with current interpretations of imaging data in schizophrenia that suggest a hyperactive, &quot;noisy&quot; cortex underlying dysfunction in the PFC and other cortical areas.
Neuropeptides are a promising target for novel treatments for anxiety and other psychiatric disorders and neuropeptide Y (NPY) has emerged as a key component of anxiolytic circuits in the brain. For this reason, we have evaluated the role of NPY in the expression and extinction of conditioned fear. We found that intracerebroventricular administration of NPY inhibits both baseline acoustic startle and the expression of fear-potentiated startle. Infusion of NPY (10 pmol/side) into the basolateral, but not the medial, nucleus of the amygdala reproduced the intracerebroventricular effect. Central administration of NPY (10 microg) also enhanced within-session extinction of fear-potentiated startle. This finding, coupled with the growing body of literature correlating NPY with resilience in humans, led us to the hypothesis that NPY may enhance the extinction of conditioned fear. When NPY (10 microg) is administered intracerebroventricularly before extinction training, extinction retention for both the contextual and cued components of conditioned fear is enhanced when tested 48 h later off drug. Additionally, we found that intra-basolateral amygdala administration of the NPY Y(1) receptor antagonist BIBO 3304 (200 pmol/side) before extinction training led to a profound deficit in extinction retention. This is the first evidence that NPY facilitates and an NPY antagonist blocks the extinction of conditioned fear. We believe that the role of NPY in the extinction of conditioned fear may, at least in part, explain the mechanism underlying the association between NPY and psychobiological resilience in humans.
Although it has been tacitly assumed that the hippocampus exerts an influence on neocortical networks, the mechanisms of this process are not well understood. We examined whether and how hippocampal theta oscillations affect neocortical assembly patterns by recording populations of single cells and transient gamma oscillations in multiple cortical regions, including the somatosensory area and prefrontal cortex in behaving rats and mice. Laminar analysis of neocortical gamma bursts revealed multiple gamma oscillators of varying frequency and location, which were spatially confined and synchronized local groups of neurons. A significant fraction of putative pyramidal cells and interneurons as well as localized gamma oscillations in all recorded neocortical areas were phase biased by the hippocampal theta rhythm. We hypothesize that temporal coordination of neocortical gamma oscillators by hippocampal theta is a mechanism by which information contained in spatially widespread neocortical assemblies can be synchronously transferred to the associative networks of the hippocampus.
A familial form of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is linked to the D178N/V129 prion protein (PrP) mutation. Tg(CJD) mice expressing the mouse homolog of this mutant PrP synthesize a misfolded form of the mutant protein, which is aggregated and protease resistant. These mice develop clinical and pathological features reminiscent of CJD, including motor dysfunction, memory impairment, cerebral PrP deposition, and gliosis. Tg(CJD) mice also display electroencephalographic abnormalities and severe alterations of sleep-wake patterns strikingly similar to those seen in a human patient carrying the D178N/V129 mutation. Neurons in these mice show swelling of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) with intracellular retention of mutant PrP, suggesting that ER dysfunction could contribute to the pathology. These results establish a transgenic animal model of a genetic prion disease recapitulating cognitive, motor, and neurophysiological abnormalities of the human disorder. Tg(CJD) mice have the potential for giving greater insight into the spectrum of neuronal dysfunction in prion diseases.
Two recent papers reported identification of a long-sought agrin coreceptor, Lrp4 (Kim et al. in Cell and Zhang et al. in Neuron). In this issue of Neuron, Linnoila et al. report the identification of a new player in the agrin-MuSK pathway, Tid1, which directly interacts with MuSK and is responsible for transducing signals from MuSK activation to AChR clustering, culminating in cross-linking to the subsynaptic cytoskeleton. These papers substantially reshape the agrin-MuSK-ACh hypothesis of neuromuscular synaptogenesis.

In naturalistic settings emotional events have multiple correlates and are simultaneously perceived by several sensory systems. Recent studies have shown that recognition of facial expressions is biased towards the emotion expressed by a simultaneously presented emotional expression in the voice even if attention is directed to the face only. So far, no study examined whether this phenomenon also applies to whole body expressions, although there is no obvious reason why this crossmodal influence would be specific for faces. Here we investigated whether perception of emotions expressed in whole body movements is influenced by affective information provided by human and by animal vocalizations. Participants were instructed to attend to the action displayed by the body and to categorize the expressed emotion. The results indicate that recognition of body language is biased towards the emotion expressed by the simultaneously presented auditory information, whether it consist of human or of animal sounds. Our results show that a crossmodal influence from auditory to visual emotional information obtains for whole body video images with the facial expression blanked and includes human as well as animal sounds.
When two brief flashes presented in rapid succession (&lt;100 ms apart) are paired with a single auditory stimulus, subjects often report perceiving only a single flash [Andersen, T.S., Tiippana, K., Sams, M., 2004. Factors influencing audiovisual fission and fusion illusions. Brain Res. Cogn. Brain Res. 21, 301-308; Shams, L., Iwaki, S., Chawla, A., Bhattacharya, J., 2005a. Early modulation of visual cortex by sound: an MEG study. Neurosci. Lett. 378, 76-81, Shams, L., Ma, W.J., Beierholm, U., 2005b. Sound-induced flash illusion as an optimal percept. Neuroreport 16, 1923-1927]. We used event-related potentials (ERPs) to investigate the timing and localization of the cortical processes that underlie this sound induced flash fusion, which is complementary to the sound-induced extra flash illusion that we analyzed previously [Mishra, J., Martinez, A., Sejnowski, T.J. and Hillyard, S.A., Early cross-modal interactions in auditory and visual cortex underlie a sound-induced visual illusion. J. Neurosci. 27 (2007) 4120-4131]. The difference ERP that represented the cross-modal interaction between the visual (two flashes) and auditory (one sound) constituents of the bimodal stimulus revealed a positive component elicited 160-190 ms after stimulus onset, which was markedly attenuated in subjects who did not perceive the second flash. This component, previously designated as PD180 [Mishra, J., Martinez, A., Sejnowski, T.J. and Hillyard, S.A., Early cross-modal interactions in auditory and visual cortex underlie a sound-induced visual illusion. J. Neurosci. 27 (2007) 4120-4131], was localized by dipole modeling to polysensory superior temporal cortex. PD180 was found to covary in amplitude across subjects with the visual evoked N1 component (148-184 ms), suggesting that inter-individual differences in perceiving the illusion are based at least in part on differences in visual processing. A trial-by-trial analysis found that the PD180 as well as a subsequent modulation in visual cortex at 228-248 ms was diminished on trials when the two flashes were perceived as one relative to trials when two flashes were correctly reported. These results suggest that the sound induced flash fusion is based on an interaction between polysensory and visual cortical areas.
In the following review, we discuss the evidence for the role of vision and touch in the perception of texture with the particular aim of evaluating whether these systems contribute information to texture perception in either an independent or integrated manner. Although texture is perceived by both vision and touch, several behavioural and neuroimaging studies have suggested that texture information is processed in qualitatively different ways, such that the type of information encoded and the manner in which it is encoded differs across these sensory systems. Furthermore, vision and touch perceive different aspects of texture information with vision the more appropriate modality for discriminating texture boundaries and touch the more appropriate modality for discriminating stimulus roughness and compliance. Differences also exist in the neural structures and functions which underlie these systems, further suggesting independence of these modalities in the perception of texture. Accordingly, recent evidence suggests that behavioural tasks involving texture perception do not benefit from integration across the senses, suggesting that qualitatively different information is represented across vision and touch which cannot be combined to enhance perceptual performance. Research using more familiar objects, however, does suggest a role for sensory integration on texture perception, although these effects may be due to more cognitive influences rather than basic sensory encoding. In sum, we suggest that unlike shape perception, vision and touch contribute information to the perception of texture in an independent but complementary manner.
A fundamental question about human perception is how the speech perceiving brain combines auditory and visual phonetic stimulus information. We assumed that perceivers learn the normal relationship between acoustic and optical signals. We hypothesized that when the normal relationship is perturbed by mismatching the acoustic and optical signals, cortical areas responsible for audiovisual stimulus integration respond as a function of the magnitude of the mismatch. To test this hypothesis, in a previous study, we developed quantitative measures of acoustic-optical speech stimulus incongruity that correlate with perceptual measures. In the current study, we presented low incongruity (LI, matched), medium incongruity (MI, moderately mismatched), and high incongruity (HI, highly mismatched) audiovisual nonsense syllable stimuli during fMRI scanning. Perceptual responses differed as a function of the incongruity level, and BOLD measures were found to vary regionally and quantitatively with perceptual and quantitative incongruity levels. Each increase in the level of incongruity resulted in an increase in overall levels of cortical activity and in additional activations. However, the only cortical region that demonstrated differential sensitivity to the three stimulus incongruity levels (HI&gt;MI&gt;LI) was a subarea of the left supramarginal gyrus (SMG). The left SMG might support a fine-grained analysis of the relationship between audiovisual phonetic input in comparison with stored knowledge, as hypothesized here. The methods here show that quantitative manipulation of stimulus incongruity is a new and powerful tool for disclosing the system that processes audiovisual speech stimuli.

The expectation that object weight increases with size guides the control of manipulatory actions [1-6] and also influences weight perception. Thus, the size-weight illusion, whereby people perceive the smaller of two equally weighted objects to be heavier, is thought to arise because weight is judged relative to expected weight that, for a given family of objects, increases with size [2, 7]. Here, we show that the fundamental expectation that weight increases with size can be altered by experience and neither is hard-wired nor becomes crystallized during development. We demonstrate that multiday practice in lifting a set of blocks whose color and texture are the same and whose weights vary inversely with volume gradually attenuates and ultimately inverts the size-weight illusion tested with similar blocks. We also show that in contrast to this gradual change in the size-weight illusion, the sensorimotor system rapidly learns to predict the inverted object weights, as revealed by lift forces. Thus, our results indicate that distinct adaptive size-weight maps, or priors, underlie weight predictions made in lifting objects and in judging their weights. We suggest that size-weight priors that influence weight perception change slowly because they are based on entire families of objects. Size-weight priors supporting action are more flexible, and adapt more rapidly, because they are tuned to specific objects and their current state.
The mechanisms by which the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster detects sweet compounds are poorly understood; however, a subset of the family of 68 gustatory receptors (Grs) has emerged as the key receptors. These seven transmembrane receptors include Gr5a and at least one member of the six genes in the Gr64 cluster (Gr64a), which are expressed in sugar-responsive neurons. Disruption of Gr5a prevents the detection of trehalose [1-3], whereas mutation of Gr64a impairs the responses to sucrose, maltose, and glucose [4, 5]. Recent studies suggest that these sugar receptors may require a coreceptor for function in vivo [4-6]; however, the identity of the putative coreceptor is not known. In the current work, we demonstrate that Gr64f is required in combination with Gr5a for the behavioral response to trehalose and for production of nerve responses to trehalose. Gr64f was also required in concert with Gr64a to rescue the defects in the sensitivities to sucrose, maltose, and glucose, resulting from deletion of the entire Gr64 cluster. These data suggest that Drosophila sugar receptors function as multimers and that Gr64f is required broadly as a coreceptor for the detection of sugars.


Sox2 is a high-mobility transcription factor that is one of the earliest markers of developing inner ear prosensory domains. In humans, mutations in SOX2 cause sensorineural hearing loss and a loss of function study in mice showed that Sox2 is required for prosensory formation in the cochlea. However, the specific roles of Sox2 have not been determined. Here we illustrate a dynamic role of Sox2 as an early permissive factor in prosensory domain formation followed by a mutually antagonistic relationship with Atoh1, a bHLH protein necessary for hair cell development. We demonstrate that decreased levels of Sox2 result in precocious hair cell differentiation and an over production of inner hair cells and that these effects are likely mediated through an antagonistic interaction between Sox2 and the bHLH molecule Atoh1. Using gain- and loss-of-function experiments we provide evidence for the molecular pathway responsible for the formation of the cochlear prosensory domain. Sox2 expression is promoted by Notch signaling and Prox1, a homeobox transcription factor, is a downstream target of Sox2. These results demonstrate crucial and diverse roles for Sox2 in the development, specification, and maintenance of sensory cells within the cochlea.
A new approach to quantitative single-molecule imaging by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) is presented. It relies on fluorescence intensity distribution to analyze the molecular occurrence statistics captured by digital imaging and enables direct determination of the number of fluorescent molecules and their diffusion rates without resorting to temporal or spatial autocorrelation analyses. Digital images of fluorescent molecules were recorded by using fast scanning and avalanche photodiode detectors. In this way the signal-to-background ratio was significantly improved, enabling direct quantitative imaging by CLSM. The potential of the proposed approach is demonstrated by using standard solutions of fluorescent dyes, fluorescently labeled DNA molecules, quantum dots, and the Enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein in solution and in live cells. The method was verified by using fluorescence correlation spectroscopy. The relevance for biological applications, in particular, for live cell imaging, is discussed.
Local circuits in the medial entorhinal cortex (mEC) and hippocampus generate gamma frequency population rhythms independently. Temporal interaction between these areas at gamma frequencies is implicated in memory-a phenomenon linked to activity of NMDA-subtype glutamate receptors. While blockade of NMDA receptors does not affect frequency of gamma rhythms in hippocampus, it exposes a second, lower frequency (25-35 Hz) gamma rhythm in mEC. In experiment and model, NMDA receptor-dependent mEC gamma rhythms were mediated by basket interneurons, but NMDA receptor-independent gamma rhythms were mediated by a novel interneuron subtype-the goblet cell. This cell was distinct from basket cells in morphology, intrinsic membrane properties and synaptic inputs. The two different gamma frequencies matched the different intrinsic frequencies in hippocampal areas CA3 and CA1, suggesting that NMDA receptor activation may control the nature of temporal interactions between mEC and hippocampus, thus influencing the pathway for information transfer between the two regions.


Mouse models of lysosomal storage diseases, including Sandhoff disease, are frequently employed to test therapies directed at the central nervous system. We backbred such mice and conducted a behavioral test battery which included sensorimotor and cognitive assessments. This is the first report of short-term memory deficits in a murine model of Sandhoff disease. We also document early onset of motor deficits using the balance beam test.
Electrical stimulation of the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray (dlPAG) and one of its target structures, the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), produces a typical behaviour in rats consisting of vigorous running and jumping which is known as &quot;escape behaviour&quot;. Escape behaviour in rodents closely mimics panic attacks in humans. Since electrical stimulation at higher frequencies generally inhibits the stimulated region, we tested in this study the hypothesis that deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the dlPAG and VMH at higher frequencies (&gt; 100 Hz) would not induce escape behaviour. More specifically, we evaluated whether experimental DBS could be used to inhibit panic-like behaviour. Rats underwent implantation of DBS-electrodes at the level of the dlPAG and VMH and the effects of various stimulation parameters were assessed. In addition, we studied the neural activation pattern resulting from DBS of the dlPAG and VMH using c-Fos immunohistochemistry. We found that stimulation amplitude is the most important stimulation parameter in the induction of escape behaviour. Remarkably, stimulation frequency (1-300 Hz) had no effect on stimulation-induced escape behaviour and therefore it was not possible to prevent the induction of escape behaviour with higher frequencies. The neuronal activation pattern resulting from dlPAG and VMH DBS was similar. These findings suggest that DBS of the dlPAG and VMH induces panic-related behaviours even at higher frequencies.
Apolipoprotein (apo) E4, one of three human apoE (h-apoE) isoforms, has been identified as a major genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease and for cognitive deficits associated with aging. However, the biological mechanisms involving apoE in learning and memory processes are unclear. A potential isoform-dependent role of apoE in cognitive processes was studied in human apoE targeted-replacement (TR) mice. These mice express either the human apoE3 or apoE4 gene under the control of endogenous murine apoE regulatory sequences, resulting in physiological expression of h-apoE in both a temporal and spatial pattern similar to humans. Male and female apoE3-TR, apoE4-TR, apoE-knockout and C57BL/6J mice (15-18 months) were tested with spatial memory and avoidance conditioning tasks. Compared to apoE3-TR mice, spatial memory in female apoE4-TR mice was impaired based on their poor performances in; (i) the probe test of the water-maze reference memory task, (ii) the water-maze working memory task and (iii) an active avoidance Y-maze task. Retention performance on a passive avoidance task was also impaired in apoE4-TR mice, but not in other genotypes. These deficits in both spatial and avoidance memory tasks may be related to the anatomical and functional abnormalities previously reported in the hippocampus and the amygdala of apoE4-TR mice. We conclude that the apoE4-TR mice provide an excellent model for understanding the mechanisms underlying apoE4-dependent susceptibility to cognitive decline.
LUZP is a leucine zipper-containing protein predominantly expressed in the brain. The functional significance of LUZP remains unknown. To explore the role of LUZP in brain development, a knockout mouse strain with a lacZ knock-in (Luzp-KO/lacZ-KI) has been established. LacZ reporter expression driven by the endogenous Luzp promoter was detected in the neuroepithelium and the cardiac tissue. Luzp(-/-) mice exhibited perinatal death, presumably due to the accompanied complex cardiovascular defects. Luzp(-/-) embryos displayed a cranial neural tube closure defect (NTD), with exposed brain tissues. Ectopic expression of Sonic-hedgehog, which is a protein known to be involved in neural tube closure, and elevated apoptosis were observed in the dorsal lateral neuroepithelium of the NTD Luzp(-/-) hindbrain. These findings assign a novel function of LUZP in the embryonic development of brain.
Chondroitin sulfate (CS) proteoglycans bind with various proteins through CS chains in a CS structure-dependent manner, in which oversulfated structures, such as iB (IdoA(2-O-sulfate)alpha1-3GalNAc(4-O-sulfate)), D (GlcA(2-O-sulfate)beta1-3GalNAc(6-O-sulfate)), and E (GlcAbeta1-3GalNAc(4,6-O-disulfate)) units constitute the critical functional module. In this study, we examined the expression and function of three CS sulfotransferases in the developing neocortex: uronyl 2-O-sulfotransferase (UST), N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfate 6-O-sulfotransferase (4,6-ST) and dermatan 4-O-sulfotransferase-1 (D4-ST), which are responsible for the synthesis of oversulfated structures. The CS chains of the neocortex of mouse embryos contained significant amounts of D and E units that are generated by UST and 4,6-ST, respectively. UST and 4,6-ST mRNAs were expressed in the ventricular and subventricular zones, and their expression increased during late embryonic development. In utero electroporation experiments indicated that knockdown of UST and 4,6-ST resulted in the disturbed migration of cortical neurons. The neurons electroporated with the short hairpin RNA constructs of UST and 4,6-ST accumulated in the lower intermediate zone and in the subventricular zone, showing a multipolar morphology. The cDNA constructs of UST and 4,6-ST rescued the defects caused by the RNA interference, and the neurons were able to migrate radially. On the other hand, knockdown of D4-ST, which is involved in the biosynthesis of the iB unit, caused no migratory defects. These results revealed that specific oversulfated structures in CS chains play critical roles in the migration of neuronal precursors during cortical development.
The ability to remove unwanted proteins is an important cellular feature. Classically, this involves the enzymatic addition of ubiquitin moieties followed by degradation in the proteasome. Nedd4 proteins are ubiquitin ligases important not only for protein degradation, but also for protein trafficking. Nedd4 proteins can bind to target proteins either by themselves or through adaptor protein Ndfip1 (Nedd4 family-interacting protein 1). An alternative mechanism for protein removal and trafficking is provided by exosomes, which are small vesicles (50-90-nm diameter) originating from late endosomes and multivesicular bodies (MVBs). Exosomes provide a rapid means of shedding obsolete proteins and also for cell to cell communication. In the present work, we show that Ndfip1 is detectable in exosomes secreted from transfected cells and also from primary neurons. Compared with control, Ndfip1 increases exosome secretion from transfected cells. Furthermore, while Nedd4, Nedd4-2, and Itch are normally absent from exosomes, expression of Ndfip1 results in recruitment of all three Nedd4 proteins into exosomes. Together, these results suggest that Ndfip1 is important for protein trafficking via exosomes, and provides a mechanism for cargoing passenger proteins such as Nedd4 family proteins. Given the positive roles of Ndfip1/Nedd4 in improving neuronal survival during brain injury, it is possible that exosome secretion provides a novel route for rapid sequestration and removal of proteins during stress.
Delta-catenin is a synaptic adherens junction protein pivotally positioned to serve as a signaling sensor and integrator. Expression of delta-catenin induces filopodia-like protrusions in neurons. Here we show that the small GTPases of the Rho family act coordinately as downstream effectors of delta-catenin. A dominant negative Rac prevented delta-catenin-induced protrusions, and Cdc42 activity was dramatically increased by delta-catenin expression. A kinase dead LIMK (LIM kinase) and a mutant Cofilin also prevented delta-catenin-induced protrusions. To link the effects of delta-catenin to a physiological pathway, we noted that (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors induced dendritic protrusions that are very similar to those induced by delta-catenin. Furthermore, delta-catenin RNA-mediated interference can block the induction of dendritic protrusions by DHPG. Interestingly, DHPG dissociated PSD-95 and N-cadherin from the delta-catenin complex, increased the association of delta-catenin with Cortactin, and induced the phosphorylation of delta-catenin within the sites that bind to these protein partners.
FFA2 and FFA3 are closely related G protein-coupled receptors that bind and respond to short chain fatty acids. (FFA2 and FFA3 are the provisional International Union of Pharmacology designations for the receptors previously called GPR43 and GPR41, respectively.) Sequence comparisons between these two receptors and alignments with the related G protein-coupled receptor FFA1, linked to homology modeling based on the atomic level structure of bovine rhodopsin, indicated the potential for polar residues within the transmembrane helix bundle to play important roles in ligand recognition and function. In both FFA2 and FFA3, mutation of either an arginine at the top of transmembrane domain V or a second arginine at the top of transmembrane domain VII eliminated the function of a range of short chain fatty acids. Mutation of a histidine in transmembrane domain VI, predicted to be in proximity to both the arginine residues, also eliminated function in many but not all assay formats. By contrast, mutation of a histidine in transmembrane domain IV, predicted to be lower in the binding pocket, modulated function in some assays of FFA3 function but had limited effects on the function of acetate and propionate at FFA2. Interestingly, wild type FFA3 responded to caproate, whereas FFA2 did not. Mutation of the transmembrane domain IV histidine eliminated responses of FFA3 to caproate but resulted in a gain of function of FFA2 to this six-carbon fatty acid. These data demonstrate the importance of positively charged residues in the recognition and/or function of short chain fatty acids in both FFA2 and FFA3. The development of small molecule ligands that interact selectively with these receptors will allow further details of the binding pockets to be elucidated.
S. E. Guttman, L. A. Gilroy, and R. Blake (2005) investigated whether observers could perform temporal grouping in multi-element displays where each local element was stochastically modulated over time along one of several potential dimensions--or &quot;messenger types&quot;--such as contrast, position, orientation, or spatial scale. Guttman et al.'s data revealed that grouping discards messenger type and therefore support a single-pathway model that groups elements with similar temporal waveforms. In the current study, we carried out three experiments in which temporal-grouping information resided either in the carrier, the envelope, or the combined carrier and envelope of each messenger's timecourse. Results revealed that grouping is highly specific for messenger type if carrier envelopes lack grouping information but largely messenger nonspecific if carrier envelopes contain grouping information. These imply that temporal grouping is mediated by several messenger-specific carrier pathways as well as by a messenger-nonspecific envelope pathways. Findings also challenge simple temporal-filtering accounts of perceptual grouping (E. H. Adelson &amp; H. Farid, 1999).
The neuroprotective effects of estrogen in young adult rodents are well established. Less well understood is how estrogen neuroprotection is affected by aging and interactions with progesterone. In this study, we investigated the effects of estrogen and continuous progesterone, both alone and in combination, on hippocampal neuron survival following kainate lesion in 14-month-old female rats entering reproductive senescence. Our results show that ovariectomy-induced hormone depletion did not significantly affect the extent of kainate-induced neuron loss. Treatment of ovariectomized rats with estrogen significantly reduced neuron loss, however this effect was blocked by co-administration of continuous progesterone. Treatment of ovariectomized rats with progesterone alone did not significantly affect kainate toxicity. These results provide new insight into factors that regulate estrogen neuroprotection, which has important implications for hormone therapy in postmenopausal women.
Anchoring is a judgmental bias that final judgments are assimilated toward the starting point of the judge's deliberations. The anchoring-and-adjustment heuristic holds that anchoring bias is caused by insufficient adjustment. With the manipulation of some subjective factors, previous research found that anchoring is an effortful process. However, there is little evidence supporting that the effortful process is an adjustment process. In the present work, number accuracy was introduced as an objective factor which involves in an adjustment process. An event-related brain potential (ERP) experiment on young normal subjects examined the impact of number accuracy on anchoring processes responding to anchors which were generated by subjects themselves. A dot-image paradigm was firstly employed to explore anchoring effects. Behavioral results found less accurate anchors which determined a coarser mental scale diminished the anchoring biases responding to self-generated anchors. A positive deflection at 250-800 ms after target onset can be taken as a direct electrophysiological evidence of the adjustment process, whose amplitude was more positive on more accurate anchors condition. The present results further support that people adjust upwards or downwards on a mental scale from the self-generated anchor, which is consistent with the adjustment heuristics.
Mental retardation is seen in all individuals with Down syndrome (DS) and different brain abnormalities are reported. The aim of this study was to investigate if mental retardation at least in part is a result of a lower cell number in the neocortical part of the human fetal forebrain. We therefore compared brains of DS fetuses aged 19 weeks of gestation with normal control brains. The cell numbers were estimated using the optical fractionator method. The total cell number in the neocortical part of four DS human fetal forebrain was found to be substantially smaller in DS compared to the normal fetus. The average total cell number of 6.85 billion was equal to a reduction by 34% compared to the 10.4 billion cells in a normal fetal brain of that age. This study indicates that the mental retardation found in DS is based on a structural deficit in the human fetal brain already present in the second trimester.
Several species of Mormyrid weakly electric fish have a mobile chin protuberance that serves as a mobile antenna during prey detection, tracking behaviors, and foraging for food. It has been proposed that it constitutes a fovea of the electrosensory system. The distribution of the three types of receptor organs involved in active imaging of the local surroundings, prey detection, and passive electroreception, and their central projection to the electrosensory lobe (ELL), have been studied in Gnathonemus petersii. Density distributions were compared for different body regions. Primary afferent projections were labeled with biocytin or biotinylated dextrans. This showed that there is considerable central &quot;over-representation&quot; of the mandibular and nasal regions of the sensory surface involved in electrolocation, at the expense of the other body regions investigated. This over-representation is not a mere effect of the very high density of receptor organs in these areas, but is found to be due to central magnification. This magnification differs between the subclasses of electroreceptors, suggesting a functional segregation in the brain. We conclude that the chin protuberance and the nasal region are the regions of greatest sensitivity for the resistive, capacitive, and low-frequency characteristics of the environment, and are probably most important in prey detection, whereas other regions of the skin with a lesser resolution and sensitivity to phase distortion of the EOD, in particular the trunk, are probably designed for imaging larger, inanimate features of the environment. Our data support the hypothesis that the chin appendage and nasal region are functionally distinct electrosensory foveae.


Estrogens are potent modulators of the nervous system. In particular, 17beta-estradiol was shown to affect GABAergic synaptic transmission in hippocampus of adult animals in vivo but much less is known on the impact of this hormone on the GABAergic system in the developing brains. We have recently shown that phasic and tonic GABAergic transmissions are strongly modulated upon long-term treatment with exogenous 17beta-estradiol in hippocampal neurons developing in vitro. To check for the long-term estrogen effect in a more physiological developmental model, we have investigated the GABAergic transmission in developing brains of P7-P40 animals, injected daily with 17beta-estradiol. We have found that such a treatment clearly increased GABAergic mIPSC frequency and amplitude while the onset and decay of mIPSCs were shortened. These effects were statistically significant in the youngest considered age group (P7-P13) with a tendency to disappear in older animals. Long-term treatment with estradiol did not change the susceptibility of mIPSC amplitude to upregulation by flurazepam while mIPSC decay was prolonged by this drug to a larger extent in 17beta-estradiol-treated animals. 17beta-estradiol strongly upregulated GABAergic tonic current but again this effect was restricted to the youngest group of animals. We conclude that 17beta-estradiol strongly modulates the GABAergic synaptic transmission but this effect critically depends on the animal age being the most prominent in youngest animals.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), a member of the transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) superfamily, is a potent neurotrophic protein promoting the survival and maintenance of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra during development and adulthood. DA neurons that project to the striatum in the nigrostriatal pathway express GDNF receptors, GFR alpha1. The purpose of this study was to determine whether these neurons are especially sensitive to neurotoxic insults. Therefore, we examined effects of the dopaminergic toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) on locomotion and DA neurons in 26-month-old male GFR alpha1 heterozygous (GFR alpha1(+/-)) mice compared to aged-matched wild-type (WT) littermates. MPTP gave rise to increased locomotion, regardless of genotype, while GFR alpha1(+/-) mice treated with saline exhibited lower spontaneous locomotion, compared to WT mice. Moreover, GFR alpha1(+/-) saline mice had fewer TH-positive neurons, greater expression of inflammatory markers (CD45 immunostaining and phosphorylated p38 MAPK) in the nigra, and reduced striatal TH staining. MPTP exacerbated these effects, with the lowest density of striatal TH and highest density of nigral CD45 and phospho-p38 MAPK immunoreactivity observed in GFR alpha1(+/-) mice. The findings point to increased sensitivity of the DAergic system with age and neurotoxic exposure as a result of a genetic reduction of GFR alpha1.
Epilepsy is a serious neurological disorder in human beings and the long-term pathological events remain largely obscure. We are interested in elucidating long-term brain injury that may occur in the temporal lobe epilepsy, and time-course of neuronal death was examined in a mouse pilocarpine model of chronic epilepsy by Fluoro-Jade C (FJC) dye that can specifically stain the degenerative neurons in the central nervous system. The FJC stain combined with immunohistochemistry to neuronal nuclear specific protein revealed that pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) resulted in massive degenerative death of neuronal cells in brains with their dense distribution in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. The FJC-positive degenerating neurons, most of them also expressed apoptosis signaling molecules such as caspase-9 and activated caspase-3, occurred at 4h, increased into peak levels at 12h-3d, and then gradually went down at 7d-14d after onset of SE. More interestingly, a large percentage (about 88%) of FJC-positive degenerative neurons were GABAergic as indicated with their immunoreactivity to glutamic acid decarboxylase-67, implying that inhibitory function of GABAergic neural system might by seriously damaged in brains subject to SE attack in this mouse pilocarpine model. Taken together with previous studies, time-course of degenerative neurons in the mouse pilocarpine model by Fluoro-Jade C staining further benefits understanding of long-term brain pathological changes and recurrent seizure mechanism, and may also result in finding the most suitable time-window in therapeutic manipulation of the chronic epilepsy in human beings.
We investigated the efficacy of SONU20176289, a member of a group of novel phenylpiperazine derivatives with a mixed dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonist and specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) activity, in a chronic stress model of depression in male tree shrews. Animals were subjected to a 7-day period of psychosocial stress before treatment for 28 days with SONU20176289 (6 mg/kg/day, p.o.), during which stress was maintained. Stress reduced the in vivo brain concentrations of N-acetyl-aspartate, total creatine, and choline-containing compounds, as measured by localized proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Post mortem analyses revealed a reduced adult dentate cell proliferation and a decreased GluR2 expression in the prefrontal cortex. All these alterations were prevented by concomitant administration of SONU20176289. The results provide further support to the concept that antidepressant treatments may act by normalizing disturbed neuroplasticity, and indicate that combining dopamine D(2) receptor agonism with SSRI activity may serve as an effective tool in the treatment of depressive/anxiety syndromes.
Many biochemical networks are robust to variations in network or stimulus parameters. Although robustness is considered an important design principle of such networks, it is not known whether this principle also applies to higher-level biological processes such as animal behavior. In thermal gradients, Caenorhabditis elegans uses thermotaxis to bias its movement along the direction of the gradient. Here we develop a detailed, quantitative map of C. elegans thermotaxis and use these data to derive a computational model of thermotaxis in the soil, a natural environment of C. elegans. This computational analysis indicates that thermotaxis enables animals to avoid temperatures at which they cannot reproduce, to limit excursions from their adapted temperature, and to remain relatively close to the surface of the soil, where oxygen is abundant. Furthermore, our analysis reveals that this mechanism is robust to large variations in the parameters governing both worm locomotion and temperature fluctuations in the soil. We suggest that, similar to biochemical networks, animals evolve behavioral strategies that are robust, rather than strategies that rely on fine tuning of specific behavioral parameters.
The P300 component of the human event-related brain potential has often been linked to the processing of rare, surprising events. However, the formal computational processes underlying the generation of the P300 are not well known. Here, we formulate a simple model of trial-by-trial learning of stimulus probabilities based on Information Theory. Specifically, we modeled the surprise associated with the occurrence of a visual stimulus to provide a formal quantification of the &quot;subjective probability&quot; associated with an event. Subjects performed a choice reaction time task, while we recorded their brain responses using electroencephalography (EEG). In each of 12 blocks, the probabilities of stimulus occurrence were changed, thereby creating sequences of trials with low, medium, and high predictability. Trial-by-trial variations in the P300 component were best explained by a model of stimulus-bound surprise. This model accounted for the data better than a categorical model that parametrically encoded the stimulus identity, or an alternative model of surprise based on the Kullback-Leibler divergence. The present data demonstrate that trial-by-trial changes in P300 can be explained by predictions made by an ideal observer keeping track of the probabilities of possible events. This provides evidence for theories proposing a direct link between the P300 component and the processing of surprising events. Furthermore, this study demonstrates how model-based analyses can be used to explain significant proportions of the trial-by-trial changes in human event-related EEG responses.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by the degeneration of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Activation of the mixed lineage kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) has been reported in models of PD. Our focus was to discern whether distinct pathways were activated in cell-specific manner within the SNpc. We now demonstrate the selective phosphorylation of p38 MAP kinase within the dopaminergic neurons, whereas JNK activation occurs predominantly in the microglia. p38 activation results in downstream phosphorylation of p53 and increased p53 mediated transcription of Bax and Puma in the ventral midbrain. Treatment with p38 inhibitor, SB239063 protected primary dopaminergic neurons derived from human progenitor cells from MPP(+) mediated cell death and prevented the downstream phosphorylation of p53 and its translocation to the nucleus in vivo, in the ventral midbrain. The increased staining of phosphorylated p38 in the surviving neurons of SNpc in human brain sections from patients with PD and in MPTP treated mice but not in the ventral tegmental area provides further evidence suggesting a role for p38 in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons of SNpc. We thus demonstrate the cell specific activation of MAP kinase pathways within the SNpc after MPTP treatment emphasizing the role of multiple signaling cascades in the pathogenesis and progression of the disease. Selective inhibitors of p38 may therefore, help preserve the surviving neurons in PD and slow down the disease progression.
Inflammation influences several steps of adult neurogenesis, but whether it regulates the functional integration of the new neurons is unknown. Here, we explored, using confocal microscopy and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, whether a chronic inflammatory environment affects the morphological and electrophysiological properties of new dentate gyrus granule cells, labeled with a retroviral vector encoding green fluorescent protein. Rats were exposed to intrahippocampal injection of lipopolysaccharide, which gave rise to long-lasting microglia activation. Inflammation caused no changes in intrinsic membrane properties, location, dendritic arborization, or spine density and morphology of the new cells. Excitatory synaptic drive increased to the same extent in new and mature cells in the inflammatory environment, suggesting increased network activity in hippocampal neural circuitries of lipopolysaccharide-treated animals. In contrast, inhibitory synaptic drive was more enhanced by inflammation in the new cells. Also, larger clusters of the postsynaptic GABA(A) receptor scaffolding protein gephyrin were found on dendrites of new cells born in the inflammatory environment. We demonstrate for the first time that inflammation influences the functional integration of adult-born hippocampal neurons. Our data indicate a high degree of synaptic plasticity of the new neurons in the inflammatory environment, which enables them to respond to the increase in excitatory input with a compensatory upregulation of activity and efficacy at their afferent inhibitory synapses.
Activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) signaling after stroke may reduce brain injury, but this effect will depend on the levels of receptor and cofactors. Here, we showed that the direct effect of PPARgamma signaling to protect neurons from ischemic injury requires a novel cofactor LMO4, because this effect was lost in LMO4-null cortical neurons. PPARgamma agonist also failed to reduce cerebral infarction after transient focal ischemia in CaMKIIalphaCre/LMO4loxP mice with LMO4 ablated in neurons of the forebrain. Expressing LMO4 in LMO4-null cortical neurons rescued the PPARgamma-protective effect. PPARgamma signaling activates the promoter of the antioxidant gene SOD2 and this process requires LMO4. Addition of a superoxide dismutase mimetic MnTBAP [manganese(III)tetrakis(4-benzoic acid)porphyrin] bypassed the deficiency in PPARgamma signaling and was able to directly rescue LMO4-null cortical neurons from ischemic injury. Like LMO4, PPARgamma and PGC1alpha (PPARgamma coactivator 1alpha) levels in neurons are elevated by hypoxic stress, and absence of LMO4 impairs their upregulation. Coimmunoprecipitation and mammalian two-hybrid assays revealed that LMO4 interacts in a ligand-dependent manner with PPARgamma. LMO4 augments PPARgamma-dependent gene activation, in part, by promoting RXRalpha (retinoid X receptor-alpha) binding to PPARgamma and by increasing PPARgamma binding to its target DNA sequence. Together, our results identify LMO4 as an essential hypoxia-inducible cofactor required for PPARgamma signaling in neurons. Thus, upregulation of LMO4 expression after stroke is likely to be an important determinant of neuron survival.
Rho GTPases activated by GDP/GTP exchange factors (GEFs) play key roles in the developing and adult nervous system. Kalirin-7 (Kal7), the predominant adult splice form of the multifunctional Kalirin RhoGEF, includes a PDZ [postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95)/Discs large (Dlg)/zona occludens-1 (ZO-1)] binding domain and localizes to the postsynaptic side of excitatory synapses. In vitro studies demonstrated that overexpression of Kal7 increased dendritic spine density, whereas reduced expression of endogenous Kal7 decreased spine density. To evaluate the role of Kal7 in vivo, mice lacking the terminal exon unique to Kal7 were created. Mice lacking both copies of the Kal7 exon (Kal7(KO)) grew and reproduced normally. Golgi impregnation and electron microscopy revealed decreased hippocampal spine density in Kal7(KO) mice. Behaviorally, Kal7(KO) mice showed decreased anxiety-like behavior in the elevated zero maze and impaired acquisition of a passive avoidance task, but normal behavior in open field, object recognition, and radial arm maze tasks. Kal7(KO) mice were deficient in hippocampal long-term potentiation. Western blot analysis confirmed the absence of Kal7 and revealed compensatory increases in larger Kalirin isoforms. PSDs purified from the cortices of Kal7(KO) mice showed a deficit in Cdk5, a kinase known to phosphorylate Kal7 and play an essential role in synaptic function. The early stages of excitatory synaptic development proceeded normally in cortical neurons prepared from Kal7(KO) mice, with decreased excitatory synapses apparent only after 21 d in vitro. Expression of exogenous Kal7 in Kal7(KO) neurons rescued this deficit. Kal7 plays an essential role in synaptic structure and function, affecting a subset of cognitive processes.
In mammals, most sensory information passes through the thalamus before reaching cortex. In the rat whisker system, each macrovibrissa is represented by approximately 250 neurons in the ventral posterior medial nucleus (VPM) of the thalamus and approximately 10,000 neurons in a cortical barrel column. Here we quantify the sensory impact of individual thalamic neurons in the rat VPM. We first trained animals to report microstimulation of VPM. All animals learned to report microstimulation currents of 2-5 microA. We then evoked action potentials (APs) in single thalamic neurons close to the microstimulation site using juxtacellular stimulation, adding on average 17.8 APs to 2.6 spontaneous APs during 200 ms current applications. A population analysis revealed that animals responded equally often in single-cell stimulation trials as in catch trials without stimulation, suggesting that APs of single thalamic cells in VPM lead to either no or only a very weak perceptual effect. These results are surprising given the relatively small number of VPM neurons and our previous observations that single neurons in other parts of the vibrissal system do have an impact on perception or motor output. Our findings therefore suggest that neural representations in whisker thalamus are more distributed than in other whisker-related structures.
We investigated how a neural analog of a form of arousal induced by a mildly noxious stimulus can promote two antagonistic responses, locomotion and feeding. Two pairs of cerebral serotonergic interneurons in Aplysia, CC9 and CC10, were persistently activated by transient noxious stimuli. Direct stimulation of CC9-10 activated locomotor activity that outlasted the stimulation and enhanced subsequent nerve-evoked locomotor programs. Thus, CC9-10 function both as initiators and as modulators of the locomotor network. CC9-10 also interacted with the feeding circuit but in a fundamentally different manner. CC9-10 did not directly trigger feeding activity or activate feeding command or pattern generating interneurons. CC9-10 did, however, elicit slow EPSPs in serotonergic cells that modulate feeding responses, the metacerebral cells (MCCs). CC9-10 persistently enhanced MCC excitability, but did not activate the MCCs directly. Previous work has demonstrated that the MCCs are activated during food ingestion via a sensory neuron C2. Interestingly, we found that CC9-10 stimulation converted subthreshold C2 mediated excitation of the MCC into suprathreshold excitation. Transient noxious stimuli also enhanced MCC excitability, and this was largely mediated by CC9-10. To summarize, CC9-10 exert actions on the feeding network, but their functional effects appear to be conditional on the presence of food-related inputs to the MCCs. A potential advantage of this arrangement is that it may prevent conflicting responses from being directly evoked by noxious stimuli while also facilitating the ability of food-related stimuli to generate feeding responses in the aftermath of noxious stimulation.
The aggregation of abnormally folded proteins is a defining feature of neurodegenerative disease, but it has not previously been possible to assess the conformation of these proteins in a physiologically relevant context, before they form morphologically recognizable aggregates. We now describe FRET-based reporters for the conformation of alpha-synuclein, a protein central to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Characterization in vitro shows that alpha-synuclein adopts a relatively &quot;closed&quot; conformation in solution that converts to &quot;open&quot; on membrane binding. In living cells, the closed conformation predominates. In neurons, however, cell bodies contain a much larger proportion of the open conformation than synaptic boutons. To account for these differences, we also used the reporters to characterize the interaction with native membranes. We find that the conformation of alpha-synuclein responds selectively to mitochondria, indicating a direct link between alpha-synuclein and an organelle strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of PD.
Converging evidence implicates striatal dopamine (DA) in reinforcement learning, such that DA increases enhance &quot;Go learning&quot; to pursue actions with rewarding outcomes, whereas DA decreases enhance &quot;NoGo learning&quot; to avoid non-rewarding actions. Here we test whether these effects apply to the response time domain. We employ a novel paradigm which requires the adjustment of response times to a single response. Reward probability varies as a function of response time, whereas reward magnitude changes in the opposite direction. In the control condition, these factors exactly cancel, such that the expected value across time is constant (CEV). In two other conditions, expected value increases (IEV) or decreases (DEV), such that reward maximization requires either speeding up (Go learning) or slowing down (NoGo learning) relative to the CEV condition. We tested patients with Parkinson's disease (depleted striatal DA levels) on and off dopaminergic medication, compared with age-matched controls. While medicated, patients were better at speeding up in the DEV relative to CEV conditions. Conversely, nonmedicated patients were better at slowing down to maximize reward in the IEV condition. These effects of DA manipulation on cumulative Go/NoGo response time adaptation were captured with our a priori computational model of the basal ganglia, previously applied only to forced-choice tasks. There were also robust trial-to-trial changes in response time, but these single trial adaptations were not affected by disease or medication and are posited to rely on extrastriatal, possibly prefrontal, structures.
The dentate hilus has been extensively studied in relation to its potential role in memory and in temporal lobe epilepsy. Little is known, however, about the synapses formed between the two major cell types in this region, glutamatergic mossy cells and hilar interneurons, or the organization of local circuits involving these cells. Using triple and quadruple simultaneous intracellular recordings in rat hippocampal slices, we find that mossy cells evoke EPSPs with high failure rates onto hilar neurons. Mossy cells show profound synapse specificity; 87.5% of their intralamellar connections are onto hilar interneurons. Hilar interneurons also show synapse specificity and preferentially inhibit mossy cells; 81% of inhibitory hilar synapses are onto mossy cells. Hilar IPSPs have low failure rates, are blocked by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist gabazine, and exhibit short-term depression when tested at 17 Hz. Surprisingly, more than half (57%) of the mossy cell synapses we found onto interneurons were part of reciprocal excitatory/inhibitory local circuit motifs. Neither the high degree of target cell specificity, nor the significant enrichment of structured polysynaptic local circuit motifs, could be explained by nonrandom sampling or somatic proximity. Intralamellar hilar synapses appear to function primarily by integrating synchronous inputs and presynaptic burst discharges, allowing hilar cells to respond over a large dynamic range of input strengths. The reciprocal mossy cell/interneuron local circuit motifs we find enriched in the hilus may generate sparse neural representations involved in hippocampal memory operations.
How the brain processes temporal information embedded in sounds is a core question in auditory research. This article synthesizes recent studies from our laboratory regarding neural representations of time-varying signals in auditory cortex and thalamus in awake marmoset monkeys. Findings from these studies show that 1) the primary auditory cortex (A1) uses a temporal representation to encode slowly varying acoustic signals and a firing rate-based representation to encode rapidly changing acoustic signals, 2) the dual temporal-rate representation in A1 represent a progressive transformation from the auditory thalamus, 3) firing rate-based representations in the form of a monotonic rate-code are also found to encode slow temporal repetitions in the range of acoustic flutter in A1 and more prevalently in the cortical fields rostral to A1 in the core region of the marmoset auditory cortex, suggesting further temporal-to-rate transformations in higher cortical areas. These findings indicate that the auditory cortex forms internal representations of temporal characteristic structures. We suggest that such transformations are necessary for the auditory cortex to perform a wide range of functions including sound segmentation, object processing and multi-sensory integration.
The variability in the behavioral outcome of human and nonhuman animals after stroke raises the question whether the way that a stroke occurs is a contributing factor. Photothrombotic stroke in rats has been reported to produce especially variable results, with some animals showing either slight to no impairment to other animals displaying severe impairments. The present study investigated this variability. Rats received three different-sized photothrombotic treatments and were contrasted to rats receiving a &quot;standard&quot; motor cortex stroke produced by pial stripping. Rats were assessed acutely and chronically on a skilled reaching for food task using end-point measures and movement assessment in a constraint-induced rehabilitation paradigm. The results indicated that as the size of the photothrombotic infarct approached the size of the pial strip infarct so did chronic behavioral deficits. Nevertheless there were differences in the time course of recovery. Rats with photothrombotic lesions of all sizes were less impaired in the acute period of recovery both on measures of learned nonuse and constrained-induced recovery. The findings are discussed in relation to the idea that whereas the course of recovery might be altered as a function of the type of stroke, chronic deficits are more closely related to the ensuing damage.
Glutamate and norepinephrine (NE) are believed to mediate the long-lasting synaptic plasticity in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) that underlies pheromone recognition memory. The mechanisms by which these neurotransmitters bring about the synaptic changes are not clearly understood. In order to study signals that mediate synaptic plasticity in the AOB, we used AOB neurons in primary culture as a model system. Because induction of pheromone memory requires coincident glutamatergic and noradrenergic input to the AOB, and requires new protein synthesis, we reasoned that glutamate and NE must induce gene expression in the AOB. We used a combination of agonists that stimulate alpha1 and alpha2 adrenergic receptors in combination with N-methyl-d-aspartic acid and tested expression of the immediate-early gene (IEG) c-Fos. We found that the glutamatergic and noradrenergic stimulation caused significant induction of c-Fos mRNA and protein. Induction of c-Fos was significantly reduced in the presence of inhibitors of protein kinase C, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phospholipase C. These results suggest that glutamate and NE induce gene expression in the AOB through a signaling pathway mediated by protein kinase C and MAPK.
In adult rats, acute nicotine, the major psychoactive ingredient in tobacco smoke, stimulates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA), resulting in activation of brain areas involved in stress and anxiety-linked behavior. However, in rat pups the first two postnatal weeks are characterized by hypo-responsiveness to stress, also called the 'stress non-responsive period' (SNRP). Therefore, we wanted to address the question if acute nicotine stimulates areas involved in the stress response during SNRP. To determine neuronal activation, the expression of the immediate-early genes c-fos and activity-regulated cytoskeletal associated protein (Arc) was studied in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), bed nucleus stria terminalis (BST) and paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN), which are areas involved in the neuroendocrine and central stress response. Rat pups received nicotine tartrate (2 mg/kg) or saline by i.p. injection at postnatal days (P) 5, 7 and 10 and their brains were removed after 30 min. We used semi-quantitative radioactive in situ hybridization with gene specific antisense cRNA probes in coronal sections. In control pups, c-fos expression was low in most brain regions, but robust Arc hybridization was found in several areas including cingulate cortex, hippocampus and caudate. Acute nicotine resulted in significant induction of c-fos expression in the PVN and CeA at P5, P7 and P10, and in the BST at P7 and P10. Acute nicotine significantly induced expression of Arc in CeA at P5, P7 and P10, and in the BST at P10. In conclusion, acute nicotine age dependently activated different brain areas of the HPA axis during the SNRP. After P7, the response was more pronounced and included the BST, suggesting differential maturation of the HPA axis in response to nicotine.
Prenatal dietary sodium restriction produces profound developmental effects on rat functional taste responses and formation of neural circuits in the brainstem. Converging evidence indicates that the underlying mechanisms for these effects are related to a compromised nutritional state and not to direct stimulus-receptor interactions. We explored whether early malnourishment produces similar functional and structural effects to those seen following dietary sodium restriction by using a protein deficient, sodium replete diet. To determine if early dietary protein-restriction affects the development of the peripheral gustatory system, multi-fiber neurophysiological recordings were made from the chorda tympani nerve and anterograde track tracing of the chorda tympani nerve into the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) was accomplished in rats fed a protein-restricted or a control diet (6% and 20%, respectively). The dietary regimens began on embryonic day 7 and continued until rats were used for neurophysiological recordings (postnatal days (P) 35-50) or for chorda tympani terminal field labeling (P40-50). Responses to a concentration series of NaCl, sodium acetate, KCl, and to 0.50 M sucrose, 0.03 M quinine-HCl, and 0.01 N HCl revealed attenuated responses (30-60%) to sodium-specific stimuli in rats fed the 6% protein diet compared with those fed the 20% protein diet. Responses to all other stimuli were similar between groups. Terminal field volumes were nearly twofold larger in protein-restricted rats compared with controls, with the differences located primarily in the dorsal-caudal zone of the terminal field. These results are similar to the results seen previously in rats fed a sodium-restricted diet throughout pre- and postnatal development, suggesting that dietary sodium- and protein-restriction share similar mechanisms in altering gustatory development.
To improve behavior, one must detect errors and initiate subsequent corrective adaptations. This action monitoring process has been widely studied, but little is known about how one may improve this aspect of cognition. To examine the relationship between cardiorespiratory fitness and action monitoring, we recorded the error-related negativity (ERN), an event-related brain potential believed to index action monitoring, as well as post-error behavioral indices of action monitoring from healthy young adults (18-25 years) who varied in cardiorespiratory fitness. These measures were collected during the execution of flanker tasks emphasizing response accuracy or speed to better assess the specificity of any potential relationships between fitness and action monitoring. Higher fitness was associated with greater post-error accuracy and ERN amplitude during task conditions emphasizing accuracy, as well as greater modulation of these indices across task instruction conditions. These findings suggest that higher fitness is associated with increased cognitive flexibility, evidenced through greater change in action monitoring indices as a function of task parameters. Thus, fitness may benefit action monitoring by selectively increasing cognitive control under conditions where error detection and performance adjustments are more salient.
Glycine is an inhibitory neurotransmitter activating a chloride conductance in the mammalian CNS. In vitro studies from brain slices revealed a novel presynaptic site of glycine action in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) which increases the release of the excitatory transmitter glutamate from the calyx of Held. Here, we investigate the action of glycine on action potential firing of single MNTB neurons from the gerbil under acoustic stimulation in vivo. Iontophoretic application of the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine caused a significant decrease in spontaneous and sound-evoked firing rates throughout the neurons' excitatory response areas, with the largest changes at the respective characteristic frequency (CF). The decreased firing rate was accompanied by longer and more variable onset latencies of sound-evoked responses. Outside the neurons' excitatory response areas, firing rates increased during the application of strychnine due to a reduction of inhibitory sidebands, causing a broadening of frequency tuning. These results indicate that glycine enhances the efficacy for on-CF stimuli, while simultaneously suppressing synaptic transmission for off-CF stimuli. These in vivo results provide evidence of multiple excitatory and inhibitory glycine effects on the same neuronal population in the mature mammalian CNS.
Recent studies suggest that tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) sensitizes primary afferent neurons, and thus facilitates neuropathic pain. Here, we separately examined the roles of tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) 1 and 2 by parallel in vivo and in vitro paradigms using proteins that selectively activate TNFR1 or TNFR2 (R1 and R2). In vivo, intrathecally injected R1, but not R2 slightly reduced mechanical and thermal withdrawal thresholds in rats, whereas co-injection resulted in robust, at least additive pain-associated behavior. In vitro, the electrophysiological responses of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from rats with spinal nerve ligation were measured utilizing single-fiber recordings of teased dorsal root filaments. In nave DRG, only R1 (10-1000 pg/ml) induced firing in Ass- and Adelta-fibers, whereas R2 had no effect. In injured DRG, both R1 and R2 at significantly lower concentrations (1 pg/ml) increased discharge rates of Adelta-fibers. Most interesting, in adjacent uninjured DRG, R2 and not R1, increased ectopic activity in both Ass- and Adelta-fibers. We conclude that TNFR1 may be predominantly involved in the excitation of sensory neurons and induction of pain behavior in the absence of nerve injury, TNFR2 may contribute in the presence of TNFR1 activation. Importantly, the effects of individually applied R1 and R2 on injured and adjacent uninjured fibers imply that the role of TNFR2 in the excitation of sensory neurons increases after injury.

Noradrenergic (NE) excitatory drive maintains activity of hypoglossal (XII) motoneurons during wakefulness. In predisposed persons, sleep-related decrements of NE cell activity may contribute to hypotonia of upper airway muscles innervated by XII motoneurons. The goal of this study was to determine whether NE neurons of the pontine A7 group, an anatomically identified source of NE projections to the XII nucleus, provide significant, endogenous NE excitatory drive to XII motoneurons. In anesthetized rats, we microinjected clonidine (0.75 mM, 20-40 nl), an alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist that inhibits pontine NE cells, aiming at the A7 region. Nine injections were placed within 0.4 mm from the A7 group identified using tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry: they reduced XII nerve activity by 31.3+/-2.8% (standard error) and decreased the central respiratory rate by 6%. Another 21 injections, including eight placed near NE cells of the sub-coeruleus region, were made at distances over 0.5 mm from the A7 group and they did not alter either XII nerve activity or respiratory rate. In control experiments, clonidine injections into the A7 group preceded by injections of an alpha(2)-receptor antagonist, RS-79948, did not change XII nerve activity. Four experiments with unilateral clonidine injections into the A7 region and with Fos immunohistochemistry used as a marker of cell activity revealed that the percentage of Fos-positive A7 cells was significantly reduced on the injected side. There was also a significant positive correlation between Fos expression in A7 cells and XII nerve activity. Thus, decrements of NE excitatory drive from the A7 group may significantly reduce XII nerve activity. In obstructive sleep apnea patients, in whom the muscles innervated by XII motoneurons act as upper airway dilators, this may contribute to sleep-related respiratory disorders.
Despite the well-established sympathoexcitation evoked by chemoreflex activation, the specific sub-regions of the CNS underlying such sympathetic responses remain to be fully characterized. In the present study we examined the effects of intermittent chemoreflex activation in awake rats on Fos-immunoreactivity (Fos-ir) in various subnuclei of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), as well as in identified neurosecretory preautonomic PVN neurons. In response to intermittent chemoreflex activation, a significant increase in the number of Fos-ir cells was found in autonomic-related PVN subnuclei, including the posterior parvocellular, ventromedial parvocellular and dorsal-cap, but not in the neurosecretory magnocellular-containing lateral magnocellular subnucleus. No changes in Fos-ir following chemoreflex activation were observed in the anterior PVN subnucleus. Experiments combining Fos immunohistochemistry and neuronal tract tracing techniques showed a significant increase in Fos-ir in rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM)-projecting (PVN-RVLM), but not in nucleus of solitarii tract (NTS)-projecting PVN neurons. In summary, our results support the involvement of the PVN in the central neuronal circuitry activated in response to chemoreflex activation, and indicate that PVN-RVLM neurons constitute a neuronal substrate contributing to the sympathoexcitatory component of the chemoreflex.
Intermodal selective attention is generally associated with facilitation of relevant information. However, recent studies demonstrate reduced activation of primary somatosensory cortex (S1) with continuous vibrotactile tracking during bimodal stimulation. Reduced activation has been hypothesized to reflect an interaction between the sensorimotor and intermodal requirements of the tracking task. Recently, it has been shown that transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) involving a supra-threshold test stimulus (TS) preceded by a sub-threshold conditioning stimulus (CS) adversely affects tactile perception by altering excitability of local intracortical circuits. The purpose of the current paper was to use TMS to assess the effects of differential sensorimotor requirements in the right sensorimotor cortex upon local intracortical networks and sensory processing in the left primary somatosensory cortex during constant multimodal stimulation. Single and paired-pulse TMS was used to probe intracortical networks in S1 and sensory processing during a sensorimotor task where a vibrotactile stimulus to the right index finder guided either continuous or discrete sensorimotor responses of the left hand. It was hypothesized that paired-pulse TMS would alter local intracortical networks and reduce performance during the discrete sensorimotor task, but that these effects would be mitigated during the continuous sensorimotor task, possibly a reflection of reduced S1 activation observed previously during a similar continuous sensorimotor task. Regardless of sensorimotor requirements, single-pulse TMS delivered over S1 decreased sensorimotor performance. Paired-pulse TMS further decreased sensorimotor performance only when the vibrotactile stimulus guided a discrete motor response but not when it was required to continuously guide the motor response. This effect disappeared when the TS was replaced by a sub-threshold stimulus. These results suggest that the CS facilitates sensory output neurons during perceptual detection but that differential responsiveness of local cortical networks in S1 suppresses the CS effects during continuous sensory-guided movement. This study highlights the importance of sensorimotor requirements in determining the net result of task-related sensory processing in S1.
Effects of the dihydropyridine, nimodipine, an antagonist at L-type calcium channels, on the memory loss in rats caused by long term alcohol consumption were examined. Either a single dose of nimodipine or 2 weeks of repeated administration was given prior to withdrawal from 8 months of alcohol consumption. Memory was measured by the object recognition test and the T maze. Both nimodipine treatments prevented the memory deficits when these were measured between 1 and 2 months after alcohol withdrawal. At the end of the memory testing, 2 months after cessation of chronic alcohol consumption, glucocorticoid concentrations were increased in specific regions of rat brain without changes in plasma concentrations. Both nimodipine treatment schedules substantially reduced these rises in brain glucocorticoid. The data indicate that blockade of L-type calcium channels prior to alcohol withdrawal protects against the memory deficits caused by prolonged alcohol intake. This shows that specific drug treatments, such as nimodipine, given over the acute withdrawal phase, can prevented the neuronal changes responsible for subsequent adverse effects of long term consumption of alcohol. The results also suggest the possibility that regional brain glucocorticoid increases may be involved in the adverse effects of long term alcohol intake on memory. Such local changes in brain glucocorticoid levels would have major effects on neuronal function. The studies indicate that L-type calcium channels and brain glucocorticoid levels could form new targets for the treatment of cognitive deficits in alcoholics.
We investigated the potential effects of 20 min irradiation from a new generation Universal Mobile Telecommunication System (UMTS) 3G mobile phone on human event related potentials (ERPs) in an auditory oddball paradigm. In a double-blind task design, subjects were exposed to either genuine or sham irradiation in two separate sessions. Before and after irradiation subjects were presented with a random series of 50 ms tone burst (frequent standards: 1 kHz, P=0.8, rare deviants: 1.5 kHz, P=0.2) at a mean repetition rate of 1500 ms while electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded. The subjects' task was to silently count the appearance of targets. The amplitude and latency of the N100, N200, P200 and P300 components for targets and standards were analyzed in 29 subjects. We found no significant effects of electromagnetic field (EMF) irradiation on the amplitude and latency of the above ERP components. In order to study possible effects of EMF on attentional processes, we applied a wavelet-based time-frequency method to analyze the early gamma component of brain responses to auditory stimuli. We found that the early evoked gamma activity was insensitive to UMTS RF exposition. Our results support the notion, that a single 20 min irradiation from new generation 3G mobile phones does not induce measurable changes in latency or amplitude of ERP components or in oscillatory gamma-band activity in an auditory oddball paradigm.
Cerebral ischemia induces Ca(2+) influx into neuronal cells, and activates several proteases including calpains. Since calpains play important roles in neuronal cell death, calpain inhibitors may have potential as drugs for cerebral infarction. ((1S)-1((((1S)-1-Benzyl-3- cyclopropylamino-2,3-di-oxopropyl)amino)carbonyl)-3-methylbutyl) carbamic acid 5-methoxy-3-oxapentyl ester (SNJ-1945) is a novel calpain inhibitor that has good membrane permeability and water solubility. We evaluated the effect of SNJ-1945 on the focal brain ischemia induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in mice. Brain damage was evaluated by assessing neurological deficits at 24 h or 72 h after MCAO and also by examining 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) staining of brain sections. When injected at 1 h after MCAO, SNJ-1945 at 30 and 100 mg/kg, i.p. decreased the infarction volume and improved the neurological deficits each assessed at 24 h. SNJ-1945 at 100 mg/kg, i.p. also showed neuroprotective effects at 72 h and reduced the number of TUNEL-positive cells at 24 h. SNJ-1945 was able to prevent neuronal cell death even when it was injected at up to 6 h, but not at 8 h, after MCAO. In addition, SNJ-1945 decreased cleaved alpha-spectrin at 6 h and 12 h, and active caspase-3 at 12 h and 24 h in ischemic brain hemisphere. These findings indicate that SNJ-1945 inhibits the activation of calpain, and offers neuroprotection against the effects of acute cerebral ischemia in mice even when given up to 6 h after MCAO. SNJ-1945 may therefore be a potential drug for stroke.
ADAMs (a disintegrin and metalloprotease) are a family of trans-membrane multi-domain metalloproteases with multiple functions. So far, more than 35 ADAM family members have been identified from mammalian and nonmammalian sources. Although some functions of ADAMs have been elucidated, their expression patterns remain poorly investigated, especially during CNS development. Here, we cloned the open reading frames or full-length cDNAs of ADAM9, ADAM10, ADAM12, ADAM22 and ADAM23 from chicken embryonic brain, analyzed their evolutionary relationship, and mapped their expression in the embryonic chicken brain by in situ hybridization for the first time. In general, each of the five ADAMs shows a spatially restricted and temporally regulated expression profile. However, the types of tissues and cells, which express each of the five ADAMs, differ from each other. ADAM9 is predominantly expressed in the choroid plexus and in the ventricular layer. ADAM10 is expressed by developing blood vessels, oligodendrocytes, and subsets of neurons and brain nuclei. ADAM12 is expressed by very few brain nuclei, cerebellar Purkinje cells, restricted regions of the neuroepithelium, and some neurons in the deep tectal layers. ADAM22 expression is strong in some brain nuclei and in the pineal gland. ADAM23 is expressed by most gray matter regions and the choroid plexus. The differential expression patterns suggest that the five ADAMs play multiple and versatile roles during brain development.
In this study we evaluated the effects of the novel, potent non-competitive metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) 1 antagonist (3aS,6aS)-6a-naphthalen-2-ylmethyl-5-methyliden-hexahydro-cyclopental[c]furan-1-on (BAY 36-7620) on different types of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampal cornu ammonis (CA) 1-region and on hippocampus-dependent spatial learning. After having confirmed the presence of mGluR1 in the hippocampal CA1 region of our rat strain by confocal microscopy, we tested the effects of BAY 36-7620 on: 1) long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by weak and strong stimulation; 2) 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG, 30 microM)-induced depression of synaptic transmission; and 3) learning of the hidden platform version of the water maze by mice. BAY 36-7620 (10 microM) amplified LTP but, like the mGluR1 antagonists 7-hydroxyiminocyclopropan[b]chromen-1a-carboxylic acid ethyl ester (CPCCOEt, 10 microM) and 4-carboxyphenylglycine (4-CPG, 50 microM), diminished LTP at 1 microM. The mGluR5 antagonist 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP, 10 microM) had no effect. BAY 36-7620 (10 microM) did not affect strong LTP. Thus, mGlu 1, but not mGlu 5, receptors modulate LTP elicited by weak stimulation in vitro. DHPG-induced depression of synaptic transmission was only marginally affected by BAY 36-7620 (1 microM) or 4-CPG (100 microM). In a mouse water maze study, BAY 36-7620 (10 mg/kg, i.v.) increased the escape latency and impaired water escape task acquisition during the first 4 days. Drug- and vehicle-treated groups showed comparable performance at day 5. Our data support a role for mGluR1 in LTP and in the acquisition of spatial memory.
Chronic pain has been reported to induce apoptosis. Both chronic excitation of neural pathways involved in pain transmission and control and the stress of pain may be potentially involved in apoptosis induced by pain. Here, we have investigated their possible role in pain-induced apoptosis. Inflammatory pain was induced by injection of formalin in intact and adrenalectomized (ADX) rats. Following exposure to repeated injections of 5% formalin, we detected Bax, Bcl-2, pro-caspase and activated caspase-3 proteins using immunoblotting. The results were compared with those obtained from animals suffered from chronic immobilization stress (IMO). These results showed an increased ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 and activated caspase-3 in hippocampus and dorsal lumbar spinal cord of animals treated with pain and IMO stress; these effects were reduced in ADX animals. On the other hand, the remaining apoptotic effect of pain in adrenalectomized rats was also significant. We surmise that both chronic neural activation and the stress induced by pain are involved in pain-induced apoptosis.
Increased hydrostatic pressure can damage neurons, although the mechanisms linking pressure to neurochemical imbalance or cell injury are not fully established. Throughout the body, mechanical perturbations such as shear stress, cell stretching, or changes in pressure can lead to excessive release of ATP. It is thus possible that increased pressure across neural tissues triggers an elevated release of ATP into extracellular space. As stimulation of the P2X(7) receptor for ATP on retinal ganglion cells leads to elevation of intracellular calcium and excitotoxic death, we asked whether increased levels of extracellular ATP accompanied an elevation in pressure across the retina. The hydrostatic pressure surrounding bovine retinal eyecups was increased and the ATP content of the vitreal compartment adjacent to the retina was determined. A step increase of only 20 mm Hg induced a threefold increase in the vitreal ATP concentration. The ATP levels correlated closely with the degree of pressure increase over 20-100 mm Hg. The increase was transient at lower pressures but sustained at higher pressures. The rise in vitreal ATP was the same regardless of whether nitrogen or air was used to increase pressure, implying changes in oxygen partial pressure did not contribute. Lactate dehydrogenase activity was not affected by pressure, ruling out a substantial contribution from cell lysis. The ATP increase was largely inhibited by either 30 muM 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino) benzoic acid (NPPB) or 10 muM carbenoxolone (CBX). While this pharmacological profile is consistent with physiological release of ATP through pannexins hemichannels, a contribution from anion channels, vesicular release or other mechanisms cannot be ruled out. In conclusion, a step elevation in pressure leads to a physiologic increase in the levels of extracellular ATP bathing retinal neurons. This excess extracellular ATP may link increased pressure to the death of ganglion cells in acute glaucoma, and suggests a possible role for ATP in the neuronal damage accompanying increased intracranial pressure.

The ability to organize individual neurons and their processes in culture provides important benefits to both basic neuroscience research applications and the development of biomedical microdevices. While numerous methods have been used to produce such micropatterning of neurons and cells in general, there has yet been no method to simultaneously provide high-resolution patterns with high compliance of cells to desired patterns and good manufacturability. To develop such a process, this work used a plasma polymerized, nonfouling poly ethylene oxide (PEO)-like film to provide a cell repellant substrate on which cell adhesive micropatterns can be selectively laid down. While the use of plasma polymerized, organic films have been used for cell micropatterning, this process exploits the often-overlooked tendency for the surface of this PEO-like material to adsorb polylysine from aqueous solution while remaining nonfouling with respect to other species, such as bovine serum albumin (BSA) and immunoglobulin G (IgG). When the adsorption of polylysine was enhanced by brief plasma oxidation, which slightly alters the surface chemistry of the material, simple photolithographic liftoff could be used to micropattern stable, cell adhesive areas on an otherwise cell repellant background. We showed that the application of photolithography itself on the PEO-like material did not alter its chemical properties, nor did it result in the erosion of the micropatterned polylysine on its surface. Hippocampal neurons from embryonic mice flourished on these micropatterned substrates and exhibited viability comparable to neurons cultured on polylysine coated glass. Furthermore, the compliance of cell bodies and outgrowing neurites to the micropatterns was nearly perfect. In addition to providing cell adhesive regions, the micropatterned polylysine coating also served as a template mediating the immobilization of other bioactive species such as IgG and laminin. Using this &quot;piggybacking&quot; of laminin on polylysine, we were also able to culture and micropattern retinal ganglion cells (RGC).





Until recently, all known antipsychotic drugs were thought to block the dopamine D2 receptor. New evidence that agonists of the metabotropic glutamate 2/3 (mGlu2/3) receptors ameliorate psychotic and affective symptoms of schizophrenia suggests that compounds with different molecular targets may act on a common cellular target to treat schizophrenia. We hypothesized that normalizing the activity of neurons in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), a region that is increasingly implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, presents such a target. We disrupted OFC activity in behaving rats with a use-dependent NMDA antagonist to model the NMDA hypofunction state that may occur in schizophrenia. This systemic treatment increased the activity of most pyramidal cells while inhibiting the activity of putative inhibitory GABA interneurons and increasing behavioral stereotypy. A similar pattern of OFC firing disruption was observed after amphetamine, which models a dopamine hyperactivity state in schizophrenia and which produces a pattern of firing disruption different from those of NMDA antagonists in other prefrontal cortex regions. Antipsychotic drugs haloperidol and clozapine, which target monoamine receptors, as well as an mGlu2/3 agonist and an mGlu5 receptor modulator proposed to have antipsychotic efficacy, reversed the impact of NMDA hypofunction on OFC cells and on behavior. A similar pattern of normalization of OFC activity was observed when treatments were given after amphetamine. Thus, proven or putative antipsychotic drugs with different mechanisms of action similarly reduced the impact of NMDA hypofunction and dopamine hyperfunction on OFC neurons, suggesting that these neurons are a candidate target for the therapeutic effects of antipsychotic medications.
Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSCs/NPCs) give rise to neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. It has become apparent that intracellular epigenetic modification including DNA methylation, in concert with extracellular cues such as cytokine signaling, is deeply involved in fate specification of NSCs/NPCs by defining cell-type specific gene expression. However, it is still unclear how differentiated neural cells retain their specific attributes by repressing cellular properties characteristic of other lineages. In previous work we have shown that methyl-CpG binding protein transcriptional repressors (MBDs), which are expressed predominantly in neurons in the central nervous system, inhibit astrocyte-specific gene expression by binding to highly methylated regions of their target genes. Here we report that oligodendrocytes, which do not express MBDs, can transdifferentiate into astrocytes both in vitro (cytokine stimulation) and in vivo (ischemic injury) through the activation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. These findings suggest that differentiation plasticity in neural cells is regulated by cell-intrinsic epigenetic mechanisms in collaboration with ambient cell-extrinsic cues.
