


In the brain of animals and humans there is a rewarding mechanism to encourage the behavior that is beneficial for the living of the individual and for the prolongation of the generation. However, when this system is being abused by drugs of addiction, chronic adaptive changes may occur that would cause serious damage to the organism. The neural substrate of the rewarding system is mainly based on the dopaminergic pathway, starting from the ventral tegmental area of the midbrain and ended in the nucleus accumbens of the limbic brain. This pathway serves both natural rewarding such as food and sex as well as drug rewarding such as heroin and cocaine. This paper is aimed to discuss the similarities and differences between the natural and drug-induced rewarding in an attempt to block the latter without affecting the former.
There is considerable research evidence suggesting that sleep is biologically linked to mood disorders in adults. However, polysomographic and neuroendocrine studies in children and adolescents have not found consistent changes in sleep architecture paralleling adult major depression. This review provides a detailed description of sleep research that has been conducted in early-onset affective disorders, uncovers the potential limitations of the available data, and formulates future research directions in this important subject.
It is well known that the reproductive system is one of the first biological systems to show age-related decline. While depletion of ovarian follicles clearly relates to the end of reproductive function in females, evidence is accumulating that a hypothalamic defect is critical in the transition from cyclicity to acyclicity. This minireview attempts to present a concise review on aging of the female reproductive neuroendocrine axis and provide thought-provoking analysis and insights into potential future directions for this field. Evidence will be reviewed, which shows that a defect in pulsatile and surge gonadotropin hormone-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion exists in normal cycling middle-aged female rats, which is thought to explain the significantly attenuated pulsatile and surge luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion at middle-age. Evidence is also presented, which supports the age-related defect in GnRH secretion as being due to a reduced activation of GnRH neurons. Along these lines, stimulation of GnRH secretion by the major excitatory transmitter glutamate is shown to be significantly attenuated in middle-aged proestrous rats. Corresponding age-related defects in other major excitatory regulatory factors, such as catecholamines, neuropeptide Y, and astrocytes, have also been demonstrated. Age-related changes in hypothalamic concentrations of neurotransmitter receptors, steroid receptors, and circulating steroid hormone levels are also reviewed, and discussion is presented on the complex interrelationships of the hypothalamus-pituitary-ovarian (HPO) axis during aging, with attention to how a defect in one level of the axis can induce defects in other levels, and thereby potentiate the dysfunction of the entire HPO axis.



Nanotechnology is the science and engineering concerned with the design, synthesis, and characterization of materials and devices that have a functional organization in at least 1 dimension on the nanometer (ie, one-billionth of a meter) scale. The ability to manipulate and control engineered self-assembling (ie, self-organizing) substrates at these scales produces macroscopic physical and/or chemical properties in the bulk material not possessed by the constituent building block molecules alone. This in turn results in a degree of functional integration between the engineered substrates and cellular or physiological systems not previously attainable. Applied nanotechnology aimed at the regeneration and neuroprotection of the central nervous system (CNS) will significantly benefit from basic nanotechnology research conducted in parallel with advances in cell biology, neurophysiology, and neuropathology. Ultimately the goal is to develop novel technologies that directly or indirectly aid in providing neuroprotection and/or a permissive environment and active signaling cues for guided axon growth. In some cases, it is expected that the neurosurgeon will be required to administer these substrates to the patient. As such, in order for nanotechnology applications directed toward neurological disorders to develop to their fullest potential, it will be important for neuroscientists, neurosurgeons, and neurologists to participate and contribute to the scientific process alongside physical science and engineering colleagues. This review will focus on emerging clinical applications aimed at the regeneration and neuroprotection of the injured CNS, and discuss other platform technologies that have a significant potential for being adapted for clinical neuroscience applications.
Numerous studies have demonstrated that genetic factors significantly influence opioid ability to induce behavioral modification in mice. This differential sensitivity has been extensively studied, particularly in the DBA/2J and C57BL/6J strains. In the present study, using the &quot;in vivo&quot; microdialysis technique in these strains, we investigated the effect of morphine administration on the extracellular levels of dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT), and their metabolites in the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum--areas thought to be involved in morphine-induced locomotor hyperactivity. In the nucleus accumbens, morphine (20 mg/kg) significantly increased extracellular levels of DA in both strains. However, in dorsal striatum the morphine-induced increase of extracellular DA was lower in DBA/2J mice than in C57BL/6J. Moreover, morphine significantly stimulated 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) release both in nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum of C57BL/6J mice, whereas it decreased 5-HT release without modifying 5-HIAA levels in DBA/2J mice. These results suggest that the different behavioral and biochemical responses to acute morphine described in these two strains could be mediated by different sensitivity of both the dopaminergic and the serotonergic systems.
The regional mRNA expression pattern of 5-HT(1B) receptors has been extensively characterized in the rodent and guinea pig brain, but a detailed mapping of the 5-HT(1B) receptor mRNA expression in the human brain has not previously been performed. In the present study, the mRNA expression of 5-HT(1B) receptors was analyzed using in situ hybridization histochemistry and whole hemisphere sections of the human postmortem brain. The mRNA expression was compared with the autoradiographic distribution of 5-HT(1B) receptors. High levels of mRNA expression were found in the striatum, cortex, lateral geniculate nucleus, and raphe nuclei. The expression was higher in ventral than in dorsal striatal regions and was absent from the substantia nigra and pallidum, where high levels of 5-HT(1B) receptors were found. A layer-specific expression pattern was observed in cortical regions. The results extend previous knowledge about the localization of the 5-HT(1B) receptor in the human brain. This study provides evidence of a mismatch of the regional expression of 5-HT(1B) receptor mRNA and the 5-HT(1B) receptor distribution in human brain, similar to what has been demonstrated in other species. This is in line with the localization of this receptor subtype in nerve terminals. The results give support to species differences in the cortical mRNA expression pattern of this receptor subtype.
The establishment of conditioned place preference (CPP) with intracranial injections requires specific injection sites, drug doses, and conditioning trial durations. We examined the role of conditioning trial duration in CPP with cocaine injections into the medial olfactory tubercle. Only those rats that had spent 5 min in the compartments showed CPP for cocaine, while rats that had been removed immediately or spent 15 min following cocaine injections did not show CPP. Effective conditioning trial durations for CPP induced by intracranial cocaine injections are apparently much shorter than those typically used for intracranial injections of other drugs of abuse.
Recent structural analysis of crystalline beta2-chimaerin shows the central protein kinase C-like, diacylglycerol (DAG)-binding C1 domain to be masked by its intramolecular interactions with the N-terminal SH2 and GAP domains, and linker regions. A mechanism of activation has been derived from modelling of a GAP-Rac GTPase complex--the auto-inhibitory constraints are released via membrane engagement, unmasking the C1 domain to enable DAG binding and subsequent GAP stimulation of Rac GTPase catalytic activity.
Cognitive studies are revealing key aspects of how drug abusers monitor and respond to negative feedback differently from non-abusers, and in doing so are adding an important piece to the conceptual puzzle that must be solved to understand, treat, and prevent drug abuse. In this review, we bring together two quite different lines of research, one addressing the selection of gambles in a risky decision task, and the other focused on imaging neural systems related to the detection and processing of errors. We suggest that diminished behavioural control, which is a cardinal feature of drug abuse, may be linked to alterations in the psychological and neural mechanisms that detect error signals and which, in turn, lead to optimization of behavioural responses.
According to Simulation Theory, to understand what is going on in another person's mind, the observer uses his or her own mind as a model of the other mind. Recently, philosophers and cognitive neuroscientists have proposed that mirror neurones (which fire in response to both executing and observing a goal directed action) provide a plausible neural substrate for simulation, a mechanism for directly perceiving, or 'resonating' with, the contents of other minds. This article makes the case against Simulation Theory, using evidence from cognitive neuroscience, developmental psychology, and social psychology. In particular, the errors that adults and children make when reasoning about other minds are not consistent with the 'resonance' versions of Simulation Theory.

A recent study by Maia and McClelland on participants' knowledge in the Iowa Gambling Task suggests a different interpretation for an experiment we reported in 1997. The authors use their results to question the evidence for the somatic marker hypothesis. Here we consider whether the authors' conclusions are justified.
In contrast to traditional neuroncentric views of Alzheimer's disease (AD), recent findings indicate that neurovascular dysfunction contributes to cognitive decline and neurodegeneration in AD. Here, I propose the neurovascular hypothesis of AD, suggesting that faulty clearance of amyloid beta peptide (A beta) across the blood-brain barrier (BBB), aberrant angiogenesis and senescence of the cerebrovascular system could initiate neurovascular uncoupling, vessel regression, brain hypoperfusion and neurovascular inflammation. Ultimately, this would lead to BBB compromise, to chemical imbalance in the neuronal environment and to synaptic and neuronal dysfunction, injury and loss. Based on the neurovascular hypothesis, I suggest an array of new potential therapeutic approaches that could be developed for AD, to enhance A beta clearance and neurovascular repair, and to protect the neurovascular unit from divergent inducers of injury and apoptosis.
Neural circuits are composed of a meshwork of numerous neuron types, each with their own distinctive morphological and intrinsic physiological properties, connectivity and biochemistry. How do distinct neural subcircuits, composed of different classes of neuron, contribute to brain function? Approaching this question requires methods that can target specific neurons types. This can be achieved by harnessing the same machinery that builds sophistication into the brain and using it to make novel tools for investigating and manipulating the brain: molecular and genetic technology. These tools can be used to target gene expression to specific neuron types within complicated neuronal circuits, and the transgenes that are expressed can be used to elucidate and manipulate these circuits with unprecedented precision and control. These methods are likely to become the archetype for future studies linking perception, cognition and behavior to specific components of the brain.
We have developed a data-driven conceptual framework that links two areas of science: the source-filter model of acoustics and cortical sensory processing streams. The source-filter model describes the mechanics behind speech production: the identity of the speaker is carried largely in the vocal cord source and the message is shaped by the ever-changing filters of the vocal tract. Sensory processing streams, popularly called 'what' and 'where' pathways, are well established in the visual system as a neural scheme for separately carrying different facets of visual objects, namely their identity and their position/motion, to the cortex. A similar functional organization has been postulated in the auditory system. Both speaker identity and the spoken message, which are simultaneously conveyed in the acoustic structure of speech, can be disentangled into discrete brainstem response components. We argue that these two response classes are early manifestations of auditory 'what' and 'where' streams in the cortex. This brainstem link forges a new understanding of the relationship between the acoustics of speech and cortical processing streams, unites two hitherto separate areas in science, and provides a model for future investigations of auditory function.
Spatial navigation depends on dissociable memory systems that have distinct neural bases and employ different forms of representation. One system gradually acquires reliable sequences of responses to given situations (e.g. repeatedly following a fixed route), and depends on the striatum. The other develops flexible representations permitting novel responses (e.g. finding new shortcuts), and depends on the hippocampus. Voermans and colleagues explore the interaction between these two systems using functional neuroimaging and behavioural measures in a clinical population.
Increased prenatal exposure to testosterone (T) in females of an opposite-sex (OS) twin pair may have an effect on the development of sex-typical cognitive and behavioral patterns. The prenatal exposure to T due to hormone transfer in OS twin females may occur in two ways, one directly via the feto-fetal transfer route within the uterus, the other indirectly through maternal-fetal transfer and based in the maternal-fetal compartment. Although some studies in singletons indeed found that women pregnant with a male fetus have higher T levels during gestation than women pregnant with a female fetus, many other studies could not find any relation between the sex of the fetus and maternal serum steroid levels. Therefore at present it is unclear whether a pregnant woman bearing a male has higher levels of T than a woman bearing a female. Up to this point, no-one has investigated this issue in twin pregnancies. We examined the relationship between maternal serum steroid levels and sex of fetus in 17 female-female, 9 male-male and 29 OS twin pregnancies. No differences were observed between the maternal serum steroid levels of women expecting single-sex and mixed-sex offspring. It is concluded that the source of prenatal T exposure in females probably comes from the fetal unit, which is the direct route of fetal hormone transfer.
Acetylcholine (ACh) and bradykinin (BK) are potent pharmacological agents which mimic ischemic preconditioning (IPC) enabling hearts to resist infarction during a subsequent period of ischemia. The cardioprotective pathways activated by BK but not ACh may also protect when activated at reperfusion. ACh and BK stimulate Gi/o-linked receptors and ultimately mediate protection by opening mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels with the generation of reactive oxygen species that act as second messengers to activate protein kinase C (PKC). There appear to be key differences, however, in the pathways prior to potassium channel opening for these two receptors. This review aims to summarize what is currently known about pharmacological preconditioning by ACh and BK with an emphasis on differences that are seen in the signal transduction cascades. Understanding the cellular basis of protection by ACh and BK is a critical step towards developing pharmacological agents that will prevent infarction during ischemia resulting from coronary occlusion or heart attack.
In the ultimate stage of the Adelson-Bergen motion energy model [Adelson, E. H., &amp; Bergen, J. (1985). Spatiotemporal energy models for the perception of motion. Journal of the Optical Society of America, 2, 284-299], motion is derived from the difference between directionally opponent energies E(L) and E(R). However, Georgeson and Scott-Samuel [Georgeson, M. A., &amp; Scott-Samuel, N. E. (1999). Motion contrast: A new metric for direction discrimination. Vision Research, 39, 4393-4402] demonstrated that motion contrast-a metric that normalizes opponent motion energy (E(L)-E(R)) by flicker energy (E(L)+E(R))-is a better descriptor of human direction discrimination. In a previous study [Rainville, S. J. M., Makous, W. L., &amp; Scott-Samuel, N. E. (2002). The spatial properties of opponent-motion normalization. Vision Research, 42, 1727-1738], we used a lateral masking paradigm to show that opponent-motion normalization is selective for flicker position, orientation, and spatial-frequency. In the present study, we used a superposition masking paradigm and compared results to lateral masking data, as the two masking types activate local and remote normalization mechanisms differentially. Although selectivity for flicker orientation and spatial frequency varied across observers, bandwidths were similar across lateral and superimposed masking conditions. Additional experiments demonstrated that normalization signals are pooled over a spatial region whose aspect ratio and size are consistent with those of local motion detectors. Together, results show no evidence of remote normalization signals predicted by broadband inhibitory models [(e.g.) Heeger, D. J. (1992). Normalization of cell responses in cat striate cortex. Visual Neuroscience, 9, 181-197; Foley, J. M. (1994). Human luminance pattern-vision mechanisms: Masking experiments require a new model. Journal of the Optical Society of America A-Optics and Image Science, 11, 1710-1719] but support a local normalization process whose spatial properties are inherited from low-level motion detectors.
Spatial order is the organizing principle of the visual areas in the brain. But to what extent does this spatial mapping help us see where things are? Observers trained to perfectly recall the spatial order of seven items presented simultaneously for 5 s were asked to report their order when flashed for only 150 ms. We found that the capacity for perceiving the order of these brief stimuli was limited by their spacing. Five or six widely-spaced stimuli were seen in the correct order, but only four crowded stimuli. Regardless of spacing and set-size, confusions between neighbors were unexpectedly frequent, suggesting there is positional as well as object uncertainty.
We examined the ability of human observers to detect three kinds of statistical structure in binary arrays: first-order statistics (luminance), local fourth-order statistics (isodipole textures), and long-range statistics (bilateral symmetry). Performance was closest to ideal on the luminance task and furthest from ideal on the symmetry task. For each kind of statistic, the dependence of performance on the degree of structure was well described by a model consisting of an initial stage of multiple independent detectors, followed by a pooling stage. For the luminance task and the isodipole task, performance was well-modeled by local processing followed by extensive spatial pooling. For the symmetry task, limitations at the local detection stage and a near-absence of spatial pooling were needed to model for performance.
In an effort to identify the cellular events that enable neuronal regeneration in the vertebrate retina, the identity and characteristics of mitotic and apoptotic cells were examined in lesioned retinas of adult zebrafish. Following lesion a complex spatiotemporal pattern of mitosis was observed, including a delayed entry of Mller glia into the cell cycle. Characteristics of these proliferative Mller glia indicated they might serve as a stem/precursor cell of regenerated retina. The results suggested a model of retinal regeneration in which lesions are filled, in part, by a localized en place cytogenesis within intact retina surrounding the lesion site.
We recently demonstrated that applying capsaicin to the common peroneal nerve, thereby activating small diameter afferent neurons, caused a substantial rise in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) that lasted approximately 20 min. In addition, this application of capsaicin transiently attenuated the exercise pressor reflex (EPR). The purpose of the current study was to test the hypothesis that stimulating the peroneal nerve at an intensity that activated both myelinated and unmyelinated axons for a short duration (1 min) causes a similar attenuation of the EPR. Cats were anaesthetised with alpha-chloralose and urethane, the popliteal fossa was exposed, and static contraction was induced by stimulating the tibial nerve. The ipsilateral peroneal nerve was cut and placed on a stimulating electrode. Prior to peroneal nerve stimulation, static contraction of the triceps surae muscle for 1 min increased MAP 48+/-8 mmHg and HR 16+/-3 bpm. Electrical stimulation of the central end of the cut peroneal nerve for 1 min (100 x motor threshold; 40 Hz; 0.1 ms) increased MAP and HR by 62+/-11 mmHg and 28+/-4 bpm, respectively. These increases returned to prestimulation levels within 1 min. Two minutes after the peroneal stimulation was stopped, the EPR was markedly reduced as muscle contraction increased MAP and HR by 20+/-4 mmHg and 7+/-2 bpm, respectively. Repeating the muscle contraction approximately 25 min after peroneal stimulation increased MAP and HR by 38+/-8 mmHg and 12+/-2 bpm, indicating some recovery of the EPR. These results show that brief (1 min) electrical stimulation of afferent neurons in the peroneal nerve attenuates the EPR. This supports the hypothesis that strong activation of small diameter afferent neurons stimulates a nervous system mechanism that diminishes the sensory input from skeletal muscle involved in cardiovascular regulation.
Glutamate transporters are thought to have an important role in central nervous system (CNS) development. We investigated the expression of the sodium-dependent high-affinity glutamate transporters EAAT1, EAAT2, and EAAT3 in 11 human autopsied cases without neurological disorders and in four cases with type II lissencephaly including Walker Warburg's syndrome (WWS) and Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD), both of which are classified as migration disorders of the human brain. Expression of glutamate transporter subtypes was differentially regulated during normal human corticogenesis. Although EAAT1 and EAAT2 were mainly localized to the cortical astrocytes in the postnatal brain, EAAT1 was enriched in the proliferative zones and radial glia from 13 gestational weeks (GW) to 20 GW. EAAT2 was abundant in the intermediate zone until 23 GW, and transiently expressed in the radial fibers of the transitional form of radial glia into mature astrocytes as well as partly in the corticofugal axonal bundles. EAAT3 immunoreactivity was robust in the apical dendrites of the pyramidal neurons in the marginal zone and cortical plate during corticogenesis, and decreased postnatally. In the individuals with type II lissencephaly, glutamate transporters were expressed in the extrusion of neuroglial tissue. Bundles of EAAT2-immunoreactive radial fibers were prominent in the specimens at 20 GW. Thus, glutamate transporters are differentially regulated during normal and impaired corticogenesis. Altered glutamate transporter expression in type II lissencephaly suggests that glutamate metabolism is involved in the formation of the normal cortex and contributes to the disorganized cortex seen in migration disorders.
The hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (Arc) and its neurons expressing agouti-related protein (AgRP) are key components of the forebrain circuitry involved in long-term regulation of energy homeostasis, including conveying leptin signaling to other hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic regions. In the present work, we investigated the postnatal development (P0, P5, P10, P15, and P21) of this system (AgRP transcript and peptide) in the mouse brain using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. At all stages, AgRP mRNA expression was detected exclusively in the Arc. At P0, AgRP mRNA levels were low, and only a few AgRP-immunoreactive fibers were present reaching, rostrally, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and, caudally, the dorsal raphe nucleus. During the following period (P5-P21), the levels of AgRP mRNA gradually increased in the Arc along with a parallel increase in the AgRP fiber density in the hypothalamic regions responsible for control of appetite, including the paraventricular nucleus, as well as in extrahypothalamic regions, including locus coeruleus. These data provide evidence that, in the mouse, the maturation of the AgRP Arc system occurs mainly during the first three postnatal weeks. Together with the existing data on the physiology of appetite and body weight, our data suggest that the first three postnatal weeks in the mouse represents a critical period for the formation of brain mechanisms underlying appetite control via peripheral hormones.


Microtubule associated protein tau is abnormally phosphorylated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and aggregates as paired helical filaments (PHFs) in neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), which are one of the pathological signatures of AD and their presence correlates with severity of dementia. Dysfunction of protein phosphatases in the effected neurons is proposed to be a possible causative factor to AD development. We show here that the pattern of tau phosphorylation correlates with the decline of memory retention ability in rat brain. In our study, we have chosen 55 rats of full age to conduct the discrimination between their normal and low ability of memory retention in one-trial step-down test. It was found that among rats that developed the impairment in memory retention in step-down inhibitory avoidance task, tau protein in their hippocampus was hyperphosohorylated at Thr231/Ser235 (M4) sites of tau, and the significantly increased expression of PP-1 and the decreased one of PP-2B were also determined by Western blot and/or immunohistochemistry. It is implicated that: (1) the hyperphosphorylation of tau at M4 sites may be crucial to affect the memory retention of elder rats; (2) PP-1 might participate in the regulation of phosphorylation at Thr231 and Ser235 epitope of tau in vivo, and the up-regulation of PP-1 content could be in relation to tau hyperphosphorylation at Thr231/Ser235 sites of brain tau and the worse memory retention of rats indirectly; and (3) the decline of PP-2B content could induced the hyperphosphorylation of tau at M4 sides in vivo.
Psychotropic drugs are commonly used in the elderly, including those who may sustain ischemic attacks. Concomitant CNS medication may interfere with functional recovery. The present study evaluated the effect of risperidone, an atypical neuroleptic, and fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, on histological and functional outcome after experimental stroke in aged rats, which might be more vulnerable to brain insults. Aged Wistar rats were treated with risperidone at a dose of 1 mg/kg (i.p., once a day), fluoxetine at a dose of 5 mg/kg (i.p., once a day), or their combination. Drug treatment was started 7 days before focal cortical photothrombosis (Rose Bengal, 20 mg/kg) and continued for 28 days thereafter. Sensorimotor recovery was assessed by a new beam-walking test and spatial learning by the Morris water-maze before cortical stroke, immediately after stroke, and at the end of follow-up. Infarct volumes were measured from nitroblue tetrazolium-stained sections at the end of follow-up. The high slip ratio for the contralateral hindlimb in ischemic rats treated with risperidone indicated sensorimotor impairment when tested 2 h after drug administration. Sensorimotor impairment was not observed, however, when the rats were tested 24 h after risperidone administration. Similarly, water-maze performance was impaired 2 h after risperidone. Fluoxetine did not affect sensorimotor or water-maze performance. Cortical infarct volumes were not different in ischemic controls and ischemic rats treated with antipsychotic drugs. The present study showed that an atypical neuroleptic, risperidone, acutely impairs behavioral performance, but does not affect histological or functional outcome in aged rats subjected to cortical photothrombosis.
It has been speculated that an individual's response to novelty is a reliable predictor of its vulnerability to develop addiction. However, the relationships between response to novelty and the development of drug-induced conditioned place preference are still unclear. The present study investigates the relationships between locomotor responses to novelty, cocaine-induced locomotor stimulation and conditioned place preference in C57BL/6J mice with multiple regression analyses. Four groups of mice receiving saline, 4, 8 or 12 mg/kg cocaine (i.p.) were submitted to an 8-day unbiased counterbalanced place conditioning protocol. Levels of locomotion on the pre-conditioning session were used as a score of locomotor response to a novel environment. The locomotor activity on the first cocaine-pairing session of the conditioning procedure served as a measure of the locomotion-activating response to a single injection of cocaine. Cocaine-induced dose-dependent locomotor stimulant effects and a significant place preference at all tested doses. A positive correlation was found between the locomotor responses to novelty and the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine, but was significant only for the highest dose of cocaine (12 mg/kg). In contrast, there was a negative correlation between the locomotor response to novelty and the conditioned place preference induced by 4 mg/kg cocaine. Finally, the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine do not correlate with cocaine-induced conditioned place preference at any tested dose of cocaine. The relationships between locomotor response to novelty and both cocaine-induced stimulant and rewarding effects can be differentially affected by the dose in inbred C57BL/6J mice.
Hypoxia is the most common cause of perinatal seizures and can be refractory to conventional anticonvulsant drugs, suggesting an age-specific form of epileptogenesis. A model of hypoxia-induced seizures in immature rats reveals that seizures result in immediate activation of the phosphatase calcineurin (CaN) in area CA1 of hippocampus. After seizures, CA1 pyramidal neurons exhibit a downregulation of GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R)-mediated inhibition that was reversed by CaN inhibitors. CaN activation appears to be dependent on seizure-induced activation of Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors (AMPARs), because the upregulation of CaN activation and GABA(A)R inhibition were attenuated by GYKI 52466 [1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine hydrochloride] or Joro spider toxin. GABA(A)R beta2/3 subunit protein was dephosphorylated at 1 h after seizures, suggesting this subunit as a possible substrate of CaN in this model. Finally, in vivo administration of the CaN inhibitor FK-506 significantly suppressed hypoxic seizures, and posttreatment with NBQX (2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfonyl-benzo[f]quinoxaline) or FK-506 blocked the hypoxic seizure-induced increase in CaN expression. These data suggest that Ca2+-permeable AMPARs and CaN regulate inhibitory synaptic transmission in a novel plasticity pathway that may play a role in epileptogenesis in the immature brain.
The sensorimotor transformation underlying Caenorhabditis elegans chemotaxis has been difficult to measure directly under normal assay conditions. Thus, key features of this transformation remain obscure, such as its time course and dependence on stimulus amplitude. Here, we present a comprehensive characterization of the transformation as obtained by inducing stepwise temporal changes in attractant concentration within the substrate as the worm crawls across it. We found that the step response is complex, with multiple phases and a nonlinear dependence on the sign and amplitude of the stimulus. Nevertheless, the step response could be reduced to a simple kinetic model that predicted the results of chemotaxis assays. Analysis of the model showed that chemotaxis results from the combined effects of approach and avoidance responses to concentration increases and decreases, respectively. Surprisingly, ablation of the ASE chemosensory neurons, known to be necessary for chemotaxis in chemical gradient assays, eliminated avoidance responses but left approach responses intact. These results indicate that the transformation can be dissected into components to which identified neurons can be assigned.
The channel of NMDA receptors is blocked by a wide variety of drugs. NMDA receptor channel blockers include drugs of abuse that induce psychotic behavior, such as phencyclidine, and drugs with wide therapeutic utility, such as amantadine and memantine. We describe here the molecular mechanism of amantadine inhibition. In contrast to most other described channel-blocking molecules, amantadine causes the channel gate of NMDA receptors to close more quickly. Our results confirm that amantadine binding inhibits current flow through NMDA receptor channels but show that its main inhibitory action at pharmaceutically relevant concentrations results from stabilization of closed states of the channel. The surprising variation in the clinical utility of NMDA channel blockers may in part derive from their diverse effects on channel gating.
The studies of neural stem cell fate, as well as the possibility to genetically manipulate them, represent important tools for modern neuroscience research. Furthermore, the potential use of these cells in treatment of neurological disorders makes these methods valuable for the development of new treatment paradigms. Here we report a method to genetically mark and modify neuroblasts and progenitor cells in the subventricular zone of post-natal rats using retroviral vectors. Using GFP as a marker gene we were able to follow the cells as they migrate and differentiate into olfactory interneurons. The cells were found in the olfactory bulb already 1 week after injection of the vector and after 3 weeks all cells had reached this area. There was a higher efficiency of the labeling of cells in neonatal rats compared to adults but injecting directly into the subventricular zone could to some extent counteract this effect. However, the cell types generated by the GFP positive cells were the same in neonatal and adult animals. This method will be a powerful tool to study the genetic interplay involved in neural stem cell differentiation and may be instrumental in finding a way to instruct these cells to participate in brain repair in the adult central nervous system.
Investigations of motoneuron diseases on a cellular and molecular level require long-term cultivation of primary cells. Here we present a new culture system in which matured motoneurons interact with their physiological partners like interneurons, astroglia and peripheral glia cells. This enables motoneuron-maturation for up to 3 weeks, while motoneurons consistently reached large diameters of their somata of 30-45 microm, occasionally more than 80 microm. Dissociated rat embryonic ventral spinal cord cells were enriched for motoneurons by density gradient centrifugation and seeded on a non-confluent mono-layer of highly enriched neonatal rat Schwann cells. Immunocytochemical visualization of neuron specific betaIII-tubulin in all neurons and of motoneuron specific non-phosphorylated neurofilament H/M, respectively, revealed that after 3 days in vitro &gt;70% of all neurons were motoneurons. After 20 days in vitro, a motoneuron fraction of 12% was maintained. Motoneurons were susceptible to transient transfection with green fluorescent protein cDNA when liposomal transfection and an enhancer substance were combined. Synaptic connections enabled formation of spontaneously active neuronal networks which provide a culture model to study glutamate excitotoxicity and calcium deregulation on a molecular level. Both mechanisms are implied in the pathophysiology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a neurodegenerative motoneuron disorder.
The in vitro assembling of cellular networks offering control over cell positions and connectivities by patterned culture substrates is a valuable tool for neuroscience research and other applications in cell biology. We developed a versatile technique based on polymer surface modification which allows the patterning of different cell lines for advanced tissue engineering, among them are Pheochromocytoma cells (PC-12). In contrast to other techniques applied for surface patterning, the presented photo patterning by deep UV irradiation is applicable to the widely used cell culture substrate material polystyrene (PS) and should be easily performed in most laboratories. Irradiation of polystyrene with UV radiation of lambda = 185 nm yields mainly carboxyl groups at the polymer surface which can be used to control the spontaneous competitive protein adsorption from serum containing culture media [Welle A, Gottwald E. UV-based patterning of polymeric substrates for cell culture applications. Biomed. Microdev. 2002;4:33-41] or to serve as defined coupling sites for controlled protein/peptide immobilization. Extending our previous studies on patterning hepatoma cells and fibroblasts via spatially defined plasma protein adsorption, we here describe an advanced application to produce patterns of cell repellent albumin domains and cell attractive laminin regions for the patterning of Pheochromocytoma cells.
Numerous lines of evidence support the role of oxidative stress in different types of cancer. A major DNA lesion, 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine (8-oxoG), is formed by reactive oxygen species in the genome under physiological conditions. 8-OxoG is strongly mutagenic, generating G.C--&gt;T.A transversions, a frequent somatic mutation in cancers. hOGG1 was cloned as a gene encoding a DNA glycosylase that specifically recognizes and removes 8-oxoG from 8-oxoG:C base pairs and suppresses G.C--&gt;T.A transversions. In this study, we investigated the subcellular localization and expression of hOGG1 during the cell cycle. Northern blots showed cell-cycle-dependent mRNA expression of the two major hOGG1 isoforms. By using a cell line constitutively expressing hOGG1 fused to enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP), we observed a dynamic relocalization of EGFP-hOGG1 to the nucleoli during the S-phase of the cell cycle, and this localization was shown to be linked to transcription. A C/G change that results in an amino acid substitution from serine to cysteine in codon 326 has been reported as a genetic polymorphism and a risk allele for a variety of cancers. We investigated the cellular localization of the corresponding protein, hOGG1-Cys326, fused to EGFP and observed a dramatic effect on its localization that is explained by a change in the phosphorylation status of hOGG1.
Assessments of the severity of vomiting (weekly frequency), depressive and eating-related psychopathology, anger level and management, and personality dimensions were used to characterize patients with bulimia nervosa binge purging type (BN-BP). The sample comprised 130 outpatients with BN and 130 control women. The Eating Disorder Inventory-2 (EDI-2), the State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory, the Beck Depression Inventory, and the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) were administered to all patients. The Self-Directedness dimension of the TCI and the Bulimia subscale of the EDI-2 were the strongest predictors of the severity of bulimic behavior; anger levels and anger expression were not so strongly related to illness severity. A more severe form of bulimic symptomatology probably has substrata in specific character deficits (low Self-Directedness on the TCI) and particular psychopathological features (high bulimia on the EDI-2). Patients with a high frequency of vomiting need specific therapeutic interventions to enhance the character dimension of Self-Directedness.
Regulation of actin filament dynamics underlies many cellular functions. Tropomodulin together with tropomyosin can cap the pointed, slowly polymerizing, filament end, inhibiting addition or loss of actin monomers. Tropomodulin has an unstructured N-terminal region that binds tropomyosin and a folded C-terminal domain with six leucine-rich repeats. Of tropomodulin 1's 359 amino acids, an N-terminal fragment (Tmod1(1)(-)(92)) suffices for in vitro function, even though the C-terminal domain can weakly cap filaments independent of tropomyosin. Except for one short alpha-helix with coiled coil propensity (residues 24-35), the Tmod1(1)(-)(92) solution structure shows that the fragment is disordered and highly flexible. On the basis of the solution structure and predicted secondary structure, we have introduced a series of mutations to determine the structural requirements for tropomyosin binding (using native gels and CD) and filament capping (by measuring actin polymerization using pyrene fluorescence). Tmod1(1)(-)(92) fragments with mutations of an interface hydrophobic residue, L27G and L27E, designed to destroy the alpha-helix or coiled coil propensity, lost binding ability to tropomyosin but retained partial capping function in the presence of tropomyosin. Replacement of a flexible region with alpha-helical residues (residues 59-61 mutated to Ala) had no effect on tropomyosin binding but inhibited the capping function. A mutation in a region predicted to be an amphipathic helix (residues 65-75), L71D, destroyed the capping function. The results suggest that molecular flexibility and binding to actin via an amphipathic helix are both required for tropomyosin-dependent capping of the pointed end of the actin filament.
We present a unique case demonstrating contributions of the pulvinar in response to visual threat. Substantial evidence demonstrates that the amygdala contributes to the emotion of fear and the response to threat. Traditionally, two routes to amygdala activation have been distinguished: a &quot;slow cortical&quot; route through visual and association cortex and a &quot;fast subcortical&quot; route through the thalamus. The pulvinar nucleus of the thalamus is well connected to the amygdala, suggesting that pulvinar damage might interfere with amygdala activation and response to threat. We tested this possibility in patient SM, who suffered complete loss of the left pulvinar. We measured interference from threatening images on goal-directed behavior. In SM's ipsilesional field, threatening images slowed responses more than pleasant images did. This interference decreased rapidly over time. In contrast, in SM's contralesional field, interference from threatening images was initially absent and then increased rather than decreased over time. Processing through the pulvinar therefore plays a significant role in generating response to visual threat. We suggest that, with disruption of the subcortical route to the amygdala, briefly presented images were not fully processed for threat. The reemergence of interference over time may reflect contributions of a slower route.
Numerous studies have demonstrated that chemical defenses protect prey from predation and have often assumed that these defenses function by repelling predators. Surprisingly, few have investigated the mechanisms whereby predators are affected by these defenses. Here, we examine mechanisms of chemical defense of sea hares (Aplysia californica), which, when attacked by spiny lobsters (Panulirus interruptus), release defensive secretions from ink and opaline glands. We show that ink-opaline facilitates the escape of sea hares by acting through a combination of novel and conventional mechanisms. Ink-opaline contains millimolar quantities of amino acids that stimulate chemoreceptor neurons in the spiny lobster's nervous system. Ink stimulates appetitive and ingestive behavior, opaline can elicit appetitive behavior but can also inhibit ingestion and evoke escape responses, and both stimulate grooming. These results suggest that these secretions function by &quot;phagomimicry,&quot; in which ink-opaline stimulates the feeding pathway to deceive spiny lobsters into attending to a false food stimulus, and by sensory disruption, in which the sticky and potent secretions cause high-amplitude, long-lasting chemo-mechanosensory stimulation. In addition, opaline contains a chemical deterrent that opposes appetitive effects. Thus, chemical defenses may act in more complex manners than palatability assays of prey chemistry may suggest.
Secretion of alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) from the neuroendocrine melanotrope cells in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary gland of the clawed frog Xenopus laevis is regulated by various inhibitory, stimulatory and autocrine factors. The neuropeptide sauvagine stimulates alpha-MSH secretion by changing the pattern of intracellular Ca2+ oscillations and the electrical properties of the cell membrane. In the present study we investigated whether another secreto-stimulator, the extracellular Ca2+-sensing receptor (CaR), also affects the Ca2+ oscillatory pattern and electrical membrane properties. Using high-speed dynamic video-imaging we show that activation of the CaR with the specific agonist l-phenylalanine (l-Phe) changes the Ca2+ oscillatory pattern by increasing the number of Ca2+ steps, which are the &quot;building blocks&quot; of the oscillations. Moreover, using patch-clamp electrophysiology it is demonstrated that l-Phe affects membrane properties by increasing frequency and duration of action currents. Compared to sauvagine, the CaR has different effects on the action current parameters, suggesting that multiple mechanisms regulate the electrical properties of the melanotrope cell membrane and, thereby, the Ca2+ oscillation-dependent level of alpha-MSH secretion.
Molecular events under the neuronal degeneration are widely studied but still not defined. Here we compared the effects of both excitotoxic and apoptotic insults on the DNA binding profile of multifunctional transcription factor YY1 protein in cultured cerebellar granule neurons. We report that L-glutamate-induced excitotoxic insult but not ionophore A23187 treatment caused the disappearance of the larger DNA binding complex of YY1 and a simultaneous appearance of the smaller YY1 complex in cerebellar granule neurons. MK-801 (NMDA receptor antagonist) as well as benzamide (PARP inhibitor), MDL 28170 (calpain inhibitor) and roscovitine (cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor) inhibited the glutamate response to the YY1 complexes. Herbimycin, PD169316, wortmannin, JAK3 inhibitor, KN-93, H-7 and LY294002 were not effective. Apoptosis induced by okadaic acid but not that induced by etoposide or trichostatin A caused a similar excitotoxic reorganization in YY1 complexes. We suggest that despite the different cell death mechanisms, glutamate and okadaic acid activate signalling cascades that affect the formation of YY1 complexes and probably YY1-mediated gene regulation.
Anxiety is supposed to interfere with cognitive and emotional processing and high level of trait-anxiety has been associated with an attentional bias for fearful faces, even in sub-clinical anxiety. On the basis of the Spielberger State and Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), twenty students were grouped as low vs. high anxious. Pictures from the Ekman and Friesen series were used in an event-related potentials study to investigate the neurophysiological correlates of the emotional processing of fear and happiness in sub-clinical anxiety. Subjects were confronted with a visual oddball design, in which they had to detect, as quickly as possible, deviant happy or fearful faces amongst a train of standard stimuli (neutral faces). Anxiety does not modify early perceptual (N100, P100, N170, VPP) or attentional (N2b) component, but later components are affected. Indeed, high anxious subjects are faster to detect deviant faces as suggested by earlier reaction times and P3b component. However, they show a reduced ability to process the emotional content of faces, this deficit being indexed by a decreased N300 component. Indeed, N300 is supposed to be particularly sensitive to affective features of stimuli rather than to physical characteristics. We propose that the earlier P3b observed in high anxious subjects could be interpreted as a way to overcome the deficient emotional appraisal by a more salient conscious processing.
Deficits in sensory-gating, often measured as deficits in prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle (PPI), are associated multiple with disorders including schizophrenia, attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and withdrawal from nicotine. Drugs that can reverse deficits in PPI may serve as therapeutic agents for nicotine withdrawal, ADHD, and/or schizophrenia. The present study investigated the effects of acute atomoxetine, a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, nicotine, and mecamylamine, a nicotinic acetylcholinergic antagonist, on PPI and acoustic startle in C57BL/6 mice. Three doses of atomoxetine (0.2, 2.0, and 20 mg/kg) were administered prior to testing PPI and startle. The 0.2 and 2.0 mg/kg doses enhanced PPI and the 20 mg/kg dose enhanced startle. A second experiment investigated the effects of 2.0 mg/kg atomoxetine and 1.0mg/kg mecamylamine administered alone or together on PPI and startle. As before, atomoxetine enhanced PPI. Mecamylamine did not alter PPI and did not block the enhancement of PPI by atomoxetine. Neither drug altered startle. A third experiment investigated the effects of 2.0 mg/kg atomoxetine and 0.125 mg/kg nicotine administered alone or together on PPI and startle. Both drugs enhanced PPI when administered alone. However, when co-administered, no enhancement of PPI was seen. Neither nicotine nor atomoxetine altered startle. The present results demonstrate that acute doses of nicotine and atomoxetine enhance PPI independent of effects on startle and that the enhancement of PPI by atomoxetine occurs independent of the nicotinic acetylcholinergic system. Thus, the newly available medication for ADHD, atomoxetine, could be a potential therapeutic agent for disorders associated with disrupted PPI such as withdrawal from nicotine.
Recent studies demonstrated that stromal cells isolated from adult bone marrow have the competence of differentiating into neuronal cells in vitro and in vivo. However, the capacity of marrow stromal cells or mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to differentiate into diverse neuronal cell populations and the identity of molecular factors that confer marrow stromal cells with the competence of a neuronal subtype have yet to be elucidated. Here, we show that Sonic hedgehog (Shh) and retinoic acid (RA), signaling molecules secreted from tissues in the vicinity of peripheral sensory ganglia during embryogenesis, exert synergistic effects on neural-competent MSCs to express a comprehensive set of glutamatergic sensory neuron markers. Application of Shh or RA alone had little or no effect on the expression of these neuronal subtype markers. In addition, incubation of MSCs with embryonic hindbrain/somite/otocyst conditioned medium or prenatal cochlea explants promoted up-regulation of additional sensory neuron markers and process outgrowth. These results identify Shh and RA as sensory competence factors for adult pluripotent cells and establish the importance of interactions between adult pluripotent cells and the host microenvironment in neuronal subtype specification.
The budding yeast S phase checkpoint responds to hydroxyurea-induced nucleotide depletion by preventing replication fork collapse and the segregation of unreplicated chromosomes. Although the block to chromosome segregation has been thought to occur by inhibiting anaphase, we show checkpoint-defective rad53 mutants undergo cycles of spindle extension and collapse after hydroxyurea treatment that are distinct from anaphase cells. Furthermore, chromatid cohesion, whose dissolution triggers anaphase, is dispensable for S phase checkpoint arrest. Kinetochore-spindle attachments are required to prevent spindle extension during replication blocks, and chromosomes with two centromeres or an origin of replication juxtaposed to a centromere rescue the rad53 checkpoint defect. These observations suggest that checkpoint signaling is required to generate an inward force involved in maintaining preanaphase spindle integrity during DNA replication distress. We propose that by promoting replication fork integrity under these conditions Rad53 ensures centromere duplication. Replicating chromosomes can then bi-orient in a cohesin-independent manner to restrain untimely spindle extension.
The purpose of this study was to test whether transitin, the avian homologue of nestin, is expressed by retinal progenitors in the developing and postnatal chicken. Because nestin has been widely used as a cell-distinguishing marker of neural progenitors in the mammalian nervous system, we expected to find transitin expressed specifically by the neural progenitors of the retina. In early stages of development, transitin is expressed by neural progenitors in the retina and by cells in the developing ciliary body. During later stages of development, transitin expression persists in differentiating Mller glia but is down-regulated by these cells as maturation proceeds. In the postnatal chick, transitin expression is restricted to neural progenitors at the peripheral edge of the retina. We found that the expression of transitin in mature Mller glia was induced by intraocular injections of insulin and fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) but not by ciliary neurotrophic factor. In response to insulin and FGF2, the expression of transitin was induced in the nonpigmented epithelium (NPE) of the ciliary body. In the postnatal retina, acute retinal damage transiently induces transitin expression in Mller glia. We propose that the expression of transitin by retinal Mller glia and NPE cells in the postnatal animal represents a state of de-differentiation and a step toward becoming neurogenic progenitor cells. Taken together, our findings indicate that transitin is expressed by neural progenitors in the embryonic and postnatal chicken retina. However, transitin is not exclusively expressed by neural progenitors and is also expressed by non-neurogenic cells.
Herman P. Schwan [1915-2005] was a distinguished scientist and engineer, and a founding father of the field of biomedical engineering. A man of integrity, Schwan influenced the lives of many, including his wife and children, and his many students and colleagues. Active in science until nearly the end of his life, he will be very much missed by his family and many colleagues.
A major hallmark of the polyglutamine diseases is the formation of neuronal intranuclear inclusions of the disease proteins that are ubiquitinated and often associated with various chaperones and proteasome components. But, how the polyglutamine proteins are ubiquitinated and degraded by the proteasomes are not known. Here, we demonstrate that CHIP (C terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein) co-immunoprecipitates with the polyglutamine-expanded huntingtin or ataxin-3 and associates with their aggregates. Transient overexpression of CHIP increases the ubiquitination and the rate of degradation of polyglutamine-expanded huntingtin or ataxin-3. Finally, we show that overexpression of CHIP suppresses the aggregation and cell death mediated by expanded polyglutamine proteins and the suppressive effect is more prominent when CHIP is overexpressed along with Hsc70.
Biallelic mutations in the neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2) gene are linked to schwannoma and meningioma tumorigenesis. Cells with NF2 mutations exhibit elevated levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and aberrant cell-cell and cell-matrix contacts. The NF2 gene product, merlin, associates with adherens junction protein complexes, suggesting that part of its function as a tumor suppressor involves regulating cell junctions. Here, we find that a novel PDZ protein, called erbin, binds directly to the merlin-binding partner, EBP0, and regulates adherens junction dissociation through a MAP kinase-dependent mechanism. Reducing erbin expression using a targeted siRNA in primary cultures of Schwann cells results in altered cell-cell interactions, disruption of E-cadherin adherens junctions, increased cell proliferation, and elevated levels of phosphorylated ERK, all phenotypes observed in cells that lack merlin. Reduction of erbin expression also results in the dissociation of merlin from adherens junction proteins and an increase in the levels of phosphorylated merlin. These phenotypes can be rescued if cells with reduced levels of erbin are treated with a pharmacological inhibitor of ERK kinase. Collectively, these data indicate that erbin regulates MAP kinase activation in Schwann cells and suggest that erbin links merlin to both adherens junction protein complexes and the MAP kinase signaling pathway.
The activity of the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) declines in brains of patients with several neurodegenerative diseases. KGDHC consists of multiple copies of E1k, E2k, and E3. E1k and E2k are unique to KGDHC and may have functions independent of the complex. The present study tested the consequences of different levels of diminished E2k mRNA on protein levels of the subunits, KGDHC activity, and physiological responses. Human embryonic kidney cells were stably transfected with an E2k sense or antisense expression vector. Sense control (E2k-mRNA-100) was compared with two clones in which the mRNA was reduced to 67% of control (E2k-mRNA-67) or to 30% of control (E2k-mRNA-30). The levels of the E2k protein in clones paralleled the reduction in mRNA, and E3 proteins were unaltered. Unexpectedly, the clone with the greatest reduction in E2k protein (E2k-mRNA-30) had a 40% increase in E1k protein. The activity of the complex was only 52% of normal in E2k-mRNA-67 clone, but was near normal (90%) in E2k-mRNA-30 clone. Subsequent experiments tested whether the physiological consequences of a reduction in E2k mRNA correlated more closely to E2k protein or to KGDHC activity. Growth rate, increased DCF-detectable reactive oxygen species, and cell death in response to added oxidant were proportional to E2k proteins, but not complex activity. These results were not predicted because subunits unique to KGDHC have never been manipulated in mammalian cells. These results suggest that in addition to its essential role in metabolism, the E2k component of KGDHC may have other novel roles.
Inherited prion diseases are linked to mutations in the prion protein (PrP) gene, which favor conversion of PrP into a conformationally altered, pathogenic isoform. The cellular mechanism by which this process causes neurological dysfunction is unknown. It has been proposed that neuronal death can be triggered by accumulation of PrP in the cytosol because of impairment of proteasomal degradation of misfolded PrP molecules retrotranslocated from the endoplasmic reticulum (Ma, J., Wollmann, R., and Lindquist, S. (2002) Science 298, 1781-1785). To test whether this neurotoxic mechanism is operative in inherited prion diseases, we evaluated the effect of proteasome inhibitors on the viability of transfected N2a cells and primary neurons expressing mouse PrP homologues of the D178N and nine octapeptide mutations. We found that the inhibitors caused accumulation of an unglycosylated, aggregated form of PrP exclusively in transfected N2a expressing PrP from the cytomegalovirus promoter. This form contained an uncleaved signal peptide, indicating that it represented polypeptide chains that had failed to translocate into the ER lumen during synthesis, rather than retrogradely translocated PrP. Quantification of N2a viability in the presence of proteasome inhibitors demonstrated that accumulation of this form was not toxic. No evidence of cytosolic PrP was found in cerebellar granule neurons from transgenic mice expressing wild-type or mutant PrPs from the endogenous promoter, nor were these neurons more susceptible to proteasome inhibitor toxicity than neurons from PrP knock-out mice. Our analysis fails to confirm the previous observation that mislocation of PrP in the cytosol is neurotoxic, and argues against the hypothesis that perturbation of PrP metabolism through the proteasomal pathway plays a pathogenic role in prion diseases.
A rapid, selective and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic method with spectrophotometric detection was developed for the determination of clarithromycin in human plasma. Liquid-liquid extraction of clarithromycin and norverapamil (as internal standard) from plasma samples was performed with n-hexane/1-butanol (98:2, v/v) in alkaline condition followed by back-extraction into diluted acetic acid. Chromatography was carried out using a CN column (250 mm x 4.6 mm, 5 microm) under isocratic elution with acetonitrile-50 mM aqueous sodium dihydrogen phosphate (32:68, v/v), pH 4.5. Detection was made at 205 nm and analyses were run at a flow-rate of 1.0 ml/min at 40 degrees C. The analysis time was less than 11 min. The method was specific and sensitive with a quantification limit of 31.25 ng/ml and a detection limit of 10 ng/ml in plasma. The mean absolute recovery of clarithromycin from plasma was 95.9%, while the intra- and inter-day coefficient of variation and percent error values of the assay method were all less than 9.5%. Linearity was assessed in the range of 31.25-2000 ng/ml in plasma with a correlation coefficient of greater than 0.999. The method was used to analyze several hundred human plasma samples for bioavailability studies.
Over the past 20 years, storage of visual items in visual short-term memory has been extensively studied by many research groups. In addition to questions concerning the format of object storage is a more global question that focuses on the organization of information in visual short-term memory. In a series of experiments we investigated how relations across visual items determined the accessibility of individual item information. This relational information seems to be very strong within the store devoted to each feature dimension. We also investigated the role of selective attention on the storage of relational information. The experiments suggest a broadening of the parallel store model of visual short-term memory proposed by M. E. Wheeler and A. M. Treisman (2002) to include the notion of what we call &quot;structural gist.&quot;
While firing rate is well established as a relevant parameter for encoding information exchanged between neurons, the significance of other parameters is more conjectural. Here, we show that regularity of neuronal spike activities affects sensorimotor processing in tottering mutants, which suffer from a mutation in P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels. While the modulation amplitude of the simple spike firing rate of their floccular Purkinje cells during optokinetic stimulation is indistinguishable from that of wild-types, the regularity of their firing is markedly disrupted. The gain and phase values of tottering's compensatory eye movements are indistinguishable from those of flocculectomized wild-types or from totterings with the flocculus treated with P/Q-type calcium channel blockers. Moreover, normal eye movements can be evoked in tottering when the flocculus is electrically stimulated with regular spike trains mimicking the firing pattern of normal simple spikes. This study demonstrates the importance of regularity of firing in Purkinje cells for neuronal information processing.
A recently described form of synaptic plasticity results in dynamic changes in the calcium permeability of synaptic AMPA receptors. Since the AMPA receptor GluR2 subunit confers calcium permeability, this plasticity is thought to occur through the dynamic exchange of synaptic GluR2-lacking and GluR2-containing receptors. To investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying this calcium-permeable AMPA receptor plasticity (CARP), we examined whether AMPA receptor exchange was mediated by subunit-specific protein-protein interactions. We found that two GluR2-interacting proteins, the PDZ domain-containing Protein interacting with C kinase (PICK1) and N-ethylmaleimide sensitive fusion protein (NSF), are specifically required for CARP. Furthermore, PICK1, but not NSF, regulates the formation of extrasynaptic plasma membrane pools of GluR2-containing receptors that may be laterally mobilized into synapses during CARP. These results demonstrate that PICK1 and NSF dynamically regulate the synaptic delivery of GluR2-containing receptors during CARP and thus regulate the calcium permeability of AMPA receptors at excitatory synapses.
It has been debated whether asymmetric distribution of cell surface receptors during mitosis could generate asymmetric cell divisions by yielding daughters with different environmental responsiveness and, thus, different fates. We have found that in mouse embryonic forebrain ventricular and subventricular zones, the EGFR can distribute asymmetrically during mitosis in vivo and in vitro. This occurs during divisions yielding two Nestin+ progenitor cells, via an actin-dependent mechanism. The resulting sibling progenitor cells respond differently to EGFR ligand in terms of migration and proliferation. Moreover, they express different phenotypic markers: the EGFRhigh daughter usually has radial glial/astrocytic markers, while its EGFRlow sister lacks them, indicating fate divergence. Lineage trees of cultured cortical glioblasts reveal repeated EGFR asymmetric distribution, and asymmetric divisions underlie formation of oligodendrocytes and astrocytes in clones. These data suggest that asymmetric EGFR distribution contributes to forebrain development by creating progenitors with different proliferative, migratory, and differentiation responses to ligand.
Three ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits, designated GluRIIA, GluRIIB, and GluRIII, have been identified at neuromuscular junctions of Drosophila. Whereas GluRIIA and GluRIIB are redundant for viability, it was shown recently that GluRIII is essential for both the synaptic localization of GluRIIA and GluRIIB and the viability of Drosophila. Here we identify a fourth and a fifth subunit expressed in the neuromuscular system, which we name GluRIID and GluRIIE. Both new subunits we show to be necessary for survival. Moreover, both GluRIID and GluRIIE are required for the synaptic expression of all other glutamate receptor subunits. All five subunits are interdependent for receptor function, synaptic receptor expression, and viability. This indicates that synaptic glutamate receptors incorporate the GluRIII, GluRIID, and GluRIIE subunit together with either GluRIIA or GluRIIB at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction. At this widely used model synapse, the assembly of four different subunits to form an individual glutamate receptor channel may thus be obligatory. This study opens the way for a further characterization of in vivo glutamate receptor assembly and trafficking using the efficient genetics of Drosophila.
The recollection of emotional autobiographical memories has received little attention in patients with memory disorders. Here, we addressed this topic in amnesic patients with damage to the hippocampus (HC group; n = 8) or the hippocampus, amygdala, and surrounding cortices (HC+ group; n = 2). These patients were asked to recollect emotional events from their lives. HC patients produced recollections that were strikingly similar to those of brain-damaged (n = 10) and healthy (n = 25) comparison participants, in terms of both quantity and quality. In contrast, HC+ patients produced a lower proportion of unpleasant memories compared with the other participants. Specifically, the ratings and words used to describe recollections in the HC+ patients were more affectively positive. All groups produced more memories from between 10 and 30 years of age (the so-called autobiographical memory &quot;bump&quot;) compared with other time periods in their lives. These results suggest that structures surrounding the hippocampus, but not the hippocampus itself, may be necessary for the recollection of highly emotional, unpleasant autobiographical memories. The amygdala and surrounding cortices of the medial temporal lobe may be a necessary component in the neural circuitry necessary for vivid recollection of unpleasant emotional events.
Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is highly enriched in excitatory synapses in the CNS and critically involved in synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory. However, the precise temporal and spatial regulation of CaMKII activity in living cells has not been well described, because of a lack of specific methods. We tried to address this by optically detecting the conformational change in CaMKII during activation using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). The engineered FRET probe Camuialpha detects calmodulin binding and autophosphorylation at threonine 286 that renders the enzyme constitutively active. In combination with two-photon microscopy, we demonstrate that Camuialpha can be used to observe temporal and spatial regulation of CaMKII activity in living neurons.
Trophin-induced synaptic plasticity consists of both presynaptic and postsynaptic processes. The potential interdependence of these mechanisms and their temporal relationships are undefined. The synaptic vesicle protein Rab3A is required for the early, initial 10 min phase but not for the later phase of BDNF-enhanced transmission. We now examine the temporal distinction and mechanistic relationships between these phases of BDNF action. Rab3A mutant cells did not exhibit increased miniature EPSC frequency in response to BDNF in cell culture, indicating an absence of the presynaptic component. In contrast, BDNF enhanced postsynaptic glutamate-induced current in the mutant neurons as in the wild type, indicating that the postsynaptic component of the response was intact. Finally, the postsynaptic NMDA receptor subunit NR2B was phosphorylated at Tyr1472 by BDNF in Rab3A knock-outs, as shown previously in wild type. Our results are the first to demonstrate that presynaptic and postsynaptic components of BDNF-enhanced synaptic activity are independent and temporally distinct.

The authors evaluated a site-independent telemedicine system. Telemedicine may be limited by the need for fixed connectivity. Wireless and site-independent technologies eliminate this limitation. Twenty-five stroke patients underwent evaluations by remote and bedside examiners. Ten of 15 (67%) NIH Stroke Scale and 9 of 11 (82%) Modified NIH Stroke Scale items showed excellent interrater reliability. Spearman correlations were &gt; or =0.93. This Internet system is reliable and valid. Further studies should assess its use in acute stroke.


It has repeatedly been shown that the serotonergic system is involved in the symptomatology of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD). Women with PMDD are reported to differ from symptom-free controls with regard to serotonin-related biological markers. Evidence from family and twin studies suggests a genetic contribution to the aetiology of PMDD. The expression of human transcription factor AP-2beta in neural crest cell lineages and neuroectodermal cells suggests that this protein may be of importance for functional characteristics of neurons by regulating the expression of target genes. Within the monoaminergic systems, several genes have binding sites for AP-2beta in regulatory regions, suggesting an involvement of AP-2beta in these systems. The gene encoding AP-2beta is located on chromosome 6p12-p21.1 and includes a polymorphic region consisting of a variable number of [CAAA] repeats located in the second intron. We have earlier shown that AP-2beta genotype is associated with serotonergic phenotypes and that brainstem levels of AP-2beta correlate positively to serotonin metabolism in rat frontal cortex. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between PMDD and transcription factor AP-2beta genotype. The participants included 176 women with PMDD and 91 healthy controls. Genotyping was performed by polymerase chain reactions. We did not observe any differences in AP-2beta genotype frequencies between PMDD subjects and controls. Our results suggest that AP-2beta genotype is not a risk factor for PMDD. To our knowledge, this is the first study investigating transcription factor AP-2beta genotype in women with PMDD. Hence, these results should be considered preliminary until replicated.
Parvalbumin (PA) is a calcium-binding protein that has been implicated in neuroprotection. We examined whether the stimulus effect of ethanol withdrawal (EW) alters the expression of PA in a manner that is prevented by 17beta-estradiol (E2). Ovariectomized rats implanted with E2 (EW/E2) or oil (EW/Oil) pellets received chronic ethanol (7.5%, w/v, 5 weeks) or control dextrin diets (Dex/Oil). At 24h of EW, rats were tested for overt EW signs, and the cerebellum was prepared for immunoblotting and immunohistological assessment for PA. The EW/Oil group showed a higher EW sign score, a lower PA expression, and fewer PA-positive Purkinje neurons than the dextrin control group. In the EW/E2 group, EW sign scores, PA expression, and PA-positive Purkinje neurons were not significantly different from those in the control dextrin group. These data suggest that E2 treatment protects against the PA-suppression associated with EW toxicity.
The mammalian genome encodes seven different NMDA receptor subunits. All of these subunits have been cloned in the human except for NR3B. Here, we have successfully obtained two full-length clones of human NR3B using a PCR-based cloning approach. The open reading frame of the consensus sequence contains 3129 nucleotides translating into 1043 amino acids. The overall polypeptide sequence identity with mouse NR3B is 74.9%, which is lower than for the other six NMDA receptor subunits. In particular, the translated part of exon 9 is only 37.8% identical between human and mouse. The GRIN3B gene, which encodes human NR3B, maps to chromosome 19p13.3, between WDR18 and C19orf6 (membralin). Human NR3B is encoded by nine exons, as in mouse NR3B, and exon-intron boundaries are conserved between the species. However, exon 9 is substantially longer in the human. In situ hybridization data shows that NR3B mRNA is expressed in the human hippocampal formation (CA1-CA4 and dentate gyrus) and adjacent neocortex. The expression of NR3A mRNA was restricted to the dentate gyrus and layers IV and V of the neocortex. Our results may have implications for the understanding of the role of NMDA receptors for physiological and pathological processes in these forebrain regions.
Recent studies suggested that bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) may have a therapeutic role in the treatment of paraplegia secondary to severe spinal cord injury (SCI). For this reason, we have studied the possibility of using nuclear medicine imaging techniques to evaluate the permanency and migration of BMSC after transplantation procedures in chronic paraplegic Wistar rats. After intravenous administration of 111In-oxine-labeled BMSC, gammagraphic images showed that the activity distributed all over the organism, but in the spinal cord only scarce activity was identified. When 111In-oxine-labeled BMSC were injected within the traumatic centromedullary cavity of paraplegic animals, the gammagraphic images showed persistent activity in the lesion zone, without any activity migrating to the rest of the organism, at least during the whole time of the study (10 days after transplantation procedures). Our results show the utility of 111In labeling for to know the permanency and distribution of BMSC after grafting procedures, and suggest the convenience of the intralesional administration of BMSC, instead of the intravenous administration, in the treatment of chronic traumatic paraplegia.
Neutral sphingomyelinases sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase (SMPD)2 and -3 hydrolyze sphingomyelin to phosphocholine and ceramide. smpd2 is expressed ubiquitously, and smpd3 is expressed predominantly in neurons of the CNS. Their activation and the functions of the released ceramides have been associated with signaling pathways in cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. However, these cellular responses remain poorly understood. Here we describe the generation and characterization of the smpd3(-/-) and smpd2(-/-)smpd3(-/-) double mutant mouse, which proved to be devoid of neutral sphingomyelinase activity. SMPD3 plays a pivotal role in the control of late embryonic and postnatal development: the smpd3-null mouse develops a novel form of dwarfism and delayed puberty as part of a hypothalamus-induced combined pituitary hormone deficiency. Our studies suggest that SMPD3 is segregated into detergent-resistant subdomains of Golgi membranes of hypothalamic neurosecretory neurons, where its transient activation modifies the lipid bilayer, an essential step in the Golgi secretory pathway. The smpd3(-/-) mouse might mimic a form of human combined pituitary hormone deficiency.
Sex differences in brain and behavior are ubiquitous in sexually reproducing species. One cause of sexual dimorphisms is developmental differences in circulating concentrations of gonadal steroids. Neonatal testes produce androgens; thus, males are exposed to both testosterone and estradiol, whereas females are not exposed to high concentrations of either hormone until puberty. Classically, the development of neural sex differences is initiated by estradiol, which activates two processes in male neonates; masculinization, the development of male-type behaviors, and defeminization, the loss of the ability to display female-type behaviors. Here, we test the hypothesis that defeminization is regulated by estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta). Adult male ERbeta knockout and WT mice were gonadectomized, treated with female priming hormones, and tested for receptive behavior. Indicative of incomplete defeminization, male ERbeta knockout mice showed significantly higher levels of female receptivity as compared with WT littermates. Testes-intact males did not differ in any aspects of their male sexual behavior, regardless of genotype. In olfactory preference tests, males of both genotypes showed equivalent preferences for female-soiled bedding. Based on these results, we hypothesize that ERbeta is involved in defeminization of brain and behavior. This aspect of ERbeta function may lead to developments in our understanding of neural-based sexually dimorphic human behaviors.
Peripheral administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a potent bacterial endotoxin, can cause a variety of central effects, including production of cytokines and cyclooxygenases in the brain, as well as peripheral increases in corticosterone. These, in turn, may contribute to neuroimmune-induced neurocognitive deficits. We show here LPS causes deficits in hippocampal-dependent spatial learning in the water maze but that treatment with ibuprofen, a broad-spectrum cyclooxygenase inhibitor, reverses the deficits induced in spatial learning by LPS. We also show that LPS causes an impairment in the induction of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus in vivo, a major contemporary model of learning and memory. No differences were found in corticosterone levels in trunk blood but we find a decrease in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in LPS group compared to saline controls. Paradoxically compared to the behavioral findings treatment with ibuprofen does not attenuate the LPS-induced impairment in LTP or BDNF concentration in tetanized tissue.
Estrogens are potent neuroprotectants both in vitro and in vivo. In the present study, we compared the potency and efficacy of a non-feminizing estrogen, 2-(1-adamantyl)-4-methylestrone (ZYC-26), with its parent estrogen, estrone, and an expected non-neuroprotective 3-O-methyl analog of (17beta)-2-(1-adamantyl)estradiol (ZYC-23). These estratriene derivatives were tested for their ability to protect in an in vitro lipid peroxidation model, to neuroprotect against oxidative stress in cell culture models, to bind the estrogen receptors (ERalpha and ERbeta), to elicit uterotrophic effects, and to affect brain damage from transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. We observed that in contrast to estrone, neither ZYC-26 nor ZYC-23 bound to either estrogen receptors (ER) and both failed to elicit a uterotrophic response. In vitro, the active estrogen analogue ZYC-26 was more potent that estrogen in its ability to inhibit lipid peroxidation and to protect HT-22 cells from either glutamate or iodoacetic acid (IAA) toxicity. Further, ZYC-26 was as active in preventing brain damage from transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) as was estrone. Collectively, these studies suggest that the antioxidant activity, rather than ER binding of non-feminizing estrogens such as ZYC-26, mediates their potent neuroprotective activity. Further, in view of the now known toxicities of chronic feminizing estrogen use in older women, non-feminizing estrogens may be a useful alternative for estrogen-induced brain protection.
The role of sigma1 receptors in non-acute pain has not been explored. In this study we show that both phases of formalin-induced pain were reduced by approximately 55% in sigma1 receptor knockout mice in comparison to wild-type animals. These results suggest that the tonic pain induced by formalin is altered in mice lacking sigma1 receptors, and highlight the potential usefulness of further studies of the role of sigma1 receptors in models of non-acute pain.
Enhanced excitatory neurotransmission in the mesocorticolimbic system may contribute to the persistence of addiction behaviour. Here, we demonstrated that glutamate-, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)- and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-induced [3H]-gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release from superfused rat nucleus accumbens core slices is profoundly enhanced 3 weeks, but not 3 days, after a single s.c. morphine injection. This delayed increase in glutamate receptor functioning is associated with enhanced gene transcript levels of ionotropic NMDA and AMPA/kainate receptor subunits. These data reveal that morphine may progressively enhance glutamate neurotransmission within the nucleus accumbens core subsequent to drug exposure.
Tramadol, (1RS,2RS)-2-[(dimethylamine)-methyl]-1-(3-methoxyphenyl)-cyclohexanol hydrochloride, is an atypical centrally acting analgesic agent with relatively weak opioid receptor affinity and which, like some antidepressants, is able to inhibit the reuptake of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in the raphe nucleus. We have previously demonstrated that pindolol, a beta-adrenoceptor blocker/5-hydroxytryptamine(1A/1B) receptor antagonist, enhanced tramadol antinociception and that the selective 5-HT1A agonist 8-Hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) reduced it. These effects were related to the negative feedback control that regulates raphe region neurones. The current study examines the ability of the selective antagonist at somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptors, N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl] ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexane carboxamide (WAY100635, 0.8 mg/kg), the selective antagonist at terminal 5-HT1B receptors, N-[3-(2-dimethylamino) ethoxy-4-methoxyphenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-(1,1'-biphenyl)-4-carboxamide (SB216641, 0.1-0.8 mg/kg) and the selective agonist at 5-HT1B receptors, 1,4-tDihydro-3-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridinyl)-5H-pyrrolo[3,2-b] pyridin-5-one (CP93129, 0.2-0.4 mg/kg), to modify the antinociceptive effect of 4-64 mg/kg of tramadol in the hot plate test in mice. The results show that 0.8 mg/kg of WAY100635 enhanced antinociceptive effect of tramadol while neither agonism nor antagonism at the 5-HT1B receptor modifies it significantly at the doses tested. These results account for involvement of the somatodendritic 5-HT1A receptors in the analgesic effect of tramadol and support the supraspinal interaction of serotonin and the opioid system in the regulation of pain.
The subiculum was recently shown to be crucially involved in the generation of interictal activity in human temporal lobe epilepsy. Using the pilocarpine model of epilepsy, this study examines the anatomical substrates for network hyperexcitability recorded in the subiculum. Regular- and burst-spiking subicular pyramidal cells were stained with fluorescence dyes and reconstructed to analyze seizure-induced alterations of the dendritic and axonal system. In control animals burst-spiking cells outnumbered regular-spiking cells by about two to one. Regular- and burst-spiking cells were characterized by extensive axonal branching and autapse-like contacts, suggesting a high intrinsic connectivity. In addition, subicular axons projecting to CA1 indicate a CA1-subiculum-CA1 circuit. In the subiculum of pilocarpine-treated rats we found an enhanced network excitability characterized by spontaneous rhythmic activity, polysynaptic responses, and all-or-none evoked bursts of action potentials. In pilocarpine-treated rats the subiculum showed cell loss of about 30%. The ratio of regular- and burst-spiking cells was practically inverse as compared to control preparations. A reduced arborization and spine density in the proximal part of the apical dendrites suggests a partial deafferentiation from CA1. In pilocarpine-treated rats no increased axonal outgrowth of pyramidal cells was observed. Hence, axonal sprouting of subicular pyramidal cells is not mandatory for the development of the pathological events. We suggest that pilocarpine-induced seizures cause an unmasking or strengthening of synaptic contacts within the recurrent subicular network.

Processing of NF-kappaB2 precursor protein p100 to generate p52 is tightly controlled, which is important for proper function of NF-kappaB. Accordingly, constitutive processing of p100, caused by the loss of its C-terminal processing inhibitory domain due to nfkappab2 gene rearrangements, is associated with the development of various lymphomas and leukemia. In contrast to the physiological processing of p100 triggered by NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK) and its downstream kinase, IkappaB kinase alpha (IKKalpha), which requires the E3 ligase, beta-transducin repeat-containing protein (beta-TrCP), and occurs only in the cytoplasm, the constitutive processing of p100 is independent of beta-TrCP but rather is regulated by the nuclear shuttling of p100. Here, we show that constitutive processing of p100 also requires IKKalpha, but not IKKbeta (IkappaB kinase beta) or IKKgamma (IkappaB kinase gamma). It seems that NIK is also dispensable for this pathogenic processing of p100. These results demonstrate a general role of IKKalpha in p100 processing under both physiological and pathogenic conditions. Additionally, we find that IKKalpha is not required for the nuclear translocation of p100. Thus, these results also indicate that p100 nuclear translocation is not sufficient for the constitutive processing of p100.
Ezrin, a linker between plasma membrane and actin cytoskeleton possesses morphogenic properties and can promote dissemination of tumor cells. Ezrin is phosphorylated on tyrosine, but a detailed picture of the signaling pathways involved in this modification is lacking. The transforming tyrosine kinase Src has various cytoskeletal substrates and is involved in regulation of cellular adhesion. We studied the role of Src in tyrosine phosphorylation of ezrin in adherent cells. We show that ezrin is phosphorylated in human embryonic kidney 293 cells in a Src family-dependent way. In SYF cells lacking Src, Yes, and Fyn, ezrin was not tyrosine-phosphorylated but reintroduction of wild-type Src followed by Src activation or introduction of active Src restored phosphorylation. Mapping of the Src-catalyzed tyrosine in vitro and in vivo by site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated Tyr(477) as the primary target residue. We generated a pTyr(477)-phosphospecific antibody, which confirmed that Tyr(477) becomes phosphorylated in cells in a Src-dependent manner. Tyr(477) phosphorylation did not affect ezrin head-to-tail association or phosphorylation of ezrin on threonine 566, indicating that the function of Tyr(477) phosphorylation is not related to the intramolecular regulation of ezrin. A modified yeast two-hybrid screen in which ezrin bait was phosphorylated by Src identified a novel interaction with a kelch-repeat protein family member, KBTBD2 (Kelch-repeat and BTB/POZ domain containing 2). The Src dependence of the interaction was further verified by affinity precipitation assays. Identification of a functional interplay with Src opens novel avenues for further characterization of the biological activities of ezrin.
Using an atomic force microscope, we have studied three-dimensional molecular topography and calcium-sensitive conformational changes of individual hemichannels. Full-length (non-truncated) Cx43 hemichannels (connexons), when reconstituted in lipid bilayer, appear as randomly distributed individual particles and clusters. They show a lack of preferential orientation of insertion into lipid membrane; in a single bilayer, connexons with protrusion of either the extracellular face or the large non-truncated cytoplasmic face are observed. Extracellular domains of these undocked hemichannels are structurally different from hemichannels in the docked gap junctional plaques examined after their exposure by force dissection or chemical dissection. Calcium induced a reversible change in the extracellular pore diameter. Hemichannels imaged in a physiological buffer with 1.8 mm Ca(+2) had the pore diameter of approximately 1.8 nm, consistent with the closed channel conformation. Reducing Ca(+2) concentration to approximately 1.4, 1, and 0 mm, which changes hemichannels from the closed to open conformation, increased the pore diameter to approximately 2.5 nm for approximately 27, 74, and 100% of hemichannels, respectively. Thus, open/close probability of the hemichannel appears to be [Ca(2+)]-dependent. Computational analysis of the atomic force microscopy phase mode imaging reveals a significantly higher interfacial energy for open hemichannels that results from the interactions between the atomic force microscope probe and the hydrophobic domains. Thus, hydrophobic extracellular domains of connexins regulate calcium-dependent conformational changes.


The presynaptic and postsynaptic properties of synapses change over the course of postnatal development. Therefore, synaptic plasticity mechanisms would be expected to adapt to these changes to facilitate alterations of synaptic strength throughout ontogeny. Here, we identified developmental changes in long-term depression (LTD) mediated by group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and dendritic protein synthesis in hippocampal CA1 slices (mGluR-LTD). In slices prepared from adolescent rats [postnatal day 21 (P21) to P35], mGluR activation induces LTD and a long-term decrease in AMPA receptor (AMPAR) surface expression, both of which require protein synthesis. In neonatal animals (P8-P15), mGluR-LTD is independent of protein synthesis and is not associated with changes in the surface expression of AMPARs. Instead, mGluR-LTD at neonatal synapses results in large decreases in presynaptic function, measured by changes in paired-pulse facilitation and the rate of blockade by the use-dependent NMDA receptor blocker (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate. Conversely, mGluR-LTD at mature synapses results in little or no change in presynaptic function, suggesting a postsynaptic mechanism of expression. The developmental switch in the synaptic mechanisms of LTD would differentially affect synapse dynamics and perhaps information processing over the course of postnatal development.
Feature selectivity is a fundamental property of sensory cortex neurons, yet the mechanisms underlying its genesis are not fully understood. Using intracellular recordings in vivo from layers 2-6 of rat barrel cortex, we studied the selectivity of neurons to the angular direction of whisker deflection. The spike output and the underlying synaptic response decreased exponentially in magnitude as the direction of deflection diverged from the preferred. However, the spike output was more sharply tuned for direction than the underlying synaptic response amplitude. This difference in selectivity was attributable to the rectification imposed by the spike threshold on the input-output function of cells. As in the visual system, spike threshold was not constant and showed trial-to-trial variability. However, here we show that the mean spike threshold was direction dependent and increased as the direction diverged from the preferred. Spike threshold was also related to the rate of rise of the synaptic response, which was direction dependent and steepest for the preferred direction. To assess the impact of the direction-dependent changes in spike threshold on direction selectivity, we applied a fixed threshold to the synaptic responses and calculated a predicted spike output. The predicted output was more broadly tuned than the obtained spike response, demonstrating for the first time that the regulation of the spike threshold by the properties of the synaptic response effectively enhances the selectivity of the spike output.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation has been shown to promote neuronal death in various paradigms. We demonstrated previously that the late and sustained ERK activation in cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) cultured in low potassium predominantly promotes plasma membrane (PM) damage. Here, we examined the effects of a well established neuronal survival factor, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), on the ERK cell death pathway. Stimulation of CGNs with IGF-1 induced an early and transient ERK activation but abrogated the appearance of late and sustained ERK. Withdrawal or readdition of IGF-1 after 4 h in low potassium failed to prevent sustained ERK activation and cell death. IGF-1 activated the protein kinase A (PKA) to mediate ERK inhibition via c-Raf phosphorylation at an inhibitory site (Ser259). Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) or PKA inhibitors, but not a specific Akt inhibitor, abrogated PKA signaling. This suggests that the PI3K/PKA/c-Raf-Ser259 pathway mediates ERK inhibition by IGF-1 independent of Akt. In addition, adenoviral-mediated expression of constitutively active MEK (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase) or Sindbis viral-mediated expression of mutant Raf Ser259Ala both attenuated IGF-1-mediated prevention of PM damage. Activation of caspase-3 promoted DNA damage. Its inhibition by IGF-1 was both PI3K and Akt dependent but PKA independent. 8-Br-cAMP, an activator of PKA, induced phosphorylation of c-Raf-Ser259 and inhibited ERK activation without affecting caspase-3. This indicates a selective role for PKA in ERK inhibition through c-Raf-Ser259 phosphorylation. Together, these data demonstrate that IGF-1 can positively and negatively regulate the ERK pathway in the same neuronal cell, and provide new insights into the PI3K/Akt/PKA signaling pathways in IGF-1-mediated neuronal survival.
Although it has been associated with the release of dopamine in the forebrain, reward remains a conundrum in neuroscience. Sucrose is inherently rewarding and its sensory message reaches the brain via the gustatory system. In rodents, the central gustatory system bifurcates in the pontine parabrachial nuclei, one arm forming a standard thalamocortical axis, the other distributing widely in the limbic forebrain. We report here that lesions of the gustatory thalamus fail to affect dopamine overflow during sucrose licking (149+/-5% vs. 149+/-4% for controls). Similar damage to the parabrachial nuclei, which severs the limbic taste projection, substantially reduces dopamine release from the nucleus accumbens (121+/-4% vs. 168+/-9% for sham operated controls; p&lt;0.02). This represents the first demonstration that the affective character of a sensory stimulus might separate from the thalamocortical system as early as the second central synapse.
Does the brain of a man or a woman develop and function in the same way? Recent research results tend to suggest that this is not the case. First, it appears that the level of expression of genes present on the sexual chromosomes could vary as a function of the gender in organs including in the brain. Second, sexual hormones, such as estrogens, were found to have important trophic effects on the development of synaptic networks as well as to influence many neuronal properties. Together, these two mechanisms have probably contributed to the selection through generations of functioning modes, sensitivities or behaviours that may differ between males and females.
A high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assay with fluorescence detection was developed for the determination of the polyamines putrescine, spermidine, spermine in samples of human spinal cord, cerebellum, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), skeletal muscle, and muscle microdialysates without an extensive sample preparation. The precolumn derivatization was performed with 9-fluorenylmethyl chloroformate (FMOC), and the derivatizated polyamines were stable for at least 14 h at 4 degrees C. All polyamines were separated within 35 min. The method was checked for linearity, and mean correlation coefficient values of 0.995, 0.999, and 0.991 were achieved for putrescine, spermidine, and spermine, respectively. The within- and between-assay coefficient of variation percentages evaluated in standard solutions varied between 1.0 and 4.9% and between 1.3 and 6.9%, respectively. The corresponding values obtained in samples of human spinal cord were between 1.0 and 5.0% and between 0.6 and 5.8%. The values of the recovery, evaluated in spinal cord tissue, varied between 83.7 and 93.5%.

It is widely hypothesized that excitotoxicity of released glutamate following a CNS insult is propagated by the cyclic cascade: glutamate release --&gt; damage --&gt; glutamate release --&gt; further damage --&gt; etc. We tested this hypothesis by determining the effects of attempting to interrupt the loop by administering glutamate receptor antagonists and Na(+)-channel blockers on glutamate release following spinal cord injury (SCI). The effects of administering the NMDA receptor blockers MK-801 and memantine, the AMPA/kainate receptor blockers NBQX and GYKI 52466, the AMPA receptor desensitization blocker cyclothiazide and the sodium channel blockers riluzole, mexiletine and QX-314 on post-SCI were determined. Agents were administered into the site of injury by direct injection, by microdialysis or systemically. None of these agents had an appreciable effect on glutamate release following SCI. Thus, it is unlikely that the above cascade produces significant secondary glutamate release and ongoing damage following SCI, although such cascades may worsen other CNS insults. We attribute our results to overwhelming effects of much greater release by direct mechanical damage and reversal of transport following SCI.
Ischemia is a potent modulator of gene expression. Differential expression of transcription factors after focal ischemia may reflect the potential for neuronal recovery in peri-ischemic regions. Previously, we demonstrated that hypothermia reduces the volume of damage in a model of neonatal focal ischemia. In the present study, immunocytochemistry was used to assess the temporal and spatial profiles of the transcription factors Fos and pCREB under normal and hypothermic conditions in this neonatal model of focal ischemia. At 7 days of age, rat pups underwent a permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) coupled with a temporary 1-h occlusion of the common carotid artery (CCAo). They were maintained at 37 degrees C throughout ischemia and reperfusion (Normothermic), or given 1 h of hypothermic conditions (28 degrees C) either during the occlusion (Intraischemic Hypothermia) or during the second hour of reperfusion (postischemic hypothermia). In normothermic pups, Fos immunoreactivity peaked at early time points (4-8 h post-ischemia) in a narrow band in peri-ischemic regions. By later stages of reperfusion (12-24 h), there was a more widespread induction in peri-ischemic regions including the ipsilateral cortex. In contrast with Fos, the constitutive transcription factor pCREB was reduced in core regions at all time points examined. Both the c-fos induction in peri-ischemic regions and the reduction of pCREB in the core were attenuated by intraischemic hypothermia. Postischemic hypothermia altered the distribution of Fos immunoreactivity without significantly changing the number of Fos- and pCREB-immunoreactive cells compared to normothermic rats. Both intra- and postischemic hypothermia reduced the number of caspase-immunoreactive cells. Thus, focal ischemia in the P7 rat produces different distributions of Fos and pCREB than what has been observed in adult rats subjected to focal ischemia, and expression of these transcription factors can be altered by hypothermia.
Endogenous biological rhythms are altered at several functional levels during aging. The major pacemaker driving biological rhythms in mammals is the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus. In the present study we used tissue slices from young and old mice to analyze the electrophysiological properties of the retinorecipient ventrolateral part of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Loose patch and whole-cell recordings were performed during day and night. Both young and old mice displayed a significant variation between day and night in the mean firing rate of suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons. The proportion of cells not firing spontaneous action potentials showed a clear day/night rhythm in young but not in old animals, that had an elevated number of such silent cells during the day compared to young animals. Analysis of firing patterns revealed a more regular spontaneous firing during the day than during the night in the old mice, while there was no difference between day and night in young animals. The frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents was reduced in ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons in the old animals. Since the inhibitory input to these neurons is mainly derived from within the suprachiasmatic nucleus, this reduction most likely reflects the greater proportion of silent cells found in old animals. The results show that the suprachiasmatic nucleus of old mice is subject to marked electrophysiological changes, which may contribute to physiological and behavioral changes associated with aging.
Phox2B, a homeodomain transcription factor closely related to Phox2A, is expressed in peripheral and central noradrenergic neurons. In neural crest (NC) derivatives Phox2B is restricted to sympathetic and parasympathetic ganglia, enteric neurons, and adrenal and extraadrenal chromaffin cells. Similar to MASH-1, Phox2B has been implicated in synchronizing pan-neuronal and catecholaminergic phenotype-specific aspects of neurogenesis. The role of Phox2B for the differentiation of the neuroendocrine NC derivatives, the adrenal medullary chromaffin cells, has not been explored. We have previously reported that in MASH-1-deficient mice most chromaffin cells are arrested at the early neuroblast stage and lack catecholaminergic differentiation. We show now that in Phox2B knockout/lacZ knockin mice the maturation of presumptive chromaffin cells is arrested at an even earlier stage of development. The cells lack the catecholaminergic marker enzyme TH and fail to form a centrally located medulla. In contrast to MASH-1 (-/-) mice they do not express dHand, Phox2A, c-ret, neurofilament, neuron-specific tubulin, and NCAM and appear ultrastructurally more immature. Many of these cells die by apoptosis. Despite the complete lack of differentiation, few lacZ-positive adrenal cells can still be found at E16.5. We conclude that Phox2B regulates very early events in the differentiation of adrenal chromaffin cells distinct to steps, which essentially require MASH-1.
A growing body of evidence indicates that free fatty acids (FFA) can have deleterious effects on beta-cells. It has been suggested that the beta-cell dysfunction and death observed in diabetes may involve exaggerated activation of the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) by FFA, with the resultant generation of excess nitric oxide (NO). However, the cellular targets with which NO interact have not been fully identified. We hypothesized that one of these targets might be mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Therefore, experiments were initiated to evaluate damage to mtDNA caused by exposure of INS-1 cells to FFA (2/1 oleate/palmetate). The results showed that FFA caused a dose-dependent increase in mtDNA damage. Additionally, using ligation-mediated PCR, we were able to show that the DNA damage pattern at the nucleotide level was identical to the one induced by pure NO and different from damage caused by peroxynitrite or superoxide. Following exposure to FFA, apoptosis was detected by DAPI staining and cytochrome c release. Treatment of INS-1 cells with the iNOS inhibitor aminoguanidine protected these cells from mtDNA damage and diminished the appearance of apoptosis. These studies suggest that mtDNA may be a sensitive target for NO-induced toxicity which may provoke apoptosis in beta-cells following exposure to FFA.
The main purpose of this study was to determine whether supplemental intake of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ) (ubiquinone-10) or alpha-tocopherol, either alone or together, could improve brain function of aged mice, as reflected in their cognitive or psychomotor performance. Separate groups of aged mice (24 months) were administered either CoQ (123 mg/kg/day), or alpha-tocopherol acetate (200 mg/kg/day), or both, or the vehicle (soybean oil) via gavage for a period of 14 weeks. Three weeks following the initiation of these treatments, mice were given a battery of age-sensitive behavioral tests for the assessment of learning, recent memory, and psychomotor function. In a test that required the mice to rapidly identify and remember the correct arm of a T-maze, and to respond preemptively in order to avoid an electric shock, the intake of alpha-tocopherol plus CoQ resulted in more rapid learning compared to the control group. Learning was not significantly improved in the mice receiving CoQ or alpha-tocopherol alone. None of the treatments resulted in a significant improvement of psychomotor performance in the old mice. In a separate study, treatment with higher doses of CoQ alone (250 or 500 mg/kg/day) for 14 weeks failed to produce effects comparable to those of the combination of alpha-tocopherol and CoQ. The apparent interaction of CoQ and alpha-tocopherol treatments is consistent with the previous suggestion, based on biochemical studies, that coenzyme Q and alpha-tocopherol act in concert. Overall, the findings suggest that concurrent supplementation of alpha-tocopherol with CoQ is more likely to be effective as a potential treatment for age-related learning deficits than supplementation with CoQ or alpha-tocopherol alone.
Dystrophin and the dystrophin-associated protein (DAP) complex protect the sarcolemma against contraction-induced injury and serve as a mechanical link between the extracellular matrix and the actin cytoskeleton. Some of the functional properties of the DAP complex are mediated by its sarcoglycan (SG) subcomplex, which is composed of alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-SGs. Autosomal recessive limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type-2D (LGMD 2D) results from reduction in SG subcomplex levels caused by specific mutations in the muscle-specific alpha-SG gene. epsilon-SG is a widely expressed homolog of the muscle-specific alpha-SG, and expression of epsilon-SG may compensate for the pathologic changes in alpha-SG function. Thus, the goal of the present study was to investigate whether overexpression of epsilon-SG can compensate for dysfunction of alpha-SG. Several transgenic mouse lines that overexpress epsilon-SG in skeletal muscle were established. Overexpression of epsilon-SG in normal mice resulted in substitution of epsilon-SG for alpha-SG in the SG complex of skeletal muscle without any obvious abnormalities. To determine whether an increase in epsilon-SG expression may prevent muscular dystrophy in the context of alpha-SG-deficiency, these epsilon-SG transgenic mice were crossed with alpha-SG deficient mice. alpha-SG-deficient mice overexpressing epsilon-SG exhibited no skeletal muscle cell membrane damage or abnormal contraction. These data suggest that the overexpression of epsilon-SG may represent a therapeutic strategy for treatment of LGMD 2D.
Immature dendrites extend many actin-rich filopodial structures that can be replaced by synapse-containing dendritic spines as the neuron matures. The large GTPase dynamin-3 (Dyn3) is a component of the postsynapse in hippocampal neurons but its function is undefined. Here, we demonstrate that a specific Dyn3 variant (Dyn3baa) promotes the formation of immature dendritic filopodia in cultured neurons. This effect is dependent upon Dyn3 GTPase activity and a direct interaction with the F-actin-binding protein cortactin. Consistent with these findings, Dyn3baa binds to cortactin with a 200% higher affinity than Dyn3aaa, a near identical isoform that does not induce dendritic filopodia when expressed in cultured neurons. Finally, levels of Dyn3baa-encoding mRNA are tightly regulated during neuronal maturation and are markedly upregulated during synaptogenesis. Together, these findings provide the first evidence that an enhanced interaction between a specific Dyn3 splice variant and cortactin modulate actin-membrane dynamics in developing neurons to regulate the morphogenesis of dendritic spines.
To allow a detailed analysis of exocyst function in multicellular organisms, we have generated sec6 mutants in Drosophila. We have used these mutations to compare the phenotypes of sec6 and sec5 in the ovary and nervous system, and we find them to be similar. We also find that Sec5 is mislocalized in sec6 mutants. Additionally, we have generated an epitope-tagged Sec8 that localized with Sec5 on oocyte membranes and was mislocalized in sec5 and sec6 germ-line clones. This construct further revealed a genetic interaction of sec8 and sec5. These data, taken together, provide new information about the organization of the exocyst complex and suggest that Sec5, Sec6 and Sec8 act as a complex, each member dependent on the others for proper localization and function.
Vinpocetine, a synthetic derivative of the Vinca minor alkaloid vincamine, is a widely used drug in neurological practice. We tested the hypothesis that vinpocetine binds to peripheral benzodiazepine binding sites (PBBS) and is therefore a potential ligand of PBBS. Positron emission tomography (PET) measurements in two cynomolgous monkeys showed that pretreatment with vinpocetine markedly reduced the brain uptake of [11C]PK11195, a known PBBS radioligand. On the other hand, whereas pretreatment with PK11195 increased the brain uptake of [11C]vinpocetine due to the blockade of PBBS in the periphery, it significantly reduced the binding potential (BP) values of [11C]vinpocetine in the whole brain and in individual brain structures to PK11195. These findings indicate that, whereas the two ligands have different affinities to PBBS, vinpocetine is a potent ligand of PBBS, which in turn suggests that the pharmacological activity of vinpocetine may involve the regulation of glial functions.
Increasing evidence supports a pathogenic role of heparan sulphate (HS) in the development of dementia. Since HS proteoglycans are present in the endothelial cells and perivascular basement membrane, we wanted to assess blood titres of HS antibodies (Abs) in patients with vascular dementia (VD) and in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) with cerebrovascular disease (CVD) [mixed dementia (MixD)]. Moreover, plasma levels of homocysteine, an independent risk factor for the development of dementia as well as for CVD, were also determined. High HS Abs titres were present in one patient with VD and in two patients with mixed dementia, as well as in two neurological control patients (stroke and epilepsy). Increased homocysteine levels were found in 62.5% of patients with mixed dementia, in 22.2% of the VD subjects, in 54.2% of patients with CVD, and in 41.2% of patients with other neurological diseases. The present findings suggest that neither elevated HS Abs titres nor increased homocysteinemia may represent a useful biochemical marker for the diagnosis of VD.
Recombinant proteins are routinely expressed in heterologous expression systems such as human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK 293) cells. The efficiency of the expression is critical when the expressed protein must be characterized at the single-cell level. Here we describe a simple method by which the protein expression efficiency in single HEK 293 cells is enhanced by coexpressing simian virus 40 large T antigen (TAg), a powerful oncoprotein. Using the GluR2 ionotropic glutamate receptor as an example, we found that the receptor expression in single HEK 293S cells increased approximately seven-fold. The ratio of the plasmid amount of TAg to that of the receptor was optimized at 1:10, while the receptor function was unaffected in the presence of TAg. We further used fluorescence imaging from a population of cells as an independent detection method and found a similar increase in expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) by TAg coexpression. This method is thus applicable for enhancing the expression of both membrane and soluble proteins at the single-cell level. More importantly, the function of a protein can be studied directly in intact cells, a feature particularly useful for studying membrane proteins.
By means of a condenser discharge electric shock paradigm, &quot;dark&quot; (compacted) granule neurons were momentarily produced in the hippocampal dentate gyri of rats, which were sacrificed either immediately or following survival periods ranging from 1h to 30 days. Except for the morphological changes related to the formation, recovery or death of the &quot;dark&quot; neurons, the affected brain areas remained undamaged. Vibratome, frozen, cryostat and paraffin sections were stained with Mayer's hematoxylin, acid fuchsin, or Fluoro-Jade and by three silver methods widely used for the demonstration of damaged neurons; with or without previous removal of nucleic acids, partial digestion of proteins or blockade of the negatively charged side-groups of nucleic acids and proteins. The results allowed the following conclusions: (i) &quot;Dark&quot; neurons acquire argyrophilia and excess basophilia simultaneously with their momentary formation. (ii) Negatively charged protein molecules are responsible for these processes. (iii) From the recovering &quot;dark&quot; neurons, the acquired basophilia and argyrophilia disappear within a few hours post-insult. (iv) From the moribund or dead &quot;dark&quot; neurons, the acquired basophilia disappears in the same period of time while the acquired argyrophilia in a few days. (vi) Freshly-produced or recovering &quot;dark&quot; neurons are slightly acidophilic, whereas the moribund or dead ones display intense acidophilia.
Non-viral methods of transfection of cDNAs into adult neurons and other post-mitotic cells are generally very inefficient. However, the recent development of Nucleofector technology developed by Amaxa Biosystems allows direct delivery of cDNAs into the nucleus, enabling transfection of non-dividing cells. In this study, we describe a reliable method for culturing large numbers of retinal cells from adult rats and using Nucleofection, we were able to transfect cDNA-encoding GFP (jellyfish green fluorescent protein) into retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) with relatively high efficiency (up to 28%). Neuronal GFP expression was observed within 18 h and continued for up to 14 days. This compares with values up to 60% of RGCs expressing GFP following infection with an HSV-1 vector. Adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were also successfully transfected. Thus, in summary, Nucleofection provides the possibility for a fast and efficient method for cDNA delivery and study of gene function in adult mammalian neurons.
A user-friendly and versatile research platform for use in auditory experiments, referred to as APEX (Application for PsychoElectrical eXperiments), is described. The platform takes care of automatic stimulus presentation and collection of the subject's responses. Acoustical auditory, as well as electrical auditory experiments with CI recipients can be conducted. The platform currently supports LAURA, Nucleus CI22 and Nucleus CI24 cochlear implants. The graphical user interface for the subjects has been extended to allow for testing very young children, by embedding the psychophysical procedures in a computer game. The research platform is available free of charge.
Levels of extracellular potassium ion, above those in vivo, are required for the generation of rhythmic activities of in vitro preparations. Our purpose was to define whether hyperkalemia in the perfusate of an in situ preparation was likewise necessary for the expression of eupnea and gasping. Studies were performed using the in situ preparation of the juvenile rat, in which activity of the phrenic nerve was recorded as an index of the respiratory rhythm. Eupnea and gasping were impervious to modifications of potassium ion of the perfusate. Eupnea was maintained uninterrupted for more than 60 min whether the total concentration of potassium was hypokalemic (2.75 mM), normokalemic (4.0 mM), or hyperkalemic (6.25 and 7.75 mM). Gasping, with identical characteristics, was elicited at any concentration of potassium ion. We conclude that both eupnea and gasping are unaffected by modest changes in the concentration of potassium ion in the perfusate with which the in situ rat preparation is maintained. These results add further support to the conclusion that the in situ preparation represents a model that accurately reproduces mechanisms of rhythm generation of both eupnea and gasping in vivo.
Pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) methods map the cerebral haemodynamic response to challenge with psychotropic agents as a surrogate for drug-induced changes in brain activity. However, many neuroactive compounds present low blood-brain barrier penetration and thus systemic administration may result in insufficient brain concentration. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration has been long used as an effective way of bypassing the blood-brain barrier in studies with non-brain-penetrant compounds, such as neuropeptides. In order to extend the range of pharmacological substances accessible to phMRI, we have developed methods to map relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) changes induced by in situ ICV administration of neuroactive agents in the anaesthetised rat. We have applied this method to study for the first time the phMRI response to central administration of a neuropeptide, the metabolically stable and potent NK1 receptor agonist GR-73632. ICV administration of 4.2 pmol of GR-73632 produced a rapid onset and sustained rCBV increase in several brain structures, such as the amygdala, the caudate putamen and the cortex. These results demonstrate the feasibility of phMRI as a tool to study the functional correlates of brain activity induced by central administration of neuroactive agents.
We report the development of a low-cost chronic multi-channel microwire electrode array for recording multi-unit cortical responses in behaving rodents. The design was motivated by three issues. First, standard connector systems tended to disconnect from the head-stage during extended periods of behavior. Disconnections resulted in a loss of data and an interruption of the animals' behavior. Second, the use of low insertion force connectors with locking mechanisms was cost prohibitive. Finally, connecting the head-stage to a skull-mounted connector on an unrestrained animal was highly stressful for both the researcher and animal. The design developed uses a high insertion force DIP socket separated from the skullcap that prevents inadvertent disconnects, is inexpensive, and simplifies connecting unrestrained rodents. Electrodes were implanted in layer IV of primary auditory cortex in 11 Sprague-Dawley rats. Performance of the electrodes was monitored for 6 weeks. None of the behaving animals became disconnected from the recording system during recording sessions lasting 6 h. The mean signal-to-noise ratio on all channels (154) following surgery was 3.9+/-0.2. Of the 154 channels implanted, 130 exhibited driven activity following surgery. Forty percent of the arrays continued to exhibit driven neural activity at 6 weeks.
The design objective was to develop an inexpensive digital to analog (D/A) converter for use in vision science. Soundcards are hardware units that can be integral or can be added to a computer to add sound capability. A soundcard contains D/A converters designed to work in the audio frequency range, typically 20-20,000 Hz. Soundcard outputs are high-pass filtered and thus do not convey sub-audio frequency or dc information. It is possible to circumvent this design feature by programming the desired output waveform as an amplitude modulation of a high frequency carrier, and then demodulating the soundcard output. The circuit, using a 20 kHz carrier, provides precise D/A conversion for the frequency range relevant for vision experiments, dc to 100 Hz, using inexpensive readily available components. The specific application was for 8 channels of D/A conversion using a Macintosh computer running under OS X. The software needed to program stimuli was created using CoreAudio, a library for programming sounds in OS X. Using soundcards on other platforms would not be a problem, as long as there exists a low level library that would enable the wave table to be filled.
When studying in vitro brain slices, rapidly applying multiple agonists, antagonists, drugs, or modulatory compounds is a significant technical problem. There are three major ways that multiple compounds are applied to slices: by bath, via a U-tube device, or by pressure application using a &quot;puffer&quot; pipette. Each of these methods has advantages and disadvantages, making each more appropriate for particular purposes. Because puffer pipettes have a small, sharp tip, they are best suited to apply a small quantity of a compound to a well-defined location within the slice. When used in this way, puffer pipettes have two shortcomings. Solution leaking from the tip of the pipette can contaminate the signal, and it is difficult to apply more than one test solution to exactly the same local area of the slice. We describe methods and newly designed devices aimed at overcoming those limitations. Relatively inexpensive approaches are described to apply eight different solutions to the same exact location deep within a brain slice. The validity of the approach is verified by measuring ligand-gated channel currents activated by glutamate (Glu), acetylcholine (ACh), and gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA).
A design for a semi-automatic olfactometric system is described for PET and fMRI experiments. The olfactometer presents several advantages because it enables the use of an 'infinite' number of odorants and the synchronization of stimuli with breathing. These advantages mean that the subject is recorded while breathing normally during olfactory judgment tasks. In addition, the design includes a system for recording the behavioral (rating scale) and physiological (breathing, electrodermal reaction (ED), plethysmography (PL)) signals given by the subject. Both systems present the advantage of being compatible with fMRI magnetic fields since no ferrous material is used in the Faraday cage and signals are transmitted via an optical transmission interface to an acquisition system.
Psychophysical and neurophysiological research requires precise control of experimental devices for the purpose of delivering stimuli and monitoring behavioral and neural responses. This has previously been accomplished by complex, often proprietary, programmable systems, interfacing with a limited range of hardware. We have developed a software solution entirely within the Matlab environment that can achieve high-speed control of experimental and behavioral variables. We make this Wake-Forest Visual Experimentation (WaVE) software freely available under the GNU public license, and demonstrate how to customize it to individual laboratory needs. WaVE takes advantage of existing Matlab libraries and toolboxes to present visual stimuli, collect experimental data, update behavioral variables, and communicate with other computers. Although we have developed it for use in a Windows-based Personal Computer, the portability of the Matlab code makes possible its customization for use in a variety of other systems. We present simulation results showing sub-millisecond sampling rate and updating precision, running on single-processor, desktop PCs. The WaVE software offers a simple, flexible and powerful solution that compares favorably with many of its costly alternatives.
Averaging (in statistical terms, estimation of the location of data) is one of the most commonly used procedures in neuroscience and the basic procedure for obtaining event-related potentials (ERP). Only the arithmetic mean is routinely used in the current practice of ERP research, though its sensitivity to outliers is well-known. Weighted averaging is sometimes used as a more robust procedure, however, it can be not sufficiently appropriate when the signal is nonstationary within a trial. Trimmed estimators provide an alternative way to average data. In this paper, a number of such location estimators (trimmed mean, Winsorized mean and recently introduced trimmed L-mean) are reviewed, as well as arithmetic mean and median. A new robust location estimator tanh, which allows the data-dependent optimization, is proposed for averaging of small number of trials. The possibilities to improve signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of averaged waveforms using trimmed location estimators are demonstrated for epochs randomly drawn from a set of real auditory evoked potential data.
Photolytic release of neurotransmitters from caged precursors is a useful method to study synaptic processes with high temporal and spatial resolution. At present, the two most widely used classes of caged precursors for studies on glutamate receptors are based on derivatives of the 2-nitrobenzyl caging group (alpha-carboxy-2-nitrobenzyl, CNB) and the nitroindoline caging group (7-nitroindoline, NI, and 4-methoxy-7-nitroindoline, MNI). Besides NI- and MNI-caged amino acids being thermally more stable than the CNB-caged amino acids, there have been no other major advantages reported of using compounds from either of these two classes. Here, we show inhibitory effects of CNB-glutamate and a number of other CNB-caged agonists on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors at non-saturating concentrations of the co-agonist glycine. In contrast, NI- and MNI-glutamate and most other NI-/MNI-caged agonists that we tested were inert under these conditions. Furthermore, we demonstrate that carboxynitroindoline-caged glycine (CNI-glycine), which was previously found to inhibit glycine receptors, has no such effect on NMDA receptors. Together, these findings underline the usefulness of NI- and MNI-caged ligands and show that CNB-caged compounds should be avoided in studies involving NMDA receptors.
Bcl-2-associated death protein (Bad), a member of the Bcl family, directs astrocytes in primary cultures to enter or resist apoptosis during ischemia in vitro. Under ischemia, Bad was the only Bcl family member whose expression was upregulated significantly during the early stages of an ischemic insult. Increased endogenous Bad was translocated from the cytoplasm to mitochondria to induce apoptosis in astrocytes. Concurrently, ischemia also induced Bad phosphorylation specifically on Ser112 to promote survival. This site-specific phosphorylation of Bad was mediated by an early activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (MAPK/ERK) intracellular signaling pathway. This study demonstrates that ischemia-induced Bad plays a dual role in determining whether astrocytes enter or resist apoptosis after an ischemic insult.
Various inhibitory pathways exist in the human brain which are crucial in modulating motor cortex output and they can be investigated non-invasively using transcranial magnetic stimulation. Interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) is one form of cortical inhibition. It can be elicited by stimulation of the opposite motor cortex at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 10 ms (IHI10) or 40 ms (IHI40) and inhibitions at these intervals are probably mediated by different mechanisms. Peripheral sensory stimulation can also inhibit the motor cortex. Median nerve stimulation produces long latency afferent inhibition (LAI) at ISI 200 ms. LAI inhibits another form of cortical inhibition known as long interval intracortical inhibition (LICI) and a study that examined the interaction between IHI10 and LICI hypothesized that they are mediated by an overlapping population of inhibitory neurones. We tested this hypothesis by examining the interaction between IHI10, IHI40 and LAI. With increasing test MEP amplitude LAI, IHI10 and IHI40 all decreased. There was no correlation between the strength of LAI, IHI10 and IHI40. In the presence of LAI, IHI10 was slightly but significantly reduced compared to IHI10 alone. There was no correlation between the reduction in IHI10 in the presence of LAI and the strength of LAI or IHI10. In the presence of LAI, IHI40 was significantly reduced compared to IHI40 alone. LAI produced a greater decrease in IHI40 than in IHI10. The decrease in IHI40 in the presence of LAI strongly correlated with the strength of LAI but not with the strength of IHI40. Reducing the strength of LAI, IHI10 and IHI40 still resulted in similar interaction between IHI10 and LAI but markedly decreased the effect of LAI on IHI40. We conclude that LAI and IHI10 do not directly inhibit each other but LAI probably inhibits IHI40. LICI is more likely to be related to IHI40 than to IHI10.
Basal ganglia have been implicated in syntactic and phonological processes, but direct evidence has been scarce. Here, we used [11C]raclopride and positron emission tomography to measure modulations of the dopaminergic system induced by phonological or syntactic processing. Two significant effects were found. First, the level of accuracy in phonological processing significantly correlated with tracer binding potential in the left caudate nucleus. Second, the speed in phonological processing significantly correlated with tracer binding potential in the left putamen. Thus, a more accurate and fast phonological processing was associated with a reduced dopamine requirement in the left striatum. These findings show that the striatal dopaminergic system plays an essential role in grammatical processes that form the core of human language.
Overactivation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is known to mediate excitotoxicity due to excessive entry of calcium, leading to the activation of several calcium-dependent enzymes. Calpains are calcium-activated proteases that appear to play a role in excitotoxic neuronal death. Several cellular proteins are substrates for these proteases, particularly the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. Recently, cleavage of NR2B subunits has been implicated in excitotoxic neurodegeneration in ischemia. In this work, we investigated the proteolysis by calpains of NR2B subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in the hippocampus of epileptic rats. Our results show that cleaved forms of NR2B subunits are formed after status epilepticus, in the same areas of the hippocampus where calpain activation was detected by immunohistochemical staining of calpain-specific spectrin breakdown products.
In an effort to understand the highly distributed somatotopy of primary motor cortex, this review draws on principles derived from studies of auditory, visual and somatosensory cortical areas. In each case, a behaviorally important feature or function is overlaid in multiple locations on an underlying topographic map of the peripheral sensory surface. Recent studies of hand muscle synergies suggest the types of two-dimensional functional axes that might reasonably be mapped to the two-dimensional surface of the primary motor cortex. However, other research emphasizes that even a functional somatotopy must be extremely flexible.

[(18)F]CPFPX was proposed as a novel ligand for in vivo quantification of cerebral A(1) adenosine receptors (A(1)AR) using positron emission tomography (PET). The present study investigates the applicability of non-invasive non-compartment analyses to quantify the [(18)F]CPFPX total distribution volume (DV(') (t)) without arterial blood sampling. Five healthy volunteers underwent dynamic PET (90 min) with arterial and venous blood sampling after [(18)F]CPFPX bolus injection. Area under curve (AUC) analysis and Logan's graphical analysis (GA) were performed employing venous blood samples as non-invasive analyses. AUC analysis without data extrapolation (AUC(r)) and venous GA were also applied on voxel-level to generate parametric images. A conventional two-tissue compartment model (2TCM) using arterial blood samples served as reference method. Regional DV(') (t) estimates provided by venous AUC and GA analyses and 2TCM demonstrated very high agreement (venous AUC vs. 2TCM: r(2) = 0.968, linear regression slope = 0.943; venous GA vs. 2TCM: r(2) = 0.972, slope = 0.906). Although on voxel-level the venous AUC(r) and GA analyses were affected by a slight negative bias, they were still very highly correlated with the 2TCM (voxel-wise venous AUC(r) vs. 2TCM: r(2) = 0.969, slope = 0.858; voxel-wise venous GA vs. 2TCM: r(2) = 0.959, slope = 0.867). The proposed non-invasive analysis methods (particularly venous GA) allow reliable quantification of human [(18)F]CPFPX PET studies. In populations with altered metabolic/kinetic properties, the applicability of venous sampling has to be separately verified. The applicability of [(18)F]CPFPX PET in basic and clinical neurosciences will be considerably enhanced by the avoidance of arterial blood sampling.
Previous work has demonstrated that dopamine (DA) transmission is regulated by serotonin-2C (5-HT2C) receptors but the site(s) in the brain where these receptors are localized is not known. The present work utilized in vivo microdialysis to investigate the modulation of DA release by 5-HT2C receptors localized in the nerve terminal regions of the mesocortical and nigrostriatal DA pathways. Microdialysis probes implanted in the striatum or the prefrontal cortex (PFC) measured dialysate DA concentrations, while the selective 5-HT2B/2C inverse agonist SB 206553 was given locally by reverse dialysis into these terminal regions. Additionally, the effects of the 5-HT2C agonist mCPP on striatal DA were measured. Local administration of SB 206553 (0.1-100 microM) into the striatum increased DA efflux in a concentration-dependent manner. Systemic administration of mCPP (1.0 mg/kg i.p.) decreased striatal DA and attenuated the SB 206553-induced increase. In contrast, infusion of SB 206553 (0.1-500 microM) by reverse dialysis into the PFC had no significant effect on basal DA efflux in this region. Additionally, high concentrations of SB 206553 had no effect on high potassium (K(+))-stimulated DA release in the PFC. These data contribute to a body of evidence indicating that 5-HT2C receptors inhibit nigrostriatal dopaminergic transmission. In addition, the results suggest that the nigrostriatal system is regulated by 5-HT2C receptors localized in the dorsal striatum. Elucidating the mechanisms by which serotonin (5-HT) modulates striatal and prefrontocortical DA concentrations may lead to improvements in the treatment of diverse syndromes such as schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, anxiety, drug abuse, and/or depression.
In comparing purified mouse olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) with neighboring cells, we identified 54 differentially expressed transcripts. One-third of the transcripts encode proteins with no known function, but the others have functions that correlate with challenges faced by OSNs. The OSNs expressed a diversity of signaling protein genes, including stomatin (Epb7.2), S100A5, Ddit3, Sirt2, CD81, Sdc2, Omp, and Ptpla. The elaboration of dendrites, cilia, and axons that places OSNs in contact with diverse cell types and signals presumably also requires large investments in cytoskeletal-associated proteins, lipid biosynthesis, and energy production. Several of the genes encode proteins that participate in these biological processes, including ATP5g3, Ndufa9, Sqrdl, Mdh1, Got1, beta-2 tubulin, Capza1, Bin3, Tom1, Acl6, and similar to O-MACS. Three transcripts had restricted expression patterns. Similar to O-MACS and Gstm2 had zonally restricted expression patterns in OSNs and sustentacular cells but not in Bowman's glands, suggesting that zonality can be differentially regulated by cell type. The mosaic expression pattern of S100A5 in approximately 70% of OSNs predicts that it is coexpressed with a subset of odorant receptors. We captured four abundant transcripts, Cyp2a4, similar to Cyp2g1, Gstm2, and Cbr2, that encode xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes expressed by sustentacular cells or Bowman's glands, reinforcing the interpretation that clearance of xenobiotic compounds is a major function of these cells. Within the olfactory epithelium, Cbr2 is a new anatomical marker for sustentacular cells. We also discovered that Reg3g is a marker for respiratory epithelium.
Glutamate transmission is critical for controlling cortical activity, but the specific contribution of the different isoforms of vesicular glutamate transporters in subcortical pathways to the neocortex is largely unknown. To determine the distribution and neocortical projections of vesicular glutamate transporter2 (Vglut2)-containing neurons, we used in situ hybridization and injections of the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold into the medial prefrontal and primary somatosensory cortices. The thalamus contains the majority of Vglut2 cells projecting to the neocortex (approximately 90% for the medial prefrontal cortex and 96% for the primary somatosensory cortex) followed by the hypothalamus and basal forebrain, the claustrum, and the brainstem. There are significantly more Vglut2 neurons projecting to the medial prefrontal cortex than to the primary somatosensory cortex. The medial prefrontal cortex also receives a higher percentage of Vglut2 projection from the hypothalamus than the primary somatosensory cortex. About 50% of thalamic Vglut2 projection to the medial prefrontal cortex and as much as 80% of the thalamic projection to primary somatosensory cortex originate in various relay thalamic nuclei. The remainder arise from different midline and intralaminar nuclei traditionally thought to provide nonspecific or diffuse projection to the cortex. The extrathalamic Vglut2 corticopetal projections, together with the thalamic intralaminar-midline Vglut2 corticopetal projections, may participate in diffuse activation of the neocortex.
Neuronal migration defects in the hippocampus during development are thought to be involved in various mental disorders. Studies of neural cell migration in the developing cerebrum have focused mainly on the neocortex, but those that have been performed on the developing hippocampal formation have not been adequately carried out. In the present study, the morphological differentiation of immature neurons that form the laminar structure of the hippocampus was investigated by labeling ventricular surface cells with the expression vector of the enhanced-green-fluorescent-protein (EGFP) gene. Vector DNA was transfected into spatially and temporally restricted neuroepithelium of the hippocampal primordium by in utero electroporation, and the morphology of EGFP-labeled migratory neurons and their interrelationships with the radial glial arrangement were observed. Pyramidal cells of Ammon's horn began to migrate radially along glial processes from a broad area of neuroepithelium on embryonic day (E)14. Large numbers of multipolar cells were found in the intermediate zone in the initial stage and stratified pyramidal cells appeared later. Dentate granule cells were labeled later than (E)16 and originated from a restricted area of neuroepithelium adjacent to the fimbria. Their initial migration was rapid and independent of radial glial fibers. Subsequent tangential migration in the subpial space and their ultimate settling into the forming dentate gyrus were closely associated with the radial glia. These findings indicate that distinct cellular mechanisms are involved in the development of the cortical layer of Ammon's horn and dentate gyrus.
The Janus kinase (JAK) and signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) signal cascades are major pathways that mediate the inflammatory functions of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), an important pro-inflammatory cytokine. Therefore, regulation of JAK/STAT signaling should modulate IFN-gamma-mediated inflammation. In this study, we found that nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), a well-known lipoxygenase (LO) inhibitor, suppressed IFN-gamma-induced inflammatory responses in brain astrocytes. In the presence of NDGA, interferon regulatory factor-1 expression was significantly reduced. Expression of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and interferon-gamma inducible protein-10 mRNA in response to IFN-gamma was significantly suppressed in the presence of NDGA, as was tyrosine-phosphorylation of JAK and STAT. However, the 5-LO products, leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) and leukotriene C(4), were not detected in cells treated with IFN-gamma, indicating that the effect of NDGA seemed to be independent of 5-LO inhibition. In addition, two other 5-LO inhibitors (Rev5901 and AA861) did not mimic the effect of NDGA, and the 5-LO metabolites, 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid and LTB(4), were unable to reverse NDGA-driven suppression of STAT activation or affect basal STAT phosphorylation. Taken together, these results suggest that NDGA regulates IFN-gamma-mediated inflammation through mechanisms unrelated to the inhibition of 5-LO.
Angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) is one of a family of ligands for the Tie-2 receptor which has been demonstrated to be involved in angiogenesis. Little is known about the regulation of Ang-1 gene expression. We have previously demonstrated that TNF-alpha is able to up-regulate the expression of Ang-1 mRNA in synovial fibroblasts. This present study investigated the signal transduction pathways involved in the TNF-alpha induced expression of Ang-1. TNF-alpha signals primarily through the p38, JNK, MAP kinase, and IKK pathways resulting in the activation of the transcription factors AP-1 and NF-kappa B. Experiments with inhibitors and siRNA for these various signal transduction pathways revealed that TNF-alpha stimulation of Ang-1 expression occurs via the NF-kappa B signal transduction pathway.
Antibody-induced demyelination is an important component of pathology in multiple sclerosis. In particular, antibodies to myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) are elevated in multiple sclerosis patients, and they have been implicated as mediators of demyelination. We have shown previously that antibody cross-linking of MOG in oligodendrocytes results in the repartitioning of MOG into glycosphingolipid-cholesterol membrane microdomains (&quot;lipid rafts&quot;), followed by changes in the phosphorylation of specific proteins, including dephosphorylation of beta-tubulin and the beta subunit of the trimeric G protein and culminating in rapid and dramatic morphological alterations. In order to further elucidate the mechanism of anti-MOG-mediated demyelination, we have carried out a proteomic analysis to identify the set of proteins for which the phosphorylation states or expression levels are altered upon anti-MOG treatment. We demonstrate that treatment of oligodendrocytes with anti-MOG alone leads to an increase in calcium influx and activation of the MAPK/Akt pathways that is independent of MOG repartitioning. However, further cross-linking of anti-MOG.MOG complexes with a secondary anti-IgG results in the lipid raft-dependent phosphorylation of specific proteins related to cellular stress response and cytoskeletal stability. Oligodendrocyte survival is not compromised by these treatments. We discuss the possible significance of the anti-MOG-induced signaling cascade in relation to the initial steps of MOG-mediated demyelination.
Parkin is a ubiquitin-protein isopeptide ligase. It has been suggested that loss of function in parkin causes accumulation and aggregation of its substrates, leading to death of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson disease. Using the yeast two-hybrid screen, we isolated a RING finger protein that interacted with the N terminus of parkin in a Drosophila cDNA library. Interaction between human parkin and the mammalian RING finger protein homologue Nrdp1/FLRF, a ubiquitin-protein isopeptide ligase that ubiquitinates ErbB3 and ErbB4, was validated by in vitro binding assay, co-immunoprecipitation, and immunofluorescence co-localization. Significantly, pulse-chase experiments showed that cotransfection of Nrdp1 and parkin reduced the half-life of parkin from 5 to 2.5 h. Consistent with these findings, we further observed that degradation of CDCrel-1, a parkin substrate, was facilitated by overexpression of parkin protein. However, co-transfection of Nrdp1 with parkin reversed the effects of parkin on CDCrel-1 degradation. We conclude that Nrdp1 is a parkin modifier that accelerates degradation of parkin, resulting in a reduction of parkin activity.
It is well documented that long term potentiation (LTP) is impaired in the hippocampus of the aged animal. Among the changes that contribute to this impairment is an increase in hippocampal concentration of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and increased IL-1beta-induced signaling. In this study we investigated the possibility that these changes were a consequence of decreased concentration of the anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-4, and decreased IL-4-stimulated signaling. We report that functional IL-4 receptors are expressed on granule cells of the dentate gyrus and that receptor activation results in phosphorylation of JAK1 and STAT6. Hippocampal IL-4 concentration was decreased with age, and this was accompanied by a decrease in phosphorylation of JAK1 and STAT6. The evidence indicates that IL-4 modulates expression of IL-1beta mRNA and protein and that it attenuates IL-1beta-induced impairment of LTP and phosphorylation of JNK and c-Jun. We argued that, if a decrease in hippocampal IL-4 concentration significantly contributed to the age-related impairment in LTP, then restoration of IL-4 should restore LTP. To test this, we treated rats with VP015 (phospholipid microparticles-incorporating phosphatidylserine), which increases IL-4 concentration in hippocampus. The data indicate that the VP015-induced increase in IL-4 concentration in hippocampus of aged rats and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated rats was accompanied by a reversal of the age-related and LPS-induced impairment in LTP in perforant path granule cell synapses. We propose that interplay between pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory responses impact significantly on synaptic function in the hippocampus of the aged rat.
Zinc at micromolar concentrations hyperpolarizes rat pancreatic beta-cells and brain nerve terminals by activating ATP-sensitive potassium channels (KATP). The molecular determinants of this effect were analyzed using insulinoma cell lines and cells transfected with either wild type or mutated KATP subunits. Zinc activated KATP in cells co-expressing rat Kir6.2 and SUR1 subunits, as in insulinoma cell lines. In contrast, zinc exerted an inhibitory action on SUR2A-containing cells. Therefore, SUR1 expression is required for the activating action of zinc, which also depended on extracellular pH and was blocked by diethyl pyrocarbonate, suggesting histidine involvement. The five SUR1-specific extracellular histidine residues were submitted to site-directed mutagenesis. Of them, two histidines (His-326 and His-332) were found to be critical for the activation of KATP by zinc, as confirmed by the double mutation H326A/H332A. In conclusion, zinc activates KATP by binding itself to extracellular His-326 and His-332 of the SUR1 subunit. Thereby zinc could exert a negative control on cell excitability and secretion process of pancreatic beta-and alpha-cells. In fact, we have recently shown that such a mechanism occurs in hippocampal mossy fibers, a brain region characterized, like the pancreas, by an important accumulation of zinc and a high density of SUR1-containing KATP.
Approximately 25% of all genome coding sequences correspond to membrane proteins, which perform varied and essential functions in cells. Eukaryotic integral membrane proteins are predominantly alpha-helical proteins that span the membrane several times. The most frequent approach to identifying transmembrane-helix amino acids essential for function is to substitute native residues, one at a time, with Cys or Ala (Cys- and Ala-scanning mutagenesis). Here, we present a new approach, in which complete transmembrane-helix native sequences are substituted with poly-Ala sequences. We show that the basic functional features of two dissimilar membrane proteins, which function as a channel and a pump, respectively, are maintained when certain individual alpha-helices are replaced with poly-Ala sequences. This approach (&quot;helix-scanning mutagenesis&quot;) allows for rapid identification of helices containing residues essential for function and can be used as a primary helix-screening tool, followed by individual amino acid substitutions when specific helix poly-Ala replacements cause functional changes in the protein.
Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) acts in diverse cell types by phosphorylating proteins with key calcium-dependent functions such as synaptic plasticity, electrical excitability, and neurotransmitter synthesis. CaMKII displays calcium-dependent binding to proteins in vitro and translocation to synaptic sites after glutamatergic activity in neurons. We therefore hypothesized that subcellular targeting of CaMKII can direct its substrate specificity in an activity-dependent fashion. Here, we examined whether activity-dependent colocalization of CaMKII and its substrates could result in regulation of substrate phosphorylation in cells. We find that substrates localized at cellular membranes required CaMKII translocation to these compartments to achieve effective phosphorylation. Spatial barriers to phosphorylation could be overcome by translocation and anchoring to the substrate itself or to nearby target proteins within the membrane compartment. In contrast, phosphorylation of a cytoplasmic counterpart of the substrate does not require CaMKII translocation or stable protein-protein binding. Cytosolic phosphorylation is more permissive, exhibiting partial calcium-independence. Localization-dependent substrate specificity can also show more graded levels of regulation within signaling microdomains. We find that colocalization of translocated CaMKII and its substrate to lipid rafts in the plasma membrane can modulate the magnitude of phosphorylation. Thus, dynamic regulation of both substrate and kinase localization provides a powerful and nuanced way to regulate CaMKII signal specificity.
Serotonin (5-HT) is an anorectic monoamine and its regulatory effects on feeding are mediated primarily via 5-HT1B-receptors localized in the hypothalamic nuclei, which, apart from the brain stem, are among the most crucial areas of food intake regulation. The distribution of 5-HT1B-receptors in the hypothalamic nuclei was studied in tumor-bearing (TB) rats at the onset of anorexia and in sham-operated control rats, using the peroxidase-anti-peroxidase immunocytochemical method and specific polyclonal antiserum. Semiquantitative image analysis of 5-HT1B-receptor immunostaining was performed on high-resolution digital photomicrographs using the NIH Scion Image analysis program and the data were compared using Student's t-test. Immunostaining detected 5-HT1B-receptor proteins in the same hypothalamic structures in the Controls as in the TB rats. Qualitative and semiquantitative analysis revealed a significant increase in 5-HT1B-receptor expression in the magnocellular neurons of paraventricular and supraoptic hypothalamic nuclei in TB rats versus Controls. In contrast, changes were not significant in the parvocellular portion of paraventricular nucleus or in the lateral hypothalamus including perifornical region. These findings emphasize serotonin's influence on the magnocellular hypothalamic nuclei during developing of cancer anorexia, which is associated with a decrease in food intake.
Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase pump failure during either anoxia or ouabain perfusion induces rapid axonal depolarization by dissipating ionic gradients. In this study, we examined the interplay between cation and anion transporting pathways mediating axonal depolarization during anoxia or selective Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase inhibition. Compound resting membrane (V(m)) potential of rat optic nerve was measured in a grease gap at 37 degrees C. Chemical anoxia (2 mM NaCN or NaN(3)) or ouabain (1 mM) caused a loss of resting potential to 42 +/- 11% and 47 +/- 2% of control after 30 min, respectively. Voltage-gated Na(+)-channel blockade was partially effective in abolishing this depolarization. TTX (1 microM) reduced depolarization to 73 +/- 10% (chemical anoxia) and 68 +/- 4% (ouabain) of control. Quaternary amine Na(+) channel blockers QX-314 (1 mM) or prajmaline (100 microM) produced similar results. Residual ionic rundown largely representing co-efflux of K(+) and Cl(-) during chemical anoxia in the presence of Na(+)-channel blockade was further spared with DIDS (500 microM), a broad-spectrum anion transport inhibitor (95 +/- 8% of control after 30 min in anoxia + TTX vs. 73 +/- 10% in TTX alone). Addition of DIDS was slightly more effective than TTX alone in ouabain (74 +/- 5% DIDS + TTX vs. 68 +/- 4% in TTX alone, P &lt; 0.05). Additional Na(+)-entry pathways such as the Na-K-Cl cotransporter were examined using bumetanide, which produced a modest albeit significant sparing of V(m) during ouabain-induced depolarization. Although cation-transporting pathways play the more important role in mediating pathological depolarization of central axons, anion-coupled transporters also contribute to a significant, albeit more minor, degree.
Previous structure-activity studies on nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) identified [Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)NH)Gly(2)]N/OFQ(1-13)-NH(2) and [Nphe(1)]N/OFQ(1-13)-NH(2) as a N/OFQ peptide receptor (NOP) partial agonist and pure antagonist, respectively. The addition of fluorine to the Phe(4) or the insertion of a further pair of basic amino acids Arg(14)-Lys(15) generate potent agonists. On the basis of these findings, we combined in the N/OFQ-NH(2) template the chemical modifications Arg(14)-Lys(15) and (pF)Phe(4) that increase the agonist potency with those conferring partial agonist (Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)NH)Gly(2)) or pure antagonist (Nphe(1)) properties. Twelve peptides were synthesized and pharmacologically evaluated in Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing the human recombinant NOP and in electrically stimulated mouse vas deferens and guinea pig ileum assays. All peptides behaved as NOP ligands; the chemical modifications Arg(14)-Lys(15) and (pF)Phe(4) increased ligand affinity/potency. Peptides with the normal Phe(1)-Gly(2) peptide bond behaved as full agonists, and those with the Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)NH)Gly(2) modification behaved as partial agonists, while those with the Nphe(1) modification behaved as partial agonists or pure antagonists depending on the presence or absence of the (pF)Phe(4) modification, respectively. The full agonist [(pF)Phe(4),Arg(14),Lys(15)]N/OFQ-NH(2), the partial agonist [Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)NH)Gly(2),(pF)Phe(4),Arg(14),Lys(15)]N/OFQ-NH(2), and the pure antagonist [Nphe(1),Arg(14),Lys(15)]N/OFQ-NH(2) represent the most potent peptide ligands for NOP.
We have previously identified the 7,8,9,10-tetrahydro-7,10-ethano-1,2,4-triazolo[3,4-a]phthalazine (1) as a potent partial agonist for the alpha(3) receptor subtype with 5-fold selectivity in binding affinity over alpha(1). This paper describes a detailed investigation of the substituents on this core structure at both the 3- and 6-positions. Despite evaluating a wide range of groups, the maximum selectivity that could be achieved in terms of affinity for the alpha(3) subtype over the alpha(1) subtype was 12-fold (for 57). Although most analogues showed no selectivity in terms of efficacy, some did show partial agonism at alpha(1) and antagonism at alpha(3) (e.g., 25 and 75). However, two analogues tested (93 and 96), both with triazole substituents in the 6-position, showed significantly higher efficacy for the alpha(3) subtype over the alpha(1) subtype. This was the first indication that selectivity in efficacy in the required direction could be achieved in this series.
In the neocortex, each neuron receives thousands of synaptic inputs distributed across an extensive dendritic tree. Although postsynaptic processing of each input is known to depend on its dendritic location, it is unclear whether activity-dependent synaptic modification is also location-dependent. Here we report that both the magnitude and the temporal specificity of spike-timing-dependent synaptic modification vary along the apical dendrite of rat cortical layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons. At the distal dendrite, the magnitude of long-term potentiation is smaller, and the window of pre-/postsynaptic spike interval for long-term depression (LTD) is broader. The spike-timing window for LTD correlates with the window of action potential-induced suppression of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors; this correlation applies to both their dendritic location-dependence and pharmacological properties. Presynaptic stimulation with partial blockade of NMDA receptors induced LTD and occluded further induction of spike-timing-dependent LTD, suggesting that NMDA receptor suppression underlies LTD induction. Computer simulation studies showed that the dendritic inhomogeneity of spike-timing-dependent synaptic modification leads to differential input selection at distal and proximal dendrites according to the temporal characteristics of presynaptic spike trains. Such location-dependent tuning of inputs, together with the dendritic heterogeneity of postsynaptic processing, could enhance the computational capacity of cortical pyramidal neurons.
Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type IV (CaMKIV) plays an essential role in the transcriptional activation of cAMP response element-binding protein-mediated signaling pathways. Although CaMKIV is localized predominantly in the nucleus, the molecular mechanism of the nuclear import of CaMKIV has not been elucidated. We report here that importin alpha is able to carry CaMKIV into the nucleus without the need for importin beta or any other soluble proteins in digitonin-permeabilized cells. An importin beta binding-deficient mutant (DeltaIBB) of importin alpha also carried CaMKIV into the nucleus, which strongly suggests that CaMKIV is transported in an importin beta-independent manner. While CaMKIV directly interacted with the C-terminal region of importin alpha, the CaMKIV/importin alpha complex did not form a ternary complex with importin beta, which explains the nonrequirement of importin beta for the nuclear transport of CaMKIV. The cytoplasmic microinjection of importin alpha-DeltaIBB enhanced the rate of nuclear translocation of CaMKIV in vivo. This is the first report to demonstrate definitely that mammalian importin alpha solely carries a cargo protein into the nucleus without utilizing the classical importin beta-dependent transport system.
Although abundant structural plasticity in the form of axonal retraction, neurite extension, and formation of presynaptic varicosities is displayed by photoreceptors after retinal detachment and during genetic and age-related retinal degeneration, the mechanisms involved are mostly unknown. We demonstrated recently that Ca(2+) influx through cGMP-gated channels in cones and voltage-gated L-type channels in rods is required for neurite extension in vitro (Zhang and Townes-Anderson, 2002). Here, we report that the nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP signaling pathway is active in photoreceptors and that its manipulation differentially regulates the structural plasticity of cone and rod cells. The NO receptor soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) was detected immunocytochemically in both cone and rod cells. Stimulation of sGC increased cGMP production in retinal cultures. In cone cells, quantitative analysis showed that NO or cGMP stimulated neuritic sprouting; this stimulatory effect was dependent on both Ca2+ influx through cGMP-gated channels and phosphorylation by protein kinase G (PKG). At the highest levels of cGMP, however, cone outgrowth was no longer increased. In rod photoreceptors, NO or cGMP consistently inhibited neuritic growth in a dose-dependent manner; this inhibitory effect required PKG. When NO-cGMP signaling was inhibited, changes in the neuritic development of cone and rod cells were also observed but in the opposite direction. These results expand the role of cGMP in axonal activity to adult neuritogenesis and suggest an explanation for the neurite sprouting observed in an autosomal recessive form of retinitis pigmentosa that is characterized by high cGMP levels in photoreceptor layers.
The activity-dependent remodeling of postsynaptic structure is a fundamental process underlying learning and memory. Insulin receptor substrate p53 (IRSp53), a key player in cytoskeletal dynamics, is enriched in the postsynaptic density (PSD) fraction, but its significance in synaptic functions remains unclear. We report here that IRSp53 is accumulated rapidly at the postsynaptic sites of cultured hippocampal neurons after glutamate or NMDA stimulation in an actin cytoskeleton-dependent manner. Pharmacological profiles showed that a PKC inhibitor, but not other kinase inhibitors, specifically suppressed the synaptic translocation of IRSp53 in response to NMDA, and the selective activation of PKC with phorbol ester markedly induced the synaptic translocation. Reverse transcriptase-PCR and Western blotting showed that IRSp53-S is the major isoform expressed in cultured hippocampal neurons. The synaptic targeting of IRSp53-S was found to be mediated through N-terminal coiled-coil domain and the PDZ (PSD-95/Discs large/zona occludens-1)-binding sequence at its C-terminal end and regulated by the PKC phosphorylation of its N terminus. In electrophysiological experiments, overexpression of IRSp53-S wild type and IRSp53-S mutant that is spontaneously accumulated at the postsynaptic sites enhanced the postsynaptic function as detected by an increased miniature EPSC amplitude. These data suggest that IRSp53 is involved in NMDA receptor-linked synaptic plasticity via PKC signaling.
Synapsins are a family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins that regulate neurotransmitter release by associating with synaptic vesicles. Synapsins consist of a series of conserved and variable structural domains of unknown function. We performed a systematic structure-function analysis of the various domains of synapsin by assessing the actions of synapsin fragments on neurotransmitter release, presynaptic ultrastructure, and the biochemical interactions of synapsin. Injecting a peptide derived from domain A into the squid giant presynaptic terminal inhibited neurotransmitter release in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. This peptide had no effect on vesicle pool size, synaptic depression, or transmitter release kinetics. In contrast, a peptide fragment from domain C reduced the number of synaptic vesicles in the periphery of the active zone and increased the rate and extent of synaptic depression. This peptide also slowed the kinetics of neurotransmitter release without affecting the number of docked vesicles. The domain C peptide, as well as another peptide from domain E that is known to have identical effects on vesicle pool size and release kinetics, both specifically interfered with the binding of synapsins to actin but not with the binding of synapsins to synaptic vesicles. This suggests that both peptides interfere with release by preventing interactions of synapsins with actin. Thus, interactions of domains C and E with the actin cytoskeleton may allow synapsins to perform two roles in regulating release, whereas domain A has an actin-independent function that regulates transmitter release in a phosphorylation-sensitive manner.
Neural precursor cells contribute to adult neurogenesis and to limited attempts of brain repair after injury. Here we report that in a murine experimental glioblastoma model, endogenous neural precursors migrate from the subventricular zone toward the tumor and surround it. The association of endogenous precursors with syngenic tumor grafts was observed, after injecting red fluorescent protein-labeled G261 cells into the caudate-putamen of transgenic mice, which express green fluorescent protein under a promoter for nestin (nestin-GFP). Fourteen days after inoculation, the nestin-GFP cells surrounded the tumors in several cell layers and expressed markers of early noncommitted and committed precursors. Nestin-GFP cells were further identified by a characteristic membrane current pattern as recorded in acute brain slices. 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine labeling and dye tracing experiments revealed that the tumor-associated precursors originated from the subventricular zone. Moreover, in cultured explants from the subventricular zone, the neural precursors showed extensive tropism for glioblastomas. Tumor-induced endogenous precursor cell accumulation decreased with age of the recipient; this correlated with increased tumor size and shorter survival times in aged mice. Coinjection of glioblastoma cells with neural precursors improved the survival time of old mice to a level similar to that in young mice. Coculture experiments showed that neural precursors suppressed the rapid increase in tumor cell number, which is characteristic of glioblastoma, and induced glioblastoma cell apoptosis. Our results indicate that tumor cells attract endogenous precursor cells; the presence of precursor cells is antitumorigenic; and this cellular interaction decreases with aging.
The Pet-1 [pheochromocytoma 12 ETS (E26 transformation-specific)] gene plays a critical role in the development of serotonin (5-HT)-modulated behaviors via its control of embryonic 5-HT neuron differentiation. Pet-1 transcription is induced exclusively in 5-HT neuron postmitotic precursors before the appearance of transmitter, and its restricted expression is maintained in the adult. However, the mechanisms that direct Pet-1 expression to this single CNS neuronal cell type are unknown. Here, we show, using transgenic methods, that genomic sequences upstream, but not downstream or within the Pet-1-coding region, are sufficient for 5-HT neuron-specific transgene expression. Enhancer sequences within a 40 kb upstream fragment directed position-independent lacZ (beta-D-galactosidase) transgene expression to the developing hindbrain before the appearance of 5-HT. Moreover, virtually all of the 5-HT neurons in the adult were lacZ positive in all of the lines examined. Transgene expression in 5-HT neurons was maintained when the 40 kb fragment was truncated on its 5' end to either 12 or 1.8 kb, although position independence was then lost. Analysis of transgene expression in Pet-1 null mice indicated that Pet-1 was required to maintain the activity of the Pet-1 enhancer region in a subset of 5-HT neurons. These findings suggest that a conserved 1.8 kb region immediately flanking the Pet-1-coding region is a critical genomic target of the transcriptional cascade that governs 5-HT neuron development and provide additional evidence for 5-HT neuron heterogeneity at the genetic level. We discuss the potential application of the Pet-1 transgenes reported here to the selective genetic manipulation of 5-HT neurons.
Elucidation of the neuronal mechanisms underlying respiratory rhythmogenesis is a major focal point in respiratory physiology. An area of the ventrolateral medulla, the pre-Btzinger complex (preBotC), is a critical site. Attention is now focused on understanding the cellular and network properties within the preBotC that underlie this critical function. The inability to clearly identify key &quot;rhythm-generating&quot; neurons within the heterogeneous population of preBotC neurons has been a significant limitation. Here we report an advancement allowing precise targeting of neurons expressing neurokinin-1 receptors (NK1Rs), which are hypothesized to be essential for respiratory rhythmogenesis. The internalization of tetramethylrhodamine conjugated substance P in rhythmically active medullary slice preparations provided clear visualization of NK1R-expressing neurons for subsequent whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Among labeled neurons, 82% were inspiratory modulated, and 25% had pacemaker properties. We propose that this approach can be used to greatly expedite progress toward understanding the neuronal processes underlying the control of breathing.
The organization of multisynaptic projections from the prefrontal cortex to the primary motor cortex (MI) was examined in macaque monkeys by retrograde transneuronal transport of rabies virus. In the first series of experiments, the virus was injected into the MI forelimb region, and the time-dependent distribution patterns of transsynaptic labeling were analyzed in the frontal lobe with various survivals (2-4 d). Two days after the viral injection, neuronal labeling emerged in the caudal aspects of the nonprimary motor-related areas that are known to project to the MI directly. At the same time, the motor thalamus contained labeled neurons. On the third day, cortical labeling extended into the rostral motor-related areas and, also, prearcuate area 8. Moreover, a number of labeled neurons were located in the internal pallidum and the cerebellar nuclei. At the 4 d postinjection period, neuronal labeling occurred widely in prefrontal areas as well as in the putamen and the cerebellar cortex. In the second series of experiments, the viral injection was made into the MI hindlimb region, and the distribution pattern of prefrontal labeling on the fourth day was compared with that in the forelimb-injection case. The labeled neurons in each prefrontal area were much fewer in the hindlimb-injection case than in the forelimb-injection case. Whereas ventral area 46 was most densely labeled from the forelimb region, only sparse labeling from the hindlimb region was observed in this prefrontal area. The present results suggest the importance of ventral area 46 in the cognitive control of forelimb movements.
Defining the circuits that are involved in production and cessation of specific behaviors is an ultimate goal of neuroscience. Short-term behavioral habituation is the response decrement observed in many behaviors that occurs during repeated presentation of non-reinforced stimuli. Within a number of invertebrate models of short-term behavioral habituation, depression of a defined synapse has been implicated as the mechanism. However, the synaptic mechanisms of short-term behavioral habituation have not been identified within mammals. We have shown previously that a presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-dependent depression of synapses formed by olfactory bulb afferents to the piriform (olfactory) cortex significantly contributes to adaptation of cortical odor responses. Here we show that blockade of mGluRs within the olfactory cortex of awake, behaving rats diminishes habituation of a simple odor-induced behavior, strongly implicating a central mechanism for sensory gating in olfaction.
Response properties of primary auditory cortical neurons in the adult common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) were modified by extensive exposure to altered vocalizations that were self-generated and rehearsed frequently. A laryngeal apparatus modification procedure permanently lowered the frequency content of the native twitter call, a complex communication vocalization consisting of a series of frequency modulation (FM) sweeps. Monkeys vocalized shortly after this procedure and maintained voicing efforts until physiological evaluation 5-15 months later. The altered twitter calls improved over time, with FM sweeps approaching but never reaching the normal spectral range. Neurons with characteristic frequencies &lt;4.3 kHz that had been weakly activated by native twitter calls were recruited to encode self-uttered altered twitter vocalizations. These neurons showed a decrease in response magnitude and an increase in temporal dispersion of response timing to twitter call and parametric FM stimuli but a normal response profile to pure tone stimuli. Tonotopic maps in voice-modified monkeys were not distorted. These findings suggest a previously unrecognized form of cortical plasticity that is specific to higher-order processes involved in the discrimination of more complex sounds, such as species-specific vocalizations.
An increasing body of evidence suggests that mitochondrial dysfunction plays an important role in the pathogenesis of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis associated with &quot;gain of function&quot; mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). SOD1 is mostly a cytosolic protein, but a portion of SOD1 is localized in mitochondria of patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and transgenic mouse models of the disease. Despite the finding that mutant SOD1 localizes in mitochondria, the pathogenic significance of the mitochondrial mutant SOD1 remains to be elucidated. Here, we demonstrate that both wild-type and mutant human SOD1 accumulate in brain mitochondria of transgenic mice and that SOD1 displays a very complex intramitochondrial compartmentalization. For the first time, we show that, in addition to being in the mitochondrial outer membrane and intermembrane space, SOD1 is also localized in the mitochondrial matrix. Importantly, we show that aberrant SOD1 macromolecular aggregates are formed in the matrix of brain mitochondria. This suggests that mutant SOD1 in the brain mitochondrial matrix is misfolded and prone to aggregation, which may contribute to selective neuronal degeneration.
The D-isomer of aspartate is efficiently transported by high-affinity Na(+)/K(+)-dependent glutamate transporters and is an effective ligand of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. To facilitate analysis of the regulation of these proteins in their native membranes, we synthesized a photolabile analogue of D-aspartate, 4-methoxy-7-nitroindolinyl-D-aspartate (MNI-D-aspartate). This compound was photolyzed with a quantum efficiency of 0.09 at pH 7.4. Photorelease of d-aspartate in acute hippocampal slices through brief (1 ms) UV laser illumination of MNI-d-aspartate triggered rapidly activating currents in astrocytes that were inhibited by the glutamate transporter antagonist DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartic acid (TBOA), indicating that they resulted from electrogenic uptake of D-aspartate. These transporter currents exhibited a distinct tail component that was approximately 2% of the peak current, which may result from the release of K(+) into the extracellular space during counter transport. MNI-D-aspartate was neither an agonist nor an antagonist of glutamate transporters at concentrations up to 500 muM and was stable in aqueous solution for several days. Glutamate transporter currents were also elicited in Bergmann glial cells and Purkinje neurons of the cerebellum in response to photolysis of MNI-D-aspartate, indicating that this compound can be used for monitoring the occupancy and regulation of glutamate transporters in different brain regions. Photorelease of D-aspartate did not activate alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptors or metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in neurons, but resulted in the selective, but transient, activation of NMDA receptors in hippocampal pyramidal neurons; MNI-D-aspartate was not an antagonist of NMDA receptors. These results indicate that MNI-D-aspartate also may be useful for studying the regulation of NMDA receptors at excitatory synapses.
Traditional split-field studies and patient research indicate a privileged role for the right hemisphere in emotional processing [1-7], but there has been little direct fMRI evidence for this, despite many studies on emotional-face processing [8-10](see Supplemental Background). With fMRI, we addressed differential hemispheric processing of fearful versus neutral faces by presenting subjects with faces bilaterally [11-13]and orthogonally manipulating whether each hemifield showed a fearful or neutral expression prior to presentation of a checkerboard target. Target discrimination in the left visual field was more accurate after a fearful face was presented there. Event-related fMRI showed right-lateralized brain activations for fearful minus neutral left-hemifield faces in right visual areas, as well as more activity in the right than in the left amygdala. These activations occurred regardless of the type of right-hemifield face shown concurrently, concordant with the behavioral effect. No analogous behavioral or fMRI effects were observed for fearful faces in the right visual field (left hemisphere). The amygdala showed enhanced functional coupling with right-middle and anterior-fusiform areas in the context of a left-hemifield fearful face. These data provide behavioral and fMRI evidence for right-lateralized emotional processing during bilateral stimulation involving enhanced coupling of the amygdala and right-hemispheric extrastriate cortex.

CNS demyelinating lesions have been reported in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP). There are no studies of cord atrophy in CIDP. Ten patients with CIDP underwent brain and spinal cord MRI to investigate CNS demyelination and cord atrophy. No CNS demyelination was found, but the mean cervical cord area was significantly smaller in CIDP patients vs control subjects. Spinal cord atrophy may be related to degeneration secondary to axonal loss.

Drosophila RacGAP50C and its homologues act as part of a complex with a kinesin-like protein (Pavarotti/Zen-4) that is essential for the formation of the central spindle and completion of cytokinesis [Mishima, M., Kaitna, S. &amp; Glotzer, M. (2002) Dev. Cell 2, 41-54; Somers, W. G. &amp; Saint, R. (2003) Dev. Cell 4, 29-39; Jantsch-Plunger et al. (2000) J. Cell Biol. 149, 1391-1404]. We report here that RacGAP50C corresponds to the tumbleweed (tum) gene previously identified based on its defects in dendrite development of sensory neurons [Gao, F. B., Brenman, J. E., Jan, L. Y. &amp; Jan, Y. N. (1999) Genes Dev. 13, 2549-2561]. Using mushroom body neurogenesis and morphogenesis as a model, we show that Tumbleweed (Tum), Pavarotti, and their association are required for neuroblast proliferation. Tum with a mutation predicted to disrupt the GTPase-activating protein (GAP) activity still largely retains its activity in regulating cell division but is impaired in its activity to limit axon growth. We also provide evidence that Tum and Pavarotti regulate the subcellular localization of each other in postmitotic neurons and that cytoplasmic accumulation of both proteins disrupts axon development in a GAP-dependent manner. Taken together with previous studies of RacGAP50C in regulating cytokinesis, we propose that Tum serves as a scaffolding protein in regulating cell division but acts as a GAP to limit axon growth in postmitotic neurons.
Neural tube defects (NTDs) are prevalent human birth defects. Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), such as c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), are implicated in facilitating neural tube closure, yet upstream regulators remain to be identified. Here, we show that MAP kinase kinase kinase 4 (MEKK4) is strongly expressed in the developing neuroepithelium. Mice deficient in MEKK4 develop highly penetrant NTDs that cannot be rescued by supplementation with folic acid or inositol. Unlike most mouse models of NTDs, MEKK4 mutant embryos display genetically co-segregated exencephaly and spina bifida, recapitulating the phenotypes observed in human patients. To identify downstream targets of MEKK4 during neural tube development, we examined the activity of MAP kinase kinase 4 (MKK4), a signaling intermediate between MAP kinase kinase kinase and JNK/p38. We found a significant reduction in MKK4 activity in MEKK4-deficient neuroepithelium at sites of neural tube closure. MAPK pathways are key regulators of cell apoptosis and proliferation. Analyses of the neuroepithelium in MEKK4-deficient embryos showed massively elevated apoptosis before and during neural tube closure, suggesting an antiapoptotic role for MEKK4 during development. In contrast, proliferation of MEKK4-deficient neuroepithelial cells appeared to be largely unaffected. MEKK4 therefore plays a critical role in regulating MKK4 activity and apoptotic cell death during neural tube development. Disruption of this signaling pathway may be clinically relevant to folate-resistant human NTDs.
Recently, nuclear distribution element-like (NUDEL) has been implicated to play a role in lissencephaly and schizophrenia through interactions with the lissencephaly gene 1 (Lis1) and disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) products, respectively. Interestingly, NUDEL is the same protein as endooligopeptidase A (EOPA), a thiol-activated peptidase involved in conversion and inactivation of a number of bioactive peptides. In this study, we have cloned EOPA from the human brain and have confirmed that it is equivalent to NUDEL, leading us to suggest a single name, NUDEL-oligopeptidase. In the brain, the monomeric form of NUDEL-oligopeptidase is responsible for the peptidase activity whose catalytic mechanism is likely to involve a reactive cysteine, because mutation of Cys-273 fully abolished NUDEL-oligopeptidase activity without disrupting the protein's secondary structure. Cys-273 is very close to the DISC1-binding site on NUDEL-oligopeptidase. Intriguingly, DISC1 inhibits NUDEL-oligopeptidase activity in a competitive fashion. We suggest that the activity of NUDEL-oligopeptidase is under tight regulation through protein-protein interactions and that disruption of these interactions, as postulated in a Scottish DISC1 translocation schizophrenia cohort, may lead to aberrant regulation of NUDEL-oligopeptidase, perhaps providing a substrate for the pathology of schizophrenia.
This study examined the correlation between covert attention and basal temperature change during menstrual cycle phase in 22 adult females. Previous work showing beneficial effects of estrogen on working memory led us to hypothesize that attentional function would be facilitated at the apparent time of ovulation. Menstrual phase was determined through questionnaires and objective measurements of basal body temperature (BBT) spikes over a 1 month period. The cued target detection (CTD) task was used to assess visuospatial attentional performance at three times during the menstrual cycle. The mean reaction times (RTs) to visual targets were measured as a function of menstrual cycle phase, cue type and target location. As predicted, the onset of ovulation showed decreased reaction times and a significant increase in the cue validity effect on the days immediately preceding and following ovulation. The magnitude of the attention validity effect was negatively correlated with the basal temperature rise. Women lacking basal temperature shifts failed to show these changes. Results support the conclusion that the natural fluctuations of body temperature, and possibly reproductive hormones, during the menstrual cycle may enhance the attentional component of cognitive performance.
We have found in the present study that incubation of neuroblastma N2a with calyculin A, an inhibitor of protein phosphatase-2A (PP-2A) and protein phosphatase-1 (PP-1), reduces cell viability in a dose-dependent manner, and leads to tau hyperphosphorylation at tau-1 (Ser198/199/202) and PHF-1 (Ser396/404) epitopes. In addition to inhibit PP-2A, calyculin A treatment also results in significant activation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3). Calyculin A induces oxidative stress manifested by elevated level of malondialdehyde and decreased activity of superoxide dismutase. When the cells were incubated simultaneously with calyculin A and melatonin (25 microM or 50 microM), the calyculin A-induced decrease in cell viability, tau hyperphosphorylation, PP-2A/GSK-3 imbalance and oxidative stress were attenuated accordingly. These results suggest (i) that calyculin A induces tau hyperphosphorylation not only by inhibition of PP-2A, but also by activation of GSK-3 in N2a cells; (ii) that melatonin efficiently attenuates the calyculin A-induced damages through not only its antioxidant effect but also its modulation to the phosphorylation system.
Projections from the laterodorsal tegmentum (LDT) to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) contribute to the activity of dopamine (DA) and GABA cells and, hence, to the affective and cognitive functions of this region. LDT afferents arise from neurochemically diverse cell types and mediate multiple functional influences. However, the VTA cell populations that receive LDT afferents are unknown and were investigated here by anterograde and retrograde tract-tracing in combination with immunocytochemistry to distinguish DA and GABA cells. Approximately 50% of the LDT to VTA pathway formed asymmetric, presumably excitatory synapses that innervated DA and GABA cells in rough proportion to their representation within the VTA. This portion of the LDT innervation appeared to selectively target DA but not GABA mesoaccumbens neurons and provide a relatively nonselective input to both DA and GABA mesoprefrontal cells. The remaining LDT axons formed symmetric, presumably inhibitory synapses with a different pattern of cellular targets that included a preferential input to GABA neurons of both mesoaccumbens and mesoprefrontal populations and an apparently selective innervation of mesoprefrontal and not mesoaccumbens DA neurons. These data suggest that the LDT mediates a convergent excitatory and inhibitory influence on both mesoprefrontal DA and GABA cells but a divergent impact on mesoaccumbens neurons that is likely to excite DA cells and inhibit GABA neurons. Combined with our previous description of prefrontal cortical afferents, our data also indicate that mesoaccumbens DA neurons receive putative excitatory drive from the LDT, whereas mesoprefrontal DA cells receive convergent excitation from both cortical and brainstem sources.
The present study describes the thalamic innervation coming from the rat parafascicular nucleus (PF) onto striatal and subthalamic efferent neurons projecting either to the globus pallidus (GP) or to the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) by using a protocol for multiple neuroanatomical tracing. Both striatofugal neurons targeting the ipsilateral SNr (direct pathway) as well as striatal efferent neurons projecting to the ipsilateral GP (indirect pathway) were located within the terminal fields of the thalamostriatal afferents. In the subthalamic nucleus (STN), both neurons projecting to ipsilateral GP as well as neurons projecting to ipsilateral SNr also appear to receive thalamic afferents. Although the projections linking the caudal intralaminar nuclei with the ipsilateral striatum and STN are far more prominent, we also noticed that thalamic axons could gain access to the contralateral STN. Furthermore, a small number of STN neurons were seen to project to both the contralateral GP and PF nuclei. These ipsi- and contralateral projections enable the caudal intralaminar nuclei to modulate the activity of both the direct and the indirect pathway.
The habenular complex of the epithalamus in the mammalian brain receives input from the limbic forebrain and pallidum and, in turn, projects to numerous midbrain structures. Traditionally, the habenular complex is divided into the medial nucleus and two divisions of the lateral nucleus. Based on their distinct input and output pathways, the habenula is considered to constitute three, partially overlapping channels that regulate information flow from the limbic forebrain and pallidum to the midbrain. As a step to improve our understanding of how information delivered from the limbic forebrain and pallidum is processed in the habenula, we examined the electrical property and morphology of medial and lateral habenular cells. For this study, we generated live brain slices from rat habenula and performed whole cell recording. During recording, we filled habenular cells with biocytin. Medial habenular cells generate tonic trains of action potentials, whereas lateral habenular cells are capable of producing action potentials in burst mode. Lateral habenular cells produce dendrites that are much longer than those of medial habenular cells. Two distinct intrinsic circuits exist in the medial habenular nucleus, whereas in the lateral habenular nucleus, intrinsic axons travel largely from medial to lateral direction. The connection between the two habenular nuclei is asymmetrical in that only the medial habenula sends projection to the lateral habenula. The differences in the electrical and morphological properties of medial and lateral habenular cells indicate that the two nuclei process and integrate information in distinct fashions that is delivered from the limbic forebrain and pallidum.
The human gene for the catalytic subunit of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) polymerase (POLG) contains a trinucleotide CAG repeat encoding a polyglutamine tract near the amino-terminus of the protein. Expansions of similar polyglutamine-encoding CAG microsatellite repeats in other genes are known to cause neurodegenerative disorders. As mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated in the aetiology of Parkinson's disease, we determined the POLG CAG repeat length in DNA samples extracted from 22 idiopathic Parkinson's disease patients and 31 control subjects. The distribution of the POLG CAG repeat length in the control samples matched the distribution reported for control samples by others. Comparison between the CAG repeat length distribution of control and Parkinson's disease samples revealed no evidence of either germ line or somatic POLG CAG repeat instability in Parkinson's disease patients. Our results rule out POLG CAG repeat instability as a common pathogenic mechanism in idiopathic Parkinson's disease.
Some elementary aspects of faces can be processed before cortical maturation or after lesion of primary visual cortex. Recent findings suggesting a role of an evolutionary ancient visual system in face processing have exploited the relative advantage of the temporal hemifield (nasal hemiretina). Here, we investigated whether under some circumstances face processing also shows a temporal hemifield advantage. We measured the face sensitive N170 to laterally presented faces viewed passively under monocular conditions and compared face recognition in the temporal and nasal hemiretina. A N170 response for upright faces was observed which was larger for projections to the nasal hemiretina/temporal hemifields. This pattern was not observed in a developmental prosopagnosic. These results point to the importance of the early stages of face processing for normal face recognition abilities and suggest a potentially important factor in the origins of developmental prosopagnosia.
Recent evidence has suggested that the anti-allodynic effect of neuronal acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists may have a peripheral component [L.E. Rueter, K.L. Kohlhaas, P. Curzon, C.S. Surowy, M.D. Meyer, Peripheral and central sites of action for A-85380 in the spinal nerve ligation model of neuropathic pain, Pain 103 (2003) 269-276]. In further studies of the peripheral anti-allodynic mechanisms of nAChR agonists, we investigated the function of nAChRs in acutely isolated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from allodynic [L5-L6 spinal nerve ligation (SNL)] and naive adult rats. Following determination of cell diameter and membrane capacitance, responses to rapid applications of nAChR agonists were recorded under whole cell patch clamp. nAChR inward currents were observed in approximately 60% of naive neurons, across small, medium, and large diameter cells. Evoked nAChR currents could be clustered into three broad classes: fast transient, biphasic, and slow desensitizing currents, consistent with multiple subtypes of nAChR expressed in DRG [J.R. Genzen, W. Van Cleve, D.S. McGehee, Dorsal root ganglion neurons express multiple nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes, J. Neurophysiol. 86 (2001) 1773-1782]. In contrast, in neurons from allodynic animals, the occurrence and amplitude of responses to nAChR agonists were significantly reduced. Reduced responsiveness to nAChR agonists covered the range of DRG neuron sizes. The decrease in the responsiveness to nAChR agonists was not seen in neighboring uninjured L4 neurons. The significant decrease in the number of cells with nAChR agonist responses, compounded with the significant decrease in response amplitude, indicates that there is a marked down regulation of functional nAChRs in DRG somata associated with SNL.


Accumulation of the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide in the brain is a crucial factor in the development of Alzheimer disease. Expression of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), an immunosuppressive cytokine, has been associated in vivo with Abeta accumulation in transgenic mice and recently with Abeta clearance by activated microglia, suggesting its deleterious and beneficial effects in neuronal cells. In this study, we demonstrated that TGF-beta1 stimulated the production of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) in a time- and dose-dependent manner in a human monocytic THP-1 cell line. Notably, we found that Abeta1-42 consistently inhibited the TGF-beta1-induced production of MMP-2, the endogenous gene containing Smad response elements, whereas the reverse peptide, Abeta42-1, evidenced little effect. Additionally, Abeta1-42 reduced TGF-beta1-induced increase in plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). This inhibitory effect of Abeta1-42 was also seen in human astroglial T98G cell line. Furthermore, Abeta1-42 significantly induced the expression of Smad7, which appears in turn to mediate the Abeta suppression of the TGF-beta1-induced MMP-2 production. Indeed, Smad7 overexpression mimicked the inhibitory effect of Abeta1-42 on TGF-beta1-induced MMP-2 production. Importantly, Abeta1-42 markedly suppressed the transactivation of the transfected reporter construct, p3TP-Lux, which contains TGF-beta1-inducible Smad response elements. This was concomitant with a decreased MMP-2 production in TGF-beta1-treated cells. Inhibition of cellular Smad7 levels via the small interference RNA method significantly ameliorated the Abeta1-42-mediated suppression of TGF-beta1-inducible transcription reporter activity, thereby restoring MMP-2 induction, whereas Smad7 transfection down-regulated TGF-beta1-inducible transcription reporter activity. Collectively, these data suggest that Abeta1-42 may play an important role in the negative regulation of TGF-beta1-induced MMP-2 production via Smad7 expression.
Connexin-protein interactions are believed to be critical for the regulation of gap junctional intercellular communication and for the function of gap junctions formed by these complexes. We have primarily used immunoprecipitation strategies to investigate whether connexin43 binds to selected signaling and cytoskeletal proteins and whether connexin43-protein binding is altered in cultured astrocytes exposed to chemical ischemia/hypoxia, a treatment that resembles ischemia in vivo. Chemical ischemia/hypoxia induced marked dephosphorylation of connexin43, which was accompanied by increased association of connexin43 with c-Src, ERK1/2, and mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1 and by decreased association between connexin43 and beta-actin. Moreover, we found that endogenous c-Src in normal astrocytes exists primarily in the Triton X-100-soluble membrane fraction, distinct from the Triton-insoluble fraction, which contains gap junctions. After chemical ischemia/hypoxia, c-Src appeared in the Triton-insoluble fraction and was co-immunoprecipitated with connexin43, suggesting that chemical ischemia/hypoxia induced translocation of c-Src to the Triton-insoluble fraction and association with connexin43. Furthermore, the &quot;dephosphorylated&quot; form of connexin43 was immunoprecipitated by a phosphotyrosine antibody, suggesting tyrosine phosphorylation of connexin43 by c-Src. In addition, the association between connexin43 and c-Src was blocked by inhibition of connexin43 dephosphorylation, suggesting that the interaction between connexin43 and c-Src can be regulated by alterations in the phosphorylation state of connexin43. These results identify new binding partners for connexin43 and demonstrate that interactions between connexin43 and protein kinases and phosphatases are dynamically altered as a consequence of connexin43 phosphorylation.
CLAC (collagenous Alzheimer amyloid plaque component) is a proteolytic fragment derived from a novel membrane-bound collagen, CLAC-P/collagen type XXV, that deposits in senile plaques associated with amyloid beta peptides (Abeta) in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. We previously showed that CLAC binds to the fibrillized form of Abeta in vitro, although the mechanism and the subdomains that mediate interaction of CLAC with Abeta as well as the effect of binding of CLAC on amyloid fibril formation remain unknown. Here we show that the collagenous domain 1 of CLAC, which is rich in positively charged amino acid residues, mediates its interaction with Abeta and that this binding is mediated by an electrostatic interaction and requires formation of the triple helix structure of CLAC. The soluble form of CLAC purified from the media of cells transfected with CLAC-P inhibited fibrillization of Abeta in vitro, especially in its elongation phase. These results suggest the anti-amyloidogenic roles of CLAC in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease.
Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) involves its recruitment to the membrane, where it interacts with its activator(s). We expressed PKCalpha fused to green fluorescent protein and examined its real time translocation to the plasma membrane in living human corneal epithelial cells. Upon 10 min of stimulation with epidermal and hepatocyte growth factors (EGF and HGF), PKCalpha translocated to the plasma membrane. Keratinocyte growth factor did not stimulate PKCalpha translocation up to 1 h after stimulation. Pretreatment with the 15-lipoxygenase metabolite, 15(S)-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (15(S)-HETE), followed by EGF or HGF, produced faster translocation of PKCalpha detectable at 2 min. However, the same concentration of 15(S)-HETE alone did not stimulate translocation. 15(S)-Hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid and 5(S)-HETE did not affect growth factor-induced translocation of PKCalpha. PD153035, a specific inhibitor of tyrosine kinase activity of the EGF receptor, completely blocked PKCalpha translocation induced by EGF. PD98059, a specific MEK inhibitor, significantly inhibited EGF- and HGF-mediated PKCalpha translocation, which was reversed by addition of 15(S)-HETE. Phosphorylation of ERK1/2 by EGF was followed by phosphorylation of cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)), and blocking ERK1/2 inhibited cPLA(2) activation. Immunofluorescence demonstrated translocation of p-cPLA(2) to plasma and nuclear membranes as early as 2 min. This may further increase arachidonic acid release from membrane phospholipid pools and increase the intracellular pool of HETEs. In fact, in cells prelabeled with [(3)H]arachidonic acid, EGF stimulated synthesis of 15(S)-HETE in the cytosolic fraction. 15(S)-HETE also reversed the effect of LOX inhibitor on EGF-mediated cell proliferation. Our results indicate that 15(S)-HETE is an intracellular second messenger that facilitates translocation of PKCalpha to the membrane and elucidate a mechanism that plays a regulatory role in cell proliferation crucial to corneal wound healing.
Bacillus thuringiensis Cry protein exerts its toxic effect through a receptor-mediated process. Both aminopeptidases and cadherin proteins were identified as putative Cry1A receptors from Heliothis virescens and Manduca sexta. The importance of cadherin was implied by its correlation with a Cry1Ac resistant H. virescens strain (Gahan, L. J., Gould, F., and Heckel, D. G. (2001) Science 293, 857-860). In this study, the Cry1Ac toxin-binding region in H. virescens cadherin was mapped to a 40-amino-acid fragment, from amino acids 1422 to 1440. This site overlaps with a Cry1Ab toxin-binding site, amino acids 1363-1464 recently reported in M. sexta (Hua, G., Jurat-Fuentes, J. L., and Adang, M. J. (2004) J. Biol. Chem. 279, 28051-28056). Further, feeding of the anti-H. virescens cadherin antiserum or the partial cadherins, which contain the toxin-binding region, in combination with Cry1Ab/Cry1Ac reduced insect mortality by 25.5-55.6% to first instar H. virescens and M. sexta larvae, suggesting a critical function for this cadherin domain in insect toxicity. Mutations in this region, to which the Cry1Ac binds through its loop 3, resulted in the loss of toxin binding. For the first time, we show that the cadherin amino acids Leu(1425) and Phe(1429) are critical for Cry1Ac toxin interaction, and if substituted with charged amino acids, result in the loss of toxin binding, with a K(D) of &lt; 10(-5) m. Mutation of Gln(1430) to an alanine, however, increased the Cry1Ac affinity 10-fold primarily due to an increase on rate. The L1425R mutant can result from a single nucleotide mutation, CTG --&gt; CGG, suggesting that these mutants, which have decreased toxin binding, may lead to Cry1A resistance in insects.
Many ion channels are regulated by lipids, but prominent motifs for lipid binding have not been identified in most ion channels. Recently, we reported that phospholipase Cgamma1 (PLC-gamma1) binds to and regulates TRPC3 channels, components of agonist-induced Ca2+ entry into cells. This interaction requires a domain in PLC-gamma1 that includes a partial pleckstrin homology (PH) domain-a consensus lipid-binding and protein-binding sequence. We have developed a gestalt algorithm to detect hitherto 'invisible' PH and PH-like domains, and now report that the partial PH domain of PLC-gamma1 interacts with a complementary partial PH-like domain in TRPC3 to elicit lipid binding and cell-surface expression of TRPC3. Our findings imply a far greater abundance of PH domains than previously appreciated, and suggest that intermolecular PH-like domains represent a widespread signalling mode.
Cortical GABAergic neurons are generated in the ventral telencephalon and migrate dorsally into the cortex following a tangential path. GDNF signaling via GFRalpha1 was found to promote the differentiation of ventral precursors into GABAergic cells, enhancing their neuronal morphology and motility. GDNF stimulated axonal growth in cortical GABAergic neurons and acted as a potent chemoattractant of GABAergic cells. These effects required GFRalpha1 but neither RET nor NCAM, the two transmembrane signaling receptors known for GDNF. Mutant mice lacking GDNF or GFRalpha1, but neither RET nor NCAM, showed reduced numbers of GABAergic cells in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. We conclude that one of the normal functions of GDNF signaling via GFRalpha1 in the developing brain is to promote the differentiation and migration of cortical GABAergic neurons. The lack of involvement of RET or NCAM in these processes suggests the existence of additional transmembrane effectors for GDNF.
Prime diagnostic criteria for drug addiction include uncontrollable urges to obtain drugs and reduced behavioral responding for natural rewards. Cellular adaptations in the glutamate projection from the prefrontal cortex (PFC) to the nucleus accumbens have been discovered in rats withdrawn from cocaine that may underlie these cardinal features of addiction. A hypothesis is articulated that altered G protein signaling in the PFC focuses behavior on drug-associated stimuli, while dysregulated PFC-accumbens synaptic glutamate transmission underlies the unmanageable motivation to seek drugs.
In this issue of Neuron, a study by Billings et al. points to intracellular Abeta as a possible cause of neuronal dysfunction. In a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, Billings et al. link appearance of intraneuronal Abeta to cognitive impairments and then show that &quot;clearance&quot; of intraneuronal Abeta by anti-Abeta antibodies restores cognitive deficits.
We have previously demonstrated that neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) is upregulated and is neuroprotective in ischemic brain injury, however the expression and localization of its receptors during ischemia has not been investigated. Therefore, we used a rat middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model to examine the distribution of erbB receptors following ischemic stroke. Like neuregulin-1, we observed a dramatic induction of erbB4 in the peri-infarct regions of the ipsilateral cortex 24 h following MCAO. Using Fluoro-Jade B (FJB) staining as a marker of neurodegeneration, erbB4 was upregulated in FJB-positive cells, suggesting that erbB receptors are induced in injured neurons. The increase in erbB receptors was seen in neurons and a subpopulation of macrophages/microglia. There was no erbB co-localization with GFAP-positive astrocytes. These results demonstrate that erbB receptors are upregulated in neurons and macrophages/microglia following ischemic stroke and may be involved in neuroprotection and repair.
The Ca2+-activated slow after hyperpolarization (sAHP) is found in many CNS regions where it may induce post-spike suppression of neuronal firing over many seconds. Nevertheless, the presence of sAHP in sensory thalamus remains uncertain. Here we show that a robust sAHP could be evoked in the rat medial geniculate body of auditory thalamus in vitro following a low-threshold Ca2+ spike and burst firing. The evoked sAHP exhibited kinetic and pharmacological features similar to that found elsewhere in the CNS. The sAHP was resistant to TTX or apamin but eliminated by muscarine. Furthermore, activation of low-threshold Ca2+ conductance alone is sufficient to induce the sAHP. Therefore, the membrane conductance underlying sAHP is functionally expressed in lemniscal thalamic relay neurons which may be preferably activated during burst firing.

Possible differences in the localization of the cGMP response were investigated in rat brain coronal slices after in vitro incubation and NO-dependent or NO-independent stimulation of soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC). Dose-dependent stimulation of cGMP synthesis by the NO donors, sodium nitroprusside, S-nitrosoglutathione, 3-morpholinosydnonimine and diethylamino NONOate was studied in the somatoparietal cortex, the hippocampus and the thalamus. cGMP accumulation was evaluated using a radioimmunoassay and by measuring cGMP-immunofluorescence using image analysis. All four NO donors induced similar cGMP staining patterns in the somatoparietal cortex, the hippocampus and the thalamus. NO-mediated cGMP synthesis in the cortical areas colocalized predominantly with the acetylcholine transporter and occasionally with parvalbumin (GABAergic cells) or the neuronal glutamate transporter. Incubation of the slices in the combined presence of a NO donor and the NO-independent activators YC-1 or BAY 41-2272 strongly potentiated cGMP synthesis and induced abundant cGMP-immunoreactivity in cortical GABAergic and glutamatergic cells. These findings indicate that the mechanism of NO release from the NO donors used does not determine the location of the cGMP response. The results suggest that YC-1 and BAY 41-2272 trigger a NO-sensing mechanism in cells in which the sGC is otherwise not sensitive to NO.
Head direction (HD) cells in the rat limbic system carry information about the direction the head is pointing in the horizontal plane. Most previous studies of HD functioning have used animals locomoting in an upright position or ascending/descending a vertical wall. In the present study, we recorded HD cell activity from the anterodorsal thalamic nucleus while the animal was locomoting in an upside-down orientation. Rats performed a shuttle-box task requiring them to climb a vertical wall and locomote across the ceiling of the apparatus while inverted to reach an adjoining wall before ascending into the reward compartment. The apparatus was oriented toward the preferred direction of the recorded cell, or the 180 degrees opposite direction. When the animal was traversing the vertical walls of the apparatus, the HD cells remained directionally tuned as if the walls were an extension of the floor. When the animal was locomoting inverted on the ceiling, however, cells showed a dramatic change in activity. Nearly one-half (47%) of the recorded cells exhibited no directional specificity during inverted locomotion, despite showing robust directional tuning on the walls before and after inversion. The remaining cells showed significantly degraded measures of directional tuning and random shifts of the preferred direction relative to the floor condition while the animal was inverted. It has previously been suggested that the HD system uses head angular velocity signals from the vestibular system to maintain a consistent representation of allocentric direction. These findings suggest that being in an inverted position causes a distortion of the vestibular signal controlling the HD system.
Cytoplasmic Ca2+ elevation and changes in Rho GTPase activity are both known to mediate axon guidance by extracellular factors, but the causal relationship between these two events has been unclear. Here we show that direct elevation of cytoplasmic Ca2+ by extracellular application of a low concentration of ryanodine, which activated Ca2+ release from intracellular stores, upregulated Cdc42/Rac, but downregulated RhoA, in cultured cerebellar granule cells and human embryonic kidney 293T cells. Chemoattractive turning of the growth cone triggered by a gradient of ryanodine was blocked by overexpression of mutant forms of Cdc42 but not of RhoA in Xenopus spinal cord neurons. Furthermore, Ca2+-induced GTPase activity correlated with activation of protein kinase C and required a basal activity of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. Thus, Rho GTPases may mediate axon guidance by linking upstream Ca2+ signals triggered by guidance factors to downstream cytoskeletal rearrangements.
The role of prefrontal cortical dopamine (DA) in the modulation of working memory functions is well documented, but substantial evidence indicates that the locus ceruleus noradrenergic system also modulates working memory via actions within the prefrontal cortex (PFC). This study shows that PFC noradrenaline (NA) and DA dialysate levels phasically increase when rats perform correctly in a delayed alternation task in a T-maze, a test of spatial working memory. However, NA levels were markedly enhanced in animals trained to alternate compared with rats that acquired the spatial information about the location of food in the maze but were untrained to make a choice to obtain the reward. In contrast, PFC DA elevations occurred independently of whether the animal had acquired the trial-specific information for correct task execution. The contribution of anticipatory responses to catecholamine efflux was also evaluated by exposing rats to an environment signaling the presence of the reward in the successive alternation task. No conditioned NA efflux was observed in either group. In contrast, in both groups, DA efflux increased in the anticipatory phase of the test to the same levels of those reached during the task. These data provide the first direct evidence for a selective activation of PFC NA transmission during a spatial working memory task. We propose that, in the working memory task, DA is primarily associated with reward expectancy, whereas NA is involved in the active maintenance of the information about a goal and the rules to achieve it.
Neurosteroids are produced de novo in neuronal and glial cells, which begin to express steroidogenic enzymes early in development. Studies suggest that neurosteroids may play important roles in neuronal circuit maturation via autocrine and/or paracrine actions. However, the mechanism of action of these agents is not fully understood. We report here that the excitatory neurosteroid pregnenolone sulfate induces a long-lasting strengthening of AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in rat hippocampal neurons during a restricted developmental period. Using the acute hippocampal slice preparation and patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques, we found that pregnenolone sulfate increases the frequency of AMPA-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents in CA1 pyramidal neurons. This effect could not be observed in slices from rats older than postnatal day 5. The mechanism of action of pregnenolone sulfate involved a short-term increase in the probability of glutamate release, and this effect is likely mediated by presynaptic NMDA receptors containing the NR2D subunit, which is transiently expressed in the hippocampus. The increase in glutamate release triggered a long-term enhancement of AMPA receptor function that requires activation of postsynaptic NMDA receptors containing NR2B subunits. Importantly, synaptic strengthening could also be triggered by postsynaptic neuron depolarization, and an anti-pregnenolone sulfate antibody scavenger blocked this effect. This finding indicates that a pregnenolone sulfate-like neurosteroid is a previously unrecognized retrograde messenger that is released in an activity-dependent manner during development.
When lifting small objects, people apply forces that match the expected weight of the object. This expectation relies in part on information acquired during a previous lift and on associating a certain weight with a particular object. Our study examined the role of the primary motor and dorsal premotor cortices in predicting weight based either on information acquired during a previous lift (no-cue experiment) or on arbitrary color cues associated with a particular weight (cue experiment). In the two experiments, subjects used precision grip to lift two different weights in a series of trials both before and after we applied low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation over the primary motor and dorsal premotor cortices. In the no-cue experiment, subjects did not receive any previous information about which of two weights they would have to lift. In the cue experiment, a color cue provided information about which of the two weights subjects would have to lift. Our results demonstrate a double dissociation in the effects induced by repetitive stimulation. When applied over the primary motor cortex, repetitive stimulation disrupted the scaling of forces based on information acquired during a previous lift. In contrast, when applied over the dorsal premotor cortex, repetitive stimulation disrupted the scaling of forces based on arbitrary color cues. We conclude that the primary motor and dorsal premotor cortices have unique roles during the anticipatory scaling of forces associated with the lifting of different weights.
The glutamate receptor (GluR) agonist-binding site consists of amino acid residues in the extracellular S1 and S2 domains in the N-terminal and M3-M4 loop regions, respectively. In the present study, we sought to confirm that the conserved ligand-binding residues identified in the AMPA receptor S1S2 domains also participate in ligand binding of GluR6 kainate receptors. Amino acid substitutions were made in the GluR6 parent at R523, T690, and E738 to alter their potential interactions with ligand. Mutant receptors were expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells, confirmed by Western blot analysis, and tested by [3H]kainate binding and patch-clamp recording. Each of the binding site mutations was sufficient to reduce [3H]kainate binding to undetectable levels and eliminate functional responses to glutamate or kainate. As with our studies of other nonfunctional mutants (Fleck et al., 2003), immunocytochemical staining and cell-surface biotinylation studies showed that the mutant receptors were retained intracellularly and did not traffic to the cell surface. Endoglycosidase-H digests and colocalization with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) markers demonstrated that the mutant receptors are immaturely glycosylated and retained in the ER. Immunoprecipitation, native PAGE, and functional studies confirmed that the GluR6-binding site mutants are capable of multimeric assembly, indicating their retention in the ER does not result from a gross protein folding error. Together, these results confirm the role of R523, T690, and E738 directly in ligand binding to GluR6 and further support our previous report that nonfunctional GluRs are retained intracellularly by a functional checkpoint in ER quality control.
Horizontal cells are inhibitory interneurons with laterally oriented dendrites that overlap one another, contacting the pedicles of cone photoreceptors. Because of their regular spacing, the network of horizontal cells provides a uniform coverage of the retinal surface. The developmental processes establishing these network properties are undefined, but cell-intrinsic instructions and interactions with other cells have each been suggested to play a role. Here, we show that the intercellular spacing of horizontal cells is essentially independent of genetic background and is predicted by local density, suggesting that horizontal cell positioning is modulated by proximity to other horizontal cells. Dendritic field area compensates for this variation in intercellular spacing, maintaining constant dendritic coverage between strains. Functional dendritic overlap is achieved anatomically at the level of the pedicles, where horizontal cells interact with one another to establish their connectivity: the number of dendritic terminals contacting a pedicle changes, reciprocally, between neighboring horizontal cells during development based on their relative proximity to each pedicle. Cellular morphology is also shown to be regulated by the afferents themselves: afferent elimination before innervation does not alter dendritic field size nor stratification but compromises dendritic branching and prevents terminal formation. Afferent and homotypic interactions therefore generate the morphology, spacing, and connectivity of horizontal cells underlying their functional coverage of the retina.

It took decades to accept that dystonia, a bizarre condition which often produces abnormal movements exclusively during specific activities like writing, was due to brain disease. Clinical neurophysiology certainly added to this evolution of thinking. Recent neurophysiological observations demonstrate that dystonia is not only due to an isolated brain motor dysfunction, but also to sensory and sensorimotor integration disturbances. We hope that new treatment strategies will arise thanks to our better understanding of dystonia pathophysiology.


In 10% of adult patients with hydrocephalus, the cause is because of aqueductal stenosis (AS), causing enlargement of the lateral and third ventricles. There are currently two alternate forms of surgical treatment for AS; shunt surgery and ventriculostomy. Shunt surgery is associated with high complication rates and many patients need revisions, but the effectiveness is high. Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV), re-establishing a physiological route of CSF dynamics, has become the treatment of choice for AS in most neurosurgical centers. ETV has fewer complications and revisions are rare, but some patients need shunt surgery to improve despite a patent ventriculostomy. There are today no common criteria for patient selection to either ETV or ventriculo-peritoneal shunt surgery.
Holmes tremor is a rare symptomatic slow tremor in the proximal parts of the limbs. It may be present at rest or maintenance of a posture, or during the movement of the affected limb. We describe herein three patients of Holmes tremor with possible etiologies of brainstem infarction and head injury. The intervals between the causal events and the appearance of tremor range from 1 month to 12 months. Magnetic resonance imaging studies reveal hypertrophy of the inferior olivary nucleus in all of the three patients, although only one of them has palatal myoclonus. The surface electromyographic recordings reveal characteristic slow oscillation with frequencies of 3.5 to 4.2 Hz. These features suggest that perturbation of the dentato-rubral-olivary circuitry may play a pivotal role for the generation of Holmes tremor. However, no tight correlation is observed between the presence of inferior olivary nuclear hypertrophy and the appearance of symptomatic palatal myoclonus in the current report.
Intracranial lipomas are believed to be congenital malformations rather than true neoplasms, resulting from the abnormal differentiation of the meninx primitiva, the undifferentiated mesenchyme. We report here the surgical pathological features of a lipoma that was located on the cerebral surface of an abnormally formed fissure, and the underlying cortex of the middle temporal gyrus of a 20-year-old woman. The mass was composed of typical adipose tissue in which a large number of blood vessels were present. Thick connective tissue associated with the arachnoid membrane covered the cortical surface. The cortex exhibited a polymicrogyric configuration in which the cortical ribbon was abnormally undulated and excessively folded. Reelin-immunolabeled Cajal-Retzius-cell-like cells were observed frequently in the fused molecular layer. The cortical lamination underlying the molecular layer was poorly defined. Along the border between the connective tissue and cortical surface, there was a narrow zone in which the mesenchymal and neuronal tissues were intermingled, and where immunohistochemical and ultrastructural investigations disclosed disruption of the basal lamina, prominent astrocytosis, and abundant axonal and synaptic profiles. These findings suggest that focal disturbances in cerebral cortical development occur in association with the development of lipomas.
Possible differences in silver-staining profiles and their relation to tau-like immunoreactivity were investigated on cortical sections from corticobasal degeneration (CBD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), Down's syndrome (DS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Pairs of mirror sections were double-fluorolabeled with an anti-PHF tau (AT8) antibody and thiazin red (TR), a fluorochrome that labels fibrillary structures such as neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). Subsequently, one of the pair was stained with Gallyas method (GAL), and the other with Campbell-Switzer method (CS). Identification of the same structure on the corresponding microscopic fields enabled a comparison of four different profiles of each structure: AT8 immunoreactivity, and affinity to TR, GAL and CS. NFTs of DS/AD, containing three- and four-repeat tau, were positive for TR, GAL and CS. AT8-immunoreactive structures of CBD/PSP, containing mainly four-repeat tau, were positive for GAL, but negative for CS and TR. This discrepancy is explainable if the argyrophilia with GAL is related to deposits containing four-repeat tau, while that with CS is linked to those containing three-repeat tau. The lack of CS labeling may also be related to poor TR staining, possibly representing scarcity of fibrillary structure in CBD/PSP. The absence of CS staining is characteristic of tau-positive structures of CBD/PSP, which is readily distinguishable from NFTs of DS/AD, hence is of potential pathological and diagnostic relevance.
Wound healing impairment represents a particularly challenging clinical problem to which no efficacious treatment regimens currently exist. The factors ensuring appropriate intercellular communication during wound repair are not completely understood. Although protein-type mediators are well-established players in this process, emerging evidence from both animal and human studies indicates that nitric oxide (NO) plays a key role in wound repair. The beneficial effects of NO on wound repair may be attributed to its functional influences on angiogenesis, inflammation, cell proliferation, matrix deposition, and remodeling. Recent findings from in vitro and in vivo studies of NO on wound repair are summarized in this review. The unveiled novel mechanisms support the use of NO-containing agents and/or NO synthase gene therapy as new therapeutic regimens for impaired wound healing.
Using the criteria defined by Hasher and Zacks [Hasher, L., &amp; Zacks, R. T. (1979). Automatic and effortful processes in memory. Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 108(3), 356-388], three studies examined the effects of intent of memorization, dual task interference, old age, practice and individual differences on memory for egocentric positions. Results showed that dual task interference and old age slightly influenced memory for egocentric positions. Small but significant individual differences were also observed. However, intent of memorization and practice had no influence on accuracy. The findings demonstrate that encoding of egocentric space works rather automatically but nevertheless requires minimal attentional resources.
Chronic cocaine abuse induces long-term neurochemical, structural and behavioural changes thought to result from altered gene expression within the nucleus accumbens and other brain regions playing a critical role in addiction. Recent methodological advances now allow the profiling of gene expression in human postmortem brain. In this article, we review studies in which we have used Affymetrix oligonucleotide microarrays to identify transcripts that are differentially expressed in the nucleus accumbens of cocaine abusers in comparison to well-matched control subjects. Of the approximately 39,000 gene transcripts interrogated, the expression of only a fraction of 1% is significantly modified in cocaine abusers. Found within this list are equivalent incidences of increased and decreased transcript abundance, including known gene transcripts clustered into several functional categories. A striking exception is a group of myelin-related genes, consisting of multiple transcripts representing myelin basic protein (MBP), proteolipid protein (PLP) and myelin-associated oligodendrocyte basic protein (MOBP), which as a group are substantially decreased in cocaine abusers compared to controls. These data, suggesting a possible dysregulation of myelin in cocaine abusers, are discussed in the context of myelin-related changes in other human brain disorders. Finally, the effects of cocaine abuse on the profile of gene expression in some other brain regions critical for addiction (the prefrontal cortex and ventral midbrain) are briefly reviewed.
Alterations in the expression of multiple genes in many brain regions are likely to contribute to psychostimulant-induced behaviours. Microarray technology provides a powerful tool for the simultaneous interrogation of gene expression levels of a large number of genes. Several recent experimental studies, reviewed here, demonstrate the power, limitations and progress of microarray technology in the field of psychostimulant addiction. These studies vary in the paradigms of cocaine or amphetamine administration, drug doses, route and also mode of administration, duration of treatment, animal species, brain regions studied and time of tissue collection after final drug administration. The studies also utilize different microarray platforms and statistical techniques for analysis of differentially expressed genes. These variables influence substantially the results of these studies. It is clear that current microarray techniques cannot detect small changes reliably in gene expression of genes with low expression levels, including functionally significant changes in components of major neurotransmission systems such as glutamate, dopamine, opioid and GABA receptors, especially those that may occur after chronic drug administration or drug withdrawal. However, the microarray studies reviewed here showed cocaine- or amphetamine-induced alterations in the expression of numerous genes involved in the modulation of neuronal growth, cytoskeletal structures, synaptogenesis, signal transduction, apoptosis and cell metabolism. Application of laser capture microdissection and single-cell cDNA amplification may greatly enhance microarray studies of gene expression profiling. The combination of rapidly evolving microarray technology with established methods of neuroscience, molecular biology and genetics, as well as appropriate behavioural models of drug reinforcement, may provide a productive approach for delineating the neurobiological underpinnings of drug responses that lead to addiction.
Repeated exposure to addictive drugs results in long-lasting neuroadaptations in the brain, especially in the mesocorticolimbic system. Within this system, the nucleus accumbens (NAc) plays a major integrative role. As such, the NAc has been shown to be a target of short- and long-lasting drug-induced neuroadaptations at the levels of neurotransmission and cellular morphology. The long-lasting neuroadaptations might depend critically on alterations in gene expression. Recently, we obtained a set of transcripts by means of subtractive hybridization, of which the expression was decreased in the rat NAc shell after long-term extinction of intravenous heroin self-administration. Interestingly, the majority of these transcripts were also down-regulated upon long-term extinction of cocaine self-administration. Using the yoked-control operant paradigm, it was shown that non-contingent administration of these drugs resulted in a totally different gene expression profile. However, in the rat NAc core, both self-administration and non-contingent heroin administration induced a qualitatively similar expression profile. Hence, cognitive processes associated with drug self-administration seem to direct the long-term genomic responses in the NAc shell, whereas the NAc core might primarily mediate the persistent pharmacological effects of addictive drugs (including Pavlovian conditioning).
Microarray experiments allow researchers to collect an amazing amount of gene expression data that have the potential to provide unique information to help interpretation of the biological functions of the central nervous system. These experiments are, however, technically demanding and present unique difficulties when used in the context of neuroscience research, in particular. Success or failure of microarray experiments are highly dependent on reproducible target preparations. This involves a relatively long chain of preparation steps, such as removal of tissue from experimental animals or from post-mortem human brains, storage, selection, and excision of brain regions. This is followed by RNA extraction, reverse transcription, and labeling of target cDNAs or cRNAs. Additionally, it is emphasized that the quality of microarray data largely relies on the proper handling of animals throughout experiments and the time of the day when experiments are stopped. This article tries to provide hints for some basic rules to be observed in preparation of samples for expression profiling studies.
The potential for lifelong vitamin E supplementation to delay age-associated cognitive decline was tested in apoE-deficient and wild-type C57BL/6 mice. Beginning at eight weeks of age, the mice were maintained on a control diet or diets supplemented with dl--tocopheryl acetate yielding approximate daily intakes of either 20 or 200mg/kg body weight. When 6 or 18 months of age, cognitive functioning of the mice was assessed using swim maze and discriminated avoidance testing procedures. For the mice maintained on control diets, the age-related declines in swim maze performance were relatively larger in apoE-deficient mice when compared with wild-type. On the other hand, age-associated declines in learning and working memory for discriminated avoidance were similar in the two genotypes. The 200-mg/kg dose of vitamin E prevented the accelerated decline in spatial learning apparent in 18-month-old apoE-deficient mice, but had no equivalent effect on performance declines attributable to normal aging in the wild-type mice. Vitamin E supplementation failed to prevent age-related impairments in learning and memory for discriminated avoidance observed in both the wild-type and apoE-deficient mice. The current findings are consistent with the hypothesis that apoE deficiency confers an accelerated, though probably selective, loss of brain function with age. This loss of function would appear to involve pathogenic oxidative mechanisms that can be prevented or offset by antioxidant supplementation.









In this review we evaluate clinical neurophysiological methods, originally described for use in diagnosis that can be applied to measurement of change during the progress of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Such measurements are potentially important in clinical trials, and also in clinical practice. We have assessed methods for lower and upper motor neuron function, including conventional EMG, nerve conduction and F-wave studies, the derived Neurophysiological Index, motor unit counting methods (MUNE), and transcranial magnetic motor cortex stimulation. We have also addressed the validity of measurements of electromechanical coupling. Methods for measuring muscle strength are beyond the scope of this review. We conclude that MUNE, M-wave amplitude and the Neurophysiological Index are sufficiently reliable, sensitive, and relevant to the clinical problem of ALS, to be used in clinical trials in the disease. Transcranial magnetic stimulation is of limited value, but a combination of the measurements made as part of this technique may also be useful. We conclude that clinical neurophysiological techniques should now be used in measuring change in clinical trials in ALS.
While many investigations measuring oxidized nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) have been carried out on several mammalian tissues and blood cells, few reports have dealt with monolayers of cultured cells. Here we show a novel method to measure NAD+ and NADH in monolayers of a neuroblastoma cell line. The method was established by modifying a single extraction procedure originally developed for erythrocytes and an enzymatic cycling assay using a dye that absorbs in visible range. The following modifications were made. (i) Addition of 0.05% of a detergent, Triton X-100, to carbonate-bicarbonate extraction buffer enabled us to accurately measure cellular [NADH]/([NAD+]+[NADH]). (ii) Addition of N-ethyldibenzopyrazine ethyl sulfate salt (phenazine ethosulfate) immediately before the incubation suppressed the gradual decline of the sensitivity of the assay. The procedure presented here provides a simple and inexpensive measurement of NAD+ and NADH in cell monolayers.
This brief essay offers a perspective concerning the etymon of the term &quot;apoptosis,&quot; a term that is currently and widely recognized as a synonym for programmed cell death. The origin of the term from the Greek and a historical perspective of how the concept of cell death was viewed in the 1950s to the 1970s are discussed. Studies in such diverse systems as cork oak bark, embryonic neuronal development, hepatology, and insect metamorphosis ultimately described processes similar to what we now call apoptosis.
Precisely regulated radial cell migration out of the ventricular zone is essential for corticogenesis. However, molecular mechanisms controlling the start of migration and the dynamics of migrating cell shape remain elusive. Here, we show novel mechanisms that can tether ventricular zone cells and control migrating cell shape. The novel protein Filamin A-interacting protein (FILIP) interacts with Filamin A, an indispensable actin-binding protein for cell motility, and induces its degradation in COS-7 cells. Degradation of Filamin A is indicated in the cortical ventricular zone where FILIP mRNA localizes. Furthermore, most ventricular zone cells that overexpress FILIP fail to migrate in explants. These results indicate that FILIP acts through a Filamin A-F-actin axis to control the start of neocortical cell migration from the ventricular zone. Filamin A also determines the shape of migrating neocortical neurons, which show global morphological changes and complicated behavior during that migration. Dysfunction of Filamin A, caused by a mutant Filamin A expression, prevents cells from acquiring consistent polarity toward specific direction and decreases motility in the subventricular and intermediate zones. In contrast, Filamin A overexpression, achieved by a short interfering RNA for FILIP, promotes the development and maintenance of a bipolar shape also in the subventricular and intermediate zones. These results suggest that the amount of Filamin A helps migrating neurons determine their mode of migration, multipolar or bipolar, prior to entering the cortical plate and that FILIP is responsible, at least in part, for the Filamin A content of migrating neurons.

We have recently identified mutations in a gene leucine-rich repeat kinase-2 (LRRK2), which cause autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease. Here, we describe two families with autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease caused by a LRRK2 G2019S mutation. We present here a clinical description of patients, including 6-(18)F-fluoro-L-dopa positron emission tomography and discuss the potential implications of this mutation, which alters a conserved residue in a domain required for kinase activation.
In generalized myasthenia gravis (MG) patients without detectable acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies (SNMG), the thymus is often reported as &quot;normally involuted.&quot; We analyzed thymic compartments in 67 patients with generalized MG, with AChR antibodies (AChR+, n = 23), with muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) antibodies (MuSK+, n = 14) or with neither (MuSK-, n = 30), and in 11 non-MG controls. Four of 14 MuSK+ thymi had rare small germinal centers, but overall they were not different from age-matched controls. However, approximately 75% MuSK- samples showed lymph node-type infiltrates similar to those in AChR+ patients, but with fewer germinal centers. These variations may explain some apparent differences in responses to thymectomy in SNMG.
Depression associates with increased risk for dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD), although it is unclear whether it represents an actual risk factor or a prodrome. To determine the relative hazard of premorbid depressive symptomatology for development of dementia and AD, we studied risk for incident dementia and AD over a 14-year period in 1,357 community-dwelling men and women participating in the 40-year prospective Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging. Screening for depressive symptoms, comprehensive medical and neuropsychological evaluations were prospectively collected every 2 years. Time-dependent proportional hazards of development of AD or dementia were calculated separately for men and women, with symptoms of depression detected at 2-, 4-, and 6-year intervals before onset of dementia symptoms. Vascular risk factors were analyzed as covariates. Premorbid depressive symptoms significantly increased risk for dementia, particularly AD in men but not in women. Hazard ratios were approximately two times greater than for individuals without history of depressive symptoms, an effect independent of vascular disease. We conclude that the impact of depressive symptoms on risk for dementia and AD may vary with sex. Further studies assessing separately the role of depression as a risk factor in men and women are necessary.


Parkinson disease (PD), the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder, is characterized by an extensive and progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. One of the pathological hallmarks of PD is the presence of Lewy bodies, intracellular inclusions of aggregated alpha-synuclein. Although the cause and pathogenesis of selective loss of dopamine neurons and the accumulation of alpha-synuclein in PD remain elusive, growing lines of evidence from environmental risk factors and early-onset genetics point to a convergence between energy metabolism and the disposal of damaged proteins in the development of PD. These findings suggest that impairments in mitochondrial and ubiquitin-proteasome system function can significantly contribute to the pathogenesis of PD. This review will summarize recent insights gained from genetic and environmental studies of PD that underscore this association.

Morphologic characteristics of the long-term denervated muscle in animals suggest that some original fibers are lost and some of those seen are the result of repeated cycles of fiber regeneration. Muscle biopsies from lower motoneuron denervated patients enrolled in the EU Project RISE show the characteristics of long-term denervation. They present a few atrophic or severely atrophic myofibers dispersed among adipocytes and connective tissue (denervated degenerated muscle, DDM). Monoclonal antibody for embryonic myosin shows that regenerative events are present from 1- to 37-years postspinal cord injury (SCI). After 2- to 10-years FES-training the muscle cryosections present mainly large round myofibers. In the FES-trained muscles the regenerative events are present, but at a lower rate than long-term denervated muscles (myofiber per mm2 of cryosection area: 0.8 +/- 1.3 in FES vs. 2.3 +/- 2.3 in DDM, mean +/- SD, P = 0.011). In our opinion this is a sound additional evidence of effectiveness of the Kern's electrical stimulation protocol for FES of DDM. In any case, the overall results demonstrate that the FES-training is safe: at least it does not induce more myofiber damage/regeneration than denervation per se.
The clinical and positive psychology usefulness of quality of life, well-being, and life satisfaction assessments depends on their ability to predict important outcomes and to detect intervention-related change. These issues were explored in the context of a program of instrument validation for the Quality of Life Inventory (QOLI) involving 3,927 clients from various clinical settings. Clinical norms were also generated that supplement existing nationwide norms. The predictive validity of the QOLI and life satisfaction in a university counseling center was supported in terms of its ability to predict academic retention both by itself and in conjunction with cumulative grade point average 1 to 3 years in advance. The QOLI was also found to be sensitive to treatment-related change in two naturalistic clinical settings and samples. The interpretation and intervention utility of measures of quality of life, well-being, and life satisfaction are discussed with respect to clinical and positive psychology research.
We examined the effects of DOI (2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine), 8-OH-DPAT (8-hydroxy-2-(N,N-dipropylamino)tetralin, eticlopride and amphetamine in a reaction time (RT) task. In this task a trial is initiated after a rat pushes a panel. Rats have to wait (0.5-1.5 s) until a tone is presented before making a response. The number of premature responses, releasing the panel before tone was switched on, was taken as a measure of motor impulsivity. A group of 10 Lewis rats was tested in the RT task after treatment with different doses of drugs which have been shown previously to affect impulsive responding: DOI (0.1, 0.2 mg/kg), 8-OH-DPAT (0.1, 0.3 mg/kg), eticlopride (0.01, 0.03 mg/kg) and D-amphetamine (0.3, 1 mg/kg). A progressive ratio test was used to control for drug effects on food motivation. DOI (0.1 mg/kg) and D-amphetamine (0.3 mg/kg) increased impulsive responding in the RT task. Conversely, 8-OH-DPAT decreased impulsive responding in the RT task. These effects of DOI, D-amphetamine and 8-OH-DPAT on impulsive responding were not associated with changes in food motivation, as assessed by performance in the progressive ratio task. Eticlopride did not affect impulsive responding. The present data suggest that 5-HT2A receptors and dopamine (but not D2 receptors) are associated with motor impulsivity.
A mechanistic study of consciousness need not be confined to human complexity. Other animals also display key behaviors and responses that have long been intimately tied to the measure of consciousness in humans. Among them are some very well-defined and measurable endpoints: selective attention, sleep and general anesthesia. That these three variables associated with changes in consciousness might exist even in a fruit-fly does not necessarily imply that a fly is &quot;conscious&quot;, but it does suggest that some of the problems central to the field of consciousness studies could be investigated in a model organism such as Drosophila melanogaster. Demonstrating suppression of unattended stimuli, which is central to attention studies in humans, is now possible in Drosophila by measuring neural correlates of visual selection. By combining such studies with an eventual understanding of suppression in other arousal states in the fly, such as sleep and general anesthesia, we might be unraveling mechanisms relevant to consciousness as well.
The instantaneous amplitude of the theta and alpha bands of the electroencephalogram (EEG) was studied during preparation periods in a task-switching experiment. Subjects had to switch between tasks in which they were to respond to either the visual or the auditory component of the stimulus. 11-13 Hz occipital amplitude increased prior to auditory, relative to visual repetition trials. The effect was transient, ending well before presentation of the stimulus that was being prepared for. Alternation trials were preceded by an increase in occipital theta-band activity, relative to repetition trials, for the visual task. This effect was also transient. The effects suggest tentative hypotheses for the function of transient bursts of alpha- and theta-band oscillations and indicate the possibility of a psychophysiological resolution of theoretical questions concerning the origin of switch costs.
The preparation of a novel class of 4-(2-aminoethoxy)-N-(phenylsulfonyl)indoles which exhibit high affinity towards the 5-HT6 receptor is reported here. Among these compounds, 4-(2-methylaminoethoxy)-N-(phenylsulfonyl)indole 5g showed superior affinity (Ki = 1 nM) towards the 5-HT6 receptor as well as excellent selectivity (&gt; 2000-fold) against the closely related subtype 5-HT7 receptor.
Neurons of the cerebellar nuclei receive GABAergic input from Purkinje cells. Purkinje boutons have several closely spaced presynaptic densities without GABA transporters, raising the possibility that neurotransmitter released by one presynaptic site diffuses to multiple postsynaptic sites. To test whether such local spillover may contribute to transmission, we studied gating of GABA(A) receptors at 31-33 degrees C in cerebellar nuclear neurons acutely dissociated from mice. Currents were evoked by rapid application of long steps, brief pulses, and high-frequency trains of GABA to outside-out patches. Receptors desensitized and deactivated rapidly, and dose-response measurements estimated an EC(50) of approximately 30 microM. From these data, a kinetic scheme was developed that replicated the recorded currents. Next, we simulated diffusion of GABA in the synaptic cleft, constrained by previous electron microscopic data, and drove the kinetic GABA(A) receptor model with modeled concentration transients. Simulations predicted receptor occupancies of approximately 100% directly opposite the release site and approximately 50% at distant postsynaptic densities, such that receptors up to 700 nm from a release site opened on the timescale of the inhibitory postsynaptic currents before desensitizing. Further simulations of probabilistic release from multiple-site boutons suggested that local spillover-mediated transmission slows the onset and limits the extent of depression during high-frequency signaling.
Research over the past few years has led to dramatic new discoveries on the role of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) in the cell. RNA duplexes have been shown to orchestrate epigenetic changes, repress translation, and direct mRNA degradation in a sequence-specific manner. These diverse effects of dsRNA on gene expression have been termed RNA interference (RNAi). In addition to playing a role in viral defense and silencing transposons, RNAi also has a critical function in a number of developmental processes in the embryo. In this review, we explore these roles and discuss the molecular mechanisms behind dsRNA-mediated gene silencing. Further, we address the use of RNAi as a tool to study gene function in biology, and as a strategy for treating human disease.
Here it is analyzed the expression of a mini locus dual reporter construct composed by a micro-LCR and by the promoters for (A)gamma- and beta-globin gene, each one linked to a different Luciferase, in stably transfected GM979 cells for as long as 1-2 years from transfection. The transfected GM979 cells rapidly (within 1 month) evolved into a stable population which expresses constant levels of reporters for more than a year of continuous bulk culture. No silencing of the inserted construct was observed over time. In contrast, after 1 month, the reporter activity (both from (A)gamma- and beta-promoter) expressed per cell increased over time. The analysis of the Luciferase contained in single cell clones indicated that the higher reporter activity was due to increased gene expression per cell rather than to clonal selection of the most expressing clones. Since the activity driven by the beta-promoter increased 10-fold more than that driven by the (A)gamma one, the ratio between (A)gamma-driven/((A)gamma-driven + beta-driven) reporter activity in the cells decreased after 1 month and became similar to the gamma/(gamma + beta) globin mRNA ratio expressed by adult erythroid cells. Moreover, although both cells from early and late bulk culture responded to incubation with butyric acid, a known inducer of fetal globin gene expression, by increasing the reporter activity driven by the (A)gamma-promoter, only cells from late bulk culture decreased, as normal primary erythroblasts do, the activity of the reporter driven by the beta-promoter. These results suggest that the rapid changes in activity driven by the (A)gamma- and beta-globin promoters occurring during the first month after transfection may represent a novel in vitro model to study epigenetic regulation of the (A)gamma- and beta-promoter during the fetal to adult hemoglobin switch and confirm GM979 cells stably transfected with the dual reporter construct as a reliable assay for automated screening of chemical inducers of fetal globin gene activation.
After aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), the clinical outcome depends upon the primary haemorrhage and a number of secondary insults in the acute post-haemorrhagic period. Some secondary insults are potentially preventable but prevention requires prompt recognition of cerebral or systemic complications. Currently, several neuro-monitoring techniques are available; this review describes the most frequently used techniques and discusses indications for their use, and their value in diagnosis and prognosis. None of the techniques, when considered in isolation, has proved sufficient after SAH. Furthermore, the use of multi-modality monitoring is hampered by a lack of clinical studies that identify combinations of specific techniques in terms of clinical information and reliability. However, ischaemia at the tissue level can be detected by intracerebral microdialysis technique. Used together with the conventional monitoring systems, for example intracranial pressure measurements, transcranial Doppler ultrasound and modern neuro-imaging, direct assessment of biochemical markers by intracerebral microdialysis is promising in the advancement of neurointensive care of patients with SAH. A successfully implemented monitoring system provides answers but it also raises valuable new questions challenging our current understanding of the brain injury after SAH.


1. The cardiovascular effects of the adenosine A1 receptor agonist N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) and the adenosine A2A receptor agonist 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680) were investigated in rats implanted with telemetry transmitters for the measurement of blood pressure and heart rate. 2. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of the adenosine A1 receptor agonist CPA led to dose-dependent decreases in both blood pressure and heart rate. These effects of 0.3 mg kg(-1) CPA were antagonized by i.p. injections of the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethyl-xanthine (CPT), but not by i.p. injections of the adenosine A2A receptor antagonist 3-(3-hydroxypropyl)-8-(m-methoxystyryl)-7-methyl-1-propargylxanthine phosphate disodium salt (MSX-3). Injections (i.p.) of the peripherally acting nonselective adenosine antagonist 8-sulfophenyltheophylline (8-SPT) and the purported nonselective adenosine antagonist caffeine also antagonized the cardiovascular effects of CPA. 3. The adenosine A2A agonist CGS 21680 given i.p. produced a dose-dependent decrease in blood pressure and an increase in heart rate. These effects of 0.5 mg kg(-1) CGS 21680 were antagonized by i.p. injections of the adenosine A2A receptor antagonist MSX-3, but not by i.p. injections of the antagonists CPT, 8-SPT or caffeine. 4. Central administration (intracerebral ventricular) of CGS 21680 produced an increase in heart rate, but no change in blood pressure. MSX-3 given i.p. antagonized the effects of the central injection of CGS 21680. 5. These results suggest that adenosine A1 receptor agonists produce decreases in blood pressure and heart rate that are mediated by A1 receptors in the periphery, with little or no contribution of central adenosine A1 receptors to those effects. 6. The heart rate increasing effect of adenosine A2A agonists appears to be mediated by adenosine A2A receptors in the central nervous system. The blood pressure decreasing effect of adenosine A2A agonists is most probably mediated in the periphery.


Dyskinesias are a major complication of long-term l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) treatment in Parkinson's disease, and are believed to result from the intermittent and pulsatile supply of L-DOPA. Daily injections of L-DOPA can prime similar abnormal involuntary movements of the limb, orolingual and axial muscles in rats rendered parkinsonian by destruction of the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons. In this study we used 33 rats with severe nigrostriatal dopamine depletion and showed that in vivo gene transfer of the DA-synthetic enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and GTP cyclohydrolase 1 (GCH1) using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors can provide a constant source of DOPA production locally in the striatum, at a level that is effective in reducing L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias by &gt;85%, and reverse lesion-induced motor impairments. Furthermore, the abnormal expression of DeltaFosB, prodynorphin and preproenkephalin mRNA within the striatal projection neurons normally seen in dyskinetic animals was completely reversed by TH-GCH1 gene transfer. These findings form a strong basis for replacing, or supplementing, conventional systemic L-DOPA therapy by continuous intrastriatal DOPA using in vivo gene transfer in the treatment of patients with advanced Parkinson's disease.
Idiopathic or primary angiitis of the CNS (PACNS) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) are unusual vasculopathies generally regarded as unrelated disorders. A few case reports have, however, described granulomatous angiitis in patients with sporadic, amyloid beta peptide (Abeta)-related CAA. Here we describe the clinical, neuroradiological and neuropathological features of nine patients with Abeta-related angiitis (ABRA). Combining these with the individual case reports drawn from the literature has allowed us to define ABRA as a clinical entity and to compare its features with those of PACNS. The mean age of presentation of ABRA (67 years) is higher than that of PACNS but lower than that of sporadic non-inflammatory Abeta-related CAA. Alterations in mental status (59%), headaches (35%), seizures and focal neurological deficits (24%) are common. Hallucinations are a presenting manifestation in 12% of cases. Most patients have white matter hyperintensities on MRI but these are of similar appearance to those in PACNS. Cerebrospinal fluid usually shows modest elevation of protein and pleocytosis. Neuropathology reveals angiodestructive inflammation, often granulomatous, and meningeal lymphocytosis. Abeta is consistently present in abundance in affected blood vessels but usually scanty within the parenchyma of the cerebral cortex. However, the cortex includes numerous activated microglia, occasionally in a plaque-like distribution and containing cytoplasmic Abeta. The cerebral white matter shows patchy gliosis and rarefaction, in some cases marked. Our findings (i) help to dissect one separate clinicopathological entity from what is likely to be a spectrum of primary angiitides of the CNS; (ii) have important therapeutic implications for one category of patients with amyloid-related vasculopathy; and (iii) may provide valuable insights into the development of amyloid-associated inflammation, of relevance not only to ABRA but also to Abeta-immunization-related encephalitis and to Alzheimer's disease.
Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the CNS, the aetiology of which is believed to have both genetic and environmental components. We have investigated one of the candidate viruses for the environmental component of multiple sclerosis, the neurotropic human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6). Utilizing fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) techniques, we have examined human post-mortem tissues for the presence of immediate early and late viral gene expression in multiple sclerosis patient normal appearing white matter (NAWM), lesional tissue and normal control brain samples. HHV-6 gene transcription was detected in all tissue samples and was restricted to oligodendrocytes, as determined by double mRNA FISH analysis. Quantitative analysis of viral mRNA expression indicated that both NAWM and lesional multiple sclerosis samples exhibited significantly higher levels of HHV-6 expression compared with the normal control samples. Lesional samples exhibited the highest levels of viral gene expression, with NAWM exhibiting an intermediate level between lesional and control tissues. Immunofluorescence against early and late HHV-6 proteins verified active translation of HHV-6 viral mRNA in oligodendrocytes. Southern blot analysis of nested polymerase chain reactions using extracted genomic DNA and cDNA confirmed the presence of the HHV-6 genome in all individuals, with the active expression profile mirroring the FISH results. The frequent high level of HHV-6 infection in multiple sclerosis samples suggests a possible role in pathogenesis.
Bacterial superantigens, such as the staphylococcal enterotoxins, exert a strong capacity for in vivo stimulation of T cell proliferation and cytokine production. Previously, staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA) was shown to induce an anorexic effect under novel contextual conditions of testing, and produced an increase in plasma ACTH and corticosterone levels in C57BL/6J mice. In the present study, the role of corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) in promoting these effects of SEA was addressed via intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of alpha-helical CRH(9-41) ((alpha)hCRH), a non-selective CRH receptor antagonist, and astressin-2B, a selective CRH receptor 2 antagonist. The efficacy of (alpha)hCRH and astressin-2B in blocking anorexic responses to CRH and urocortin under the current conditions of testing was first confirmed. Subsequently, it was found that (alpha)hCRH (20 microg icv), but not astressin-2B (10 and 25 microg icv), significantly attenuated the anorexia induced by SEA. This suggested that central CRH is involved in mediating the anorexia induced by SEA, but potentially through CRH receptor 1. Additional results revealed that plasma ACTH stimulation in response to SEA was not significantly attenuated by either antagonist administered icv. However, the plasma corticosterone elevation showed a modest, but significant, attenuation in SEA challenged mice given (alpha)hCRH. These data suggest a possible influence of central CRH on adrenocorticoid activity subsequent to SEA challenge. More importantly, it appears that central activation of CRH receptors is a consequence of SEA challenge, and this likely contributes to its anorexic effects.
This review examines recently recognized roles of immunological processes in pain modulation and explores the potential implications of these immunologically derived phenomena for human chronic pain control. The focus is an examination of how activation of immune-like glial cells within the spinal cord can amplify pain by modulating the excitability of spinal neurons. Such glially driven enhancement of pain can be physiological, as occurs in response to peripheral infection or inflammation. Here, immune-to-brain-to-spinal cord communication leads to pain enhancement (hyperalgesia) as one component of the well-characterized sickness response. This sickness-induced hyperalgesia, like many sickness responses, is mediated by the activation of glia and the consequent release of proinflammatory cytokines. However, glially driven pain can also occur under pathological conditions, such as occurs following peripheral nerve inflammation or trauma. Here, immune- and trauma-induced alterations in peripheral nerve function lead to the release of substances within the spinal cord that trigger the activation of glia. Evidence is reviewed that such pathologically driven glial activation is associated with enhanced pain states of diverse etiologies and that such pain facilitation is driven by glial release of proinflammatory cytokines and other neuroexcitatory substances. This recently recognized role of spinal cord glia and glially derived proinflammatory cytokines as powerful modulators of pain is exciting as it may provide novel approaches for controlling human chronic pain states that are poorly controlled by currently available therapies.
Lesioning studies are often used in cognitive neuroscience to make inferences about the architecture of cognition. Recently, computational models have been used to address some of the underlying assumptions-such as modularity and locality-often implicitly used when interpreting lesion data. In this article, we explore the &quot;functional localization&quot; assumption and its role in interpreting lesioning data, especially from double dissociations. The functional localization assumption states that units or subunits within an information processing system become functionally specialized for dealing with specific aspects of the input environment. Networks were trained on one of two problems-an abstract &quot;rules and sub-rules&quot; problem, and a more concrete &quot;logic classification&quot; problem-and then systematically lesioned. Networks were analyzed in terms of their overt behavior, and more importantly, in terms of their internal structure. Performance deficits in both form and magnitude could be directly related to the ablated internal structure of the networks. That is, if an ablated area had little or no functional localization, then little or no behavioral dissociations were observed. If, however, the ablated area had very specific internal structure, then very specific behavioral dissociations were observed. It is important to note, however, that there was not a one-to-one correspondence between internal structure and behavioral dissociations, implying that cognitive neuroscientists must be careful when using lesioning data to theorize about the functional architecture of cognition.
The 18q- syndrome is due to (terminal) deletion in the long arm of chromosome 18 with variable break points. The phenotype is also variable, with a variety of dysmorphisms, neurological deficits possibly related to haploinsufficiency of the gene for myelin basic protein, and frequent cardiac problems. The diagnosis of paroxysmal events in 18q- syndrome presents difficulties because both epileptic seizures and cardiac syncopes might be expected to occur. Autonomic seizures are epileptic seizures consisting of episodic alterations of autonomic function that are elicited by activation of autonomic cortical centres. In such events confusion with syncope is even more likely. A previous case of autonomic seizures masquerading as syncope in an adult has been reported. The present report is the first to describe autonomic seizures in 18q- syndrome in a child. Very frequent episodes of prolonged apnoea with profound oxygen desaturation was associated with a focal EEG discharge, arising from either the right temporal or left temporal region. As in the adult patient referred to, the seizures ceased on carbamazepine. No systematic studies of incidence have been published, but autonomic epileptic seizures simulating non-epileptic syncopes may be a feature of 18q- syndrome.
Chromosome imbalances are associated with epilepsy but electro-clinical phenotypes are lacking for all but the best-known syndromes. Scanty information is contained in older case reports published in genetics journals that describe children with severe patterns of malformation and dysmorphism. From a larger series of children with chromosome abnormalities and epilepsy, we identified 10 patients with associated dysmorphism without malformation. Electro-clinical features are described for each patient. We found that these patients are at greater risk of delayed diagnosis, particularly when there are no learning difficulties at the onset of epilepsy, as in ring chromosome 20 syndrome. Chromosome studies should be ordered on all children with learning difficulties and epilepsy, and on children with atypical non-lesional epilepsy, even in the absence of learning difficulties or dysmorphism.
Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS) is an X-linked semi-dominant condition with learning difficulties and dysmorphism caused by mutations in the gene RSK2. Originally, epilepsy was reported as a feature. We and others have since described predominantly sound-startle induced drop attacks that have been labelled 'cataplexy', abnormal startle response and hyperekplexia. We sought to clarify why there should be controversy over the type of paroxysmal events. Review of the literature and our patients confirmed that each centre had studied only a small numbers of individuals (mean = 2). The type of movement disorder varied both with age and between individuals. One individual might have more than one movement disorder. One of our adult patients had several types of movement disorder and epilepsy that merged seamlessly: there was true cataplexy triggered by telling a joke, something close to cataplexy ('cataplexy') triggered by sound-startle, a predominantly hypertonic reaction varying from hyperekplexia to a more prolonged tonic reaction resembling startle epilepsy, and true unprovoked epileptic seizures. In the large database of the Coffin-Lowry Syndrome Foundation family support group, 34 of 170 (20%) individuals with CLS and known age had 'drop attacks' and an additional 9 (5%) of these had additional epileptic seizures. The onset of such events was usually after age 5 years, prevalence peaking at 15-20 years (27%). Many became wheelchair bound as a result. This unique combination of more than one non-epileptic movement disorder and epilepsy deserves further semiological and genetic study both for the patients with CLS and for the wider implications.
Slow electrophysiological effects, which fluctuate throughout the course of a sentence, independent of transient responses to individual words, have been reported. However, this type of activity has scarcely been studied, and with only limited use of electrophysiological information, so that the brain areas in which these variations originate have not been clearly identified. To improve this state of affairs, a principal component analysis and a modern source analysis algorithm (LORETA) were applied to the slow activity underlying transitive sentence reading. Four components explained 97.3% of the variance. Of key interest was a slow variation that occurred throughout the entire sentence but peaked with the appearance of the verb. The main solution for this component was localized in prefrontal and temporal regions presumably involved in semantic sentence processing. This constitutes empirical evidence for cortical activity--related to semantic processes thought to be involved in thematic role assignment--developing throughout the sentence but presenting a conspicuous maximum with the appearance of the verb. This finding also highlights the central role of verb information in the understanding of transitive sentences.
The neural correlates of naming concrete entities such as tools (with nouns) and naming actions (with verbs) are partially distinct: the former are linked to the left inferotemporal (IT) region, whereas the latter are linked to the left frontal opercular (FO) and left posterior middle temporal (MT) regions. This raises an intriguing question: How would such neural patterns be influenced by noun-verb homonymy, specifically, naming tasks in which the target words denote objects or actions (e.g., &quot;comb&quot;)? To explore this, we conducted a PET study in which 10 normal participants named visually presented tools or actions. The factor of homonymy yielded interesting effects: For tools, non-homonymous nouns (e.g., &quot;camera&quot;) activated left IT, whereas homonymous nouns (e.g., &quot;comb&quot;) activated both left IT and left FO. For actions, non-homonymous (e.g., &quot;juggle&quot;) and homonymous (e.g., &quot;comb&quot;) verbs activated left FO, MT, and IT, but there was evidence that the FO and MT activations were less widespread for the homonymous verbs. We also found that retrieval of the same exact words (e.g., &quot;comb&quot; and &quot;comb&quot;) produced differential activation in left MT-there was greater MT activation when the words were being used to name actions, than when they were being used to name tools. Our results suggest that noun-verb homonymy has an important influence on the patterns of neural activation associated with words denoting objects and actions, and that even when the phonological forms are identical, the patterns of neural activation are different according to the demands of the task.
In behavioral studies on sentence comprehension, much evidence indicates that shorter dependencies are preferred over longer dependencies, and that longer dependencies incur a greater processing cost. However, it remains uncertain which of the various steps involved in the processing of long-distance dependencies is responsible for the increased cost of longer dependencies. Previous sentence comprehension studies using event-related potentials (ERPs) have revealed response components that reflect the construction [J. King, M. Kutas, Who did what and when? Using word- and clause-level ERPs to monitor working memory usage in reading. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 7, (1995) 376-395.] and completion [E. Kaan, A. Harris, E. Gibson, P. Holcomb, The P600 as an index of syntactic integration difficulty. Language and Cognitive Processes, 5, (2000) 159-201.] of long-distance wh-dependencies. This article reports one off-line rating study and one ERP study that manipulated both the presence of wh-dependencies and the length of the dependencies (one clause vs. two clauses), with the aim of clarifying the locus of length-sensitivity and the functional role of associated ERP components. Results of the off-line study confirm that longer wh-dependencies incur greater processing cost. Results of the ERP study indicate that both a sustained anterior negativity that follows the initiation of the wh-dependency and also a late posterior positivity (P600) that marks the completion of the dependency are sensitive to the presence of a wh-dependency, but do not show amplitude variations reflecting the length of the dependency. However, the P600 is delayed when it marks the completion of a longer wh-dependency. This suggests that both the sustained negativity and the P600 reflect length-insensitive aspects of the construction of syntactic dependencies. In addition, an N400 component is elicited in the middle of the two clause wh-dependency, upon encountering a verb with an argument structure that prevents completion of the dependency.
Following Brooks and Vokey (1991), we show that positive transfer to new items generated from an artificial grammar in which the vocabulary has been changed from training to test can be based on &quot;abstract analogy&quot; to specific training items (specific similarity) rather than abstraction of a grammar and symbol remapping rules, even with remapping unique to each test item. The results confirm that transcendence over symbols provides no support for the implicit learning of abstract structure. Ironically, they also show that the effect of specific similarity does not depend on surface characteristics of the items, but the residual effect of grammaticality does.

Although practising evidence-based medicine is the goal of most physicians, it can be a real challenge to sift through the vast body of data to determine the best strategies. Most clinical guidelines regard replicated randomized controlled trials (RCTs), metaanalyses, and systematic reviews as the highest level of evidence to support treatment recommendations. High-quality metaanalyses can overcome many of the drawbacks of individual RCTs and qualitative reviews. They can reduce bias, provide adequate power to demonstrate real differences in outcomes, and resolve the results of inconsistent studies. This paper focuses on basic principles and terms used in metaanalysis, so that clinicians can appropriately evaluate and use their results to guide treatment decisions.
Heterotrimeric G-proteins are intracellular partners of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). GPCRs act on inactive Galpha.GDP/Gbetagamma heterotrimers to promote GDP release and GTP binding, resulting in liberation of Galpha from Gbetagamma. Galpha.GTP and Gbetagamma target effectors including adenylyl cyclases, phospholipases and ion channels. Signaling is terminated by intrinsic GTPase activity of Galpha and heterotrimer reformation - a cycle accelerated by 'regulators of G-protein signaling' (RGS proteins). Recent studies have identified several unconventional G-protein signaling pathways that diverge from this standard model. Whereas phospholipase C (PLC) beta is activated by Galpha(q) and Gbetagamma, novel PLC isoforms are regulated by both heterotrimeric and Ras-superfamily G-proteins. An Arabidopsis protein has been discovered containing both GPCR and RGS domains within the same protein. Most surprisingly, a receptor-independent Galpha nucleotide cycle that regulates cell division has been delineated in both Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster. Here, we revisit classical heterotrimeric G-protein signaling and explore these new, non-canonical G-protein signaling pathways.
To understand processes in a living cell, sophisticated and creative approaches are required that can be used for gathering quantitative information about large number of components interacting across temporal and spatial scales without major disruption of the integral network of processes. A physical method of analysis that can meet these requirements is fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), which is an ultrasensitive and non-invasive detection method capable of single-molecule and real-time resolution. Since its introduction about 3 decades ago, this until recently emerging technology has reached maturity. As commercially built equipment is now available, FCS is extensively applied for extracting biological information from living cells unattainable by other methods, and new biological concepts are formulated based on findings by FCS. In this review, we focus on examples in the field of molecular cellular biology. The versatility of the technique in this field is illustrated in studies of single-molecule dynamics and conformational flexibility of proteins, and the relevance of conformational flexibility for biological functions regarding the multispecificity of antibodies, modulation of activity of C5a receptors in clathrin-mediated endocytosis and multiplicity of functional responses mediated by the p53 tumor suppressor protein; quantitative characterization of physicochemical properties of the cellular interior; protein trafficking; and ligand-receptor interactions. FCS can also be used to study cell-to-cell communication, here exemplified by clustering of apoptotic cells via bystander killing by hydrogen peroxide.

A major problem for neuroscience has been to find a means to achieve reliable regeneration of synaptic connections following injury to the adult CNS. This problem has been solved by the leech, where identified neurons reconnect precisely with their usual targets following axotomy, re-establishing in the adult the connections formed during embryonic development. It cannot be assumed that once axons regenerate specific synapses, function will be restored. Recent work on the leech has shown following regeneration of the synapse between S-interneurons, which are required for sensitization of reflexive shortening, a form of non-associative learning, the capacity for sensitization is delayed. The steps in repair of synaptic connections in the leech are reviewed, with the aim of understanding general mechanisms that promote successful repair. New results are presented regarding the signals that regulate microglial migration to lesions, a first step in the repair process. In particular, microglia up to 900 microm from the lesion respond within minutes by moving rapidly toward the injury, controlled in part by nitric oxide (NO), which is generated immediately at the lesion and acts via a soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC). The cGMP produced remains elevated for hours after injury. The relationship of microglial migration to axon outgrowth is discussed.

Horizontal cells (HCs) mediate negative feedback to photoreceptors. In the mammalian retina, there are two types of HCs, which are extensively coupled to neighboring cells through homologous gap junctions. The permeability and therefore the strength of feedback can be regulated by light intensity, dopamine and many other factors. However, the component(s) of the most prominent gap junctions, those between A-type HCs in the rabbit retina, is still unknown. In this study, we compared the sequences of many types of mammalian connexins, obtained partial sequences of rabbit connexin 50 and 57. Using specific primers designed against the rabbit sequences, we identified mRNAs of connexin 50 and/or 57 in visually selected single A-type HC using multiplex RT-PCR.
Subjects (n = 40) performed a delayed item recognition task for visually presented letters with three set sizes (1, 3 or 6 letters). Accuracy was close to ceiling at all set sizes, so we took set size as a proxy for WM load (i.e. the amount of information being maintained in WM). Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signal associated with the delay period increased in a nearly linear fashion with WM load in the left inferior frontal gyrus/anterior insula (possibly Broca's area, BA 44/45), right anterior insula, bilateral caudate, bilateral precentral gyrus (BA 6), bilateral middle frontal gyrus (BA 9/46), bilateral inferior parietal lobule (with foci in both BA 39 and 40), left superior parietal lobule (BA 7), medial frontal gyrus (BA 6), anterior cingulate gyrus (BA 32) and bilateral superior frontal gyrus (BA 8). These results lend support to the idea that at least some of the cortical mechanisms of WM maintenance, potentially rehearsal, exhibit a scaling with WM load. In contrast, the delay-related fMRI signal in hippocampus followed an inverted U-shape, being greatest during the intermediate level of WM load, with relatively lower values at the lowest and highest levels of WM load. This pattern of delay-related fMRI activity, orthogonal to WM load, is seemingly not consonant with a role for hippocampus in WM maintenance of phonologically codable stimuli. This finding could possibly be related more to the general familiarity of the letter stimuli than their phonological codability per se.
A fundamental issue in cognitive neuroscience is the nature of developmental changes in human cerebral functional organization for higher cognitive functions. Event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to measure developmental changes in the functional neuroanatomy subserving controlled lexical association. First, brain regions showing significant differences in activity between school-age children and young adults, despite equivalent task performance, were identified. Then, activity in these regions was more fully characterized in individuals spanning the ages of 7-32 years old. Cross-sectional and regression analyses showed systematic increases and decreases in levels of activity over age, by region. Age-related increases in activity were primarily newly recruited, later-stage processing regions, such as in left frontal and left parietal cortex. Decreases, on the other hand, were all positive activations that attenuated with age and were found across a wider neuroanatomical range, including earlier processing regions such as bilateral extrastriate cortex. The hemodynamic magnitude, neuroanatomical location and maturational timecourse of these progressive and regressive changes have implications for models of the developing specialization in human cerebral functional organization.
We have developed a strategy for the rapid high-throughput screening of odor responsivity in genetically altered mice (in fact, any experimentally altered animal). Specifically, the report presents the development and validation of a fully automated procedure based on the evaluation of an animal's stimulus-induced reflexive breathing response (i.e. sniffing behavior) to both air and odorant stimuli. The method requires no training of the animal to be screened and the outcome of the evaluation yields an operationally defined measure. Briefly, using whole-body plethysmography, the procedure determines the numerical values for a set of 14 respiratory measures in response to the presentation of air and a well-above-threshold concentration of the odorant propanol. These measures of stimulus-induced sniffing are incorporated into a model that defines a single univariate measure of response behavior, or 'Sniffing Index', for each screened animal. The approach significantly discriminated between the reflexive sniffing response of a control group of mice and that of an experimentally defined manipulated group for which, a priori, we expected to observe a robust altered breathing response to odorant stimulation (i.e. non-odor-aversion-conditioned versus odor-aversion-conditioned C57BL/6J mice). Further, the procedure was able to significantly discriminate between a mutant phenotype with documented alterations in physiologic and behavioral function (namely, the OMP-null mutant), and their background strain. In addition, applying epidemiologic screening principles to the observed data, we established an operational procedure for the evaluation of unknown animals.











In three experiments, we addressed the issue of attention effects on unattended sound processing when one auditory stream is selected from three potential streams, creating a simple model of the cocktail party situation. We recorded event-related brain potentials (ERPs) to determine the way in which unattended, task-irrelevant sounds were stored in auditory memory (i.e., as one integrated stream or as two distinct streams). Subjects were instructed to ignore all the sounds and attend to a visual task or to selectively attend to a subset of the sounds and perform a task with the sounds (Experiments 1 and 2). A third (behavioral) experiment was conducted to test whether global pattern violations (used in Experiments 1 and 2) were perceptible when the sounds were segregated. We found that the mismatch negativity ERP component, an index of auditory change detection, was evoked by infrequent pattern violations occurring in the unattended sounds when all the sounds were ignored, but not when attention was focused on a subset of the sounds. The results demonstrate that multiple unattended sound streams can segregate by frequency range but that selectively attending to a subset of the sounds can modify the extent to which the unattended sounds are processed. These results are consistent with models in animal and human studies showing that attentional control can limit the processing of unattended input in favor of attended sensory inputs, thereby facilitating the ability to achieve behavioral goals.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of cognitive therapy (CT) in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), as it would be reflected through both psychological and psychoneuroendocrinological parameters. For this purpose, a group of outpatients with GAD were treated with CT for up to a maximum of 24 sessions. In order to assess psychological and biological changes, anxiety-related symptoms were evaluated according to the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A), and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function was determined through assessment of circulating cortisol levels. A significant decrease in the HAM-A scores, along with significant changes in plasma cortisol levels, were observed after completion of treatment with CT. These observations contribute to demonstrate that the effect of certain psychotherapeutic approaches, such as CT, may be observed at both psychological and biological levels.
Recent investigations in cognitive neuroscience have shown that ordinary human behavior is guided by emotions that are uniquely human in their experiential and interpersonal aspects. These &quot;moral emotions&quot; contribute importantly to human social behavior and derive from the neurobehavioral reorganization of the basic plan of emotions that pervade mammalian life. Disgust is one prototypic emotion with multiple domains that include viscerosomatic reaction patterns and subjective experiences linked to (a) the sensory properties of a class of natural stimuli, (b) a set of aversive experiences and (c) a unique mode of experiencing morality. In the current investigation, we tested the hypotheses that (a) the experience of disgust devoid of moral connotations (&quot;pure disgust&quot;) can be subjectively and behaviorally differentiated from the experience of disgust disguised in the moral emotion of &quot;indignation&quot; and that (b) pure disgust and indignation may have partially overlapping neural substrates. Thirteen normal adult volunteers were investigated with functional magnetic resonance imaging as they read a series of statements depicting scenarios of pure disgust, indignation, and neutral emotion. After the scanning procedure, they assigned one basic and one moral emotion to each stimulus from an array of six basic and seven moral emotions. Results indicated that (a) emotional stimuli may evoke pure disgust with or without indignation, (b) these different aspects of the experience of disgust could be elicited by a set of written statements, and (c) pure disgust and indignation recruited both overlapping and distinct brain regions, mainly in the frontal and temporal lobes. This work underscores the importance of the prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortices in moral judgment and in the automatic attribution of morality to social events. Human disgust encompasses a variety of emotional experiences that are ingrained in frontal, temporal, and limbic networks.


The life sciences in the 20th century were guided to a large extent by a reductionist program seeking to explain biological phenomena in terms of physics and chemistry. Two scientists who figured prominently in the establishment and dissemination of this program were Jacques Loeb in biology and Ivan P. Pavlov in psychological behaviorism. While neither succeeded in accounting for higher mental functions in physical-chemical terms, both adopted positions that reduced the problem of consciousness to the level of reflexes and associations. The intellectual origins of this view and the impediment to the study of consciousness as an object of inquiry in its own right that it may have imposed on peers, students, and those who followed is explored.
The threat simulation theory of dreaming (TST) () states that dream consciousness is essentially an ancient biological defence mechanism, evolutionarily selected for its capacity to repeatedly simulate threatening events. Threat simulation during dreaming rehearses the cognitive mechanisms required for efficient threat perception and threat avoidance, leading to increased probability of reproductive success during human evolution. One hypothesis drawn from TST is that real threatening events encountered by the individual during wakefulness should lead to an increased activation of the system, a threat simulation response, and therefore, to an increased frequency and severity of threatening events in dreams. Consequently, children who live in an environment in which their physical and psychological well-being is constantly threatened should have a highly activated dream production and threat simulation system, whereas children living in a safe environment that is relatively free of such threat cues should have a weakly activated system. We tested this hypothesis by analysing the content of dream reports from severely traumatized and less traumatized Kurdish children and ordinary, non-traumatized Finnish children. Our results give support for most of the predictions drawn from TST. The severely traumatized children reported a significantly greater number of dreams and their dreams included a higher number of threatening dream events. The dream threats of traumatized children were also more severe in nature than the threats of less traumatized or non-traumatized children.
Most early studies of consciousness have focused on human subjects. This is understandable, given that humans are capable of reporting accurately the events they experience through language or by way of other kinds of voluntary response. As researchers turn their attention to other animals, &quot;accurate report&quot; methodologies become increasingly difficult to apply. Alternative strategies for amassing evidence for consciousness in non-human species include searching for evolutionary homologies in anatomical substrates and measurement of physiological correlates of conscious states. In addition, creative means must be developed for eliciting behaviors consistent with consciousness. In this paper, we explore whether necessary conditions for consciousness can be established for species as disparate as birds and cephalopods. We conclude that a strong case can be made for avian species and that the case for cephalopods remains open. Nonetheless, a consistent effort should yield new means for interpreting animal behavior.
Neural Darwinism (ND) is a large scale selectionist theory of brain development and function that has been hypothesized to relate to consciousness. According to ND, consciousness is entailed by reentrant interactions among neuronal populations in the thalamocortical system (the 'dynamic core'). These interactions, which permit high-order discriminations among possible core states, confer selective advantages on organisms possessing them by linking current perceptual events to a past history of value-dependent learning. Here, we assess the consistency of ND with 16 widely recognized properties of consciousness, both physiological (for example, consciousness is associated with widespread, relatively fast, low amplitude interactions in the thalamocortical system), and phenomenal (for example, consciousness involves the existence of a private flow of events available only to the experiencing subject). While no theory accounts fully for all of these properties at present, we find that ND and its recent extensions fare well.
The standard behavioral index for human consciousness is the ability to report events with accuracy. While this method is routinely used for scientific and medical applications in humans, it is not easy to generalize to other species. Brain evidence may lend itself more easily to comparative testing. Human consciousness involves widespread, relatively fast low-amplitude interactions in the thalamocortical core of the brain, driven by current tasks and conditions. These features have also been found in other mammals, which suggests that consciousness is a major biological adaptation in mammals. We suggest more than a dozen additional properties of human consciousness that may be used to test comparative predictions. Such homologies are necessarily more remote in non-mammals, which do not share the thalamocortical complex. However, as we learn more we may be able to make &quot;deeper&quot; predictions that apply to some birds, reptiles, large-brained invertebrates, and perhaps other species.
Jaak Panksepp's article 'Affective Consciousness: Core Emotional Feelings in Animals and Humans' is a excellent review and summary by a leading empirical contributor whose work for many years has been running counter to reigning behavioristic premises in neuroscience. It may unfortunately be true that he could not get this review published in many neuroscience journals because it attacks too many sacred (behavioristic) cows. Panksepp has given readers of Consciousness and Cognition a nicely condensed summary of much of his classic 1998 textbook, Affective Neuroscience. I'm reasonably confident that future neuroscience students will look on that textbook as one of the seminal publications on the subject of emotion and the brain, much as we might now look back on Luria's Higher Cortical Functions in Man, or Paul MacLean's classic work, The Triune Brain. There is probably little that I can add to his elegant presentation of the basic affective neuroscience findings, but I would like to highlight a few key issues for the reader.

In humans, conscious perception and cognition depends upon the thalamocortical (T-C) complex, which supports perception, explicit cognition, memory, language, planning, and strategic control. When parts of the T-C system are damaged or stimulated, corresponding effects are found on conscious contents and state, as assessed by reliable reports. In contrast, large regions like cerebellum and basal ganglia can be damaged without affecting conscious cognition directly. Functional brain recordings also show robust activity differences in cortex between experimentally matched conscious and unconscious events. This basic anatomy and physiology is highly conserved in mammals and perhaps ancestral reptiles. While language is absent in other species, homologies in perception, memory, and motor cortex suggest that consciousness of one kind or another may be biologically fundamental and phylogenetically ancient. In humans we infer subjective experiences from behavioral and brain evidence. This evidence is quite similar in other mammals and perhaps some non-mammalian species. On the weight of the biological evidence, therefore, subjectivity may be conserved in species with human-like brains and behavior.

This note describes a simple method for collecting urine and quantification of urine production during anesthesia in small animals. It offers two advantages, especially important for procedures requiring lengthy anesthesia: 1) The animals are kept dry, and 2) fluid balance can be maintained more accurately. The method, which we have applied to rats, is to rest the animal on an absorbent pad of known weight and to weigh the pad after urine has been collected. The note describes the performance characteristics of a preferred pad type and contrasts them with those of other readily available types of absorbent pads. The preferred pad keeps the animal dry while facilitating quantification of urine production, a refinement of animal use.


The focus of the present review is the modulation of eating by the endogenous catecholamines (CA) dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE). Topics addressed include pharmacological and genomic manipulations of brain CA systems and subsequent changes in ingestive behavior. DA in particular is a key component of brain reinforcement systems and feeding-associated changes in DA may play a role in the reinforcing aspects of feeding. NE has been linked to both stimulation and suppression of eating and recent evidence has linked these effects to activation of distinct adrenoceptor subtypes. Recent evidence suggests that NE systems may interact with DA systems to augment the activational effects of psychostimulant drugs, such as cocaine or amphetamine, and DA/NE interactions may play a key role in the capacity of psychostimulants to suppress eating.
Organ-specific autoimmune diseases are characterized by the presence of relapse and remittance of the clinical signs, and last for a long period of time in most cases without an appropriate treatment. Immunopathologically, T cells that respond to organ-specific autoantigens play an important role in the development of inflammatory lesions in the target organ. These pathogenic T cells that had been activated by various stimuli including preceding infection infiltrate the target organ in an antigen-specific manner and break the homeostasis of the organ. Furthermore, they secrete a large number of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, which recruit by-stander inflammatory cells in the lesion. Although general immunosuppressive drugs such as corticosteroid and cyclosporine are effective in suppressing clinical signs and inflammation, immunospecific therapy is essential for the establishment of long-lasting remission or complete cure. In order to achieve effective immunospecific therapy, several groups have focused on two key molecules that are deeply involved in pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. One is the T cell receptor (TCR) expressed on pathogenic T cells and the other is the cytokine and chemokine receptor expressed in the target organ. Another important aspect of this issue is the reagent that is used for the suppression of the function of the key molecules. So far, monoclonal antibodies, peptide vaccines and DNA vaccines are the major reagents used for immunosuppressive therapies. In the present review, I introduce the results of immunotherapy obtained in my laboratory using TCR-based and chemokine receptor (chemoR)-based DNA in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and myocarditis (EAC) and discuss its effectiveness and pathomechanisms of immunosuppression. First, we administered DNA vaccines encoding pathogenic TCR Vbeta8.2, 10 (to Lewis rats) and 15 (to DA rats) and observed that these vaccinations protected animals from the development of EAE. Similar results were obtained in EAC. Second, DNAs encoding several chemoRs were prepared and administered after the challenge to neutralize the function of chemokines that are highly upregulated in the lesions. It was demonstrated that these chemoR DNAs suppress the relapse of chronic relapsing EAE and block the progression of EAC to dilated cardiomyopathy (manuscripts submitted for publication). These findings clearly indicate that DNA vaccination can be a powerful tool for treatment of organ-specific autoimmune diseases.



Myasthenia gravis (MG) is the most common disorder of the neuromuscular junction. Myasthenia crisis, defined as respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation in MG, is a common life-threatening complication that occurs in approximately 15% to 20% of patients with MG during their life time. The advent of effective mechanical ventilation, specialized neurointensive care units and the widespread use of immunotherapies have substantially altered the prognosis of myasthenic crisis. Early intubation and mechanical ventilation is perhaps the most important step in the management of myasthenic crisis. The authors favor an orotracheal approach for intubation, and placement of small bore duodenal tubes that may help decrease the risk of aspiration and may be more comfortable than regular nasogastric tubes for the patient. Plasma exchange may be more effective than the intravenous immunoglobulin in the treatment of myasthenic crisis involving respiratory failure. A randomized trial is required to confirm the superior efficacy of plasma exchange compared with intravenous immunoglobulin. In the acute setting, the role of immunosuppression and intravenous/intramuscular pyridostigmine and the newer agents such as tacrolimus remains limited and at times controversial. The therapy should be tailored at an individual basis using best clinical judgment.
Raised intracranial pressure is a relatively common problem facing the clinician treating neurocritically ill patients. It is a leading cause of death in patients with intracranial pathology. There is a lack of controlled clinical trials evaluating most of the therapies currently available for raised intracranial pressure. The basic pathophysiologic and clinical principles of raised intracranial pressure are discussed and the major treatment options are presented. Patients with raised intracranial pressure should be evaluated immediately with particular attention to airway and hemodynamic status. Controlled hyperventilation and hyperosmolality (using mannitol or hypertonic saline solutions) frequently are administered simultaneously. In patients with refractory elevation of intracranial pressure other therapies such as barbiturate coma and surgical interventions are available.
Wnt signaling is involved in numerous processes during vertebrate CNS development. In this study, we used conditional Cre/loxP system in mouse to ablate or activate beta-catenin in the telencephalon in two time windows: before and after the onset of neurogenesis. We show that beta-catenin mediated Wnt signals are required to maintain the molecular identity of the pallium. Inactivation of beta-catenin in the telencephalon before neurogenesis results in downregulated expression of dorsal markers Emx1, Emx2 and Ngn2, and in ectopic up-regulation of ventral markers Gsh2, Mash1 and Dlx2 in the pallium. In contrast, ablation of ss-catenin after the onset of cortical neurogenesis (E11.5) does not result in a dorso-ventral fate shift. In addition, activation of canonical Wnt signaling in the subpallium leads to a repression of ventral telencephalic cell identities as shown by the down-regulation of subpallial markers Dlx2, Nkx2.1, Gsh2, Olig2 and Mash1. This was accompanied with an expansion of dorsal identities ventrally as shown by the expanded expression domains of pallial markers Pax6 and Ngn2. Thus, our data suggest that canonical Wnt signals are involved in maintaining the identity of the pallium by controlling expression of dorsal markers and by suppressing ventral programs from being activated in pallial progenitor cells.
Mesoderm and endoderm in C. elegans arise from sister cells called MS and E, respectively. The identities of both of these mesendodermal progenitors are controlled by MED-1 and -2, members of the GATA factor family. In the E lineage, these factors activate a sequential cascade of GATA factors, beginning with their immediate targets, the endoderm-specifying end genes. We report that MED-1 binds invariant noncanonical sites in the end genes, revealing that the MEDs are atypical members of the GATA factor family that do not recognize GATA sequences. By searching the genome for clusters of these MED sites, we have identified 19 candidate MED targets. Based on their expression patterns, these define three distinct classes of MED-regulated genes: MS-specific, E-specific, and E plus MS-specific. Some MED targets encode transcription factors related to those that regulate mesendoderm development in other phyla, supporting the existence of an ancient metazoan mesendoderm gene regulatory network.
Neuroadaptations occurring in the mesolimbic dopamine pathway following recurrent exposure to drugs of abuse have been correlated with a behavioral phenomenon known as behavioral sensitization. We have developed an animal model of prenatal cocaine exposure and, using a postnatal sensitization protocol, have examined the subsequent sensitivity of offspring to cocaine. Pregnant Swiss Webster dams were injected twice daily from embryonic day 8 to 17, inclusive, with cocaine (COC40: administered cocaine HCl at a dose of 40 mg/kg/day, and COC20: administered cocaine HCl at a dose of 20 mg/kg/day), or saline (SAL). The SPF40 group (saline pair-fed), a nutritional control group, was 'pair-fed' with COC40 dams. Activity was recorded for 30 min during a 3-day saline habituation, a 14-day 'initiation' phase, when animals received cocaine (15 mg/kg) or saline every other day, and following a 21-day 'withdrawal' period when all mice were challenged with cocaine. COC40 offspring, as compared with SAL controls, did not habituate to a novel environment, demonstrated increased cocaine-induced stereotypy on Coc 1 (first cocaine injection), and blunted locomotor sensitization on challenge as measured by the percentage of each animal's baseline locomotion. Tissue samples of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and striatum (Str) of all four prenatal treatment groups were examined to determine whether alterations in the transcription factor CREB or glutamate receptor subunit, GluR1, induced by prenatal cocaine treatment may have contributed to the altered behavioral responses. Immunoblot quantitation revealed significantly increased constitutive CREB expression in the NAc and Str of COC40 mice as compared with SAL controls. Such alterations in constitutive CREB levels may contribute to some of the behavioral differences reported in adult mice exposed to cocaine in utero.
With significant improvements in neonatal care, fewer infants sustain severe injury as a consequence of hypoxia/ischemia (H/I). However, the majority of experimental studies have inflicted moderate to severe injuries, or they have assessed damage to the caudal forebrain; therefore, to better understand how a mild H/I episode affects the structures and cells of the rostral forebrain, we assessed the relative vulnerabilities of cells in the neocortex, striatum, corpus callosum, choroid plexus and subventricular zone (SVZ). To inflict mild H/I injury, the right common carotid artery was ligated followed by 1 h of hypoxia (8% O(2)) at 37 degrees C. Regional vulnerabilities were assessed using TUNEL, active caspase-3 and hematoxylin and eosin staining at 24 and 48 h of recovery. Scattered columns of cell death were observed in the neocortex with deep-layer neurons more vulnerable than more superficial neurons. The majority of these dying neurons appeared to be dying apoptotic rather than necrotic deaths. In addition, approximately 1/3 of the apoptotic cells in the neocortex were O4+ oligodendrocyte progenitors. We also observed a decrease in NG2 staining within the affected regions of the forebrain. By contrast, active caspase-3+/S-100beta+ astrocytes were not observed. Neurons and O4+ oligodendrocyte progenitors also died apoptotic deaths within the striatum. The lining cells of the choroid plexus also sustained damage. Elevated numbers of apoptotic cells were observed in the most lateral region of the SVZ and some of these dying cells were O4+. The most novel finding of this study, that oligodendrocyte progenitors in the gray matter are damaged and eliminated as a consequence of perinatal H/I, provides new insights into the histopathology and neurological deficits observed in infants who sustain mild H/I brain injuries.
Focal stroke during the perinatal and neonatal period is a significant cause of cognitive and behavioral deficits. Currently, the number of models available to study neonatal brain injury is limited and many are technically difficult to induce in neonatal rodents. We demonstrate a reproducible method to induce a focal ischemic injury in the cerebral cortex of neonatal mice that utilizes the principle of photothrombosis. Postnatal day 7 pups were anesthetized and systemically administered rose bengal (50 mg/kg). Permanent focal ischemia was induced in the medial frontal cortex and somatosensory cortex by irradiating surface blood vessels with a laser (532 nm). By placing a mask having an aperture of defined shape and size on the skull surface, we were able to reliably and reproducibly induce infarcts in discretely defined cortical regions. Further, we demonstrate explicit control of infarct volume by modifying the duration of laser exposure. This tool will provide a means for researchers to safely, easily and noninvasively induce reproducible ischemic lesions in specified regions of the neonatal cortex.
The dentate gyrus is one of two locations with continuing neurogenesis in adult mammals. While the function of adult neurogenesis is unknown, it is believed that it is involved in learning and memory. For adult neurogenesis to occur, the dentate gyrus must maintain the appropriate precursor cell niche in the subgranular zone, which is likely to be dependent on the developmental mechanisms at play in forming the dentate gyrus. In this review, we graft a molecular framework onto the known neuroanatomic developmental plan by considering the phenotypes of several mouse mutants that have well characterized dentate gyrus developmental abnormalities. This effort reveals that there are at least six distinct developmental steps that need to occur in the formation of the dentate gyrus, which can be associated with specific gene defects: (1) defining the dentate neuroepithelium; (2) forming the primary radial glial scaffolding; (3) radial migration of granule neurons to form the primordial granule cell layer; (4) establishing the precursor pool in the hilus; (5) radial transformation of the tertiary matrix, and (6) differentiation of dentate granule cells. From this analysis, it is clear that some molecular pathways control multiple steps in the development of the dentate gyrus. For example the Wnt pathway (steps 1, 2, 4) and the chemokine receptor CXCR4 (steps 3, 4) are involved in multiple developmental steps, while the neuronal differentiation gene NeuroD (step 6) and the integrin signaling pathway (step 5) are involved only in discrete stages of the dentate gyrus morphogenesis.
This study examined infants' abilities to separate speech from different talkers and to recognize a familiar word (the infant's own name) in the context of noise. In 4 experiments, infants heard repetitions of either their names or unfamiliar names in the presence of background babble. Five-month-old infants listened longer to their names when the target voice was 10 dB, but not 5 dB, more intense than the background. Nine-month-olds likewise failed to identify their names at a 5-dB signal-to-noise ratio, but 13-month-olds succeeded. Thus, by 5 months, infants possess some capacity to selectively attend to an interesting voice in the context of competing distractor voices. However, this ability is quite limited and develops further when infants near 1 year of age.
In this paper we examine the current status of the science of ADHD from a theoretical point of view. While the field has reached the point at which a number of causal models have been proposed, it remains some distance away from demonstrating the viability of such models empirically. We identify a number of existing barriers and make proposals as to the best way for these to be overcome in future studies. These include the need to work across multiple levels of analysis in multidisciplinary teams; the need to recognize the existence of, and then model, causal heterogeneity; the need to integrate environmental and social processes into models of genetic and neurobiological influence; and the need to model developmental processes in a dynamic fashion. Such a model of science, although difficult to achieve, has the potential to provide the sort of framework for programmatic model-based research required if the power and sophistication of new neuroscience technologies are to be effectively exploited.

Understanding how developmental systems evolve after genome amplification is important for discerning the origins of vertebrate novelties, including neural crest, placodes, cartilage and bone. Sox9 is important for the development of these features, and zebrafish has two co-orthologs of tetrapod SOX9 stemming from an ancient genome duplication event in the lineage of ray-fin fish. We have used a genotype-driven screen to isolate a mutation deleting sox9b function, and investigated its phenotype and genetic interactions with a sox9a null mutation. Analysis of mutant phenotypes strongly supports the interpretation that ancestral gene functions partitioned spatially and temporally between Sox9 co-orthologs. Distinct subsets of the craniofacial skeleton, otic placode and pectoral appendage express each gene, and are defective in each single mutant. The double mutant phenotype is additive or synergistic. Ears are somewhat reduced in each single mutant but are mostly absent in the double mutant. Loss-of-function animals from mutations and morpholino injections, and gain-of-function animals injected with sox9a and sox9b mRNAs showed that sox9 helps regulate other early crest genes, including foxd3, sox10, snai1b and crestin, as well as the cartilage gene col2a1 and the bone gene runx2a; however, tfap2a was nearly unchanged in mutants. Chondrocytes failed to stack in sox9a mutants, failed to attain proper numbers in sox9b mutants and failed in both morphogenetic processes in double mutants. Pleiotropy can cause mutations in single copy tetrapod genes, such as Sox9, to block development early and obscure later gene functions. By contrast, subfunction partitioning between zebrafish co-orthologs of tetrapod genes, such as sox9a and sox9b, can relax pleiotropy and reveal both early and late developmental gene functions.
Progressive diabetic neuropathy has hitherto been irreversible in humans. New approaches raise the question of whether islet cell reconstitution rendering euglycemia can reverse specific features of neuropathy. We evaluated physiological and structural features of experimental neuropathy in a long-term murine model of diabetes induced by streptozotocin. By serendipity, a subset of these diabetic mice spontaneously regained islet function and attained near-euglycemia. Our hypotheses were that this model might better reflect axon loss observed in human disease and that spontaneous recovery from diabetes might identify the features of neuropathy that are reversible. In this model, experimental neuropathy closely modeled that in humans in most critical aspects: declines in motor conduction velocities, attenuation of compound muscle (M waves) and nerve action potentials, axon atrophy, myelin thinning, loss of epidermal axons, and loss of sweat gland innervation. Overt sensory neuron loss in dorsal root ganglia was a feature of this model. In mice with recovery, there was robust electrophysiological improvement, less myelin thinning, and remarkable epidermal and sweat gland reinnervation. There was, however, no recovery of populations of lost sensory neurons. Our findings identify a robust model of human diabetic neuropathy and indicate that overt, irretrievable loss of sensory neurons is one of its features, despite collateral reinnervation of target organs. Sensory neurons deserve unique protective strategies irrespective of islet cell reconstitution.


Lentiviral-based vectors have been widely used lately in preclinical studies and for the in vitro genetic manipulation of embryonic and adult stem cells. They allow for the transduction of nondividing cells and for stable gene expression. On these grounds, lentiviral vectors look promising for eventual applications for the gene-based treatment of neurological disorders, cardiopathies and inherited or acquired genetic diseases. The best developed and characterized lentiviral vector system is based on the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). However, safety concerns preclude any possible application of HIV-1-derived vectors in clinical trials. For this reason, gene therapists are currently improving the design of other lentiviral vectors, such as feline immunodeficiency virus, equine anemia infectious virus and Visna virus. These lentiviruses are not pathogenic in humans and are only distantly related to primate Retroviridae. This review summarizes the achievements in improving the design of lentiviral vector systems that are not based on HIV-1.

Serotonin or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is a major neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. In this work, a method for analyzing 5-HT in brain microdialysis samples using a commercially available capillary electrophoresis (CE) system has been developed. A pH-mediated in-capillary preconcentration of samples was performed, and after separation by capillary zone electrophoresis, native fluorescence of 5-HT was detected by a 266 nm solid-state laser. The separation conditions for the analysis of 5-HT in standard solutions and microdialysates have been optimized, and this method has been validated on both pharmacological and analytical bases. Separation of 5-HT was performed using a 80 mmol/L citrate buffer, pH 2.5, containing 20 mmol/L hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin (HP-beta-CD) and +30 kV voltage. The detection limit was 2.5 x 10(-10) mol/L. This method allows the in vivo brain monitoring of 5-HT using a simple, accurate CE measurement in underivatized microdialysis samples.
Chronic stress can have a deleterious effect on the re-productive axis that, for females, is manifested in an increased incidence of infertility. However, gonadal steroids may, in turn, affect a female's response to stress as measured by activity within the limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (LHPA) axis. What is not clear is whether a history of exposure to stress modifies the effect of gonadal steroids on LHPA responsivity. Rhesus monkeys present a unique opportunity to assess LHPA responsivity when housed socially in groups. Under these situations, monkeys exhibit a rich network of affiliation and have established social status hierarchies. Previous work indicates that socially subordinate macaque females are hypercortisolemic due to diminished gluco-corticoid negative feedback. The present study tested the hypothesis that estradiol (E2) would decrease gluco-corticoid negative feedback, assessed from a dexamethasone (DEX) suppression test, and increase the response to corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) and that these effects would be attenuated by co-treatment with P4. In addition, we also determined whether E2 and P4 would differentially affect LHPA responsiveness to pharmacological challenge in socially dominant compared with subordinate females. Endogenous gonadal hormone secretion in female rhesus monkeys (n = 7) was suppressed by continuous treatment with a sustained release formulation of the GnRH analog leuprolide acetate (Lupron Depot). The response to a combined DEX suppression-CRF stimulation test was assessed using a counterbalanced design during a placebo (control) treatment condition and during E2, P4, and E2 + P4 re-placement therapy. Females who were members of a large breeding group of 140 adults and juveniles of both sexes, were classified as dominant (n = 4) or subordinate (n = 3) based on the relative social dominance positions within the group. Plasma levels of cortisol were significantly higher during E2 replacement compared to the other treatment conditions following DEX suppression and stimulation with CRF.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) conjugated to saporin (NPY-SAP), a ribosomal inactivating toxin, is a newly developed compound designed to selectively target and lesion NPY receptor-expressing cells. We injected NPY-SAP into the basomedial hypothalamus (BMH), just dorsal to the arcuate nucleus (ARC), to investigate its neurotoxicity and to determine whether ARC NPY neurons are required for glucoprivic feeding. We found that NPY-SAP profoundly reduced NPY Y1 receptor and alpha MSH immunoreactivity, as well as NPY, Agouti gene-related protein (AGRP), and cocaine and amphetamine-related transcript mRNA expression in the BMH. NPY-SAP lesions were localized to the injection site with no evidence of retrograde transport by hindbrain NPY neurons with BMH terminals. These lesions impaired responses to intracerebroventricular (icv) leptin (5 microg/5 microl x d) and ghrelin (2 microg/5 microl), which are thought to alter feeding primarily by actions on ARC NPY/AGRP and proopiomelanocortin/cocaine and amphetamine-related transcript neurons. However, the hypothesis that NPY/AGRP neurons are required downstream mediators of glucoprivic feeding was not supported. Although NPY/AGRP neurons were destroyed by NPY-SAP, the lesion did not impair either the feeding or the hyperglycemic response to 2-deoxy-D-glucose-induced blockade of glycolysis use. Similarly, responses to glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1, 5 microg/3 microl icv), NPY (5 microg/3 microl icv), cholecystokinin octapeptide (4 microg/kg ip), and beta-mercaptoacetate (68 mg/kg ip) were not altered by the NPY-SAP lesion. Thus, NPY-SAP destroyed NPY receptor-expressing neurons in the ARC and selectively disrupted controls of feeding dependent on those neurons but did not disrupt peptidergic or metabolic controls dependent upon circuitry outside the BMH.
Glial erbB-1 and erbB-4 receptors are key components of the process by which neuroendocrine glial cells control LHRH secretion and the onset of female puberty. We now provide evidence that these two signaling systems work in a coordinated fashion to control reproductive function. To generate animals carrying functionally impaired erbB-1 and erbB-4 receptors, we crossed Waved 2 (Wa-2+/+) mice harboring a point mutation of the erbB-1 receptor with mice expressing a dominant-negative erbB-4 receptor in astrocytes. In comparison to single-deficient mice, double-mutant animals exhibited a further delay in the onset of puberty and a strikingly diminished adult reproductive capacity. Ligand-dependent erbB receptor phosphorylation and erbB-mediated MAPK (ERK 1/2) phosphorylation were impaired in mutant astrocytes. Wa-2+/+ or double-mutant astrocytes failed to respond to TGF alpha with production of prostaglandin E2, one of the factors mediating the stimulatory effect of astroglial erbB receptor activation on LHRH release. Medium conditioned by Wa-2+/+ or double-mutant astrocytes treated with TGF alpha failed to stimulate LHRH release from GT1-7 cells. The LH response to ovariectomy was significantly attenuated in mutant mice in comparison with wild-type controls. Although the Wa-2 mutation affects all cells bearing erbB-1 receptors, these results suggest that a major defect underlying the reproductive defects of animals with impaired erbB signaling is a decreased ability of glial cells to stimulate LHRH release. Thus, a coordinated involvement of erbB-1 and erbB-4 signaling systems is required for the normalcy of sexual development and the maintenance of mature female reproductive function.
The sexually dimorphic extrahypothalamic arginine-vasopressin (AVP) projections from the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis to the lateral septum (LS) and lateral habenula (LHb) are denser in males than females and, in rats, require males' perinatal exposure to gonadal hormones but the absence of such exposure in females. We examined perinatal hormone effects on development of this sex difference in prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster), which show atypical effects of hormones on sexual differentiation of some reproductive behaviors. Neonatal castration reduced the number of AVP mRNA-expressing cells in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and AVP immunoreactivity (ir) in the LS and LHb. Surprisingly, daily injections of 1000 microg of testosterone propionate (TP) during the first postnatal week did not maintain high levels of AVP-ir in neonatally castrated males. Furthermore, perinatal treatments with TP (75, 500, or 1000 microg), testosterone (100 microg), or dihydrotestosterone (200 microg) did not masculinize AVP-ir in the female LS or LHb. In fact, 1000 microg TP reduced it in some cases. However, 1000 microg TP lengthened anogenital distance, indicating that TP was biologically active. Neonatal estrogen receptor antagonism with tamoxifen reduced AVP-ir in the male LS, whereas treating neonatal females with the synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol increased septal AVP-ir. Tamoxifen and diethylstilbestrol had no effects in the LHb. Similar to rats, therefore, postnatal estrogen influences some components of the extrahypothalamic AVP system in prairie voles, but this developing system appears to be insensitive to exogenous androgens, including aromatizable androgens. Such insensitivity is atypical for a sexually dimorphic neural system in a rodent and may reflect the unusual effects of hormones on sexual differentiation of some behaviors in prairie voles.
Atypical depression has been linked to low hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis activity and exhibits physical and affective symptoms resembling those of glucocorticoid deficiency. Because atypical depression has also been defined by preferential responsiveness to monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAO-I), we hypothesized that MAO-I reverse these abnormalities by interfering with glucocorticoid feedback and increasing hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical activity. To test this hypothesis, we measured plasma hormones and ACTH secretagogue gene expression in male C57BL/6 mice treated chronically with saline vehicle or phenelzine, a representative MAO-I. Changes in glucocorticoid feedback were evaluated using adrenalectomized (ADX) mice with and without corticosterone replacement. Antidepressant efficacy was confirmed by decreased immobility during forced swim testing. Phenelzine significantly increased circadian nadir and postrestraint plasma corticosterone levels in sham-operated mice, an effect that correlated with increased adrenocortical sensitivity to ACTH. Phenelzine increased circadian nadir, but not poststress ACTH in ADX mice, suggesting that phenelzine augmented corticosterone secretion in sham-operated mice by increasing stimulation and decreasing feedback inhibition of hypothalamic-pituitary activity. Consistent with the latter possibility, phenelzine significantly increased plasma ACTH and paraventricular hypothalamus CRH mRNA in ADX, corticosterone-replaced mice. Phenelzine did not increase paraventricular hypothalamus CRH or vasopressin mRNA in ADX mice lacking corticosterone replacement. We conclude that chronic phenelzine treatment induces sustained increases in glucocorticoids by impairing glucocorticoid feedback, increasing adrenocortical responsiveness to ACTH, and increasing glucocorticoid-independent stimulation of hypothalamic-pituitary activity. The resulting drive for adrenocortical activity could account for the ability of MAO-I to reverse endocrine and psychiatric symptoms of glucocorticoid deficiency in atypical depression.



Differentiating an epileptic seizure from some other paroxysmal event is a common challenge in clinical practice. Many paroxysmal events mimic epileptic seizures and misdiagnosis can have disastrous consequences. Incorrectly identifying an event as an epileptic seizure can lead to unnecessary investigations and instigation of inappropriate treatment regimes. We report five patients referred to regional Paediatric Neuroscience Centres for investigation of events initially suspected of being epileptic seizures. All five patients were subsequently diagnosed as having narcolepsy. Suspected diagnoses were absence epilepsy (four patients), generalized epilepsy with astatic seizures (two patients) and focal epileptic seizures (two patients). Diagnostic confusion arose because lack of responsiveness due to excessive sleepiness was mistaken for epileptic absences, and cataplexy was confused with a variety of seizure types. In each case, videotape recording of clinical events aided in making the diagnosis of cataplexy. At presentation, all five children had excessive daytime sleepiness with cataplexy. Following correct diagnosis and appropriate management, an improvement in symptoms was reported in all cases. Narcolepsy/cataplexy should be included in the differential diagnoses of paroxysmal disorders, particularly if there are associated sleep symptoms or behavioural difficulties. It is important to take a sleep history when evaluating any disorder of the central nervous system.
Ludo van Bogaert (1897-1989) was one of the most distinguished neuroscientists of the 20th century. He enjoyed worldwide recognition for his 753 publications, his countless lectures at Belgian and foreign universities and at international congresses, and his training of more than 300 specialists from all over the world in the Bunge Institute and the Born-Bunge Foundation. Finally, in 1957 he became the founder and president--during two terms of 4 years--of the World Federation of Neurology (WFN). His lifework finally merged in the University Institution Antwerp (UIA)--since 2003 University of Antwerp (UA)--and his memory also lives on by the generous donations of his library to the Royal Library Albert I at Brussels and his Rik Wouters' collection to the Royal Museum of Fine Arts at Antwerp.
Infants follow others' gaze toward external objects from early in ontogeny, but whether they use others' gaze in processing information about objects remains unknown. In Experiment 1, 4-month-old infants viewed a video presentation of an adult gazing toward one of two objects. When presented with the same objects alone a second time, infants looked reliably less at the object to which the adult had directly gazed (cued object). This suggests that the uncued object was perceived as more novel than the object previously cued by the adult's gaze. In Experiment 2, adult gaze was not directed towards any object. In this control experiment, infants looked at both objects equally in the test phase. These findings show that adult eye gaze biases infant visual attention and information processing. Implications of the paradigm for cognitive neuroscience are presented and the results are discussed in terms of neural structures and change over ontogeny.
Conditioned responses to cues associated with the administration of drugs of misuse are an impediment to continued abstinence for drug-free addicted individuals. In order to study the neuroanatomical and cellular response of the brain to cues associated with nicotine administration, we conditioned Sprague-Dawley rats to receive an ascending dose regimen of nicotine over 14 days in two distinct non-home cage environments and assessed expression of the early response gene arc in corticolimbic areas in response to the nicotine-associated context. All of the rats received the same dose regimen of nicotine. Three days after the last training day, the rats were exposed to the test environment. The rats that had previously received nicotine exhibited increased motor activity compared with the rats that had received saline in the test environment. After 45 min in the test environment, brains were taken for Northern blotting and in situ hybridization analysis, which revealed an increase in levels of activity-regulated, dendritically localized mRNA for arc in a variety of brain regions (medial and lateral prefrontal cortices, cingulate cortex, primary sensory cortex, sensorimotor cortex, ventral striatum and amygdala). Plasma corticosterone levels were not different between the groups, suggesting that exposure to nicotine cues is insufficient to activate the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis. Given that Arc plays a direct role in neuronal plasticity and memory consolidation, its induction by nicotine-associated cues in brain regions critical for cognitive and emotional processing suggests that rats may be learning that these cues are no longer necessarily predictive of nicotine administration. Further work will be needed in order to assess the role of arc expression in the extinction of conditioned responses to drug-paired cues.
The hypoglossal nucleus of young rats contains vasopressin binding sites and vasopressin can directly excite hypoglossal motoneurons. In addition, indirect evidence suggests that vasopressin can enhance the synaptic input to motoneurons. We have characterized this latter effect by using brainstem slices and whole-cell recordings. We found that, in the presence of blockers of fast glutamatergic transmission, vasopressin strongly facilitated inhibitory synaptic activity. On average, vasopressin caused a six-fold increase in the frequency and a 1.5-fold increase in the amplitude of GABAergic postsynaptic currents. The effect of vasopressin on glycinergic postsynaptic currents was similar in magnitude. Vasopressin did not affect the frequency of GABAergic or glycinergic miniature postsynaptic currents, indicating that the peptide-induced facilitation of inhibitory transmission was mediated by receptors located on the somatodendritic region rather than on axon terminals of presynaptic neurons. The pharmacological profile of these receptors was determined by using d[Cha4]AVP and dVDAVP, selective agonists of V1b and V2 vasopressin receptors, respectively, and Phaa-D-Tyr-(Et)-Phe-Gln-Pro-Arg-Arg-NH2, a selective antagonist of V1a vasopressin receptors. The two agonists had no effect on the frequency of inhibitory postsynaptic currents. By contrast, the antagonist suppressed the vasopressin-induced facilitation of these currents, indicating that the receptors involved were exclusively of the V1a type. Thus, vasopressin exerts a dual action on hypoglossal motoneurons: a direct excitatory action and an indirect action mediated by GABAergic and glycinergic synapses. By virtue of this dual effect, vasopressin could alter the input-output properties of these motoneurons. Alternatively, it could play a role in generating or modulating specific motor patterns.
It has been suggested that physiological resistance to repeated stress is associated with increased 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release in the dorsal hippocampus and that dysregulation of this neuroadaptation may be implicated in the psychopathology of depression. This study used 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine lesions to investigate the role of 5-HT projections to the hippocampus in physiological responses to repeated stress and putative changes in corticosteroid receptor immunoreactivity in the brain. Repeated exposure to elevated open platform stress (1 h/day) caused regionally selective changes in glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in the dorsal hippocampus that were not observed in ventral hippocampus, frontal cortex, hypothalamus or parietal cortex. Glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in the dorsal hippocampus was decreased after 5 days but increased after 20 days of stress. Mineralocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity was increased after 5 or 10 days of stress. The increases in glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity, evoked by repeated stress, were abolished by lesions of the principal 5-HT projections to the hippocampus. The lesions abolished the increased defecation observed in stressed animals, but had no effects on the plasma corticosterone response to the stressor or the habituation of this response observed following repeated stress. The experiments have revealed a dissociation in the regulation of corticosteroid receptor expression in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus by repeated stress and 5-HT. The data suggest that adaptation to inescapable stress is associated with regionally selective changes in corticosteroid receptor expression in dorsal hippocampus that are largely 5-HT-dependent, although these changes do not mediate habituation of the pituitary adrenocortical response to the stressor.
The rat olfactory bulb is anatomically immature at birth, and considerable neurogenesis and synaptogenesis are known to take place postnatally. In addition, significant physiological changes have also been reported in this period. For example, granule cell-mediated inhibition following electrical stimulations to the lateral olfactory tract is robust during the first postnatal week, and then decreases abruptly after the second week. However, the mechanism underlying this enhanced inhibition remains to be elucidated. To know the cause of this phenomenon, we investigated the expression patterns of cation-Cl(-) co-transporters (KCC1, KCC2 and NKCC1) mRNAs, which are responsible for the regulation of [Cl(-)](i). In addition, responses to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were measured by gramicidin-perforated patch-clamp recordings and Ca(2+) imaging using fura-2. We found that in the early postnatal period, mitral cells expressing KCC2 mRNA were inhibited by GABA, while granule cells lacking KCC2 mRNA expression were depolarized or excited by GABA. These results indicate that transient GABA-mediated excitation on granule cells might be the main cause of the enhanced inhibition on mitral cells, and suggest that these differential GABA responses between relay and intrinsic neurons play pivotal roles in the early postnatal rat olfactory bulb.
The degeneration of the basal forebrain cholinergic system plays an important role in cognitive deterioration in aging and Alzheimer's disease. Brain cholinergic neurons and their projections are affected by changes in the circulating levels of estrogens, which exert their effects mainly through the estrogen receptors. In this study, we investigated the effect of aging, estrogen status and transgenic genotype on the number of cholinergic neurons and the estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) content in the medial septum-vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca. We used 6- and 12-month-old female double transgenic mice carrying mutated human amyloid precursor protein (APPswe) and presenilin-1 (PS1-A246E), and their nontransgenic littermate controls, which had been sham-operated or ovariectomized at the age of 3 months. Brain sections were double immunostained for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and ERalpha and used for stereological cell counting. We found that the number of ChAT-immunoreactive (ir) neurons containing nuclear ERalpha-ir was significantly lower in 12- than in 6-month-old mice. However, the age of the mice, the transgenic genotype or ovariectomy had no effect on the total number of ChAT-ir neurons, or on the number and percentage of all ChAT-ir neurons that contained ERalpha. These results indicate that aging is associated with translocation of ERalphas from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. We propose that this phenomenon is linked to those age-related processes known to be involved in inhibiting ERalpha binding to nuclei.
We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate brain activity while healthy subjects performed three different tasks, each of which alternated between: (i) phases relying on stimulus-oriented thought (i.e. cognitive processes provoked by incoming sensory information); and (ii) phases relying on stimulus-independent thought (i.e. cognitive processes that were not related to any information in the immediate sensory environment). Within each task, the two phases were matched as closely as possible. In all three tasks, lateral rostral prefrontal cortex was transiently activated by a switch between stimulus-oriented and stimulus-independent thought (regardless of the direction of the switch). Medial rostral prefrontal cortex consistently exhibited sustained activity for stimulus-oriented vs. stimulus-independent thought. These results suggest the involvement of rostral prefrontal cortex in selection between stimulus-oriented and stimulus-independent cognitive processes.
Local field potentials (LFPs) recorded from the subthalamic nucleus (STN) of untreated patients implanted with stimulation electrodes for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) demonstrate strong coherence with the cortical electroencephalogram over the beta-frequency range (15-30 Hz). However, studies in animal models of PD emphasize increased temporal coupling in cortico-basal ganglia circuits at substantially lower frequencies, undermining the potential usefulness of these models. Here we show that 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of midbrain dopamine neurons are associated with significant increases in the power and coherence of beta-frequency oscillatory activity present in LFPs recorded from frontal cortex and STN of awake rats, as compared with the healthy animal. Thus, the pattern of synchronization between population activity in the STN and cortex in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rodent model of PD closely parallels that seen in the parkinsonian human. The peak frequency of coherent activity in the beta-frequency range was increased in lesioned animals during periods of spontaneous and sustained movement. Furthermore, administration of the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine to lesioned animals suppressed beta-frequency oscillations, and increased coherent activity at higher frequencies in the cortex and STN, before producing the rotational behaviour indicative of successful lesion. Taken together, these results support a crucial role for dopamine in the modulation of population activity in cortico-basal ganglia circuits, whereby dopaminergic mechanisms effectively filter out synchronized, rhythmic activity at beta-frequencies at the systems level, and shift temporal couplings in these circuits to higher frequencies. These changes may be important in regulating movement.
Excessive synchronization of neural activity in the beta frequency band ( approximately 20 Hz) within basal ganglia circuits might contribute to the paucity and slowness of movement in Parkinson's disease (PD). Treatment with dopaminergic drugs reduces the background level of beta frequency band synchronization in the subthalamic nucleus (STN), but has not been shown to increase the proportion of beta activity that is suppressed before voluntary movement in PD. We assessed changes in the event-related desynchronization (ERD) in the beta frequency band of local field potential signals from the region of the STN in 14 patients with PD as they performed self-paced movements of a joystick before and after levodopa administration. The dopamine precursor, levodopa, increased the duration and magnitude of the premovement beta ERD, but did not alter postmovement synchronization in the beta band. Both the latency and magnitude of the beta ERD inversely correlated with the degree of motor impairment. These findings suggest that the beta ERD recorded in the STN area reflects motor-preparative processes that are at least partly dependent on dopaminergic activity within the basal ganglia.
Protein synthesis is generally held to be essential for long-term memory formation. Often two periods of sensitivity to blockade of protein synthesis have been described, one immediately after training and another several hours later. We wished to relate the timing of protein synthesis-dependence of behavioural long-term memory (LTM) formation to an electrophysiological correlate of the LTM memory trace. We used the snail Lymnaea because one-trial appetitive conditioning of feeding using a chemical conditioned stimulus leads to a stable LTM trace that can be monitored behaviourally and then electrophysiologically in preparations made from the same animals. Anisomycin (an inhibitor of translation) injected 10 min after training blocked behavioural LTM formation. Actinomycin D (an inhibitor of transcription) was also effective at 10 min. When anisomycin, at doses shown to be effective in blocking central nervous system protein synthesis, was injected at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 h after training there was no effect on recall. These results indicate that there is a single period of sensitivity to protein synthesis inhibition in Lymnaea lasting for between 10 min and 1 h after training with no evidence for a second window of sensitivity. An electrophysiological correlate of LTM was found to be sensitive to anisomycin injected 10 min after training. It is unusual to find only one period of protein synthesis-dependence in detailed time-course studies of LTM, and this suggests that the consolidation processes involving protein synthesis are relatively rapid in one-trial appetitive conditioning and complete within 1 h of training.
Hyperpolarizing fast inhibitory neurotransmission by gamma-aminobutyric acid and glycine requires an efficient chloride extrusion mechanism in postsynaptic neurons. A major effector of this task in adult animals is the potassium-chloride co-transporter KCC2 that is selectively and abundantly expressed postsynaptically in most CNS neurons. Yet, the role of KCC2 in adult brain at the systems level is poorly known. Here, we characterize the behaviour of mice doubly heterozygous for KCC2 null and hypomorphic alleles that retain 15-20% of normal KCC2 protein levels in the brain. These hypomorphic KCC2-deficient mice were viable and fertile but weighed 15-20% less than wild-type littermates at 2 weeks old and thereafter. The mice displayed increased anxiety-like behaviour in several tests including elevated plus-maze and were more susceptible to pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures. Moreover, the mice were impaired in water maze learning and showed reduced sensitivity to tactile and noxious thermal stimuli in von Frey hairs, hot plate and tail flick tests. In contrast, the mice showed normal spontaneous locomotor activity in open field and Y-maze tests, and intact motor coordination in rotarod and beam tests. The results suggest that requirements for KCC2-dependent fast hyperpolarizing inhibition may differ among various functional systems of the CNS. As shunting inhibition is expected to be intact in KCC2-deficient neurons, these mice may provide a useful tool to study the specific functions and relative importance of hyperpolarizing fast synaptic inhibition in adult CNS that may have implications for human neuropsychiatric disorders, such as epilepsy, pain and anxiety.
Excitatory glutamatergic synapses on dopamine (DA) neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) undergo long-lasting changes during conditioning of natural rewards and in response to drug exposure. It has been suggested that the ensuing context-dependent behavioural changes are associated with an increased efficacy of synaptic afferents determined by the balance of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). However, the molecular nature of the forms of LTP/LTD involved remains elusive. Here, using acute rat brain slices, we describe a form of long-term depression (LTD) that was engaged by synaptic activity or exogenous agonists activating group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) and was sensitive to mGluR1 antagonists. Prior to mGluR-LTD, AMPAR mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) showed strong rectification at positive potentials and were sensitive to Joro spider toxin (JST), a selective blocker of GluR2-lacking AMPARs. After mGluR-LTD, AMPAR EPSCs had linear current-voltage relations and became insensitive to JST. We conclude that activation of mGluR1s triggers a redistribution exchanging native receptors for GluR2 containing AMPARs, ultimately causing LTD that may oppose pathological neuroadaptation.
The resetting of the circadian clock based on photic cues delivered by the glutamatergic retinohypothalamic tract is an important process helping mammals to function adaptively to the daily light-dark cycle. To see if the photic resetting relies on voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCCs), we examined the effects of VGCC blockers on the glutamate-induced phase shifts of circadian firing activity rhythms of suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) neurons in hypothalamic slices. First, we found that a cocktail of amiloride, nimodipine and omega-conotoxin MVIIC (T-, L- and NPQ-type VGCC antagonists, respectively) completely blocked both phase delays and advances, which were, respectively, induced by glutamate application in early and late night. Next, we discovered that: (i) amiloride and another T-type VGCC antagonist, mibefradil, completely obstructed the delays without affecting the advances; (ii) nimodipine completely blocked the advances while having less impact on delays; and (iii) omega-conotoxin MVIIC blocked largely, if not entirely, both delays and advances. Subsequent whole-cell recordings revealed that T-type Ca(2+) currents in neurons in the ventrolateral, not dorsomedial, region of the SCN were larger during early than late night, whereas L-type Ca(2+) currents did not differ from early to late night in both regions. These results indicate that VGCCs play important roles in glutamate-induced phase shifts, T-type being more important for phase delays and L-type being so for phase advances. Moreover, the results point to the possibility that a nocturnal modulation of T-type Ca(2+) current in retinorecipient neurons is related to the differential involvement of T-type VGCC in phase delays and advances.

Major depression and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are often comorbid, resulting in more impairment compared than with either diagnosis alone. Both major depression and PTSD are thought to be associated with monoamine transmitter abnormalities. This study compared clinical features and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) monoamine metabolites in drug-free depressed subjects with a current major depressive episode (MDE) without comorbid PTSD, subjects with a current MDE and comorbid PTSD, and healthy volunteers. Depressed subjects with comorbid PTSD had higher CSF homovanillic acid (HVA) levels compared with depressed subjects without comorbid PTSD or healthy volunteers. Higher HVA was present after adjustment for sex, lifetime aggression severity and depression scores, alcoholism, tobacco smoking, comorbid cluster B personality disorder, reported childhood abuse, and psychosis. We found no group difference in CSF 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) levels. Higher dopaminergic activity may contribute to alterations in memory and other cognitive functions, anhedonia, and hypervigilance observed in PTSD.

There are few controlled studies evaluating the treatment of bipolar mixed states. Evidence suggests that mixed states may be more responsive to some anticonvulsants than to lithium. Olanzapine alone or in combination with divalproate or lithium has been adequately evaluated in randomized clinical trials involving mixed-state patients, whereas risperidone and quetiapine have not. There is also some evidence demonstrating the efficacy of ziprasidone and aripiprazole. The risk of switching to depression is high in mixed states. Conventional antipsychotics, such as haloperidol, may be less efficacious at protecting against a switch to depression than atypical antipsychotics, divalproate or lithium. When choosing drugs for the treatment of mania, and especially for the treatment of mixed states, their efficacy against manic and depressive symptoms, and their safety in terms of the risk of switching to depression should be taken into account.
This study was designed to demonstrate and measure mechanical torsion in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis using three-dimensional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Ten patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis were imaged with three-dimensional MR imaging, and the data post-processed through multiplanar reconstruction to produce images angled through individual endplates. Transverse rotation was measured at each endplate and these measurements used to calculate the amount of vertebral and disc mechanical torsion present. A test object was imaged in order to validate the measurement technique. Mechanical torsion was demonstrated within the vertebral bodies and discs of the imaged subjects, with vertebral mechanical torsion contributing on average 45% of the overall transverse plane deformity. It is concluded that deformation occurs in the transverse plane within the vertebrae and discs of subjects with idiopathic scoliosis, and a significant proportion of the rotation present in the scoliotic spine occurs as a result of plastic deformation within the vertebrae themselves. We believe that this is the first systematic demonstration of mechanical torsion in idiopathic scoliosis.

We compared quantitatively the psychometric capacity of human subjects to detect path-guided apparent motion (PAM) and the accuracy of cell ensembles in area 7a to code the same type of stimuli. Nine human subjects performed a detection task of PAM. They were instructed to indicate with a key-press whether they perceived a circularly moving object when five stimuli were flashed successively at the vertices of a regular pentagon. The stimuli were presented along a low contrast circular path with one of 33 speeds (150-600 degrees /s). The average psychometric curve revealed that the threshold for PAM detection was 314 degrees /s. The minimum and maximum thresholds for individual subjects were 277 degrees and 378 degrees /s, respectively. In addition, the activity of cells in area 7a that were modulated by the stimulus position in real or apparent motion was used in a multivariate linear regression analysis to recover the stimulus position over time. Real stimulus motion was decoded successfully from neural ensemble activity at all speeds. In contrast, the decoding of PAM was poor at low stimulus speeds but improved markedly above 300 degrees /s: in fact, this was very close to the threshold above for human subjects to perceive continuous stimulus motion in this condition. These results suggest that the posterior parietal cortex is part of a high-level system that is directly involved in the dynamic representation of complex motion.
The somatomotor and sympathetic nervous systems are intimately linked. One example is the influence of peripheral sympathetic fibers on the discharge characteristics of muscle spindles. Since muscle spindles play important roles in various motor behaviors, including rhythmic movements, the working hypothesis of this research was that changes in sympathetic outflow to muscle spindles can change rhythmic movement patterns. We tested this hypothesis in the masticatory system of rabbits. Rhythmic jaw movements and EMG activity induced by long-lasting electrical cortical stimulation were powerfully modulated by electrical stimulation of the peripheral stump of the cervical sympathetic nerve (CSN). This modulation manifested itself as a consistent and marked reduction in the excursion of the mandibular movements (often preceded by a transient modest enhancement), which could be attributed mainly to corresponding changes in masseter muscle activity. These changes outlasted the duration of CSN stimulation. In some of the cortically evoked rhythmic jaw movements (CRJMs) changes in masticatory frequency were also observed. When the jaw-closing muscles were subjected to repetitive ramp-and-hold force pulses, the CRMJs changed characteristics. Masseter EMG activity was strongly enhanced and digastric EMG slightly decreased. This change was considerably depressed during CSN stimulation. These effects of CSN stimulation are similar in sign and time course to the depression exerted by sympathetic activity on the jaw-closing muscle spindle discharge. It is suggested that the change in proprioceptive information induced by an increase in sympathetic outflow (a) has important implications even under normal conditions for the control of motor function in states of high sympathetic activity, and (b) is one of the mechanisms responsible for motor impairment under certain pathological conditions such as chronic musculoskeletal head-neck disorders, associated with stress conditions.
In the present study we used computer-controlled mechanical displacement of paired whiskers in normal and C-fiber-depleted rats to quantitatively examine the role of C-fibers in the receptive field properties of barrel cortical cells. In rodents when adjacent whiskers are stimulated prior to the main whisker responses to the main whisker are inhibited, the degree of inhibition being a function of the inter-deflection intervals. The adjacent-whisker-evoked inhibition of barrel cells in normal and C-fiber-depleted rats using neonatal capsaicin treatment were examined by stimulation of the adjacent whisker zero, 10, 20, 30, 50 and 100 ms prior to the main whisker deflection. C-fiber depletion reduced the suppressive effect of paired whisker stimulation at all of the tested inter-stimulus intervals without changing response latencies. The main effect was observed during the later phase of response (about 13-17 ms from stimulus onset) and not during the initial responses (7-12 ms). These results suggest that the inhibitory receptive field properties of low-threshold mechanical somatosensory cells are influenced by C-fibers.
A number of recent studies have indicated that whole-body coordinated reactions are employed to regain balance following disturbances during walking. However, it is not always the case that all body segments are available to contribute to balance corrective strategies. We hypothesize that balance corrective strategies will adapt to task and environment constraints such that greater responses are generated in the available body segments when other body segments are unable to participate. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that voluntarily restricting the arms during walking would result in an increase in the amplitude of the electromyographic responses evoked in leg muscles when subjects are perturbed at the torso during walking. To do so, subjects were asked to walk on a motorized treadmill while either crossing their arms across their front or back, or with their arms swinging normally. Periodic perturbations, forwards and backwards, were applied at the pelvis randomly throughout the step cycle. This resulted in short latency responses in leg muscles. The amplitude of these responses was increased when subjects walked with their arms crossed, as compared with normal, unrestricted walking. Facilitation of these evoked responses was restricted to the early part of the stance phase, particularly at heel-strike. The pattern of muscle activation and the latency of the responses were not affected by restricting the arms. We suggest that this finding indicates that whole-body balance corrective strategies employed during walking are selected based upon the demands of the general features of the task, but that components of the strategy are scaled according to the specific context-dependent needs of the task.
The motor behavior and levels of dopamine and its metabolites in the striatum were studied in rats that received a unilateral injection of 6-OHDA and underwent grafting of rat-derived primary fibroblasts that had been genetically modified to express lacZ and human glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Rotation behavior tests were performed each week and striatal levels of DA and its metabolites were measured every 4 weeks after grafting of fibroblasts that expressed lacZ, with or without additional transfection of the GDNF transgene. Rats grafted with GDNF-producing fibroblasts showed a significant improvement in motor behavior as determined by the rotation test, with a less pronounced reduction in the levels of dopamine and its metabolites in the striatum as compared with those in the control animals or brain parts. In addition, there was a lower decrease in the number of TH immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra ipsilateral to the lesion in rats with GDNF-producing fibroblasts than in rats with lacZ-expressing fibroblasts. These results support the notion that intracerebral grafting of fibroblasts that express GDNF is a potentially useful therapeutic strategy for treating Parkinson's disease.
Many factors are involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and inflammatory-immunologic activation seems to play a major role. One strategy for treatment of AD has been to use acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors to increase the levels of acetylcholine and enhancing cholinergic activity in the affected regions of the brain. Cholinergic compounds modulate the immune system, therefore secretion, by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), of cytokines was investigated in age-matched controls and in AD patients. Cytokines released by PBMC from AD patients enrolled as pre-treatment patients (T0) and as post-treatment with AchEI (T1), were detected by ELISA assay. The result showed an increase in oncostatin M, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion in AD patients compared to healthy controls, and a decrease of cytokine levels in each AD patients treated for 1 month with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AchEI). In conclusion, the results of this study show that the complex pathology in AD may be reflected in a pattern of altered cytokine secretion from PBMC.
Electroacupuncture stimulation (EAS) is known to change brain neurotransmitter release. In the present study, we investigated the effects of synchronous or asynchronous electroacupuncture stimulation with low versus high frequency on spinal opioid release and tail flick nociception. Rats were given &quot;2/100 Hz&quot; EAS, which stands for an asynchronous mode of stimulation, in which 2 Hz was alternated with 100 Hz, each lasting for 3 s, or &quot;(2 + 100) Hz&quot; EAS, a mode of stimulation in which 2 Hz stimulation was applied to the left hind leg simultaneously with 100 Hz stimulation on the right hind leg. The rats were subjected to the same total number of electrical stimulations in these two modes. Results were as follows: (1) 2/100 Hz EAS was 40% more potent than (2 + 100) Hz EAS (P &lt; 0.01) in producing an anti-nociceptive effect. (2) Intrathecal (i.t.) injection of the mu-opioid receptor antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr amide (CTOP) blocked in a dose-dependent manner the anti-nociceptive effect produced by 2/100 Hz EAS but not by (2 + 100) Hz EAS, whereas i.t. injection of the kappa-opioid receptor antagonist norbinaltorphimide (Nor-BNI) blocked the anti-nociceptive effect induced by both modes of EAS. (3) I.t. injection of endomorphin-2 antiserum blocked in a dose-dependent manner the anti-nociceptive effect of 2/100 Hz EAS but not that of (2 + 100) Hz EAS, whereas i.t. injection of dynorphin antiserum blocked the anti-nociceptive effect induced by both modes of stimulation. (4) 2/100 Hz EAS increased the release of both endomorphin-2 and dynorphin, whereas (2 + 100) Hz EAS increased the release of dynorphin but not of endmorphin-2. We conclude that the more potent anti-nociceptive effect induced by 2/100 Hz EAS, as compared with that of (2 + 100) Hz EAS, was due, at least partly, to the synergistic interaction of endomorphin-2 and dynorphin in rat spinal cord.

Increasingly, researchers are recognizing the limitations of two-dimensional (2-D), monolayer cell culture and embracing more realistic three-dimensional (3-D) cell culture systems. Currently, 3-D culture techniques are being employed by neuroscientists to grow cells from the central nervous system. From this work, it has become clear that 3-D cell culture offers a more realistic milieu in which the functional properties of neurons can be observed and manipulated in a manner that is not possible in vivo. The implications of this technical renaissance in cell culture for both clinical and basic neuroscience are significant and far-reaching.
It is now well accepted that the sympathetic nervous system responds to specific afferent stimuli in a unique non-uniform fashion. The means by which the brain transforms the signals from a single type of receptor into an appropriate differential sympathetic output is discussed in this brief review. The detection of and response to venous filling are used for illustration. An expansion of blood volume has been shown in a number of species to increase heart rate reflexly via sympathetic nerves and this effect is primarily an action of volume receptors at the venous-atrial junctions of the heart. Stimulation of these volume receptors also leads to an inhibition of renal sympathetic nerve activity. Thus the reflex response to an increase in plasma volume consists of a distinctive unique pattern of sympathetic activity to maintain fluid balance. This reflex is dependent on neurones in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Neurones in the PVN show early gene activation on stimulation of atrial receptors, and a similar differential pattern of cardiac sympathetic excitation and renal inhibition can be evoked by activating PVN neurones. Cardiac atrial afferents selectively cause a PVN GABA neurone-induced inhibition within the PVN of PVN spinally projecting vasopressin-containing neurones that project to renal sympathetic neurones. A lesion of these spinally projecting neurones abolishes the reflex. With regard to the cardiac sympathetics, there is a population of PVN spinally projecting neurones that selectively increase heart rate by the release of oxytocin, a peptide pathway that has no action on renal sympathetic outflow. In heart failure the atrial reflex becomes blunted, and evidence is emerging that there is a downregulation of nitric oxide synthesis and reduced GABA activity in the PVN. How this might give rise to increased sympathetic activity associated with heart failure is briefly discussed.
Histamine is a key neurotransmitter that alters central nervous system functions in both behavioural and homeostatic contexts through its actions on the histamine (H) subreceptors H(1), H(2) and H(3) G-protein-coupled receptors. H(3)receptors have a diverse central nervous system distribution where they function as both homo- and hetero-receptors to modulate the synthesis and/or release of several neurotransmitters. H(3) receptors are constitutively active, which implies that antagonists of H(3) receptors may also function as inverse agonists to alter the basal state of the receptor and uncouple constitutive receptor-G-protein interactions. Reference H(3) antagonists such as thioperamide and ciproxifan, administered either centrally or systemically, have been shown to cause changes in food consumption and/or body weight in proof-of-concept studies. More recently, several non-imidazole-based H(3) antagonists/inverse agonists have also been described with efficacy in at least one animal model of human obesity. Considerable preclinical effort remains necessary before such compounds achieve therapeutic success or failure. Moreover, ongoing research in a number of laboratories has shed new insights into the effects of H(3) ligands in the control of feeding, appetite and body weight, which offer different results and conclusions. The goal of this review is to appraise these findings and forecast whether any H(3) antagonists/inverse agonists will provide clinical utility to treat human obesity.
The public opinion pays much attention to the Nobel Prize as an indicator for the scientific efficiency of a university or a country in connection with foundation of so-called elite universities. The former holder of the psychiatric chair in Jena and discoverer of the electroencephalogram Hans Berger (1873 - 1941) came into discussion as candidate for the Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine. The current medical-historical publications maintain the view that Berger should have received the Nobel Prize in 1936 as well as in 1949. This was prevented in 1936 by an enactment from Hitler, which forbid him to accept the prize, and later in 1949 by Berger's own death. According to documents of the Nobel archives these statements can be disproved. Berger was only nominated three times out of 65 nominations in 1940. Because of his death the other two recommendations in 1942 and 1947 were never evaluated.
This article begins with an orientational survey of the historical evolution of analytical philosophy of mind (APM) which was formulated in the last 40 years as &quot;philosophy of mind&quot; in the Anglo-Saxon scientific-cultural world and which, in the meantime, dominates to a great extent contemporary German philosophy. Then there follows a discussion of the currently most popular mind-brain theories in philosophy. In comparison to the more marginal dualist variants (interactionism, epiphenomenalism, parallelism), it is mainly the monistic positions of non-reductive, reductive and eliminative materialism and the materialist functionalism underlying it, which determines analytical philosophy of mind and its influence on psychopathology and psychiatry. Under the additional influence of modern brain research methods, particularly neuroimaging, it is progressively developing into a subdiscipline of neuroscience, a complex and increasingly more firmly established scientific discipline which comprises the totality of all sciences dealing with neuronal functions, including the close epistemic associations of APM and neuroimaging. This is the effective epistemic central idea determining the theory of the neuronal network which, in the form of a connectionist psychopathology, is intended to make possible a fundamentally new access to the comprehension of psychiatric forms of illness. In this respect it is evident, however, that the perception of the naturality of the mind as the fundamental thesis of APM and thus of connectionism cannot be followed through, since, up to now, neither from the phenomenality of the mind (especially the quality of senses, &quot;Qualia&quot;) nor from intentionality of the mind (i. e. the ability to act intentionally, free from the constraint of the causality of nature and thus in self-responsible fashion) has proved it possible to reconstruct a generally accepted naturalist theory. Furthermore, it has not been possible to reformulate it in an exclusively physical, i. e. non-phenomenological concept and terminology which is, above all, free from the intentionality idiom. The consequence of this, however, is that a connectionist psychopathology can only represent a subpersonal, i. e., subhuman area and that in order to establish a personal psychopathology, naturalistic unreduced theories of experience-qualities and intentional acts of completeness are absolutely essential. The neuroscientific-connectionist paradigm of psychopathology must therefore - at least for the present - be supplement by the paradigm of a non-natural (e. g. phenomenological-hermeneutic) psychopathology. This result can only encourage the relinquishing of epistemically one-sided materialist and other monistic mind-brain theories of APM in favour of an epistemically open pragmatic interactionist dualism as the scientific position which best represents the current state of knowledge.

The present study was undertaken to investigate the mechanism of expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in human primary astrocytes. Among IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma, only IL-1beta alone was capable of inducing iNOS. Similarly, among different cytokine combinations, the combinations involving only IL-1beta as a partner were capable of inducing iNOS. The combination of IL-1beta and IFN-gamma (IL-IF) induced the expression of iNOS at the highest level. All three cytokines alone induced the activation of AP-1 while IL-1beta and TNF-alpha but not IFN-gamma induced the activation of NF-kappaB. However, among the three cytokines, only IL-1beta was capable of inducing the activation of CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteinbeta (C/EBPbeta), suggesting an essential role of C/EBPbeta in the expression of iNOS in astrocytes. Although IL-1beta and IFN-gamma alone induced the activation of AP-1, the combination of these two cytokines (IL-IF) markedly inhibited the activation of AP-1. Consistently, JNK-I, a specific inhibitor of JNK, inhibited IL-1beta-mediated activation of AP-1 and expression of iNOS. On the other hand, JNK-I had no effect on (IL-IF)-induced expression of iNOS, suggesting that the activation of AP-1 is involved only during the low level of iNOS induction by IL-1beta but not during the high level of induction by IL-IF. In contrast, the activation of gamma-activation site (GAS) was involved only during the high level of induction by IL-IF but not during the low level of induction by IL-1beta. However, the activation of NF-kappaB and C/EBPbeta was involved in the induction of iNOS by IL-1beta as well as by IL-IF.

Methamphetamine (MA) and cocaine induce behavioral effects primarily through modulation of dopamine neurotransmission. However, the genetic regulation of sensitivity to these two drugs may be similar or disparate. Using selective breeding, lines of mice were produced with extreme sensitivity (high MA activation; HMACT) and insensitivity (low MA activation; LMACT) to the locomotor stimulant effects of acute MA treatment. Studies were performed to determine whether there is pleiotropic genetic influence on sensitivity to the locomotor stimulant effect of MA and to other MA- and cocaine-related behaviors. The HMACT line exhibited more locomotor stimulation in response to several doses of MA and cocaine, compared to the LMACT line. Both lines exhibited locomotor sensitization to 2 mg/kg of MA and 10 mg/kg of cocaine; the magnitude of sensitization was similar in the two lines. However, the lines differed in the magnitude of sensitization to a 1 mg/kg dose of MA, a dose that did not produce a ceiling effect that may confound interpretation of studies using higher doses. The LMACT line consumed more MA and cocaine in a two-bottle choice drinking paradigm; the lines consumed similar amounts of saccharin and quinine, although the HMACT line exhibited slightly elevated preference for a low concentration of saccharin. These results suggest that some genes that influence sensitivity to the acute locomotor stimulant effect of MA have a pleiotropic influence on the magnitude of behavioral sensitization to MA and sensitivity to the stimulant effects of cocaine. Further, extreme sensitivity to MA may protect against MA and cocaine self-administration.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is translocated to various cellular regions in a subtype and stimulation-dependent manner. Thereafter, the activated PKC phosphorylates its substrate and causes subsequent cellular responses (PKC targeting). The 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 (PDK1) has an essential role in the maturation of PKC by phosphorylating a threonine residue in the PKC activation loop. To elucidate the role of PDK1 in PKC targeting, we expressed mutant gamma- or delta-PKC fused with GFP (gamma- or delta-PKC-ALM (activation loop mutant)-GFP), whose threonine residue in the activation loop was replaced with alanine, and compared their P2Y receptor-mediated translocation with wild-type PKC-GFP in CHO cells. ATP (1 mm) induced the transient translocation of wild-type gamma- or delta-PKC-GFP from cytoplasm to plasma membrane and following retranslocation from membrane to the cytoplasm. gamma- or delta-PKC-ALM-GFP was also translocated to plasma membrane, which was, however, retained at the membrane for a longer period than wild type. Similar results were observed in kinase-negative PKC mutants, indicating that the phosphorylation by PDK1 affects the retranslocation step of PKC by regulating the kinase activity. The simultaneous monitoring of [Ca2+]i and diacylglycerol (DG) levels with the translocation of PKC demonstrated that PKC-ALM induced the prolonged accumulation of DG, resulting in the prolonged retention of PKC-ALM at the plasma membrane. It is possible that PKC-ALM with decreased kinase activity could delay the conversion of DG at the plasma membrane. Our present study suggests that the activation loop phosphorylation plays an important role in receptor-mediated PKC targeting.
Trace amines are endogenous compounds structurally related to classical biogenic amines that have been studied for decades, triggered by their link to psychiatric conditions of high epidemiological and economical relevance. The understanding of their pharmacology on the molecular level was hampered until the recent discovery of trace-amine-specific receptors. We completed the identification of all members of this novel GPCR family in human, chimpanzee, rat, and mouse and observed remarkable interspecies differences, even between human and chimpanzee. The analysis of the chromosomal localizations, phylogenetic relationships, and ligand pocket vectors reveals three distinct receptor subfamilies. As most of these receptors do not respond to trace amines, each subfamily will presumably have a distinct pharmacological profile, which remains to be identified. We propose a uniform nomenclature describing this novel GPCR family in all mammalian species as trace-amine-associated receptors (TAARs), which resolves the ambiguities and contradictions of the previous naming.
Oligodendrocytes (OL), cells that myelinate axons in the CNS, differentiate from early to late oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPC) to become mature OL. Unlike the case in the rodent brain, myelin formation starts prenatally in the human brain, but the sequence of OL development and the onset of myelination are not well understood. We studied the human fetal forebrain at midgestation (17-23 gestational weeks, g.w.) using OL lineage-specific antibodies and mRNA probes. Early OPC were present in a gradient from the subventricular zone to the cortical plate. Their close apposition to radial glia fibers suggests a possible role of these fibers in OPC migration. Late OPC reached peak density in the subplate layer, whereas multipolar cells with the morphology of mature OL were restricted to the emerging white matter. At 20 g.w., myelinated axons were observed in the diencephalon, but not in the telencephalon, consistent with caudal-to-rostral progression of myelination. Interestingly, in organotypic slice cultures of the same gestational ages, the subventricular zone contained a considerably greater number of the mature OL cells, suggesting the presence of inhibitory signals in vivo. Overall, in addition to considerable similarities with rodents, important differences in temporal and spatial distribution and regulatory signals for OL differentiation exist in the human brain.
Proliferation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) is important for initial myelination as well as for remyelination in demyelinating diseases. Previously, we showed that numerous OPCs and activated microglia, are present around multiple sclerosis lesions, and that they accumulate Golli proteins. Golli proteins, present in both neuronal and immune cells, might have a role in the immune processes, as well as in development of neurons and oligodendrocytes. We hypothesize that Golli proteins, generated by microglia in response to inflammation, promote proliferation of OPCs. To test this hypothesis, we induced inflammation in neonatal mouse brain slice culture with bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Treated slices showed an increase in the number of OPCs. Several results support the notion that this effect of LPS is conveyed through activation of microglia and upregulation of Golli proteins. First, LPS-treated brain slices have increased expression of Golli proteins observed by immunofluorescence and Western blot analysis. Second, Golli proteins were demonstrated only in the conditioned medium from LPS-treated microglial cell cultures (LPS-MCM), and were absent in either the conditioned media from LPS-treated astrocytes or the control media. Third, proliferation of purified OPCs was promoted with LPS-MCM or Golli proteins, but not with LPS alone. Taken together, these results demonstrate that microglia and/or microglia secreted factors, are necessary for the LPS-promoted proliferation of OPCs and suggest possible involvement of Golli proteins as one of mediators in this process.
We report the case of a female liver transplant recipient who developed a recurrence of severe migraine with aura while on tacrolimus therapy with subsequent remission of headache following discontinuation of tacrolimus and substitution with sirolimus therapy. Headaches in transplant-recipient patients have become a new area of interest for headache specialists. In particular, immunosuppressant medications such as cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and OKT3 have been associated with development of headache syndromes in the transplant patient, exacerbation of previous headaches syndromes, and development of encephalopathies including headache as a clinical feature.
Sensory cortices have multiple and distinct functional maps that systematically represent environmental information. Development of these maps is precisely controlled by a number of intrinsic and extrinsic factors. Cortical cholinergic regulation is a crucial factor for normal cortical morphogenesis. In this study, we test the role of the M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor, the main muscarinic receptor subtype in the neocortex in the development of tonotopic maps in the auditory cortex. Mice lacking M1 receptors have normal hearing sensitivity but exhibit disrupted tonotopic organization and frequency tuning in the auditory cortex. In contrast, tonotopic organization and frequency tuning remain normal in the auditory midbrain. In addition, cortical layer IV neurons of M1 mutants exhibit significantly shorter or sparser dendrites compared to neurons of wildtype mice. In summary, our data suggest that the M1 receptor appears to be critical for the refinement or normal maturation of cortical tonotopy that is guided by thalamocortical inputs during early development.
The African cichlid fish, Astatotilapia burtoni, has a complex social system with a sophisticated social hierarchy that offers unique opportunities to understand how social rank and its physiological substrates relate to behavioral strategies. In A. burtoni, a small fraction of the males are dominant (T, territorial), as distinguished by being large, brightly colored, reproductively active, and aggressively defending territories. In contrast, the majority of males are non-dominant (NT, non-territorial), being smaller, drably colored, sexually immature, and typically schooling with females. The social system is regulated by aggressive interactions between males and behavioral responses to aggression can be direct or displaced with respect to the animal that acts. To determine whether direct and displaced behaviors are differentially exhibited by T and NT males, individuals were shown a video presentation of a dominant male displaying aggressively. Analysis of aggressive acts toward the video display and displaced activity toward a tank mate revealed that T males exhibited more direct behavior (toward the video display), while NT males engaged in more displaced behavior (toward tank mates). Because similar experiments with primates suggest that shifts in behavioral strategies are linked to changes in the stress response (as measured by circulating cortisol levels), we measured cortisol levels of T and NT males following exposure to the aggressive stimulus. Although in some animals subordinate males are reported to have higher cortisol levels, here we show that in A. burtoni the endocrine response to specific situations can vary considerably even among animals of the same status. Interestingly, NT males with intermediate cortisol levels showed more directed behavior while NT males with both high and low cortisol levels showed more displaced. This suggests an optimal physiological stress response in NT males that predisposes them to challenge aggressors perhaps making it more likely for them to ascend in status.
Certain cognitive processes, including spatial ability, decline with normal aging. Spatial ability is also a cognitive domain with robust sex differences typically favoring males. However, tests of spatial ability do not seem to measure a homogeneous class of processes. For many, mentally matching rotated three-dimensional images is the gold standard for measuring spatial cognition in humans, while the Morris water task (MWT) is a preferred method in the domain of nonhuman animal research. The MWT is sensitive to hippocampal damage, a structure critical for normal learning and memory and often implicated in age-related cognitive decline. A computerized (virtual) version of the MWT (VMWT) appears to require and engage human hippocampal circuitry, and has proven useful in studying sex differences and testing spatial learning theories. In Experiment 1, we tested participants (20-90 years of age) in the VMWT and compared their performance to that on the Vandenberg Mental Rotation Test. We report an age-related deficit in performance on both tasks. In Experiment 2, we tested young (age 20-39) and elderly (age &gt;60) participants in the VMWT and correlated their performance to the circulating levels of testosterone and cortisol. Our findings indicate that the persistence of male spatial advantage may be related to circulating testosterone, but not cortisol levels, and independent of generalized age-related cognitive decline.
Changes in emotional behavior occur across the reproductive cycle in female rodents, with reduced anxiety found during the postpartum period, but relatively little is known about factors contributing to this decreased anxiety. Using increased duration of time spent in the open arms of an elevated plus-maze as an indicator of reduced anxiety, it was found in a series of experiments that (1) anxiety is significantly reduced in Long-Evans females during the first week of lactation, but not thereafter, (2) relatively recent contact with pups before testing (within 4 h) is necessary for their reduced anxiety, (3) dams that receive only distal sensory cues from pups for the 4 h prior to testing do not show reduced anxiety, (4) the absence of nipples, and therefore a lack of suckling by pups, has no effect on dams' anxiety, (5) cesarean delivery of pups 2 days prior to expected parturition did not alter later anxiety in dams, (6) hypophysectomy during mid-pregnancy or ovariectomy within 24 h after parturition also did not prevent reduced anxiety in dams, and (7) differences in anxiety between lactating and virgin females are greatest 4-8 min after being placed in the plus-maze. Therefore, exposure to their own peripheral hormones through mid-pregnancy is sufficient to prime female rats to show reduced anxiety, but only if they later have recent physical interaction with pups. Furthermore, because suckling and the peripheral hormones released during suckling appear to be unnecessary, decreased anxiety in maternal rats may instead be regulated by the transient intracerebral release of neuropeptides or neurotransmitters while dams receive other types of tactile inputs from their infants.
Modernising Medical Careers will be introduced from August 2005 and will significantly change the system of education and training for doctors in the UK. The impact of these changes on NHS service delivery needs to be fully understood and is discussed in this article.
Simulated driving ability was assessed following administration of alcohol, at an estimated blood level of 0.05%, and combined prolonged wakefulness, while participants were undertaking divided attention tasks over a hands-free mobile phone. Divided attention tasks were structured to provide a sustained cognitive workload to the subjects. Twenty three young healthy individuals drove 10 km simulated driving under four conditions in a counterbalanced, within-subject design: alcohol, alcohol and 19 h wakefulness, alcohol and 24 h wakefulness, and while sober. Study measures were: simulated driving, self-reported sleepiness, critical flicker fusion threshold (CFFT), Stroop word-colour interference test (Stroop) and simple visual reaction times (SVRT). As expected, subjective sleepiness was highly correlated with both sleep restriction and alcohol consumption. The combination of alcohol and 24 h sustained wakefulness produced the highest driving impairment, significantly beyond the alcohol effect itself. Concurrent alcohol and 19 h wakefulness significantly affected only driving time-to-collision. No significant changes of study measures occurred following alcohol intake in unrestricted sleep conditions. CFFT, SVRT and Stroop results showed a similar trend in the four study conditions. Thus apparently 'safe' blood alcohol levels in combination with prolonged wakefulness resulted in significant driving impairments. In normal sleep conditions alcohol effects on driving were partially counteracted by the concomitant hands-free phone based psychometric tasks.

Information processing in the nervous system is based on parallel computation, adaptation and learning. These features cannot be easily implemented on conventional silicon devices. In order to obtain a better insight of how neurons process information, we have explored the possibility of using biological neurons as parallel and adaptable computing elements for image processing and pattern recognition. Commercially available multielectrode arrays (MEAs) were used to record and stimulate the electrical activity from neuronal cultures. By mapping digital images, i.e., arrays of pixels, into the stimulation of neuronal cultures, a low and bandpass filtering of images could be quickly and easily obtained. Responses to specific spatial patterns of stimulation were potentiated by an appropriate training (tetanization). Learning allowed pattern recognition and extraction of spatial features in processed images. Therefore, neurocomputers, (i.e., hybrid devices containing man-made elements and natural neurons) seem feasible and may become a new generation of computing devices, to be developed by a synergy of Neuroscience and Material Science.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical efficacy of platelet-rich plasma, autologous bone, and autologous fibrinogen as cryoprecipitate in maxillary sinus augmentation procedures. Six patients (age range, 29-58) undergoing sinus augmentation procedures were included in the study. Platelet-rich plasma and autologous fibrinogen in the form of cryoprecipitate were prepared from 300 ml of blood. Sinus augmentation was performed with intraoral bone grafts, platelet-rich plasma, and cryoprecipitate. The amount of regeneration was then evaluated quantitatively and qualitatively with Spiral TC (Dentascan) pre- and postoperatively 6 months after the intervention. Orthopantomography was performed preoperatively 3 and 6 months after the surgery. A mean platelet concentration of 320.5% was obtained from the baseline platelet blood count. The tomographic analysis indicated an average bone augmentation of 6.27 mm (range, 3.5-10 mm). Radiologically, a satisfactory morphological recovery of the maxillary jaw was obtained. No graft resorption was noticed. Orthopantomography indicated mineralization as early as 3 months postoperatively in the entire study population. This technique appeared to be safe and effective. Our preliminary results encourage the clinical use of platelet-rich plasma associated with cryoprecipitate.
Forty-five approximately 50% in-bred 14-day-old White Leghorn female chickens (Gallus domesticus) originating from 11 hens were distributed into 5 treatment groups containing one sister in each treatment group. Phase I involved oral administration of an antigen, Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA), in combination with various adjuvant preparations, either Cholera Toxin B-subunit (CTB) and/or RhinoVax (RV). A positive control group received BSA emulsified in Freund's Incomplete Adjuvant (FIA) by subcutaneous injection. All chickens responded with immunospecific IgA, IgM and IgG antibodies in their circulation. Classical parenteral immunisation with FIA was generally the most potent mode of antigen administration. The highest immunospecific IgG concentrations recorded in the orally-immunised chickens were in the group immunised with 20% RV as the adjuvant. The concentration in this group was approximately 5 times lower than that recorded in the FIA group. For practical egg yolk polyclonal antibody production purposes, the oral regime using 20% RV as adjuvant seems an attractive alternative to the more invasive technique of injecting the antigen in FIA emulsions. In Phase 2 all chickens were subjected to traditional subcutaneous immunisation with a new antigen, human IgG emulsified in FIA. The two groups of chickens that had received CTB orally during Phase I responded with significantly higher immunospecific antibody concentrations than did the other chickens, indicating that oral administration of CTB prior to traditional parenteral immunisation may have a priming effect on the humoral immune system. The immunospecific antibody response varied between the 11 families of chickens. There was no correlation between familial responsiveness to oral and subcutaneous immunisations. Families that were high responders to oral immunisation were not high responders to parenteral immunisation and vice versa.
This study was designed to evaluate the indications for ventriculoperitoneal shunting in cases of children with tubercular meningitis, presenting with hydrocephalus. Thirty seven children (less than 18 years of age) of tubercular meningitis with hydrocephalus (TBMH) who underwent ventriculoperitoneal shunting over a three year period (1999 to 2001) were included in the study. Sixteen (43%) children were Palur stage II, 15 (40%) stage III, and 6 (16%) stage IV. Fifteen (40%) children had received antitubercular therapy for less than 4 months and 17 (46%) received therapy for more than 4 months prior to presentation. Five (14%) children had not previously received antitubercular therapy. Shunt related complications occurred in 11 (30%) children and 3 children had undergone revision of the shunt multiple times. Good outcome was seen in 16 (43%) children. Thirteen (35%) had moderate disability and 6 (16%) had severe disability at 3 months of follow up. 62% (n =10) children in grade II had a good outcome compared to 40% (n = 6) in grade III. All six children in grade IV had a poor outcome. 2 children, both having multiple infarcts, died and the remaining 4 were left with severe disability. We recommend shunt placement in all children of grade II and III TBMH as this policy has yielded the best results. For grade IV children external ventricular drainage, followed by shunting if improvement occurs remains the most cost-effective procedure.
Components of the human immunoglobulin A1 (IgA1) hinge governing sensitivity to cleavage by bacterial IgA1 proteases were investigated. Recombinant antibodies with distinct hinge mutations were constructed from a hybrid comprised of human IgA2 bearing half of the human IgA1 hinge region. This hybrid antibody and all the mutant antibodies derived from it were resistant to cleavage by the IgA1 proteases from Streptococcus oralis and Streptococcus mitis biovar 1 strains but were cleaved to various degrees by those of Streptococcus pneumoniae, some Streptococcus sanguis strains, and the type 1 and 2 IgA1 proteases of Haemophilus influenzae, Neisseria meningitidis, and Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Remarkably, those proteases that cleave a Pro-Ser peptide bond in the wild-type IgA1 hinge were able to cleave mutant antibodies lacking a Pro-Ser peptide bond in the hinge, and those that cleave a Pro-Thr peptide bond in the wild-type IgA1 hinge were able to cleave mutant antibodies devoid of a Pro-Thr peptide bond in the hinge. Thus, the enzymes can cleave alternatives to their preferred postproline peptide bond when such a bond is unavailable. Peptide sequence analysis of a representative antibody digestion product confirmed this conclusion. The presence of a cleavable peptide bond near the CH2 end of the hinge appeared to result in greater cleavage than if the scissile bond was at the CH1 end of the hinge. Proline-to-serine substitution at residue 230 in a hinge containing potentially cleavable Pro-Ser and Pro-Thr peptide bonds increased the resistance of the antibody to cleavage by many IgA1 proteases.
Cognitive tests of speech understanding were administered (presented as text, or in auditory or audiovisual modality) and perceived effort was rated. This was done in four background conditions: in silence, and in three types of noise (S/N=+10 dB) varying in temporal structure and meaningfulness. Four groups of 12 subjects each (young/elderly with normal hearing and young/elderly with hearing impairment) participated. The presence of noise had a negative effect on accuracy and speed of performance in the speech processing tasks, and resulted in higher scores of perceived effort, even when the stimuli were presented as text. Differences in performance between noise conditions existed. In the subjective scores, the noise with temporal variations, but without meaningful content, was the most disruptive of the three noise conditions. In the objective scores the hearing-impaired subjects showed poorer results in noise with temporal variations. The elderly subjects were more distracted by noise with temporal variations, and especially by noise with meaningful content. In noise, all subjects, particularly those with impaired hearing, were more dependent upon visual cues than in the quiet condition.
To test the hypothesis that sudden unexplained death (SUD) in some epileptic patients is related to geomagnetic activity we exposed rats in which limbic epilepsy had been induced to experimentally produced magnetic fields designed to simulate sudden storm commencements (SSCs). Prior studies with rats had shown that sudden death in groups of rats in which epilepsy had been induced months earlier was associated with the occurrence of SSCs and increased geomagnetic activity during the previous night. Schnabel et al. [(2000) Neurology 54:903-908] found no relationship between SUD in human patients and geomagnetic activity. A total of 96 rats were exposed to either 500, 50, 10-40 nT or sham (less than 10 nT) magnetic fields for 6 min every hour between midnight and 0800 hours (local time) for three successive nights. The shape of the complex, amplitude-modulated magnetic fields simulated the shape and structure of an average SSC. The rats were then seized with lithium and pilocarpine and the mortality was monitored. Whereas 10% of the rats that had been exposed to the sham field died within 24 h, 60% of the rats that had been exposed to the experimental magnetic fields simulating natural geomagnetic activity died (P&lt;.001) during this period. These results suggest that correlational analyses between SUD in epileptic patients and increased geomagnetic activity can be simulated experimentally in epileptic rats and that potential mechanisms might be testable directly.

The purpose of this study was to analyze the possible morphological recovery of the granule cells in the olfactory bulb as a consequence of oxidative stress after an acute ozone exposure. Rats were divided in two groups: Control (air exposed) and experimental group, exposed 4 h, to 1 ppm ozone and divided into 4 subgroups, which were sacrificed at 2 and 24 h, 10 and 15 days, respectively. Olfactory bulbs were processed with the rapid Golgi method and for transmission electron microscopy. The granule cells of the olfactory bulb disclosed less dendritic spine density at 2, 24 h, and 10 days after the exposure compared with controls. At 15 days, the number of spines increased to values similar to those found in controls. The granule cells ultrastructure demonstrated an increment in lipofucsin granules, as well as swollen organelles, changes that decreased overtime. This change decline might be related to a partial recovery of the associative granule cells function.

When trying to detect a tonal signal in a continuous broadband noise, listeners attend selectively to both the frequency and the duration of the expected signal. However, it is not known whether they monitor separate or combined representations of these two attributes. To investigate this question, a probe-signal method was used to measure the detectability of signals of expected and unexpected durations at two expected frequencies. The four listeners expected only one of two signals to be presented at random: a brief tone at one frequency or a long tone at another frequency. For each signal frequency, the detectability of the signals of unexpected duration decreased to near chance as the difference between the expected and unexpected duration, at that frequency, increased. The frequency specificity of this duration tuning indicates that both the frequency and the duration of an expected stimulus are represented in a single template.
Assessment of the neural correlates of auditory scene analysis, using an index of sound change detection that does not require the listener to attend to the sounds [a component of event-related brain potentials called the mismatch negativity (MMN)], has previously demonstrated that segregation processes can occur without attention focused on the sounds and that within-stream contextual factors influence how sound elements are integrated and represented in auditory memory. The current study investigated the relationship between the segregation and integration processes when they were called upon to function together. The pattern of MMN results showed that the integration of sound elements within a sound stream occurred after the segregation of sounds into independent streams and, further, that the individual streams were subject to contextual effects. These results are consistent with a view of auditory processing that suggests that the auditory scene is rapidly organized into distinct streams and the integration of sequential elements to perceptual units takes place on the already formed streams. This would allow for the flexibility required to identify changing within-stream sound patterns, needed to appreciate music or comprehend speech.

Biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease have many diagnostic and therapeutic uses. They can be used to facilitate diagnosis, particularly early diagnosis and possibly presymptomatic diagnosis. In evaluating treatment aimed at modifying the course of AD, biomarkers can help to assess whether the drug is hitting a target or influencing disease mechanisms in the brain, and can help with dose-finding. In definitive clinical trails, biomarkers can be used as surrogate outcome measures. Progress has been made in investigating candidate biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma. At present, cerebrospinal fluid levels of amyloid-beta, tau and phospho-tau come closest to meeting criteria proposed for useful biomarkers for diagnosis. Other biomarkers can provide insight into processes such as inflammation and oxidative damage. Unbiased and broad-based searches for novel biomarkers using proteomics have much potential. As efforts to diagnose and treat AD move towards earlier intervention and even towards prevention, biomarkers will gain significance as tools to aid research and ultimately clinical practice.
The pathogenesis of AD is complex and not yet fully understood. A number of factors, including amyloid plaques, NFTs, and inflammatory processes, are likely to contribute to development of the disease. Acetylcholine and glutamate are intimately involved in learning and memory. Hypotheses implicating defects within both neurotransmitter systems in AI) are recognized. This knowledge coupled with ongoing discoveries about the multiple pathophysiologic pathways involved in development and progression of AD has given rise to several plausible therapeutic targets. Therapies addressing some of these targets (ie, acetylcholine, glutamate) have already shown clinical efficacy in treating AD while other targets continue to be investigated.


Dementia associated with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common types of dementia. Patients with AD often have cholinergic deficits in association with the disease. The cholinesterase inhibitors donepezil hydrochloride, galantamine hydrobromide, and rivastigmine tartrate are the current mainstays of symptomatic treatment for patients with AD. In clinical trials for all three agents, beneficial effects on standard measures of cognitive and global function have been observed in patients with mild to moderate AD. Although none of the cholinesterase inhibitors has been approved for treatment of patients in advanced stages of AD, all three agents have had beneficial cognitive effects among patients with less severe forms of the disease. The author provides information on recommended dosing for all three medications, noting that cholinesterase inhibitors must be titrated carefully. When administered with caution, galantamine, rivastigmine, and donepezil are generally well-tolerated pharmacologic treatment options. The author notes that, after patients and their caregivers understand that no change in status is considered an &quot;improvement&quot; and a desirable clinical outcome for patients with AD, if no benefits are achieved with the use of one cholinesterase inhibitor, switching to another medication in this class might be beneficial. The author further suggests that the benefits found in cholinesterase inhibitors for patients with AD might also be applicable to patients with other types of dementia such as vascular dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies as cholinergic deficits have been reported in association with these types of dementia as well.
The sensory innervation of the lacrimal gland (LG) in the cynomolgous monkey was studied using the retrograde wheat germ agglutinin/horsereadish peroxidase (WGA/HRP) tracer technique. A small solidified piece of WGA/HRP was implanted in the LG. Labelled sensory first-order neurons were found in the ipsilateral trigeminal ganglion (TG) and in the ipsilateral mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (MTN). The distribution of labelled TG neurons was restricted to ophthalmic and maxillary ganglionic parts. Sensory innervation of LG by primary afferents is not only restricted to TG; an MTN involvement has also been found. This may imply that there is a central sensory role in the production and release of tears.
We recently reported that adenine acts as a neurotrophic factor independent of adenosine or P2 receptors in cultured Purkinje cells [Watanabe S. et al. (2003) J. Neurosci. Res. 74, 754-759], suggesting the presence of specific receptors for adenine in the brain. In this study, the characterization of adenine-binding activity in the rat brain was performed to further characterize the receptor-like adenine-binding sites. Specific binding sites for [(3)H]adenine were detected in membrane fractions prepared from rat brains. The kinetics of [(3)H]adenine binding to membranes was described by the association and dissociation rate constants, 8.6 x 10(5) M(-1) min(-1) and 0.118 +/- 0.045 min(-1), respectively. A single binding site for [(3)H]adenine with a K (D) of 157.1 +/- 20.8 nM and a B (max) of 16.3 +/- 1.1 pmol/mg protein (n = 6) was demonstrated in saturation experiments. A displacement study involving various related compounds showed that the [(3)H]adenine binding was highly specific for adenine. It was also found that [(3)H]adenine-binding activity was inhibited by adenosine, although other adenosine receptor ligands were ineffective as to [(3)H]adenine binding. The brain, especially the cerebellum and spinal cord, showed the highest [(3)H]adenine-binding activity of the tissues examined. These results are consistent with the presence of a novel adenine receptor in rat brain membranes.
Extensive studies on endocytosis in the last decade have resulted in identification of several key molecules that function in clathrin- and dynamin-dependent endocytosis. Most endocytic molecules contain multiple binding motifs that mediate protein-protein or protein-lipid interactions, which must be modulated spatially and temporally during endocytosis. Regulation of these interactions is the molecular basis of regulatory mechanisms involved in endocytosis. This review first describes current models of the mechanism of dynamin-dependent fission, then introduces several mechanisms that modulate dynamin GTPase activity and dynamin-dependent vesicle formation. Such mechanisms include regulation by inositol phospholipids, especially phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P(2)], and their metabolism. It concludes by describing the regulation of dynamin 1 by its binding partner, amphiphysin 1, and regulation by cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5)-dependent phosphorylation of dynamin 1 and amphiphysin 1. These mechanisms help endocytic molecules to function properly, and cooperatively regulate dynamin-dependent endocytosis.
Both in situ and ex situ methods for quantifying area fraction coverage of protein on a surface using atomic force microscopy were developed. The in situ method used a continuous fluid flow system to observe the kinetics of adsorption in real time. The ex situ method required immersing the sample in solution, drying the sample, and imaging in an ambient environment to obtain kinetic and isothermal data. These methods were developed using the plasma protein fibrinogen in a phosphate-buffered saline solution on grade IV muscovite mica and highly ordered pyrolytic graphite (HOPG) substrates. Kinetic and quasiisothermal data were obtained and a Langmuir model was fit to the data. An adsorption rate constant of 2.2 x 10(-4) mL . microg(-1)s(-1) and a desorption rate constant of 8.3 x 10(-5) s(-1) were found on an HOPG surface. Completely irreversible adsorption was found on the mica surface with an adsorption rate constant of 2.7 x 10(-4) mL . microg(-1)s(-1). Additionally, protein conformation and assembly orientation on these surfaces were documented where fibrinogen on HOPG formed a network-like structure, whereas fibrinogen on mica was more random. Also, nano-topographical factors (ledges) were seen as sites of preferential adsorption.
Confocal microscopy (CM) is a powerful image acquisition technique that is well established in many biological applications. It provides 3-D acquisition with high spatial resolution and can acquire several different channels of complementary image information. Due to the specimen extraction and preparation process, however, the shapes of imaged objects may differ considerably from their in vivo appearance. Magnetic resonance microscopy (MRM) is an evolving variant of magnetic resonance imaging, which achieves microscopic resolutions using a high magnetic field and strong magnetic gradients. Compared to CM imaging, MRM allows for in situ imaging and is virtually free of geometrical distortions. We propose to combine the advantages of both methods by unwarping CM images using a MRM reference image. Our method incorporates a sequence of image processing operators applied to the MRM image, followed by a two-stage intensity-based registration to compute a nonrigid coordinate transformation between the CM images and the MRM image. We present results obtained using CM images from the brains of 20 honey bees and a MRM image of an in situ bee brain.
At a certain point in development, axons in the mammalian central nervous system lose their ability to regenerate after injury. Using the optic nerve model, we show that this growth failure coincides with two developmental events: the loss of Bcl-2 expression by neurons and the maturation of astrocytes. Before postnatal day 4, when astrocytes are immature, overexpression of Bcl-2 alone supported robust and rapid optic nerve regeneration over long distances, leading to innervation of brain targets by day 4 in mice. As astrocytes matured after postnatal day 4, axonal regeneration was inhibited in mice overexpressing Bcl-2. Concurrent induction of Bcl-2 and attenuation of reactive gliosis reversed the failure of CNS axonal re-elongation in postnatal mice and led to rapid axonal regeneration over long distances and reinnervation of the brain targets by a majority of severed optic nerve fibers up to 2 weeks of age. These results suggest that an early postnatal downregulation of Bcl-2 and post-traumatic reactive gliosis are two important elements of axon regenerative failure in the CNS.
Peri-infarct depolarisations (PIDs) contribute to infarct expansion in experimental focal ischaemia; furthermore, depolarisations propagate in the injured human brain. Glucose utilisation is increased under both conditions, and depletion of brain glucose carries a poor prognosis. We studied dynamics of cerebral glucose and lactate in relation to PID patterns in experimental stroke. The middle cerebral artery was occluded for 3 h in 23 cats under terminal chloralose anaesthesia. We used fluorescence imaging to detect occurrence of PIDs, and rapid-sampling online microdialysis (rsMD), coupled to a flow-injection assay, to examine changes in cerebral cortical extracellular glucose and lactate at intervals of 30 sec each. After 30 min' ischaemia, lactate had increased by 43.6+/-s.d. 45.9 micromol/L, and stabilised in that range for 3 h. In contrast, glucose fell only slightly initially (11.9+/-9.7 micromol/L), but progressively decreased to a reduction of 56.7+/-47.2 micromol/L at 3 h, with no evidence of stabilisation. There was a highly significant inverse relationship of frequency of PIDs with plasma glucose (P&lt;0.001). The results also characterise a metabolic signature for PIDs for possible application in clinical work, and emphasise potential risks in the use of insulin to control plasma glucose in patients with brain injury.
Our recent findings indicate an induced upregulation of 14-3-3gamma mRNA and protein in ischemic cortical astrocytes. Despite being brain-specific, the functional role of 14-3-3gamma in the brain still remains largely unknown. In this study, we show that among all the 14-3-3 isoforms, only the gamma isoform is inducible under ischemia in astrocytes. Furthermore, this upregulation of 14-3-3gamma may play a specific protective role in astrocytes under ischemia. Overexpression experiments and antisense treatment show that an elevation of 14-3-3gamma protein in astrocytes promotes survival, while a decrease in 14-3-3gamma enhances apoptosis in astrocytes under ischemia. Under ischemia, endogenous 14-3-3gamma binds p-Bad, thus preventing Bad from entering mitochondria to initiate apoptosis. Therefore, 14-3-3gamma is selectively induced during ischemia to protect astrocytes from apoptosis through p-Bad-related signaling.
Oestrogen is a complex hormone whose role as a neuroprotectant in experimental stroke has been published in numerous studies. However, although some clinical studies report a reduction in stroke incidence by oestrogen replacement therapy in postmenopausal women, others have found increased mortality and morbidity after stroke. Diathermy occlusion of the proximal middle cerebral artery (MCAO), one of the most reproducible rodent stroke models, has consequently been employed to investigate physiologic and supraphysiologic doses of 17beta-oestradiol on ischaemic brain damage. Lister Hooded rats were ovariectomised (OVX) and a 21-day release pellet (placebo, 0.025 or 0.25 mg 17beta-oestradiol) implanted in the neck. At 2 weeks after OVX, animals underwent MCAO and were perfusion fixed 24 hours later. Neuronal perikaryal damage was assessed from haematoxylin and eosin-stained sections and in adjacent sections, axonal pathology was assessed with amyloid precursor protein and Neurofilament 200 (NF-200) immunohistochemistry. 17beta-Oestradiol induced a dose-dependent increase in neuronal perikaryal damage, 0.025 and 0.25 mg 17beta-oestradiol increased damage by 20% (P&lt;0.05) and 27.5% (P&lt;0.01) compared with placebo. 17beta-Oestradiol did not influence axonal pathology compared with placebo. Our results suggest that 17beta-oestradiol treatment can exacerbate brain damage in experimental stroke. Thus, further investigation into the role of oestrogen and the mechanisms which mediate its effects in stroke is required.
Activation of 5-HT1A receptors results in a variety of physiological responses, depending on their localization on neurons with different phenotypes in the brain. This study investigated the localization of 5-HT1A receptor mRNA and 5-HT1A receptor immunoreactivity in cell bodies of the rat septal complex using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. In adjacent sections of the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca (MSDB), the distribution of cell bodies expressing 5-HT1A receptor mRNA was closely related to cells labeled with oligonucleotide probes to GAD (glutamic acid decarboxylase), VAChT (vesicular acetylcholine transporter) or parvalbumin mRNA. Using antiserum to GAD and antibodies to GABA, 5-HT1A receptor immunoreactivity was demonstrated in a majority of GABAergic cells in the MSDB. 5-HT1A receptor-immunoreactive GABAergic cells in the MSDB were also demonstrated to contain the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin, a marker for septohippocampal projecting GABAergic neurons. In the lateral septum, 5-HT1A receptor immunoreactivity was colocalized with the calcium-binding protein calbindin D-28k, a marker for septal GABAergic somatospiny neurons. 5-HT1A receptor immunoreactivity was also detected in a subpopulation of VAChT-containing cholinergic neurons of the MSDB. In MSDB neurons, colocalization of 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactivities was demonstrated. These observations suggest that serotonin via 5-HT1A receptors may represent an important modulator of hippocampal transmission important for cognitive and emotional functions through actions on both GABAergic and cholinergic neurons of the rat septal complex. In addition, 5-HT may exert its effects in the MSDB via cells expressing both 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors.
Epilepsy is relatively common in infants with hydrocephalus. Its mechanism is controversial; in fact, studies on etiologically heterogeneous series are not able to clarify the mechanism generating epilepsy or to suggest effective prevention and treatment strategies. Our study is aimed at assessing the onset and evolution of epilepsy, as well as concurrent cognitive development of a homogeneous series of shunted posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus owing to pre- or perinatal intra- or periventricular hemorrhage. Forty patients were enrolled in the study. Twenty-six were patients with grade II-III intraventricular hemorrhage, 16 of whom had associated ischemic lesions. In the remaining 14 patients, a grade IV intra-ventricular hemorrhage was found. Epilepsy was observed in 27 patients. Aside from 10 cases with nonsyndromic forms of epilepsy, it was possible to define at least three different age-dependent epileptic syndromes: symptomatic neonatal location-related epilepsy with transient West's syndrome in infancy in 5 patients; West's syndrome in 8 patients; and continuous spike-waves during sleep in 4 patients. Epilepsy was significantly correlated with ischemic lesions only. Early thalamic injuries frequently evolved toward continuous spike-waves during sleep, indicating that patients with thalamic injury must be monitored to detect continuous spike-waves during sleep early. Cerebellar atrophy, in addition to epilepsy and other brain injuries, accounted for disorders of cognitive development.
In this paper, different means of assessing cognitive development in children with severe impairments in both their expressive language and their motor skills are reviewed. A range of techniques are considered, including traditional cognitive tests and behavioral and physiological measures, but these techniques are generally impractical and minimally informative when it comes to assessing children with both motor and speech impairments. Electrophysiological measures show some promise for the future, but are currently inadequate for wide-ranging cognitive assessment. Development of the Carter Neurocognitive Assessment (CNA) is described. The CNA is appropriate for use in clinical and research settings and was designed to minimalize the impact of severely impaired motor skills and expressive language on performance. The CNA is intended to itemize and quantify a range of skills reflecting a cognitive level up to approximately 18 to 24 months in four areas: Social Awareness, Visual Attention, Auditory Comprehension and Vocal Communication. The use of the CNA to assess the performance and developmental growth of eight children with Holoprosencephaly (HPE), a midline developmental brain malformation, is described. The CNA is a useful tool for the assessment of children with severely compromised motor and verbal skills and has provided a more positive view of the cognitive potential of children with severe handicaps, such as the sample of children with HPE, than that presented in the past.


We examined how responses to aversive pictures affected performance and stimulus-locked event-related potentials (ERPs) recorded during a demanding cognitive task. Numeric Stroop stimuli were brief ly presented to either left or right visual hemifield (LVF and RVF, respectively) after a centrally presented aversive or neutral picture from the International Affective Picture System. Subjects indicated whether a quantity value from each Stroop stimulus matched the preceding Stroop stimulus while passively viewing the pictures. After aversive pictures, responses were more accurate for LVF Stroops and less accurate for RVF Stroops. Early-latency extrastriate attention-dependent visual ERPs were enhanced for LVF Stroops. The N2 ERP was enhanced for LVF Stroops over the right frontal and parietal scalp sites. Slow potentials (300-800 msec) recorded over the frontal and parietal regions showed enhanced picture related modulation and amplitude for LVF Stroops. These results suggest that emotional responses to aversive pictures selectively facilitated right hemisphere processing during higher cognitive task performance.
Some widely used tasks in cognitive neuroscience depend on the induction of a response conflict between choice alternatives, involving partial activation of the incorrect response before the correct response is emitted. Although such ''conflict tasks'' are often used to investigate frontal-lobe-based conflict-monitoring processes, it is not known how response competition evolves in the motor cortex. To investigate the dynamics of motor cortex activation during response competition, we used a subliminal priming task that induced response competition while bypassing pre-response stage processing conflict. Analyses of movement-related EEG potentials supported an interaction between competing responses characterized by reciprocal inhibition. Inhibitory interactions between response channels contribute to the resolution of response conflict. However, the reciprocal inhibition at motor cortex level seemed to operate independent of higher level conflict-monitoring processes, which were relatively insensitive to response conflict induced by subliminal priming. These results elucidate how response conflict causes interference as well as the conditions under which frontal-lobe-based interference control processes are engaged.
Recent investigations in invertebrate neurobiology have opened up new lines of research into the basic roles of behavioral, neurochemical, and physiological effects in complex behavioral phenomena, such as aggression and drug-sensitive reward. This review summarizes a body of quantitative work, which identifies biogenic amines as a pharmacological substrate for motivated behaviors in the crayfish, Orconectes rusticus. Specifically, this paper details progress that has (1) explored links between serotonin and an individual's aggressive state, and (2) demonstrated the existence of crayfish reward systems that are sensitive to human drugs of abuse, such as psychostimulants. First, we summarize a set of experimental approaches that explore aggression in crayfish and the significance of aminergic systems in its control. Agonistic behavior in crustaceans can be characterized within a quantitative framework; different types of behavioral plasticity in aggressive behavior are in need of physiological explanation, and pharmacological intervention involving serotonergic systems bring about characteristic changes in behavior. A second set of experiments demonstrates that psychostimulants (cocaine and D: -amphetamine) serve as rewards when an intra-circulatory infusion is coupled to a distinct visual environment. Work in novel model systems such as crayfish constitutes a useful comparative approach to the study of aggression and drug addiction.
Chemical stimulation of contact chemoreceptors located on the legs of locusts evokes withdrawal movements of the leg. The likelihood of withdrawal depends on the site of stimulation, in addition to the identity and concentration of the chemical stimulus. A significantly higher percentage of locusts exhibit leg avoidance movements in response to stimulation of distal parts of the leg with any given chemical stimulus compared to proximal sites. Moreover, the percentage of locusts exhibiting avoidance movements is correlated with the density and sensitivity of chemoreceptors on different sites of an individual leg. The effectiveness of chemical stimulation also differs between the fore and hind legs, with NaCl evoking a higher probability of leg withdrawal movements on the foreleg. Moreover, sucrose was less effective than NaCl at evoking withdrawal movements of the foreleg, particularly at low concentrations. The gradients in behavioural responses can be partially attributed to differences in the responsiveness and density of the contact chemoreceptors. These results may reflect the different specialization of individual legs, with the forelegs particularly involved in food selection.
Stable social relationships are rearranged over time as resources such as favored territorial positions change. We test the hypotheses that social rank relationships are relatively stable, and although social signals influence aggression and rank, they are not as important as memory of an opponent. In addition, we hypothesize that eyespots, aggression and corticosterone influence serotonin and N-methyl-D: -aspartate (NMDA) systems in limbic structures involved in learning and memory. In stable adult dominant-subordinate relationships in the lizard Anolis carolinensis, social rank can be reversed by pharmacological elevation of limbic serotonergic activity. Any pair of specific experiences: behaving aggressively, viewing aggression or perceiving sign stimuli indicative of dominant rank also elevate serotonergic activity. Differences in the extent of serotonergic activation may be a discriminating and consolidating factor in attaining superior rank. For instance, socially aggressive encounters lead to increases in plasma corticosterone that stimulate both serotonergic activity and expression of the NMDA receptor subunit 2B (NR(2B)) within the CA(3) region of the lizard hippocampus. Integration of these systems will regulate opponent recognition and memory, motivation to attack or retreat, and behavioral and physiological reactions to stressful social interactions. Contextually appropriate social responses provide a modifiable basis for coping with the flexibility of social relationships.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a relatively new technique for inducing small, localized, and reversible changes in living brain tissue and has been suggested to have antidepressant properties in humans and animal models of depression. Memory function generally has been found to be unaffected by TMS, although some studies have raised the possibility of memory interference from TMS. Additionally, there have been indirect indications that TMS may possess anxiolytic features. This study examines the effects of TMS in animal models of one-trial learning and anxiety. In this study, short-term treatment with TMS compared with identically handled animals not given TMS in adult rats resulted in no significant differences in memory as assessed both by a one-time learning paradigm and by components of an elevated-plus maze task, that TMS does not impair memory as assessed by these tasks. In addition, no changes were found in anxiety-like behavior on the elevated plus maze task. In summary, these findings support previous reports that TMS does not interfere with memory function. There was no evidence of an anxiolytic response from TMS in rats as assessed by the elevated plus maze test.
This article reports some contextual effects of fish hovering in small environments on active imaging. Foveal electrosensory images of objects and their corresponding evoked responses in the electrosensory lobe are altered in amplitude and waveform when the fish are inside tubes. The article describes: (i) the physical basis of the changes imposed by small environments on electric images, (ii) the field potential responses at the electrosensory lobe of chronically implanted animals when entering and leaving tubes, and (iii) the effect of context on object discrimination. Biophysical analysis indicates that tubes cause a change in the efficiency of a previously described pre-receptor/post-effector mechanism responsible for the electric 'illumination' of nearby objects (as mirrors change the illumination of visual scenes). Field potential responses at the electrosensory lobe showed two components corresponding to the fast- and slow-electrosensory pathways respectively: (a) an early spike following the input without adaptation; (b) a series of waves lasting the rest of the cycle and exhibiting different degrees of adaptation. Discrimination experiments showed that fish react to changes in image rather than to changes in object resistance. The amplitude of the novelty responses evoked by similar changes in the total energy of electric images was constant despite the large change in basal stimulus amplitude and waveform caused by hovering in the tubes. These facts may be explained by the presence of adaptive responses observed at the slow pathway in the electrosensory lobe.
Patients with cerebral neoplasms often report pain or other kinds of symptoms which, even though not directly connected to the disease itself, can cause complications in the approach to therapy and worsen the quality of life of the patients. The therapies aimed at controlling these kinds of disturbances are referred to as supportive therapies as they do not cure the underlying disease. However, these therapies should not be underestimated, because, by controlling these disturbances, they are able not only to greatly improve the quality of life of the neuro-oncologic patients but also increase their survival. Based on this hypothesis, we will discuss and examine the drugs more frequently used for supportive therapy in neuro-oncologic patients. We assert, in fact, that the desire to offer neuro-oncologic patients better assistance guarantees not only adequate specialized input from the health operators involved, concerning the quality of life and the uniqueness of the 'person-patient', but also the ability to be able to listen to the patients, understand their choices and allow them to express their priorities.
Previous research has shown that short-term memory for serial order can be influenced by background knowledge concerning regularities of sequential structure. Specifically, it has been shown that recall is superior for sequences that fit well with familiar sequencing constraints. The authors report a corresponding effect pertaining to serial recall errors. Undergraduate participants performed immediate serial recall on sequences of pseudowords generated on the basis of an artificial grammar. After extensive experience with this material, recall errors displayed a bias toward regularizing responses, response sequences more probable, with respect to the artificial grammar, than the originally presented stimulus sequence. This regularization effect squares well with recent trace redintegration and Bayesian models of serial recall, and appears to represent an analog of the schema-based error patterns observed in other domains of memory.

Hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) ion channels are important for rhythmic activity in the brain and in the heart. In this study, using ionic and gating current measurements, we show that cloned spHCN channels undergo a hysteresis in their voltage dependence during normal gating. For example, both the gating charge versus voltage curve, Q(V), and the conductance versus voltage curve, G(V), are shifted by about +60 mV when measured from a hyperpolarized holding potential compared with a depolarized holding potential. In addition, the kinetics of the tail current and the activation current change in parallel to the voltage shifts of the Q(V) and G(V) curves. Mammalian HCN1 channels display similar effects in their ionic currents, suggesting that the mammalian HCN channels also undergo voltage hysteresis. We propose a model in which HCN channels transit between two modes. The voltage dependence in the two modes is shifted relative to each other, and the occupancy of the two modes depends on the previous activation of the channel. The shifts in the voltage dependence are fast (tau approximately 100 ms) and are not accompanied by any apparent inactivation. In HCN1 channels, the shift in voltage dependence is slower in a 100 mM K extracellular solution compared with a 1 mM K solution. Based on these findings, we suggest that molecular conformations similar to slow (C-type) inactivation of K channels underlie voltage hysteresis in HCN channels. The voltage hysteresis results in HCN channels displaying different voltage dependences during different phases in the pacemaker cycle. Computer simulations suggest that voltage hysteresis in HCN channels decreases the risk of arrhythmia in pacemaker cells.

Neurodegenerative disorders result from premature progressive degeneration of specific neurons, and manifest as diseases or syndromes with varied combinations of cognitive, motor, sensory and autonomic dysfunctions. The management involves pharmacotherapy as well as non-pharmacological measures and also to lessen the burden of the care-givers. The medications available for medical treatment are: Levodopa, dopamine agonists, amantadine, anticholinergics, enzyme inhibitors, etc. Advanced Parkinson's disease is concerned with management of motor complications and non-motor complications. Recently surgical treatment is a great option for managing motor complication. Orthostatic hypotension, gait distiurbances, emotional and psychiatric problems, sleep disturbances can be managed and had been discussed in brief. Currently there is no medication available for the cure of Alzheimer's disease. The specific medications claimed to improve patient's well being and cognition include cholinesterase inhibitors, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, anti-oxidants, and anti-amyloid therapy. While medical and surgical treatments for Parkinson's disease have revolutionised the management, still drug therapy for Alzheimer's disease is dismal.
Stroke is the third commonest cause of mortality after heart disease and cancer. It is generally the disease of the aged. Prevalence rates of stroke very from one study to another. However, there has been a definite increase in the prevalence and incidence of stroke disorder in India over the last 30 years. Diabetes, smoking, hyperlipidaemia, hypertension are some of the risk factors found in stroke. To curb the rising trend of stroke in India, the two principal risk factors ie, hypertension and diabetes mellitus need to be strictly brought under control. The change in dietary habit to reduce intake of solid fat and complete cessation of smoking and chewing tobacco need also to be encouraged. Public awareness campaigns and health educations are most important part to combat increasing trend of stroke.

It is unclear if the commonly observed &quot;subcortical&quot; verbal memory profile in schizophrenic patients is present at the onset of the disease. Therefore, the performance of 43 first-episode patients with schizophrenia or schizophreniform disorder on the Dutch version of the California Verbal Learning Test (VLGT) was compared to that of 43 normal comparison participants. We hypothesized that the first-episode patients would exhibit a &quot;subcortical&quot; memory profile, that is, they would show a primary retrieval deficit. This hypothesis was not confirmed: the patients displayed a profile suggestive of a prominent storage deficit, that is, a &quot;cortical&quot; memory profile. Subsequently, patients' VLGT performance was cluster analyzed to determine whether subgroups could be identified exhibiting a cortical, subcortical, and normal profile, respectively. Two subgroups (N=22; N=13) exhibited memory impairments, while one subgroup (N=8) was unimpaired. The memory profiles of the two impaired subgroups differed both qualitatively and quantitatively, but did not conform neatly to a cortical and a subcortical profile. Demographic and verbal fluency data provided limited validation of the subgroup classification. Our results may suggest that combining the verbal memory performance of first-episode patients obscures meaningful heterogeneity. Alternatively, the cluster solution could merely reflect a continuum of severity.
The present study combined neuropsychological and electrophysiological measures to obtain a comprehensive profile of the everyday attentional and memory dysfunction reported in PTSD. The event-related potential (ERP) literature has consistently found abnormalities in late components (N2, P3) reflecting working memory (WM) function. However, the neuropsychological profile reported in the literature has considerable variation. The present study examined ERP activity in 33 PTSD participants and matched controls during a standard two-tone auditory oddball task. Neuropsychological assessment was carried out using a task battery assessing a wide range of cognitive functions. Consistent with previous work, the PTSD group showed delayed N2 latency and reduced P3 target amplitude, together with slower and less accurate target detection. Scalp topography provided evidence of widespread abnormality during WM function, but with strongest effects broadly over the left hemisphere. Neuropsychological testing found concomitant difficulties on factorial measures of verbal memory retention/access and sustained attention but enhanced performance on measures of immediate recall. This integrative pattern of effects reflects a specific impairment in the operation of working memory systems that guide ongoing, planned behavior and that facilitate the acquisition and retention of new memories.
Chemokines are chemotactic cytokines that play important roles in immune responses and wound healing, as well as in pathological conditions such as chronic inflammation and tumorigenesis. The chemokines and their receptors are highly conserved and maintain similar functions in different species. One noteworthy exception is the chemokine interleukin (IL)8/CXC ligand 8 and its specific receptor CXCR1, which are found in humans but are not found in the traditional model organisms, mice and rats. As a consequence, we are using model organisms other than mice to study the functions of IL-8 and CXCR1, as well as the mechanisms involved in receptor activation by IL-8. Toward this goal, we have isolated and characterized a new receptor that is highly homologous to human (h)CXCR1, which we named chicken (c)CXCR1. To determine whether this receptor is activated by cIL-8 and its N- and C-terminal peptides and whether it responds to hIL-8, we expressed cCXCR1 in NIH3T3 cells, which naturally lack this receptor, and used single-cell Ca(2)(+) imaging to detect increases in intracellular Ca(2)(+) and immunoblot analysis to detect extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation. We show that cIL-8, its N and C peptides, and hIL-8 activate cCXCR1. We further show that cIL-8 and hIL-8 stimulate chemotaxis of chicken embryonic fibroblasts, cells that express cCXCR1, and that this effect is specific for each chemokine and this receptor. These results strongly suggest that cCXCR1 is the ortholog for hCXCR1 and that chickens can be used as an effective model system to study the functions of IL-8, its terminal peptides, and its specific receptor CXCR1.
The possible functional role of voltage-gated Na(+) channel (VGSC) expression in controlling endocytic membrane activity in human small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) cell lines (H69, H209, H510) was studied using uptake of horseradish peroxidase (HRP). The normal human airway epithelial (16HBE14o) cell line was used in a comparative approach. Uptake of HRP was vesicular, strongly temperature-sensitive and suppressed by cytoskeletal poisons (cytochalasin D and colchicine), consistent with endocytosis. Compared with the normal cells, HRP uptake into SCLC cells was kinetically more efficient, resulting in more than four-fold higher uptake under optimized conditions. Importantly, HRP uptake into SCLC cells was inhibited significantly by the specific VGSC blocker tetrodotoxin, as well as lidocaine and phenytoin. These effects were dose-dependent. None of these drugs had any effect on the uptake into the 16HBE14o cells. Uptake of HRP into SCLC cells was reduced by approximately 66% in Na(+)-free medium and was partially ( approximately 30%) dependent on extracellular Ca(2+). The possibility that the endocytic activity in the H510 SCLC cells involved an endogenous cholinergic system was investigated by testing the effects of carbachol (a cholinergic receptor agonist) and eserine (an inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase). Both drugs inhibited HRP uptake, thereby suggesting that basal cholinergic activity occurred. It is concluded that VGSC upregulation could enhance metastatic cell behavior in SCLC by enhancing endocytic membrane activity.
In recent years, it has been recognized that there is a metabolic coupling between the cytosol, ER/SR and mitochondria. In this cross-talk, mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis and ATP production and supply play a major role. The primary transporter of adenine nucleotides, Ca(2+)and other metabolites into and out of mitochondria is the voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) located at the outer mitochondrial membrane, at a crucial position in the cell. VDAC has been established as a key player in mitochondrial metabolite and ion signaling and it has also been proposed that VDAC is present in extramitochondrial membranes. Thus, regulation of VDAC, as the main interface between mitochondrial and cellular metabolism, by other molecules is of utmost importance. This article reviews localization and function of VDAC, and focuses on VDAC as a skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum channel. The regulation of VDAC activity by associated proteins and by inhibitors is also presented. Several aspects of the physiological relevance of VDAC to Ca(2+) homeostasis and mitochondria-mediated apoptosis will be discussed.
Signals arising from the saccadic system influence the planning and generation of pointing movements, and the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) appears to play a vital role in that interaction. The authors demonstrate in the present study that during visual fixation, eye-position signals can dominate pointing responses when the activity in the PPC contralateral to the moving limb is disrupted with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). In particular, when presented with targets in peripheral vision, participants (N=5) exposed to TMS over the PPC failed to show the normal pattern of responses in which pointing movements end up farther away from the goal target. Instead, they tended to point more toward the current point of visual fixation. Those results suggest that the PPC is involved in integrating eye-position and visual information to affect reaching in the contralateral arm.
The aim of this study was to elucidate the antioxidant behaviour of melatonin (M) and determine its activity-structure relationship. M or 5-metoxy-N acetyltriptamine is a neurohormone secreted by the pineal gland, which plays a proven role in maintaining sleep-wake rhythms. The antioxidant capacity of M was analysed using the oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) assay. Furthermore, spectral measurements for aerobic photolytic reaction of neutral red (NR) and degree of inhibition of photolysis with M, glutathione (GSH), ascorbic acid (AA) and vitamin E analogue Trolox were studied at room temperature 25 degrees C, using visible (VIS) and ultra-violet (UV) radiations. In the ORAC assay 2,2-azobis (2-amidino-propane)dihydrochloride (AAPH) a peroxyl radical generator, ROO degrees ; H2O2-Cu2+, mainly a hydroxyl radical generator, degrees OH; and Cu2+ a transition metal were used. Although some studies indicated that M is a powerful antioxidant, no one has compared its antioxidant capacities with GSH, E-vitamin and AA, using three free radical (FR) generators in an assay which utilizes an area-under curve technique and thus combines both inhibition time and inhibition degree of FR action by an antioxidant into a single quantity. In the current study, we used ORAC assay with three FR generators. The assay is based on propensity of the fluorescence emitted by the protein beta-phycoerythrin (beta-PE) from porphyridium cruentum to be quenched when exposed to FR action. M in our experiments acted as a universal antioxidant against ROO degrees and degrees OH radicals. Also, M served as an antioxidant in the presence of Cu2+. M, which is a lipid-soluble compound, was a twice more powerful antioxidant than vitamin E, and four times than AA or GSH. Furthermore, M inhibited aerobic photolysis of NR photoinduced with VIS and UV rays faster and more effectively, than AA, GSH or vitamin E. AA with NR, under aerobic conditions during irradiation with VIS and UV acted as a pro-oxidant. M may be the premier molecule to protect the cells from oxidative stress.
Accumulation of misfolded proteins and alterations in the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway are associated with various neurodegenerative conditions of the CNS and PNS. Aggregates containing ubiquitin and peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) have been observed in the Trembler J mouse model of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A demyelinating neuropathy. In these nerves, the turnover rate of the newly synthesized PMP22 is reduced, suggesting proteasome impairment. Here we show evidence of proteasome impairment in Trembler J neuropathy samples compared with wild-type, as measured by reduced degradation of substrate reporters. Proteasome impairment correlates with increased levels of polyubiquitinated proteins, including PMP22, and the recruitment of E1, 20S and 11S to aggresomes formed either spontaneously due to the Trembler J mutation or upon proteasome inhibition. Furthermore, myelin basic protein, an endogenous Schwann cell proteasome substrate, associates with PMP22 aggregates in affected nerves. Together, our data show that in neuropathy nerves, reduced proteasome activity is coupled with the accumulation of ubiquitinated substrates, and the recruitment of proteasomal pathway constituents to aggregates. These results provide novel insights into the mechanism by which altered degradation of Schwann cell proteins may contribute to the pathogenesis of certain PMP22 neuropathies.
Inflammation in the central nervous system occurs in diseases such as multiple sclerosis and leads to axon dysfunction and destruction. Both in vitro and in vivo observations have suggested an important role for nitric oxide (NO) in mediating inflammatory axonopathy. The purposes of this study were to model inflammatory axonopathy in vitro and identify modulators of the process. Rat cortical neurones were cultured and exposed to an NO-donor plus potential protective factors. Cultures were then assessed for neuronal survival, axon survival and markers of intracellular signalling pathways. The NO-donor produced dose-dependent neuronal loss and a large degree of axon destruction. Oligodendrocyte conditioned medium (OCM) and insulin-like growth factor type-1 (IGF-1), but not glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), improved survival of neurones exposed to NO donors. In addition p38 MAP kinase was activated by NO exposure and inhibition of p38 signalling led to neuronal and axonal survival effects. OCM and IGF-1 (but not GDNF) reduced p38 activation in NO-exposed cortical neurones. OCM, IGF-1 and GDNF improved axon survival in cultures exposed to NO, a process dependent on mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-related kinase signalling. This study emphasizes that different mechanisms may underlie neuronal/axonal destructive processes, and suggests that trophic factors may modulate NO-mediated neurone/axon destruction via specific pathways.
Insulin modulates N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the CNS and potentiates currents of recombinant NMDA receptors in a subunit-specific manner in Xenopus oocytes. Previously we identified two sites in the NR2B C-terminus as targets for direct phosphorylation by C-type protein kinases (PKCs). Mutating these sites reduced insulin potentiation of currents by one half, reflecting the PKC-mediated portion of the NR2B insulin effect. The PKC-proline rich tyrosine kinase (Pyk2)-Src family kinase pathway may also mediate insulin potentiation. A dominant negative Pyk2 mutant significantly reduced insulin potentiation when co-expressed with NR2B-containing receptors, suggesting that Pyk2 and downstream Src-family tyrosine kinases are involved, along with PKCs, in insulin potentiation of NR2B. The NR2A C-terminus contains two residues homologous to the NR2B PKC targets. Mutating both these sites eliminated insulin potentiation of NR2A-containing receptors, while co-expression of dominant negative Pyk2 had no effect. Together, these data indicate that PKCs alone mediate the NR2A insulin effect. When tested individually for importance in insulin potentiation, the two PKC sites showed an additive effect in potentiation of NR2A-containing receptors. Insulin modulation of NR2A-containing receptors is mediated solely by PKCs, whereas insulin modulation of NR2B-containing receptors is mediated by PKCs and tyrosine kinases (PTKs).
Summary During hypoxia, ATP was released from type I (glomus) cells in the carotid bodies. We studied the action of ATP on the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) of type I cells dissociated from rat carotid bodies using a Ca(2+) imaging technique. ATP did not affect the resting [Ca(2+)](i) but strongly suppressed the hypoxia-induced [Ca(2+)](i) elevations in type I cells. The order of purinoreceptor agonist potency in inhibiting the hypoxia response was 2-methylthioATP &gt; ATP &gt; ADP &gt; alpha, beta-methylene ATP &gt; UTP, implicating the involvement of P2Y(1) receptors. Simultaneous measurements of membrane potential and [Ca(2+)](i) show that ATP inhibited the hypoxia-induced Ca(2+) signal by reversing the hypoxia-triggered depolarization. However, ATP did not oppose the hypoxia-mediated inhibition of the oxygen-sensitive TASK-like K(+) background current. Neither the inhibition of the large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (maxi-K) channels nor the removal of extracellular Na(+) could affect the inhibitory action of ATP. Under normoxic condition, ATP caused hyperpolarization and increase in cell input resistance. These results suggest that the inhibitory action of ATP is mediated via the closure of background conductance(s) other than the TASK-like K(+), maxi-K or Na(+) channels. In summary, ATP exerts strong negative feedback regulation on hypoxia signaling in rat carotid type I cells.
The GoLoco motif is a short polypeptide sequence found in G-protein signaling regulators such as regulator of G-protein signaling proteins type 12 and 14 and activator of G-protein signaling protein type 3. A unique property of the GoLoco motifs from these three proteins is their preferential interaction with guanosine diphosphate (GDP)-bound Galpha(i1), Galpha(i3) and, sometimes, Galpha(i2) subunits over Galpha(o) subunits. This interaction prevents both spontaneous guanine nucleotide release and reassociation of Galpha(i)-GDP with Gbetagamma. We utilized this property of the GoLoco motif to examine dopamine (D2 and D3) and somatostatin receptor coupling to G-protein-regulated inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels in mouse AtT20 cells. GoLoco motif peptides had no effect on either basal channel activity or the initial responses to agonists, suggesting that the GoLoco motif cannot disrupt pre-formed G-protein heterotrimers. GoLoco motif peptides did, however, interfere with human D2((short)) receptor coupling to GIRK channels as demonstrated by the progressively diminished responses after repeated agonist application. This behavior is consistent with some form of compartmentalization of D2 receptors and GIRK channels such that Gbetagamma subunits, freed by local receptor activation and prevented from reforming a heterotrimeric complex, are not functionally constrained within the receptor-channel complex and thus are unable to exert a persistent activating effect. In contrast, GoLoco motif peptides had no effect on either D3 or somatostatin coupling to GIRK channels. Our results suggest that GoLoco motif-based peptides will be useful tools in examining the specificity of G-protein-coupled receptor-effector coupling.
We examined energy metabolism and amino acid content in the hippocampus of amygdaloid-kindled rats using (1)H NMR spectroscopy. Three weeks after the last stage 5 seizure, kindled rats were killed by microwave irradiation. The hippocampus was dissected out and subjected to MeOH/CHCl(3) extraction. All (1)H spectra were analyzed to quantify absolute concentrations using a non-linear least squares method, combined with a prior knowledge of chemical shifts. Saturation effects were compensated for by the T1 measurement of each component. Levels of energy metabolism-related compounds, phosphocreatine, creatine, glucose and succinate were the same in both kindled rats and sham controls. Lactate concentration had a tendency to increase, although this was not statistically significant. When compared with sham controls, levels of aspartate, glutamate, glycine and glutamine, as well as GABA and inositol, were increased in the ipsilateral but not the contralateral hippocampus. In contrast, levels of taurine, alanine and threonine were unchanged. Finally, N-acetylaspartylglutamate content was elevated, whereas N-acetyl-l-aspartate content was unaltered in the ipsilateral hippocampus of kindled animals. Our results suggest that amygdala kindling may affects amino acid metabolism, but not energy metabolism.
We employed carbon fiber amperometry to measure the amount of catecholamine released from individual granules (i.e. the quantal size, Q) of rat chromaffin cells. The distribution of Q1/3 of amperometric events could be reasonably described by the summation of at least three Gaussians, suggesting that rat chromaffin cells contained at least three distinct populations of granules, with a small, medium or large modal Q. After 3 days of culture, the mean cellular Q reduced by approximately 14%, which did not arise from a uniform percentage decrease in the Q of every granule. Instead, the rundown involved a &gt; 11% decrease in the proportional release from large Q granules and a &gt; 19% decrease in the modal Q-value of small Q granules. In contrast, when cells were cultured with dibutyryl-cAMP (dBcAMP) for 3 days, their mean cellular Q increased by approximately 38% (relative to time-matched controls). This increase in Q was not associated with any shift in the proportional release from the three populations of granules. Instead, cAMP increased the average amount of catecholamines released from all three populations of granules. Our data raise the possibility that distinct populations of granules in rat chromaffin cells can be regulated either differentially or uniformly.
We report the characterization of a cDNA encoding a novel -RFamide neuropeptide precursor that is up-regulated during parasitation in the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. Processing of this precursor yields five structurally related neuropeptides, all but one ending with the C-terminal sequence -LFRFamide, as was confirmed by direct mass spectrometry of brain tissue. The LFRFamide gene is expressed in a small cluster of neurons in each buccal ganglion, three small clusters in each cerebral ganglion, and one cluster in each lateral lobe of the cerebral ganglia. Application of two of the LFRFamide peptides to neuroendocrine cells that control either growth and metabolism or reproduction induced similar hyperpolarizing K+-currents, and inhibited electrical activity. We conclude that up-regulation of inhibitory LFRFamide neuropeptides during parasitation probably reflects an evolutionary adaptation that allows endoparasites to suppress host metabolism and reproduction in order to fully exploit host energy recourses.
Several new findings have emphasized the role of neuron-specific gap junction proteins (connexins) and electrical synapses in processing sensory information and in synchronizing the activity of neuronal networks. We have recently shown that pannexins constitute an additional family of proteins that can form gap junction channels in a heterologous expression system and are also widely expressed in distinct neuronal populations in the brain, where they may represent a novel class of electrical synapses. In this study, we have exploited the hemichannel-forming properties of pannexins to investigate their sensitivity to well-known connexin blockers. By combining biochemical and electrophysiological approaches, we report here further evidence for the interaction of pannexin1 (Px1) with Px2 and demonstrate that the pharmacological sensitivity of heteromeric Px1/Px2 is similar to that of homomeric Px1 channels. In contrast to most connexins, both Px1 and Px1/Px2 hemichannels were not gated by external Ca2+. In addition, they exhibited a remarkable sensitivity to blockade by carbenoxolone (with an IC50 of approximately 5 microm), whereas flufenamic acid exerted only a modest inhibitory effect. The opposite was true in the case of connexin46 (Cx46), thus indicating that gap junction blockers are able to selectively modulate pannexin and connexin channels.

Nasal trigeminal chemosensitivity in mice and rats is mediated in part by solitary chemoreceptor cells (SCCs) in the nasal epithelium (Finger et al., 2003). Many nasal SCCs express the G-protein alpha-gustducin as well as other elements of the bitter-taste signaling cascade including phospholipase Cbeta2, TRPM5 and T2R bitter-taste receptors. While some populations of sensory cells are replaced throughout life (taste and olfaction), others are not (hair cells and carotid body chemoreceptors). These experiments were designed to test whether new SCCs are generated within the epithelium of adult mice. Wild type C57/B6 mice were injected with the thymidine analog 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) to label dividing cells. At various times after injection (1-40 days), the mice were perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde and prepared for dual-label immunocytochemistry. Double labeled cells were detected as early as 3 days post BrdU injection and remained for as long as 12 days post-injection suggesting that SCCs do undergo turnover like the surrounding nasal epithelium. No BrdU labeled cells were detected after 24 days suggesting relatively rapid replacement of the SCCs.
Corticotropin-releasing factor binding protein (CRF-BP) is a 37-kDa protein with high affinity binding sites for both corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and urocortin 1. Previous studies have examined the distribution of CRF-BP mRNA and peptide within the central nervous system. Due to the predominant cortical localisation, very little is known about CRF-BP in subcortical structures including the hypothalamus. The present study employed immunohistochemistry to characterise the distribution of CRF-BP-like-immunoreactive (-ir) cells and fibres in the rat hypothalamus. Bipolar and multipolar CRF-BP-ir neurones were scattered throughout the rostro-caudal extent of the hypothalamus. Distinct clusters of CRF-BP-ir neurones were identified in the anterior and posterior parvocellular and dorsal cap subdivisions of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), as well as in the dorsal hypothalamic area, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMN), ventral premammillary nucleus and zona incerta. CRF-BP-ir fibres extending from the third ventricle were found in the mediobasal hypothalamus and within the arcuate nucleus-median eminence region. Double immunostaining together with confocal microscopy demonstrated that the CRF-BP-immunostained fibres within the mediobasal hypothalamus coincided with vimentin immunostaining indicating that CRF-BP-ir is present within tanycytes. To define the relationship between CRF-BP-ir cells and endogenous ligands for CRF-BP, double immunohistochemistry was performed to examine possible sites within the hypothalamus where CRF- or urocortin 1-ir fibres innervate regions that contain CRF-BP-ir cell bodies. CRF-BP-ir cell bodies typically coincided with dense CRF-ir, but not urocortin 1-ir fibre innervation. CRF-ir fibre innervation was moderate to high within the anterior and posterior parvocellular subdivisions of the PVN, the dorsal cap of the PVN, DMN and the zona incerta; all regions that contained CRF-BP-ir cell populations. These studies demonstrate that, within the hypothalamus, CRF-BP-ir cells and fibres are concentrated within a circuitry known to be involved in mediating neuroendocrine and autonomic responses to stress.
The Landau-Kleffner syndrome, the continuous spikes-waves during slow sleep syndrome and the benign epilepsy of childhood with rolandic spikes are rare childhood epilepsies with unknown etiology. Improvement in patients treated with immunoglobulin suggests an involvement of the immune system. We provide immunohistochemical evidence of autoantibodies against rat brain auditory cortex, brainstem and cerebellum, in children suffering with one or more of these syndromes. Only 1/14 patient was celiac.
There have been major advances in stroke treatment based on robust evidence from large clinical trials. This review covers both acute treatment and secondary prevention. Thrombolysis is now established as a therapy for ischaemic stroke presenting within 3 hours, and the possibility of extending the time window and refining the selection of suitable patients, is being addressed in further trials. Anticoagulants are of proven benefit in cardioembolic stroke, and particularly atrial fibrillation. For prevention of other stroke subtypes antiplatelet agents appear to have a better risk-benefit ratio. Evidence for the use of dual antiplatelet therapy, including the recent MATCH study, are discussed. Carotid endarterectomy is of proven benefit in patients with&gt;70% symptomatic stenosis. Recent analysis has emphasised the importance of operating as soon after symptom onset as possible. Operating on asymptomatic carotid stenosis remains controversial; even after the recent Asymptomatic Carotid Surgery Trial which showed that by operating on 32 people one disabling stroke or death could be prevented over a 5 years period.



The association between bitemporal hemianopia and chiasmal compression is well recognized. The majority of chiasmal syndromes are caused by extrinsic compression from pituitary tumors, suprasellar meningiomas, craniopharyngiomas, and aneurysms. However, it is not clear why compressive lesions of the chiasm show a predilection for damage to nasal fibers with bitemporal hemianopia. Few experimental attempts at elucidating these mysteries have been reported and none has provided an adequate explanation. The authors postulate that the susceptibility of nasal fibers to preferential damage is explained by structural collapse theories as applied to crossing and noncrossing cylinders. By constructing a simplified mathematical model, the authors demonstrate that nasal fibers are subject to relatively greater pressures for any given external compressive force acting on the chiasm.
Recent studies have shown that neurofibrillary tangles are frequently accompanied by alpha-synuclein inclusions in sporadic and familial Alzheimer disease, in Down syndrome, in progressive supranuclear palsy, and Parkinsonism dementia complex of Guam. Here we report the cases of 2 brothers with familial progressive aphasia who developed features of frontotemporal dementia with predominant tau pathology but also alpha-synuclein pathology. The 2 patients' brains revealed abundant tau pathology in the hippocampus and basal ganglia, whereas tau and alpha-synuclein aggregates coexisted only in the nucleus basalis of Meynert, the only region where alpha-synuclein was present. In this brain region, abundant Lewy bodies, Lewy neurites, and tau inclusions were found; the pathology was more abundant in the older than in the younger brother. Sarkosyl-insoluble tau extracted from brains of the 2 patients showed the presence of tau filaments that contained 3 major tau bands of 60, 64, and 68 kDa on Western blot analysis. These bands contained mainly tau with 3 and 4 repeats and no amino-terminal inserts and tau with 4 repeats and one amino-terminal insert. No mutations were identified in the tau, alpha-synuclein, beta-synuclein, or parkin genes. We think that this is the first report showing a specific colocalization of neurofibrillary tangles and Lewy bodies in a family with progressive aphasia.
Knowledge of which tracts are essential for the recovery of locomotor function in rats after repair is unknown. To assess the mechanism of recovery, we examined the correlation between functional recovery and axonal regeneration. All rats underwent complete cord transection and repair with peripheral nerves, fibroblast growth factor 1, fibrin glue, and spinal fixation. Repaired rats recovered both motor-evoked potentials recorded at the lumbar level and locomotor function. Cord retransection rostral to the repair abolished the recovery, indicating improvement was due to long tract regeneration. To determine which long tracts correlated with recovery, a novel technique of simultaneous bidirectional axonal tracing and immunohistochemical examination of axonal type was used to quantitate the regeneration of corticospinal, rubrospinal, reticulospinal, vestibulospinal, raphespinal, propriospinal, serotonergic, and calcitonin gene-related peptide containing axons. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed recovery of function correlated only with regeneration of corticospinal axons into the gray matter of the lumbar spinal cord (R = 0.977, p &lt; 0.02). For the first time, we show that regeneration of the corticospinal tract into the lumbar gray matter is a mechanism of functional locomotor recovery after complete cord transection and repair.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) is considered to be one of the driving forces in the basal ganglia circuit. The STN is innervated by serotonergic afferents from the raphe nucleus and expresses a variety of 5-HT receptor subtypes. We investigated the effects of 5-HT and 5-HT receptor subtype agonists and antagonists on the firing properties of STN neurons in rat brain slices. We used cell-attached, perforated-patch, and whole cell recording techniques to detect changes in firing frequency and pattern and electrical membrane properties. Due to the depolarization of membrane potential caused by reduced potassium conductance, 5-HT (10 microM) increased the firing frequency of STN neurons without changing their firing pattern. Cadmium failed to occlude the effect of 5-HT on firing frequency. 5-HT had no effect on afterhyperpolarization current. These results indicated that the 5-HT action was not mediated by high-voltage-activated calcium channel currents and calcium-dependent potassium currents. 5-HT had no effect on hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(H)) amplitude and voltage-dependence of I(H) activation, suggesting that I(H) was not involved in 5-HT-induced excitation. The increased firing by 5-HT was mimicked by 5-HT(2/4) receptor agonist alpha-methyl-5-HT and was partially mimicked by 5-HT2 receptor agonist DOI or 5-HT4 receptor agonist cisapride. The 5-HT action was partially reversed by 5-HT4 receptor antagonist SB 23597-190, 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ketanserin, and 5-HT2C receptor antagonist RS 102221. Our data indicate that 5-HT has significant ability to modulate membrane excitability in STN neurons; modulation is accomplished by decreasing potassium conductance by activating 5-HT4 and 5-HT2C receptors.
The amygdala plays a role in affective behaviors, which are modulated by the dopamine (DA) innervation of the basolateral amygdala complex (BLA). Although in vivo studies indicate that activation of DA receptors alters BLA neuronal activity, it is unclear whether DA exerts direct effects on BLA neurons or whether it acts via indirect effects on BLA afferents. Using whole cell patch-clamp recordings in rat brain slices, we investigated the site and mechanisms through which DA regulates the excitability of BLA neurons. Dopamine enhanced the excitability of BLA projection neurons in response to somatic current injections via a postsynaptic effect. Dopamine D1 receptor activation increased excitability and evoked firing, whereas D2 receptor activation increased input resistance. Current- and voltage-clamp experiments in projection neurons showed that D1 receptor activation enhanced excitability by modulating a 4-aminopyridine- and alpha-dendrotoxin-sensitive, slowly inactivating K+ current. Furthermore, DA and D1 receptor activation increased evoked firing in fast-spiking BLA interneurons. Consistent with a postsynaptic modulation of interneuron excitability, DA also increased the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents recorded in projection neurons without changing release of GABA. These data demonstrate that DA exerts direct effects on BLA projection neurons and indirect actions via modulation of interneurons that may work in concert to enhance the neuronal response to large, suprathreshold inputs, while suppressing weaker inputs.
Rod signals traverse several synapses en route to cone bipolar cells. In one pathway, rods communicate directly with cones via gap junctions. In a second pathway, signals flow rods-rod bipolars-AII amacrines-cone bipolars. The relative contribution of each pathway to retinal function is not well understood. Here we have examined this question from the perspective of the AII amacrine. AIIs form bidirectional electrical synapses with on cone bipolars. Consequently, as on cone bipolars are activated by outer plexiform inputs, they too should contribute to the AII response. Rod bipolar inputs to AIIs were blocked by AMPA receptor antagonists, revealing a smaller, non-AMPA component of the light response. This small residual response did not reverse between -70 and +70 mV and was blocked by carbenoxolone, suggesting that the current arose in on cone bipolars and was transmitted to AIIs via gap junctions. The residual component was evident for stimuli 2 log units below cone threshold and was prolonged for bright stimuli, demonstrating that it was rod driven. Because the rod bipolar-AII pathway was blocked, the rod-driven residual current likely was generated via the rod-cone pathway activation of on cone bipolars. Thus for a large range of intensities, rod signals reach the inner retina by both rod bipolar-AII and rod-cone coupling pathways.
In birds, it is thought that head movements play a major role in the reflexive stabilization of gaze and vision. In this study, we investigated the contributions of the eye and head to gaze stabilization during rotations under both head-fixed [vestibuloocular (VOR)] and head-free conditions in two avian species: pigeons and quails. These two species differ both in ocular anatomy (the pigeon has 2 distinct foveal regions), as well as in behavioral repertoires. Pigeons are arboreal, fly extended distances, and can navigate. Quails are primarily engrossed in terrestrial niches and fly only short distances. Unlike the head-fixed VOR gains that were under-compensatory for both species, gaze gains under head-free conditions were completely compensatory at high frequencies. This compensation was achieved primarily with head movements in pigeons, but with combined head and eye-in-head contributions in the quail. In contrast, eye-in-head motion, which was significantly reduced for head-free compared with head-fixed conditions, contributed very little to overall gaze stability in pigeons. These results suggest that disparity between the stabilization strategies employed by these two birds may be attributed to differences in species-specific behavior and anatomy.
Understanding the mechanistic bases of neuronal synchronization is a current challenge in quantitative neuroscience. We studied this problem in two putative cellular pacemakers of the mammalian hippocampal theta rhythm: glutamatergic stellate cells (SCs) of the medial entorhinal cortex and GABAergic oriens-lacunosum-molecular (O-LM) interneurons of hippocampal region CA1. We used two experimental methods. First, we measured changes in spike timing induced by artificial synaptic inputs applied to individual neurons. We then measured responses of free-running hybrid neuronal networks, consisting of biological neurons coupled (via dynamic clamp) to biological or virtual counterparts. Results from the single-cell experiments predicted network behaviors well and are compatible with previous model-based predictions of how specific membrane mechanisms give rise to empirically measured synchronization behavior. Both cell types phase lock stably when connected via homogeneous excitatory-excitatory (E-E) or inhibitory-inhibitory (I-I) connections. Phase-locked firing is consistently synchronous for either cell type with E-E connections and nearly anti-synchronous with I-I connections. With heterogeneous connections (e.g., excitatory-inhibitory, as might be expected if members of a given population had heterogeneous connections involving intermediate interneurons), networks often settled into phase locking that was either stable or unstable, depending on the order of firing of the two cells in the hybrid network. Our results imply that excitatory SCs, but not inhibitory O-LM interneurons, are capable of synchronizing in phase via monosynaptic mutual connections of the biologically appropriate polarity. Results are largely independent of synaptic strength and synaptic kinetics, implying that our conclusions are robust and largely unaffected by synaptic plasticity.
From its position in presynaptic nerve terminals, the large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K+ channel, Slo, regulates neurotransmitter release. Several other ion channels known to control neurotransmitter release have been implicated in physical interactions with the neurotransmitter release machinery. For example, the Ca(v)2.2 (N-type) Ca2+ channel binds to and is modulated by syntaxin-1A and SNAP-25. Furthermore, a close juxtaposition of Slo and Ca(v)2.2 is presumed to be necessary for functional coupling between the two channels, which has been shown in neurons. We report that Slo exhibits a strong association with syntaxin-1A. Robust co-immunoprecipitation of Slo and syntaxin-1A occurs from transfected HEK293 cells as well as from brain. However, despite this strong interaction and the known association between syntaxin-1A and the II-III loop of Ca(v)2.2, these three proteins do not co-immunoprecipitate in a trimeric complex from transfected HEK293 cells. The Slo-syntaxin-1A co-immunoprecipitation is not significantly influenced by [Ca2+]. Multiple relatively weak interactions may sum up to a tight physical coupling of full-length Slo with syntaxin-1A: the C-terminal tail and the S0-S1 loop of Slo each co-immunoprecipitate with syntaxin-1A. The presence of syntaxin-1A leads to reduced Slo channel activity due to an increased V(1/2) for activation in 100 nM, 1 muM, and 10 microM Ca2+, reduced voltage-sensitivity in 1 microM Ca2+, and slower rates of activation in 10 microM Ca2+. Potential physiological consequences of the interaction between Slo and syntaxin-1A include enhanced excitability through modulation of Slo channel activity and reduced neurotransmitter release due to disruption of syntaxin-1A binding to the Ca(v)2.2 II-III loop.
Both standard spectral analysis and time-dependent phase correlation techniques were applied to 27 pairs of tremor-related single units in the globus pallidus internus (GPi) and EMG of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) undergoing stereotactic neurosurgery. Over long time-scales (approximately 60 s), GPi tremor-related units were statistically coherent with restricted regions of the peripheral musculature displaying tremor. The distribution of pooled coherence across all pairs supports a classification of GPi cell/EMG oscillatory pairs into coherent or noncoherent. Analysis using approximately 2-s sliding windows shows that oscillatory activity in both GPi tremor units and muscles occurs intermittently over time. For brain/muscle pairs that are coherent, there is partial overlap in the times of oscillatory activity but, in most cases, no significant correlation between the times of oscillatory subepisodes in the two signals. Phase locking between coherent pairs occurs transiently; however, the phase delay is similar for different phase-locking subepisodes. Noncoherent pairs also show episodes of transient phase locking, but they occurred less frequently, and no preferred phase delay was seen across subepisodes. Tremor oscillations in pallidum and EMGs are punctuated by phase slips, which were classified as synchronizing or desynchronizing depending on their effect on phase locking. In coherent pairs, the incidence of synchronizing slips is higher than desynchronizing slips, whereas no significant difference was seen for noncoherent pairs. The results of this quantitative characterization of parkinsonian tremor provide a foundation for hypotheses about the structure and dynamical functioning of basal ganglia motor control networks involved in tremor generation.
In primary sensory cortices, neuronal responses to a stimulus presented as part of a rapid sequence often differ from responses to an isolated stimulus. It has been reported that sequential stimulation of two whiskers produces facilitatory modulations of barrel cortex neuronal responses. These results are at odds with the well-known suppressive interaction that has been usually described. Herein, we have examined the dependency of response modulation on the spatiotemporal pattern of stimulation by varying the spatial arrangement of the deflected vibrissae, the temporal frequency of stimulation, and the time interval between whisker deflections. Extracellular recordings were made from primary somatosensory cortex of anesthetized rats. Two contralateral whiskers were stimulated at 0.5 and 8 Hz at intervals ranging from 0 to +/-30 ms. Response interactions were assessed during stimulation of the principal and adjacent whiskers, first from the same row and second from the same arc. When tested at 0.5 Hz, 59% of single units showed a statistically significant suppressive interaction, whereas response facilitation was found in only 6% of cells. In contrast, at 8 Hz, a significant supralinear summation was observed in 19% of the cells, particularly for stimulations along an arc rather than along a row. Multi-unit recordings showed similar results. These observations indicate that most of the interactions in the barrel cortex during two-whisker stimulation are suppressive. However, facilitation can be revealed when stimuli are applied at a physiological frequency and could be the basis for internal representations of the spatiotemporal pattern of the stimulus.
Electrophysiological and morphological properties of genetically identified spinal interneurons were examined to elucidate their possible contribution to locomotor-like rhythmic activity in 1- to 4-day-old mice. In the transgenic mice used in our study, the HB9 promotor controlled the expression of the reporter gene enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP), giving rise to GFP+ motoneurons and ventral interneurons. However, only motoneurons and a small group of bipolar, GFP+ interneurons expressed the HB9 protein. The HB9(+)/GFP+ interneurons were clustered close to the medial surface in lamina VIII along segments L1-L3. The correlation between activity pattern in these visually identified interneurons and motoneuron output was examined using simultaneous whole cell and ventral root recordings. Neurochemically induced rhythmic membrane depolarizations in HB9/GFP interneurons were synchronous with ventral root rhythms, indicating that the interneurons received synaptic inputs from rhythm-generating networks. The frequency of excitatory postsynaptic currents significantly increased during ventral root bursts, but there was no change in the frequency of inhibitory postsynaptic currents during the cycle period. These data implied that HB9/GFP interneurons received primarily excitatory inputs from rhythmogenic interneurons. Neurobiotin-filled axon terminals were in close apposition to other neurons in the cluster and to motoneuron dendrites, raising the possibility that HB9/GFP interneurons formed synaptic connections with each other and with motoneurons. The expression of the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 in axon terminals of HB9/GFP interneurons indicated that these were glutamatergic interneurons. Our findings suggest that the visually identified HB9/GFP interneurons are premotor excitatory interneurons and putative constituents of networks generating locomotor rhythms in the mammalian spinal cord.
Nociceptive cells of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) were subclassified, in vitro, according to patterns of voltage-activated currents. The distribution and form of nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs) were determined. nAChRs were present on both capsaicin-sensitive and -insensitive nociceptors but were not universally present in unmyelinated nociceptors. In contrast, all A delta nociceptors (types 4, 6, and 9) expressed slowly decaying nAChR. Three major forms of nicotinic currents were identified. Specific agonists and antagonists were used to demonstrate the presence of alpha7 in two classes of capsaicin-sensitive, unmyelinated nociceptors (types 2 and 8). In type 2 cells, alpha7-mediated currents were found in isolation. Whereas alpha7 was co-expressed with other nAChR in type 8 cells. These were the only classes in which alpha7 was identified. Other nociceptive classes expressed slowly decaying currents with beta4 pharmacology. Based on concentration response curves formed by nicotinic agonists [ACh, nicotine, dimethyl phenyl piperazinium (DMPP), cytisine] evidence emerged of two distinct nAChR differentially expressed in type 4 (alpha3beta4) and types 5 and 8 (alpha3beta4 alpha5). Although identification could not be made with absolute certainty, patterns of potency (type 4: DMPP &gt; cytisine &gt; nicotine = ACh; type 5 and type 8: DMPP = cytisine &gt; nicotine = ACh) and efficacy provided strong support for the presence of two distinct channels based on an alpha3beta4 platform. Studies conducted on one nonnociceptive class (type 3) failed to reveal any nAChR. After multiple injections of Di-I (1,1'-dilinoleyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate) into the hairy skin of the hindlimb, we identified cell types 2, 4, 6, 8, and 9 as skin nociceptors that expressed nicotinic receptors. We conclude that at least three nicotinic AChR are diversely distributed into discrete subclasses of nociceptors that innervate hairy skin.
We recorded responses to apparent motion from directionally selective neurons in primary visual cortex (V1) of anesthetized monkeys and middle temporal area (MT) of awake monkeys. Apparent motion consisted of multiple stationary stimulus flashes presented in sequence, characterized by their temporal separation (delta t) and spatial separation (delta x). Stimuli were 8 degrees square patterns of 100% correlated random dots that moved at apparent speeds of 16 or 32 degrees/s. For both V1 and MT, the difference between the response to the preferred and null directions declined with increasing flash separation. For each neuron, we estimated the maximum flash separation for which directionally selective responses were observed. For the range of speeds we used, delta x provided a better description of the limitation on directional responses than did delta t. When comparing MT and V1 neurons of similar preferred speed, there was no difference in the maximum delta x between our samples from the two areas. In both V1 and MT, the great majority of neurons had maximal values of delta x in the 0.25-1 degrees range. Mean values were almost identical between the two areas. For most neurons, larger flash separations led to both weaker responses to the preferred direction and increased responses to the opposite direction. The former mechanism was slightly more dominant in MT and the latter slightly more dominant in V1. We conclude that V1 and MT neurons lose direction selectivity for similar values of delta x, supporting the hypothesis that basic direction selectivity in MT is inherited from V1, at least over the range of stimulus speeds represented by both areas.
Neurons in the anterior dorsal thalamic nucleus (ADN) of the rat selectively discharge in relation to the animal's head direction (HD) in the horizontal plane. Temporal analyses of cell firing properties reveal that their discharge is optimally correlated with the animal's future directional heading by approximately 24 ms. Among the hypotheses proposed to explain this property is that ADN HD cells are informed of future head movement via motor efference copy signals. One prediction of this hypothesis is that when the rat's head is moved passively, the anticipatory time interval (ATI) will be attenuated because the motor efference signal reflects only the active contribution to the movement. The present study tested this hypothesis by loosely restraining the animal and passively rotating it through the cell's preferred direction. Contrary to our prediction, we found that ATI values did not decrease during passive movement but in fact increased significantly. HD cells in the postsubiculum did not show the same effect, suggesting independence between the two sites with respect to anticipatory firing. We conclude that it is unlikely that a motor efference copy signal alone is responsible for generating anticipatory firing in ADN HD cells.
One of the current hypotheses on dopamine in the physiology of motivation posits that this neurotransmitter regulates filtering and selection of inputs to the nucleus accumbens. The effects of dopamine (100 microM) and the D1-receptor agonist SKF 38393 (20-50 microM) on GABAergic synaptic transmission between pairs of principal cells of rat nucleus accumbens were studied by using simultaneous dual patch-clamp recordings in acutely prepared brain slices. Both compounds attenuated postsynaptic responses induced by presynaptic firing and this effect was reversed by the D1-receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (25 microM). This attenuating effect of dopamine D1-receptors may act to diminish competitive interactions between single projection neurons or ensembles in the nucleus accumbens.
In population learning studies, between-subject response differences are an important source of variance that must be characterized to identify accurately the features of the learning process common to the population. Although learning is a dynamic process, current population analyses do not use dynamic estimation methods, do not compute both population and individual learning curves, and use learning criteria that are less than optimal. We develop a state-space random effects (SSRE) model to estimate population and individual learning curves, ideal observer curves, and learning trials, and to make dynamic assessments of learning between two populations and within the same population that avoid multiple hypothesis tests. In an 80-trial study of an NMDA antagonist's effect on the ability of rats to execute a set-shift task, our dynamic assessments of learning demonstrated that both the treatment and control groups learned, yet, by trial 35, the treatment group learning was significantly impaired relative to control. We used our SSRE model in a theoretical study to evaluate the design efficiency of learning experiments in terms of the number of animals per group and number of trials per animal required to characterize learning differences between two populations. Our results demonstrated that a maximum difference in the probability of a correct response between the treatment and control group learning curves of 0.07 (0.20) would require 15 to 20 (5 to 7) animals per group in an 80 (60)-trial experiment. The SSRE model offers a practical approach to dynamic analysis of population learning and a theoretical framework for optimal design of learning experiments.
Humanin (HN) is a 24-amino acid peptide that protects neuronal cells from death caused by Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related genes and amyloid-beta (Abeta). Multiple studies have revealed its biochemical and neuroprotective characteristics in vitro; however, little has been known regarding whether HN is effective in vivo in AD model systems. We examined the effect of S14G-HN, a 1,000-fold more potent derivative of HN in vitro, on amnesia induced by Abeta25-35 in mice. The Y-maze test revealed that at least 50 pmol of S14G-HN by intracerebroventricular injection prevented Abeta-induced impairment of short-term/spatial working memory; however, 5 nmol of S14A-HN, a neuroprotection-defective mutant in vitro, did not prevent Abeta-induced amnesia. These results are in agreement with the structure-function correlation shown previously in vitro. In the water-finding task, S14G-HN prevented prolongation of finding latency (the time to find water) observed in Abeta-amnesic mice, indicating that S14G-HN also blocked Abeta-induced impairment of latent learning. In accordance with these observations, immunohistochemical analysis showed that S14G-HN sustained the number of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain and the striata nearly to the normal level. Furthermore, genistein, a specific inhibitor of tyrosine kinases, blocked recovery from scopolamine-induced amnesia by S14G-HN, suggesting that certain tyrosine kinase(s) are involved in the inhibitory function of S14G-HN in vivo. Taking these findings together, we conclude that S14G-HN has rescue activity against memory impairment caused by AD-related insults in vivo by activating the same intracellular neuroprotective machinery as elucidated previously in vitro.
Anterograde fast axonal transport (FAxT) maintains synaptic function and provides materials necessary for neuronal survival. Localized changes in FAxT are associated with a variety of central nervous system (CNS) neuropathies, where they may contribute to inappropriate remodeling, a process more appropriately involved in synaptic plasticity and development. In some cases, developmental remodeling is regulated by localized secretion of endothelins (ETs), neuroinflammatory peptides that are also pathologically elevated in cases of neurologic disease, CNS injury, or ischemia. To investigate the potential role of ETs in these processes, we decided to test whether locally elevated endothelin-1 (ET-1) modulates FAxT in adult CNS tissues. We used the established in vivo rat optic nerve model and a novel ex vivo rat hippocampal slice model to test this hypothesis. In vivo, exogenously elevated vitreal ET-1 significantly affected protein composition of FAxT-cargos as well as the abundance and peak delivery times for metabolically-labeled proteins that were transported into the optic nerve. Proteins with molecular weights of 139, 118, 89, 80, 64, 59, 51, 45, 42, 37, and 25 kDa were evaluated at injection-sacrifice intervals (ISIs) of 24, 28, 32, and 36 hr. In acute hippocampal slices maintained on nonvascular supplies of glucose and oxygen, ET-1 significantly decreased the distance traveled along the Schaffer collateral tract by nonmetabolically-labeled lipid rafts at 5 and 10 min after pulse-labeling. In both models, ET-1 significantly affected transport or targeted delivery of FaxT-cargos, suggesting that ET-1 has the potential to modulate FAxT in adult CNS tissues.
Antisense technology, including ribozyme and small interfering RNA, is being developed to mediate the down-regulation of specific intracellular genes. It was observed in this study that both antiluciferase ribozymes and short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) could significantly reduce the activity of exogenously expressed luciferase in primary hippocampal neurons in a viral titer-dependent manner. shRNAs were more effective gene-silencing agents than ribozymes, although they exhibited some nonspecific gene-silencing effects at high viral titers. We also attempted to increase ribozyme efficacy by using a woodchuck hepatitis posttranscriptional regulatory element (WPRE) in the ribozyme expression cassette. The results showed that adenoviral vectors encoding specific ribozymes could silence the cellular expression of luciferase and endogenous procaspase-3 significantly. Furthermore, the antiprocaspase-3 ribozyme was shown to inhibit staurosporine-mediated cell death. The addition of a WPRE did not, however, increase or decrease ribozyme activity. As far as we are aware, this is the first example of adenovirally mediated delivery of hammerhead ribozymes being used to manipulate gene expression in primary neurons. The results therefore suggest that hammerhead ribozymes may be useful tools for studying neuronal gene function and have potential as therapeutic agents to treat CNS diseases.
Angiogenesis following traumatic brain injury (TBI) may be of importance not only for post-traumatic reparative processes but also for the development of secondary injuries. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a major regulator of endothelial cell proliferation, angiogenesis, and vascular permeability, though its possible involvement in secondary injuries after TBI is largely unknown. This study was undertaken to analyze the expression of VEGF and the VEGF receptors in experimental brain contusion in rat. Twenty-three adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a focal cerebral contusion injury by use of a weight-drop model. Four additional rats underwent craniotomy only. The animals were sacrificed 6 h, or 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, or 16 days post-injury. Expression of VEGF and the VEGF receptors VEGFR1 (Flt-1) and VEGFR2 (Flk-1) were studied by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. VEGF messenger (m)RNA and protein expression were detected in astrocytes, neutrophils, and macrophages in or adjacent to the injury from 1 day after injury, with a peak expression after 4-6 days. Flt-1 and Flk-1 mRNA and protein were detected in vessels adjacent to the lesion from 1 day after injury throughout day 6 after injury. It was also noted that Flt-1/Flk-1 and VEGF-positive vessels often were negative for SMI-71, a marker for vessels in areas with blood-brain barrier (BBB). In conclusion, we have demonstrated that TBI leads to an upregulation of VEGF, Flt-1, and Flk-1 mRNA and protein in and around the lesion. The data provide a foundation for future pharmacological intervention studies focusing on posttraumatic angiogenesis and possible injury repair effects of the VEGF system in TBI.
Intermittent fasting (IF; reduced meal frequency) and caloric restriction (CR) extend lifespan and increase resistance to age-related diseases in rodents and monkeys and improve the health of overweight humans. Both IF and CR enhance cardiovascular and brain functions and improve several risk factors for coronary artery disease and stroke including a reduction in blood pressure and increased insulin sensitivity. Cardiovascular stress adaptation is improved and heart rate variability is increased in rodents maintained on an IF or a CR diet. Moreover, rodents maintained on an IF regimen exhibit increased resistance of heart and brain cells to ischemic injury in experimental models of myocardial infarction and stroke. The beneficial effects of IF and CR result from at least two mechanisms--reduced oxidative damage and increased cellular stress resistance. Recent findings suggest that some of the beneficial effects of IF on both the cardiovascular system and the brain are mediated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor signaling in the brain. Interestingly, cellular and molecular effects of IF and CR on the cardiovascular system and the brain are similar to those of regular physical exercise, suggesting shared mechanisms. A better understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which IF and CR affect the blood vessels and heart and brain cells will likely lead to novel preventative and therapeutic strategies for extending health span.
This study compares two methods of detoxification available to heroin users in Western Australia: clonidine-assisted detoxification (CD) or clonidine-naloxone precipitated withdrawal under sedation (rapid opioid detoxification [ROD]). Oral naltrexone was made available to all participants following detoxification. Eighty heroin-dependent persons were randomly assigned to either ROD or CD. Most undertaking ROD commenced and completed this treatment. Less than one-third undertaking CD completed this treatment. There was no significant difference in those treated by CD or ROD in subjective assessment of degree or duration of pain, severity of withdrawal and craving, nor was there an increase in the withdrawal sequelae after treatment. Induction of oral naltrexone following ROD was greater, but oral naltrexone compliance levels and abstinence from heroin four weeks following detoxification were similar between ROD and CD groups. The level of patient satisfaction between the two treatments was also similar. The authors discuss why ROD is considered more effective than CD.
Histamine H 3 receptors have been suggested to inhibit the activity of a variety of central and peripheral neurons. Recent studies revealed that activation of spinal histamine H 3 receptors attenuates tail pinch, but not tail flick, nociception. To determine whether H 3 receptor-mediated antinociception is truly modality-specific, the effects of the selective H 3 agonist immepip were evaluated on nociceptive responses in rats induced by a range of thermal and mechanical intensities applied to the hind paw and the tail. In addition, the modulation of chemical nociceptive (ie, formalin) responses by immepip was evaluated. Immepip (5 to 30 mg/kg, subcutaneous) attenuated responses to low-intensity mechanical pinch, but not to high-intensity mechanical pressure applied to either the hind paw or the tail. The same doses of immepip had no effect on thermal nociceptive responses, regardless of the stimulus intensity. These results suggest that immepip-induced antinociception is modality- and intensity-specific. It is likely that immepip inhibits low-intensity mechanical nociception by activation of H 3 receptors located on the spinal terminals of Adelta and possibly C high-threshold mechanoreceptors. In addition, immepip (5 mg/kg, subcutaneous) significantly attenuated formalin-induced flinching, but not formalin-induced licking, during both phase 1 and phase 2, suggesting that H 3 agonists might be effective in treating some forms of clinically relevant pain. Certain classes of pain-transmitting fibers possess histamine H 3 receptors, but the localization and functional significance of these inhibitory receptors was not known. The present study shows that drugs that stimulate H 3 receptors can reduce behavioral responses produced by some, but not all, painful stimuli. Thus, H 3 agonists could be a new type of therapy for certain kinds of pain disorders.
The present series of experiments examined whether the complement cascade might play a key role in the expression of mechanical allodynia. Soluble complement receptor 1 (sCR1) was used to block the activation of the membrane attack pathway of the complement cascade. In doing so, sCR1 prevents the formation of the biologically active end products C3a, C5a, and membrane attack complexes (MACs). Intrathecal sCR1 had no effect on the behavioral responses of control groups. In contrast, blockade of this pathway abolished the expression of mechanical allodynia induced by peripheral nerve inflammation (sciatic inflammatory neuropathy model), partial sciatic nerve injury (chronic constriction injury model), and intrathecal injection of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 gp120, a viral envelope protein that activates glia. The fact that enhanced nociception was prevented or reversed in all 3 paradigms suggests that complement might be broadly involved in spinally mediated pain enhancement. The mechanisms whereby complement activation might potentially affect the functioning of microglia, astrocytes, and neurons are discussed. The complement cascade has not been previously implicated in spinal sensitization. These data suggest that complement activation within the spinal cord might contribute to enhanced pain states and provide additional evidence for immune regulation of pain transmission.
The plant lectin Bandeiraea simplicifolia I-isolectin B4 (BSI-B4) identifies a galactose-containing, membrane-associated glycoconjugate expressed by a discrete subpopulation of unmyelinated primary sensory neurones in the rat. We have previously suggested that BSI-B4 selectively binds to primary sensory neurones that innervate the skin. However, in that study, the tracer diamidino yellow was applied to the cut ends of peripheral nerves to identify neurones innervating particular target tissues. In this study, we have avoided axotomy by retrogradely labelling primary sensory neurones from peripheral tissues using the carbocyanine dye 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbacyanine perchlorate (DiI). DiI was injected into the plantar skin, gastrocnemius muscle, and pyloric region of the stomach in rats. Corresponding ganglia were sectioned, incubated in BSI-B4 conjugated to fluorescein isothiocyanate, and examined with a fluorescence microscope. DiI-labelled cells were identified by red fluorescence within the cytoplasm, whereas cells binding BSI-B4 displayed green fluorescence associated with the plasma membrane and Golgi apparatus. Quantitative analysis revealed that 36.2% of cutaneous neurones, 7.6% of muscle neurones, and 6.8% of visceral neurones expressed the BSI-B4-binding site, indicating that a small but significant proportion of small-diameter primary sensory neurones innervating muscle and viscera also express BSI-B4-binding sites.
Ingestion of tellurium (Te), a toxic element, produces paralysis of the hind limbs in weanling rats that is due to temporary, segmental demyelination of the sciatic nerves bilaterally. Weanling rats were fed a 1.1% elemental Te diet and sacrificed at various time points for histological and magnetic resonance (MR) analysis of the sciatic nerves. No controls exhibited impairments of the hind limbs, whereas Te-treated animals became progressively impaired with increased Te exposure. Toluidine blue-stained nerve sections of Te-treated animals showed widened endoneurial spaces, disrupted myelin sheaths, swollen Schwann cells, and a few instances of axonal degeneration. Te decreased healthy myelin by 68% and increased percent extracellular matrix by 45% on day 7. MR experiments showed a decrease in the area of the short T2 component, an increase in average T1, and an increase in the position of the intermediate T2 component in Te-treated nerves. The correlation coefficient for healthy myelin and average T1 was 0.88 and that for healthy myelin and the area underneath the short T2 component was 0.77. The area of the short T2 component has been postulated as the best measure of the process of demyelination.
Schizophrenic patients are thought to have an impaired ability to process sensory information. This deficit leads to disrupted auditory gating measured electrophysiologically as a reduced suppression of the second of paired auditoryevoked responses (P50) and is proposed to be associated with decreased function and/or expression of the homomeric alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). Here, we provide evidence that N-[(3R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl]-4-chlorobenzamide hydrochloride (PNU-282987), a novel selective agonist of the alpha7 nAChR, evoked whole-cell currents from cultured rat hippocampal neurons that were sensitive to the selective alpha7 nAChR antagonist methyllycaconitine (MLA) and enhanced GABAergic synaptic activity when applied to hippocampal slices. Amphetamine-induced sensory gating deficit, determined by auditory-evoked potentials in hippocampal CA3 region, was restored by systemic administration of PNU-282987 in chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats. Auditory gating of rat reticular thalamic neurons was also disrupted by amphetamine; however, PNU-282987 normalized gating deficit only in a subset of tested neurons (6 of 11). Furthermore, PNU-282987 improved the inherent hippocampal gating deficit occurring in a subpopulation of anesthetized rats, and enhanced amphetamine-induced hippocampal oscillation. We propose that the alpha7 nAChR agonist PNU-282987, via modulating/enhancing hippocampal GABAergic neurotransmission, improves auditory gating and enhances hippocampal oscillatory activity. These results provide further support for the concept that drugs that selectively activate alpha7 nAChRs may offer a novel, potential pharmacotherapy in treatment of schizophrenia.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is pathologically characterized by dopaminergic (DA) cell death and the presence of Lewy bodies (LB) in the brain. alpha-Synuclein (alpha-syn) and ubiquitin (Ub) are the major components of LB, however, the process of their accumulation and their relationship to DA cell loss has not yet been resolved. Now, in this journal, Inden et al. showed the protective effect of proteasome inhibitors (PSI) on DA cell death in the rat PD model using 6-hydroxyl dopamine (6-OHDA). Co-administration of PSI, lactacystin, or MG-132 significantly prevented the nigral degeneration and apomorphine-induced rotational asymmetry of the model with increased appearance of alpha-syn- and Ub-positive inclusions in the substantia nigra. This study indicates that in their model, accelerated formation of inclusions via proteasome inhibition protects against DA cell death. Previous literature linked the impairments or inhibitions of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and DA cell death. However, this report implies that the relationship between the UPS and the pathogenesis of PD may be more complex than we thought.
Outer hair cells (OHCs) in the mammalian organ of Corti display electromotility, which is thought to provide the local active mechanical amplification of the cochlear response. Prestin is the key molecule responsible for OHC electromotility. Several compounds, including cGMP, have been shown to influence OHC electromotility. There are two potential cAMP/cGMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation sites on prestin. Whether these sites are involved in cGMP-dependent reactions is as yet unknown. In this study, prestin cDNA was transiently transfected into TSA 201 cells. Cells that expressed prestin were selected to measure non-linear capacitance (NLC), a signature of outer hair cell motility. We applied cGMP and cAMP analogues and a protein kinase G (PKG) antagonist to the cells. Furthermore, nine mutations at putative phosphorylation sites of prestin were produced. The neutral amino acid alanine replaced serine/threonine at phosphorylation sites to change the conserved phosphorylation motif in order to mimic the dephosphorylated state of prestin, whereas replacement with the negatively charged aspartic acid mimicked the phosphorylated state. The properties of such modified prestin-expressing cells were examined, through measurement of NLC and with confocal microscopy. Our data demonstrate that cGMP is significantly more influential than cAMP in modifying the non-linear, voltage-dependent charge displacement in prestin-transfected cells. The electrical properties of the single and double mutations further indicate a possible interaction between the two PKG target sites. One of these sites may influence the membrane targeting process of prestin. Finally, a new topology map of prestin is proposed.
Chlorisondamine (CHL), a neuronal nicotinic ganglionic blocker, when injected in the cerebral ventricle of rats chronically blocks the increase in locomotion and rearing by subcutaneous nicotine injection. The blocking of the ion channel(s) prevents nicotine from exerting its rewarding effects on the CNS. When administered intraperitoneally, a dose 400-500 times the intracerebroventricular one is needed to cross the blood-brain barrier and to generate the same level of nicotine antagonism, resulting in severe side-effects, thus making it unlikely to be used as a therapeutical compound. Three CHL analogues, 2-(indolin-1-yl)-N,N,N-trimethylethanaminium iodide, 2-(1,3-dioxoisoindolin-2-yl)- N,N,N-trimethylethanaminium iodide, and 2-(1H-indole-3-carboxamido)- N,N,N-trimethylethanaminium iodide, were synthesized in the hope of circumventing the parent compound's shortcomings. They all share a modified indole ring, lack the four chlorines CHL carries, and have one tertiary amine and one quaternary amine. The CHL analogues form noncovalent complexes with an epitope of the alpha-2 nicotinic receptor subunit, GEREE(p)TEEEEEEEDEN, previously proposed as the possible site of CHL interaction. Complexes were analyzed using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry for comparison with CHL. Overall, all three analogues showed better affinity than CHL for complex formation with both the nonphosphorylated and phosphorylated epitopes.

It has been argued that clinical depression is accompanied by reductions in cortical excitability of the left prefrontal cortex (PFC). In support of this, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), which is a method of enhancing cortical excitability, has shown antidepressant efficacy when applied over the left PFC, although the overall therapeutic effects remain inconclusive. The cerebral pathophysiology of depression is, however, not limited to dysfunctions in the PFC, thus, targeting alternative brain regions with rTMS may provide new therapeutic windows in the treatment of depression. Evidence from electroencephalography and lesion studies suggests that not only is the left PFC involved in depression but also the parietal cortex and cerebellum. Furthermore, rTMS over the parietal cortex and the cerebellum has been found to improve mood and emotional functioning, at least in healthy volunteers. We have integrated these findings in an rTMS-oriented theoretical framework for the neurobiology of low mood and depression. To establish the possible therapeutic efficacy of this model, whereby, for example, the application of slow rTMS over the right parietal cortex and fast rTMS over the cerebellum may be beneficial in different subtypes of depression, clinical rTMS studies that target the parietal cortex and cerebellum are warranted.
Gingko biloba has cognitive benefits both in populations suffering from dementia and after acute treatment in healthy volunteers, with some evidence indicating that those with poorer cognitive performance show greater benefit. We have previously found that 1 week of treatment with ginkgo improved attention, memory and mental flexibility in post-menopausal women, but the evidence for any beneficial effects of longer treatment is less well-established. The present study aimed to determine whether cognitive benefits, similar to those previously found after 1 week of treatment, would persist after 6 weeks of treatment, and whether those with poorer cognitive performance would benefit more. In a placebo-controlled, double-blind study, postmenopausal women (aged 51-67 years) were randomly allocated to receive a standardized extract of ginkgo (LI 1370, Lichtwer Pharma, Marlow, UK) (one capsule/day of 120 mg, n = 45) or matching placebo (n = 42) for 6 weeks. According to an established reproductive staging system, subjects were divided into those in the early (Stage +1; mean age 55 years) and late (Stage +2: mean age 61 years) stages of menopause. At baseline and after 6 weeks of treatment, subjects completed tests of mental flexibility, planning, memory and sustained attention, and ratings of mood, sleepiness, bodily and menopausal symptoms. The only significant effects of ginkgo were in the test of mental flexibility, in which there were significant menopausal stage-ginkgo interactions. This was because subjects in Stage +2 required fewer trials to complete the task and made fewer errors after ginkgo treatment, whereas those in Stage +1 showed no benefits. Subjects in Stage +2 had poorer performance at baseline compared to those in Stage +1 both in this task and the test of planning ability. The beneficial effects of ginkgo were limited to the test of mental flexibility and to those with poorer performance.
It is well known that modafinil is an effective wake-promoting agent, but there is growing evidence to suggest that modafinil may also enhance some aspects of cognition. In man, modafinil has been shown to enhance vigilance in sleep-deprived and/or narcoleptic subjects and also to improve executive-type functioning (predominantly inhibitory response control processes) across a variety of human patient population groups. Preclinically, a delay-dependent improvement has been reported with modafinil in a mouse T-maze test of working memory. To investigate further the role of modafinil as a potential cognition enhancer, the effects of modafinil on attentional processes were assessed in the rat. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the potential of modafinil to enhance five-choice serial reaction time test (5-CSRT) performance. Lister Hooded rats received 32-128 mg/kg modafinil and 5-CSRT performance was assessed under standard and test parametric conditions in which the attentional load was increased, and also under conditions of scopolamine pre-treatment. Modafinil failed to significantly enhance 5-CSRT performance under standard conditions. Similarly, modafinil was unable to reverse the deficits in accuracy and/or increased omission errors induced by either parametric or pharmacological manipulations. Indeed, at higher doses, modafinil caused an increase in premature responding under certain test conditions, suggestive of increased impulsivity. The present findings suggest that, although modafinil may enhance vigilance in sleep-deprived human subjects, attentional processes in normal awake rats remain unaffected. No evidence was found to support a modafinil-induced improvement in response control; rather, under conditions of increased attentional load, modafinil appeared to facilitate impulsive responding. Finally, the failure of modafinil to improve a scopolamine-induced performance deficit suggests that modafinil does not act on the cholinergic system directly.




In a recent review, Frank and Heller (2003) provided support for their 'presleep theory' of sleep development. According to this theory, rapid eye movement (REM) and non-rapid eye movement (Non-REM) sleep in rats emerge from a common 'dissociated' state only when the neocortical EEG differentiates at 12 days of age (P12). Among the assumptions and inferences associated with this theory is that sleep before EEG differentiation is only 'sleep-like' and can only be characterized using behavioral measures; that the neural mechanisms governing presleep are distinct from those governing REM and Non-REM sleep; and that the presleep theory is the only theory that can account for developmental periods when REM and Non-REM sleep components appear to overlap. Evidence from our laboratory and others, however, refutes or casts doubt on these and other assertions. For example, infant sleep in rats is not 'sleep-like' in that it satisfies nearly every criterion used to characterize sleep across species. In addition, beginning as early as P2 in rats, myoclonic twitching occurs only against a background of muscle atonia, indicating that infant sleep is not dissociated and that electrographic measures are available for sleep characterization. Finally, improved techniques are leading to new insights concerning the neural substrates of sleep during early infancy. Thus, while many important developmental questions remain, the presleep theory, at least in its present form, does not accurately reflect the phenomenology of infant sleep.
A 67-year-old male was undergoing hemodialysis for renal failure. He had carotid stenosis, multiple liver cysts with impaired liver function, and mild aortic regurgitation in addition to a left ventricular aneurysm with reduced left ventricular function. We used intraaortic balloon pumping with a view to maintaining cerebral and hepatic blood flow during extracorporeal circulation. However, this procedure risked increased regurgitation at the aortic valve. Therefore, after aortic cross-clamping, we performed the left ventricular reconstruction while cardiac pulsation was maintained by retrograde coronary perfusion using normothermic oxygenated blood. Coronary artery bypass grafting followed after the cross-clamp was released. The patient's postoperative progress was smooth and he was discharged on 14th postoperative day.
Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is a subtype of stroke caused by the rupture of an intracranial aneurysm. Genetic factors play an important part in the pathogenesis of SAH and intracranial aneurysms. SAH and intracranial aneurysms are complex in origin, involving the interaction of several genes and environmental factors. A disruption of the extracellular matrix of the arterial wall, which provides strength and elasticity to intracranial arteries, is a likely factor in the pathophysiology of intracranial aneurysms. In this review, we discuss the genetic association, linkage, and gene-expression studies of SAH and intracranial aneurysms. At present, four genome-wide linkage studies have identified genetic loci for intracranial aneurysms. Interestingly, three of these loci include functional candidate genes coding for structural proteins of the extracellular matrix. Of these genes, elastin and collagen type 1A2 are the most promising candidates, because allelic association with intracranial aneurysms has also been shown for these genes. However, variation in these two genes only explains a small proportion of the genetic factors involved in intracranial aneurysms. Future studies need to identify new candidate genes to help unravel the pathophysiology of the disorder.


Learning strategy preferences depend upon circulating estrogen levels, with enhanced hippocampus-sensitive place learning coinciding with elevated estrogen levels. The effects of estrogen on strategy may be mediated by fluctuations in GABAergic function, given that inhibitory tone in the hippocampus is low when estrogen is high. We investigated the effects on learning strategy of intrahippocampal injections of a GABA(A) agonist in gonadally intact female rats. On the day of training, rats received 0.3 microL intrahippocampal infusions of muscimol (0.26 nmol or 2.6 nmol) or saline 20 min prior to training on a T-maze in which place (hippocampus-sensitive) or response (striatum-sensitive) strategies offer effective solutions. Muscimol treatment increased the use of the response strategy in a dose-dependent manner without influencing learning speed, indicating that muscimol modulated strategy and not learning ability. Furthermore, the muscimol-related shift to response strategies varied across the estrous cycle. The results indicate that increasing inhibition in the hippocampus biases rats away from hippocampus-sensitive place learning strategies and toward hippocampus-insensitive response learning strategies without a learning deficit. Furthermore, rats at proestrus demonstrated the most dramatic shift in learning strategy following muscimol treatment compared with control conditions, while rats at estrus demonstrated the most complete bias toward response strategies. The enhanced use of hippocampus-sensitive strategies at proestrus likely results from reduced hippocampal inhibition.
Expression of the immediate-early genes (IEGs) has been shown to be induced by activity-dependent synaptic plasticity or behavioral training and is thought to play an important role in long-term memory. In the present study, we examined the induction and expression of the IEG-encoded protein Egr-1 during an in vitro neural correlate of eyeblink classical conditioning. The results showed that Egr-1 protein expression as determined by immunocytochemistry and Western blot analysis rapidly increased during the early stages of conditioning and remained elevated during the later stages. Further, expression of Egr-1 protein required NMDA receptor activation as it was blocked by bath application of AP-5. These findings suggest that the IEG-encoded proteins such as Egr-1 are activated during relatively simple forms of learning in vertebrates. In this case, Egr-1 may have a functional role in the acquisition phase of conditioning as well as in maintaining expression of conditioned responses.
The effects of stress (restraint plus tail shock) on hippocampus-dependent trace eyeblink conditioning and hippocampal excitability were examined in C57BL/6 male mice. The results indicate that the stressor significantly increased the concentration of circulating corticosterone, the amount and rate of learning relative to nonstressed conditioned mice, and the excitability of CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Behaviorally, there was no effect of the stressor on control mice that received unpaired presentations of the tone and periorbital shock, i.e., neither stressed nor nonstressed control mice showed an increase in conditioned responding that was above baseline levels. Biophysically, the stressor significantly decreased the amplitude of the post-burst afterhyperpolarization (AHP) and decreased spike frequency accommodation relative to cells from nonstressed control mice. The effect was significant for mice that were stressed either 1 h or 24 h earlier. The results suggest that the stressor increases the excitability of hippocampal pyramidal neurons and that the mechanism underlying this increase may contribute to the more rapid acquisition of hippocampally dependent eyeblink conditioning.
Manipulations that reduce or enhance the activity of basolateral amygdala (BLA) neurons in the minutes to hours after training have been shown to respectively impair or facilitate retention on the inhibitory avoidance task. Although this suggests that BLA activity is altered after emotional arousal, such changes have not been directly demonstrated. To test this, we devised a feline analog of the inhibitory avoidance task and recorded BLA unit activity before and after a single inescapable footshock. Single-unit recordings revealed that the firing rate of many BLA neurons gradually increased after the footshock, peaking 30-50 min post-shock and then subsiding to baseline levels 2 h later. During this period of increased activity, the discharges of simultaneously recorded BLA cells were more synchronized than before the shock. Although it was known that pairing innocuous (conditioned stimulus, CS) and noxious stimuli modifies the responsiveness of BLA neurons to the CS, our results constitute the first demonstration that emotional arousal produces lasting increases in the spontaneous firing rates of BLA neurons. We propose that these changes in BLA activity may promote Hebbian interactions between coincident but spatially distributed activity patterns in BLA targets, facilitating the consolidation of emotional memories.
We use a variation of contextual fear conditioning, called the context pre-exposure facilitation effect (CPFE) to study the rat's memory for context. In this paradigm, the rat is pre-exposed to a conditioning context and later returned to that context, where it is immediately shocked. The memory context is revealed by the fact that pre-exposure to the conditioning context, but not to a different context, greatly enhances conditioned fear produced by immediate shock. We report that rat's retention of the context memory is a nonmonotonic U-shaped function of the interval separating pre-exposure and immediate shock. Retention performance decays rapidly so that within 2 min of pre-exposure there is no evidence that the rat was pre-exposed to the context. Within a few hours, however, a strong CPFE was observed that persisted for at least 28 d. Two hypotheses are discussed: (1) the descending arm of the U represents a retrieval failure, and (2) the U-shaped function represents two discontinuous memory processes initiated in parallel-short-term synaptic changes that are rapidly initiated, but also decay rapidly, and long-term synaptic processes that take time to generate but can endure for days.
The transverse relaxation effect of deoxyhemoglobin compartmentalization in erythrocytes in the capillary network is investigated using an analytical approach. The capillaries are modeled as long arrays of paramagnetic spheres, simulating the individual red blood cells. Calculations are performed in the diffusion narrowing regime, which holds for the native blood paramagnetism at moderate fields up to about 1.5 T, for the free induction decay, the Hahn spin-echo, and the Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill sequence. The commonly used model of capillaries as homogeneously magnetized cylinders is shown to underestimate the capillary contribution to the susceptibility-induced relaxation rate by up to 55%. This results in a noticeable change in the predicted deoxyhemoglobin concentration needed to cause the variation in the transverse relaxation rate observed in functional MRI and may affect subsequent quantification of physiological parameters derived from the BOLD signal. Furthermore, the model for the individual red blood cells (RBCs) represents a framework for investigating the effects of interspecies and intersubject variations in hematocrit, RBC deoxyhemoglobin concentration, and cell size on the relaxation rate. The results agree within their validity domain with previous Monte Carlo simulations.
A placebo is a sham treatment such as pill, liquid, injection, devoid of biological activity and used in pharmacology as a control for the activity of a drug. In many cases, this placebo induces biological or psychological effects in the human. Two theories have been proposed to explain the placebo effect: the conditioning theory which states that the placebo effect is a conditioned response, and the mentalistic theory for which the patient expectation is the primary basis of the placebo effect. The mechanisms involved in these processes are beginning to be understood through new techniques of investigation in neuroscience. Dopamine and endorphins have been clearly involved as mediators of the placebo effect. Brain imaging has demonstrated that the placebo effect activates the brain similarly as the active drug and in the same brain area. This is the case for a dopamine placebo in the Parkinson'disease, for analgesic-caffeine- or antidepressor-placebo in the healthy subject. It remains to be understood how conditioning and expectancy are able to activate, in the brain, memory loops that reproduce the expected biological response.

Peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) is associated with a subset of hereditary peripheral neuropathies. Although predominantly recognized as a transmembrane constituent of peripheral nerve myelin, PMP22 is localized to epithelial and endothelial cell-cell junctions, where its function remains unknown. In this report, we investigated the role of PMP22 in epithelial biology. Expression of human PMP22 (hPMP22) slows cell growth and induces a flattened morphology in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells. The transepithelial electrical resistance (TER) and paracellular flux of MDCK monolayers are elevated by hPMP22 expression. After calcium switch, peptides corresponding to the second, but not the first, extracellular loop of PMP22 perturb the recovery of TER and paracellular flux. Finally, subsequent to wounding, epithelial monolayers expressing hPMP22 fail to migrate normally. These results indicate that PMP22 is capable of modulating several aspects of epithelial cell biology, including junctional permeability and wound closure.
Annexin 2 is a calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein that has been implicated in a number of membrane-related events, including regulated exocytosis. In chromaffin cells, we previously reported that catecholamine secretion requires the translocation and formation of the annexin 2 tetramer near the exocytotic sites. Here, to obtain direct evidence for a role of annexin 2 in exocytosis, we modified its expression level in chromaffin cells by using the Semliki Forest virus expression system. Using a real-time assay for individual cells, we found that the reduction of cytosolic annexin 2, and the consequent decrease of annexin 2 tetramer at the cell periphery, strongly inhibited exocytosis, most likely at an early stage before membrane fusion. Secretion also was severely impaired in cells expressing a chimera that sequestered annexin 2 into cytosolic aggregates. Moreover, we demonstrate that secretagogue-evoked stimulation triggers the formation of lipid rafts in the plasma membrane, essential for exocytosis, and which can be attributed to the annexin 2 tetramer. We propose that annexin 2 acts as a calcium-dependent promoter of lipid microdomains required for structural and spatial organization of the exocytotic machinery.
The polarized distribution of Na+,K+-ATPase plays a paramount physiological role, because either directly or through coupling with co- and countertransporters, it is responsible for the net movement of, for example, glucose, amino acids, Ca2+, K+, Cl-, and CO3H- across the whole epithelium. We report here that the beta-subunit is a key factor in the polarized distribution of this enzyme. 1) Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells (epithelial from dog kidney) express the Na+,K+-ATPase over the lateral side, but not on the basal and apical domains, as if the contact with a neighboring cell were crucial for the specific membrane location of this enzyme. 2) MDCK cells cocultured with other epithelial types (derived from human, cat, dog, pig, monkey, rabbit, mouse, hamster, and rat) express the enzyme in all (100%) homotypic MDCK/MDCK borders but rarely in heterotypic ones. 3) Although MDCK cells never express Na+,K+-ATPase at contacts with Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, they do when CHO cells are transfected with beta1-subunit from the dog kidney (CHO-beta). 4) This may be attributed to the adhesive property of the beta1-subunit, because an aggregation assay using CHO (mock-transfected) and CHO-beta cells shows that the expression of dog beta1-subunit in the plasma membrane does increase adhesiveness. 5) This adhesiveness does not involve adherens or tight junctions. 6) Transfection of beta1-subunit forces CHO-beta cells to coexpress endogenous alpha-subunit. Together, our results indicate that MDCK cells express Na+,K+-ATPase at a given border provided the contacting cell expresses the dog beta1-subunit. The cell-cell interaction thus established would suffice to account for the polarized expression and positioning of Na+,K+-ATPase in epithelial cells.
Targeted gene repair uses short DNA oligonucleotides to direct a nucleotide exchange reaction at a designated site in a mammalian chromosome. The widespread use of this technique has been hampered by the inability of workers to achieve robust levels of correction. Here, we present a mammalian cell system in which DLD-1 cells bearing integrated copies of a mutant eGFP gene are repaired by modified single-stranded DNA oligonucleotides. We demonstrate that two independent clonal isolates, which are transcribed at different levels, are corrected at different frequencies. We confirm the evidence of a strand bias observed previously in other systems, wherein an oligonucleotide designed to be complementary to the nontranscribed strand of the target directs a higher level of repair than one targeting the transcribed strand. Higher concentrations of cell oligonucleotides in the electroporation mixture lead to higher levels of correction. When the target cell population is synchronized into S phase then released before electroporation, the correction efficiency is increased within the entire population. This model system could be useful for pharmacogenomic applications of targeted gene repair including the creation of cell lines containing single-base alterations.
Activity-dependent changes in BDNF expression have been implicated in developmental plasticity. Although its expression is widespread in visual cortex, developmental regulation of its different transcripts by visual experience has not been investigated. Here, we investigated the cellular expression of different BDNF transcripts in rat visual cortex during postnatal development. We found that transcripts I and II are expressed only in adults but III and IV are expressed from early postnatal stage. Total BDNF mRNA is expressed throughout the age groups. Transcripts III and IV show a differential intracellular localization, while former was detected only in cell bodies, latter is present both in cell bodies and dendritic processes. Inhibition of visual activity decreases the levels of exons, with exon IV transcript almost disappearing from dendrites. In vitro experiments also confirmed the above results, indicating activity-dependent regulation of different BDNF promoters with specific temporal and cellular patterns of expression in developing visual cortex.
The presence of multiple axon growth inhibitors may partly explain why central nervous system axons are generally incapable of regenerating after injury. Using RNA interference (RNAi) in dorsal root ganglia neurons (DRGN), we demonstrate siRNA-mediated silencing of components of the inhibitory signalling cascade, including p75NTR, NgR and Rho-A mRNA, of 70%, 100% and 100% of the relevant protein, respectively, while changes in neither protein levels nor cellular immunoreactivity were detected using the relevant scrambled siRNA control sequences. Importantly, after 48 h in culture after siRNA-mediated knockdown of Rho-A, neurite outgrowth was enhanced by 30% compared to that after p75NTR and 50% after NgR silencing. By 3 days, a 5-, 3.5- and 6.5-fold increase in betaIII-tubulin protein levels were observed compared to controls without siRNA after knockdown of p75NTR, NgR and Rho-A, respectively. Together, these results suggest that Rho-A knockdown might be the most effective target for a disinhibition strategy to promote CNS axon regeneration in vivo.

Reelin glycoprotein is a secretory serine protease with dual roles in mammalian brain: embryologically, it guides neurons and radial glial cells to their corrected positions in the developing brain; in adult brain, Reelin is involved in a signaling pathway which underlies neurotransmission, memory formation and synaptic plasticity. Disruption of Reelin signaling pathway by mutations and selective hypermethylation of the Reln gene promoter or following various pre- or postnatal insults may lead to cognitive deficits present in neuropsychiatric disorders like autism or schizophrenia.
Major depressive disorder is one of the most common and devastating psychiatric disorders. To identify candidate mechanisms for major depressive disorder, we compared gene expression in the temporal cortex from 12 patients with major depressive disorder and 14 matched controls using Affymetrix HgU95A microarrays. Significant expression changes were revealed in families of genes involved in neurodevelopment, signal transduction and cell communication. Among these, the expression of 17 genes related to oligodendrocyte function was significantly (P &lt; 0.05, fold change &gt; 1.4) decreased in patients with major depressive disorder. Eight of these 17 genes encode structural components of myelin (CNP, MAG, MAL, MOG, MOBP, PMP22, PLLP, PLP1). Five other genes encode enzymes involved in the synthesis of myelin constituents (ASPA, UGT8), or are essential in regulation of myelin formation (ENPP2, EDG2, TF, KLK6). One gene, that is, SOX10, encodes a transcription factor regulating other myelination-related genes. OLIG2 is a transcription factor present exclusively in oligodendrocytes and oligodendrocyte precursors. Another gene, ERBB3, is involved in oligodendrocyte differentiation. In addition to myelination-related genes, there were significant changes in multiple genes involved in axonal growth/synaptic function. These findings suggest that major depressive disorder may be associated with changes in cell communication and signal transduction mechanisms that contribute to abnormalities in oligodendroglia and synaptic function. Taken together with other studies, these findings indicate that major depressive disorder may share common oligodendroglial abnormalities with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic with particular efficacy in schizophrenia, possibly related to potentiation of brain N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) -mediated neurotransmission. NMDARs are regulated in vivo by glycine, which is regulated in turn by glycine transporters. The present study investigates transport processes regulating glycine uptake into rat brain synaptosomes, along with effects of clozapine on synaptosomal glycine transport. Amino-acid uptake of amino acids was assessed in rat brain P2 synaptosomal preparations using a radiotransport assay. Synaptosomal glycine transport was inhibited by a series of amino acids and by the selective System A antagonist MeAIB (2-methyl-aminoisobutyric acid). Clozapine inhibited transport of both glycine and MeAIB, but not other amino acids, at concentrations associated with preferential clinical response (0.5-1 microg/ml). By contrast, other antipsychotics studied were ineffective. The novel glycine transport inhibitor N[3-(4'-fluorophenyl)-3-(4'-phenylphenoxy)propyl]sarcosine (NFPS) produced biphasic inhibition of [(3)H]glycine transport, with IC(50) values of approximately 25 nM and 25 microM, respectively. NFPS inhibition of [(3)H]MeAIB was monophasic with a single IC(50) value of 31 microM. Clozapine significantly inhibited [(3)H]glycine binding even in the presence of 100 nM NFPS. In conclusion, this study suggests first that System A transporters, or a subset thereof, may play a critical role in regulation of synaptic glycine levels and by extension of NMDA receptor regulation, and second that System A antagonism may contribute to the differential clinical efficacy of clozapine compared with other typical or atypical antipsychotics.
Epidemiological studies have indicated a link between certain neuropsychiatric diseases and exposure to viral infections. In order to examine long-term effects on behavior and gene expression in the brain of one candidate virus, we have used a model involving olfactory bulb injection of the neuro-adapted influenza A virus strain, WSN/33, in C57Bl/6 mice. Following this olfactory route of invasion, the virus targets neurons in the medial habenular, midline thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei as well as monoaminergic neurons in the brainstem. The mice survive and the viral infection is cleared from the brain within 12 days. When tested 14-20 weeks after infection, the mice displayed decreased anxiety in the elevated plus-maze and impaired spatial learning in the Morris water maze test. Elevated transcriptional activity of two genes encoding synaptic regulatory proteins, regulator of G-protein signaling 4 and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha, was found in the amygdala, hypothalamus and cerebellum. It is of particular interest that the gene encoding RGS4, which has been related to schizophrenia, showed the most pronounced alteration. This study indicates that a transient influenza virus infection can cause persistent changes in emotional and cognitive functions as well as alterations in the expression of genes involved in the regulation of synaptic activities.
The meninges comprise the dura mater and the leptomeninges (arachnoid and pia mater). Dura forms an outer endosteal layer related to the bones of the skull and spine and an inner layer closely applied to the arachnoid mater. Leptomeninges have multiple functions and anatomical relationships. The outer parietal layer of arachnoid is impermeable to CSF due to tight intercellular junctions; elsewhere leptomeningeal cells form demosomes and gap junctions. Trabeculae of leptomeninges compartmentalize the subarachnoid space and join the pia to arachnoid mater. In bacterial meningitis leptomeningeal cells secrete cytokines. Pia mater is reflected from the surface of the brain and spinal cord onto arteries and veins, thus separating the subarachnoid space from the brain and cord. A sheath of leptomeninges accompanies arteries into the brain and is related to the pathways for the drainage of interstitial fluid that play a role in inflammatory responses in the brain and appear to be blocked by amyloid-beta in Alzheimer's disease. Specialised leptomeningeal cells in the stroma of the choroid plexus form collagen whorls that become calcified with age. Leptomeningeal cells also form channels in the core and apical cap of arachnoid granulations for the drainage of CSF into venous sinuses. In the spine, leptomeninges form highly perforated intermediate sheets of arachnoid and delicate ligaments that compartmentalize the subarachnoid space; dentate ligaments anchor subpial collagen to the dura mater and stabilize the spinal cord. Despite the multiple anatomical arrangements and physiological functions, leptomeningeal cells retain many histological features that are similar from site to site.
The role of subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) is well established in Parkinson's disease, but experience with STN DBS in other movement disorders is limited. We report on a patient with medically refractory cervical dystonia and essential tremor resulting in dystonic head tremor and action tremor of the hands who obtained complete tremor suppression and near resolution of her cervical dystonia with bilateral STN stimulation. The results in this case demonstrate that STN DBS can dramatically improve dystonia and tremor in nonparkinsonian movement disorders.
Detection of proliferating cells based on bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation and determination of phenotype by immunofluorescence labeling are standard approaches for studying stem and progenitor cell populations in developing and adult tissue as well as in histopathology studies. We describe incorporation of different halogenated thymidine analogs for temporal discrimination of cell cycle in the rat. With equimolar delivery, these analogs are suitable for quantitative histological studies including assessment of the regulation of proliferation, clonal analysis and simultaneous profiling of cell phenotype relative to proliferative history.
Several studies have reported functional improvement after transplantation of neural stem cells into injured spinal cord. We now provide evidence that grafting of adult neural stem cells into a rat thoracic spinal cord weight-drop injury improves motor recovery but also causes aberrant axonal sprouting associated with allodynia-like hypersensitivity of forepaws. Transduction of neural stem cells with neurogenin-2 before transplantation suppressed astrocytic differentiation of engrafted cells and prevented graft-induced sprouting and allodynia. Transduction with neurogenin-2 also improved the positive effects of engrafted stem cells, including increased amounts of myelin in the injured area, recovery of hindlimb locomotor function and hindlimb sensory responses, as determined by functional magnetic resonance imaging. These findings show that stem cell transplantation into injured spinal cord can cause severe side effects and call for caution in the consideration of clinical trials.
Microcircuits composed of principal neuron and interneuron dendrites have an important role in shaping the representation of sensory information in the olfactory bulb. Here we establish the physiological features governing synaptic signaling in dendrodendritic microcircuits of olfactory bulb glomeruli. We show that dendritic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release from periglomerular neurons mediates inhibition of principal tufted cells, retrograde inhibition of sensory input and lateral signaling onto neighboring periglomerular cells. We find that L-type dendritic Ca(2+) spikes in periglomerular cells underlie dendrodendritic transmission by depolarizing periglomerular dendrites and activating P/Q type channels that trigger GABA release. Ca(2+) spikes in periglomerular cells are evoked by powerful excitatory inputs from a single principal cell, and glutamate release from the dendrites of single principal neurons activates a large ensemble of periglomerular cells.
The chemical hypothesis of depression suggests that mood disorders are caused by a chemical imbalance in the brain, which can be corrected by antidepressant drugs. However, recent evidence indicates that problems in information processing within neural networks, rather than changes in chemical balance, might underlie depression, and that antidepressant drugs induce plastic changes in neuronal connectivity, which gradually lead to improvements in neuronal information processing and recovery of mood.
Numbers are an integral part of our everyday life - we use them to quantify, rank and identify objects. The verbal number concept allows humans to develop superior mathematical and logic skills that define technologically advanced cultures. However, basic numerical competence is rooted in biological primitives that can be explored in animals, infants and human adults alike. We are now beginning to unravel its anatomical basis and neuronal mechanisms on many levels, down to its single neuron correlate. Neural representations of numerical information can engage extensive cerebral networks, but the posterior parietal cortex and the prefrontal cortex are the key structures in primates.
[(3)H]LY334370 was developed as a radioligand to study the characteristics of this compound's interaction with the 5-HT(1F) receptor. Monovalent or divalent cations did not enhance the binding of [(3)H]LY334370 to the cloned human 5-HT(1F) receptor. In the presence of MgCl(2), the time to reach equilibrium was approximately 2 h, while in its absence equilibrium was reached in less than 1 h. [(3)H]LY334370 had high affinity for the cloned human 5-HT(1F) receptor (K(d)=0.446 nM) and the 5-HT(1F) receptor in rat brain (K(d)=0.388 nM). The expression density of 5-HT(1F) receptors, as determined by binding to homogenates of cortical regions from rat, was low (B(max)=79.1 fmol/mg protein). There was a statistically significant correlation between the apparent pK(i) for inhibition of [(3)H]LY334370 binding and the pEC(50) for stimulation of [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding to homogenates of cells expressing the cloned human 5-HT(1F) receptor. In addition, there was a statistically significant correlation between the apparent pK(i) for inhibition of [(3)H]LY334370 binding to the cloned human 5-HT(1F) receptor and the pID(50) for inhibition of trigeminal nerve stimulated dural plasma protein extravasation in the guinea pig. The conclusion from these studies is that [(3)H]LY334370 is a high affinity radioligand which can be used for the study of the 5-HT(1F) receptor in rat brain or in cells transformed with the human 5-HT(1F) receptor.
To show how causal interactions in neural dynamics are modulated by behavior, it is valuable to analyze these interactions without perturbing or lesioning the neural mechanism. This paper proposes a method, based on a graph-theoretic extension of vector autoregressive modeling and 'Granger causality,' for characterizing causal interactions generated within intact neural mechanisms. This method, called 'causal connectivity analysis' is illustrated via model neural networks optimized for controlling target fixation in a simulated head-eye system, in which the structure of the environment can be experimentally varied. Causal connectivity analysis of this model yields novel insights into neural mechanisms underlying sensorimotor coordination. In contrast to networks supporting comparatively simple behavior, networks supporting rich adaptive behavior show a higher density of causal interactions, as well as a stronger causal flow from sensory inputs to motor outputs. They also show different arrangements of 'causal sources' and 'causal sinks': nodes that differentially affect, or are affected by, the remainder of the network. Finally, analysis of causal connectivity can predict the functional consequences of network lesions. These results suggest that causal connectivity analysis may have useful applications in the analysis of neural dynamics.
A central open question of computational neuroscience is to identify the data structures and algorithms that are used in mammalian cortex to support successive acts of the basic cognitive tasks of memorization and association. This letter addresses the simultaneous challenges of realizing these two distinct tasks with the same data structure, and doing so while respecting the following four basic quantitative parameters of cortex: the neuron number, the synapse number, the synapse strengths, and the switching times. Previous work has not succeeded in reconciling these opposing constraints, the low values of synapse strengths that are typically observed experimentally having contributed a particular obstacle. In this article, we describe a computational scheme that supports both memory formation and association and is feasible on networks of model neurons that respect the widely observed values of the four quantitative parameters. Our scheme allows for both disjoint and shared representations. The algorithms are simple, and in one version both memorization and association require just one step of vicinal or neighborly influence. The issues of interference among the different circuits that are established, of robustness to noise, and of the stability of the hierarchical memorization process are addressed. A calculus therefore is implied for analyzing the capabilities of particular neural systems and subsystems, in terms of their basic numerical parameters.
Cisplatin causes apoptosis of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. The amount of platinum binding to DNA correlates with cisplatin toxicity in cancer cellsGenomic DNA platinum content of cultured embryonic DRG neurons and PC12 cells was assayed using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Throughout these studies, &quot;cisplatin&quot; refers to the specific drug; &quot;platinum&quot; to the bound form of the drug that is measured in ICP-MS.. Cisplatin binds neuronal DNA more than a neuron-like dividing cell line (PC12); 10-fold at 24 h and 24-fold greater at 72 h. Difference in platinum accumulation was not due to dividing versus post-mitotic state, or to a difference in rate of repair. There was overall greater accumulation of platinum in DRG neurons. In vivo DNA-Platinum binding in adult (300 g) rat DRG was greater than in multiple other tissues. Concomitant treatment with high-dose NGF prevented cisplatin-mediated neuronal apoptosis in vitro but did not reduce adduct formation. Our results show that NGF does not alter platination of DNA, indicating that it interrupts the platinum death pathway after adduct formation. In addition, disproportionate platinum accumulation may explain why a drug aimed at killing rapidly dividing cells causes sensory neurotoxicity.
Mouse-adapted scrapie strains have been characterized by vacuolation profiles and incubation times, but the behavioral consequences have not been well studied. Here, we compared behavioral impairments produced by ME7, 79A, 22L, and 22A strains in C57BL/6J mice. We show that early impairments on burrowing, glucose consumption, nesting and open field activity, and late stage motor impairments show a very similar temporal sequence in ME7, 79A, and 22L. The long incubation time of the 22A strain produces much later impairments. However, the strains show clear late stage neuropathological differences. All strains showed clear microglial activation and synaptic loss in the hippocampus, but only ME7 and 79A showed significant CA1 neuronal death. Conversely, 22L and 22A showed significant cerebellar Purkinje neuron loss. All strains showed marked thalamic neuronal loss. These behavioral similarities coupled with clear pathological differences could serve to identify key circuits whose early dysfunction underlies the neurological effects of different prion strains.
Extensive evidence shows that hippocampal infusions of glucose enhance spontaneous alternation (SA) performance or reverse deficits in this task. The current experiments determined whether the enhancing effects of hippocampal infusions of glucose are restricted to spatial working memory. Specifically we tested whether hippocampal infusions of glucose would reverse deficits in an emotional reference memory task (continuous multiple trial inhibitory avoidance [CMIA]) produced by septal infusions of the gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist muscimol. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given septal infusions of vehicle or muscimol (0.15 nmol: SA; 5 nmol: CMIA) combined with hippocampal infusions of vehicle or glucose (50 nmol) 15 min prior to assessing SA or CMIA training. CMIA retention was tested 48 h later. Muscimol infusions decreased percent alternation scores and avoidance retention latencies. Importantly, hippocampal infusions of glucose reversed the deficits produced by the septal muscimol infusions on both tasks. These findings show for the first time that hippocampal glucose infusions also influence emotional memory, indicating that the enhancing effects of glucose generalize to memory tasks that vary in motivational and cognitive demand.
Previous investigations examining the rat prefrontal cortex subregions in attentional-set shifting have commonly employed two-choice discriminations. To better understand how varying levels of difficulty influence the contribution of the prefrontal cortex to learning, the present studies examined the effects of orbitofrontal cortex inactivation in a two- or four-choice odor reversal learning test. Long-Evans rats were trained to dig in cups that contained distinct odors. In the two-choice odor discrimination, one odor cup was always associated with a cereal reinforcement in acquisition while the opposite odor cup was associated with a cereal reinforcement in reversal learning. In the four-choice odor discrimination, an additional two cups containing distinct odors were used that were never associated with reinforcement in acquisition or reversal learning. Bilateral infusions of the GABA-A agonist, muscimol (0.5 microg) into the orbitofrontal cortex did not impair acquisition of either the two- or four-choice discrimination task. However, muscimol infusions into the orbitofrontal cortex impaired two- and four-choice reversal learning. In the two-choice odor reversal, muscimol treatment selectively increased perseverative errors. In the four-choice odor reversal, muscimol treatment increased perseverative, regressive, as well as irrelevant errors. These findings suggest that the orbital prefrontal cortex not only enables task switching by supporting the initial inhibition of a previously relevant choice pattern, but under increasing task demands also enables the reliable execution of a new choice pattern and reduction of interference to irrelevant stimuli.
Two commercially available plastic keyboards were contrasted in the degree to which they interfered with echo planar imaging. One keyboard (GrandTec USA's &quot;Virtually Indestructible Keyboard&quot;) caused significantly less temporally variant and invariant signal loss and was integrated into a MRI interface system for recording participants' manual motor responses. The response recording system is safe, accurately records reaction time behavioral data, and does not interfere with functional data collection. Implementing this MRI-compatible keyboard allows the collection of motor responses from complex manual behaviors (i.e., typing) and thus represents a valuable tool for functional MRI (fMRI) studies.
The ability to deceive others is a high-level social and cognitive function. It has been suggested that response conflict and cognitive control increase during deceptive acts but this hypothesis has not been evaluated directly. Using fMRI, we tested this prediction for the execution of an intentional false response. Subjects were instructed to respond truthfully or falsely to a series of yes/no questions that were also varied in autobiographical and nonautobiographical content to further examine the influence of personal relevance when lying. We observed an interference effect (longer reaction times for false versus true responses) that was accompanied by increased activation within the anterior cingulate, caudate and thalamic nuclei, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), a circuit that has been implicated in response conflict and cognitive control. Behavioral and neural effects were more robust when falsifying autobiographical responses relative to nonautobiographical responses. Furthermore, a correlation between reaction time and left caudate activity supported the presence of increased response inhibition when falsifying responses. When presented with self-relevant (autobiographical) stimuli regardless of response condition, the mesial prefrontal and posterior cingulate cortices were recruited. Neural activity within these two regions and the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) also showed correlations with self-report personality measures from the Psychopathic Personality Inventory (PPI). Overall, we conclude that the process of interference is inherent to the act of falsifying information and that the amount of conflict induced and cognitive control needed to successfully execute false responses is greater when dealing with personal information.
We propose Granger causality mapping (GCM) as an approach to explore directed influences between neuronal populations (effective connectivity) in fMRI data. The method does not rely on a priori specification of a model that contains pre-selected regions and connections between them. This distinguishes it from other fMRI effective connectivity approaches that aim at testing or contrasting specific hypotheses about neuronal interactions. Instead, GCM relies on the concept of Granger causality to define the existence and direction of influence from information in the data. Temporal precedence information is exploited to compute Granger causality maps that identify voxels that are sources or targets of directed influence for any selected region-of-interest. We investigated the method by simulations and by application to fMRI data of a complex visuomotor task. The presented exploratory approach of mapping influences between a region of interest and the rest of the brain can form a useful complement to existing models of effective connectivity.
The establishment of a role for medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures in episodic memory has led to an investigative focus on the specific contributions and interactions between constituent MTL regions, including the hippocampus and surrounding medial temporal cortices. By dissociating an intentional stimulus-category learning condition from a passive viewing condition, we demonstrate, using fMRI, that novelty- and familiarity-driven responses in human anterior and posterior hippocampus, respectively, only occur during intentional learning. With increasing familiarity of stimulus-category associations, there is a shift in neuronal responses from anterior to posterior hippocampal regions. This anterior/posterior response gradient may reflect a weighting of functional hippocampal architecture related to encoding of novel and retrieval of familiar information. By contrast, perirhinal cortex is engaged by novel stimuli irrespective of task, highlighting this region as a component of a generic familiarity discrimination system. By introducing distinct stimulus types, we further demonstrate that these MTL responses are independent of stimulus complexity. Different patterns of activity for intentional learning vs. passive viewing indicate that intentional encoding/retrieval of stimulus-category associations and automatic novelty/familiarity assessment of stimuli are processed in anatomically dissociable neuronal ensembles within the MTL memory system.
Brain imaging techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have forged an impressive link between psychology and neuroscience. Whereas most experiments in cognitive psychology require participants to perform while sitting upright in front of display devices, fMRI obliges participants to perform cognitive tasks while lying supine and motionless inside a narrow bore. In addition to introducing psychological and physical stressors, such as loud thumps and head restraints, fMRI procedures also alter brain hydrostatics. The ecological factors associated with current fMRI technology, such as supine posture, may skew cognitive processing and influence hemodynamic and electrophysiological measurements, especially in extreme age groups and pathological populations. Recognizing the central role of fMRI in unraveling the neural mechanisms of cognition, we outline ways to address these limitations.
A 40-year-old male presented with a single generalized tonic-clonic seizure. MRI revealed an enhancing, dural-based, left lateral sphenoid wing lesion suggestive of a meningioma. At microsurgical excision, the lesion was firm and relatively avascular. The histopathological report revealed S-100 positive histiocytic proliferation with lymphophagocytosis (emperipolesis) characteristic of the Rosai-Dorfman disease. The case and its management are discussed.

Adenosine's role in the nervous system is multifaceted. As the core molecule of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), adenosine exists in equilibrium with the adenine nucleotide pool and contributes to cellular energy charge, a quantification of relative amounts of available ATP, ADP, AMP and adenosine. Beyond participating in overall energy balance and thus in maintaining cellular homeostasis, adenosine critically influences dynamic signaling in the nervous system. In particular, adenosine has an effect on and is affected by excitatory synaptic transmission. This report describes the ubiquitous nature of adenosine's influence, outlines specific scenarios of clinical import and highlights emerging knowledge about the regulation of adenosine.
X-linked myotubular myopathy is a congenital muscle disorder due to MTM1 mutation, and is characterized clinically by generalized muscle weakness and hypotonia at birth usually resulting in early death. We newly identified 26 unrelated Japanese patients with MTM1 mutations by genomic DNA and transcript analysis, including 12 novel mutations. Among 31 patients, including our previously reported five patients, the c.1261-10A&gt;G splice site mutation was the most frequent mutation. Three mutations, one missense and two splice site, were associated with milder phenotype. Of particular interest, one boy had a 240 kb deletion in Xq28 encompassing CXorf6 (formerly F18), MTM1 and MTMR1 but was not accompanied by hypogenitalism. CXorf6, which have been implicated in male sexual development, was not entirely deleted in this boy, resulting in the fusion with the MTMR1 gene. A chimeric fusion transcript was detected in patient's muscle by RT-PCR, suggesting this fusion gene product avoids the phenotype. This deletion led us to refine the critical region of CXorf6 for the development of male genitalia.
Myoblast transplantation is a potential therapy for severe muscle trauma, myopathies and heart infarct. Success with this therapy relies on the ability to obtain cell preparations enriched in myogenic precursor cells and on their survival after transplantation. To define myoblast transplantation strategies applicable to patients, we used a large animal model, the pig. Muscle dissociation procedures adapted to porcine tissue gave high yields of cells containing at least 80% myogenic precursor cells. Autologous transplantation of 3[H]-thymidine labeled porcine myogenic precursor cells indicated 60% survival at day 1 followed by a decay to 10% at day 5 post-injection. Nuclei of myogenic precursor cells transduced with a lentivirus encoding the nls-lacZ reporter gene were present in host myotubes 8 days post-transplantation, indicating that injected myogenic precursor cells contribute to muscle regeneration. This work suggests that pig is an adequate large animal model for exploring myogenic precursor cells transplantation strategies applicable in patients.
Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy 2A (LGMD2A) is considered to be the most frequent LGMD. Our study surveyed an area in northeastern Italy where an almost complete ascertainment was possible. To identify LGMD2A patients we used a new diagnostic approach, including several molecular and biochemical methods. In 84 screened patients from northeastern Italy, we identified 39 LGMD2A patients, the prevalence of LGMD2A being 9.47 per million. In the Venezia district it appears higher than in other districts of the Veneto region, and in the Friuli region it is three times higher than in Veneto, due to the recurrence of single mutation. Haplotype analysis suggested a founder effect. The population from Venezia and Friuli has a higher risk of being heterozygote for these two mutant alleles than people from the rest of northeastern Italy. Our results indicate that LGMD2A is one of the most frequent autosomal recessive disorders, thus finding its molecular characterization becoming increasingly important.
Neurosteroids are produced in the brain independently of peripheral endocrine glands to act locally in the nervous system. They exert potent promnesic effects and play significant roles in mental health-related disorders. In part, neurosteroids act by affecting ligand-gated ion channels and metabotropic receptors through rapid non-genomic processes. We have previously demonstrated that neurosteroids also affect synaptic transmission presynaptically in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Here we describe the effects of the most abundant neurosteroid in the rodent brain, pregnenolone sulfate (PregS), on signal processing in the dentate subfield of the hippocampus. We show that PregS acts presynaptically at low concentrations (300 nM) to enhance paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) in perforant pathway terminals on dentate granule cells. Similar effects were found with two steroid sulfatase inhibitors demonstrating a potential contribution of endogenous steroids to dentate synaptic plasticity. This enhanced presynaptic facilitation paradoxically increases paired-pulse inhibition (PPI) at short interpulse intervals. Based on these data, a model of dentate gyrus circuit interactions is proposed for the presynaptic action of PregS on the filtering dynamics of the dentate subfield at frequencies similar to those of the endogenous signals from the entorhinal cortex. These modeling studies are consistent with experimental measurements demonstrating positive modulation by PregS at low frequencies and negative modulation at high frequencies. These studies show an important role for the presynaptic action of neurosteroids in modulating input signals to the hippocampus.
The effect of the Na+/Ca(2+)-exchange inhibitor KB-R7943 was investigated in spinal cord dorsal column ischemia in vitro. Oxygen/glucose deprivation at 37 degrees C for 1 h causes severe injury even in the absence of external Ca2+. KB-R7943 was very protective in the presence and absence of external Ca2+ implicating mechanisms in addition to extracellular Ca2+ influx through Na+/Ca(2+)-exchange, such as activation of ryanodine receptors by L-type Ca2+ channels. Indeed, blockade of L-type Ca2+ by nimodipine confers a certain degree of protection of dorsal column against ischemia; combined application of nimodipine and KB-R7943 was not additive suggesting that KB-R7943 may also act on Ca2+ channels. KB-R7943 reduced inward Ba2+ current with IC50 = 7 microM in tsA-201 cells expressing Ca(v)1.2. Moreover, nifedipine and KB-R7943 both reduced depolarization-induced [Ca2+]i increases in forebrain neurons and effects were not additive. Nimodipine or KB-R7943 also reduced ischemic axoplasmic Ca2+ increase, which persisted in 0Ca2+/EGTA perfusate in dorsal column during ischemia. While KB-R7943 cannot be considered to be a specific Na+/Ca2+ exchange inhibitor, its profile makes it a very useful neuroprotectant in dorsal columns by: reducing Ca2+ import through reverse Na+/Ca2+ exchange; reducing influx through L-type Ca2+ channels, and indirectly inhibiting Ca2+ release from the ER through activation of ryanodine receptors.
The affinity of several antidepressant and antipsychotic drugs for the 5-HT7 receptor and its CNS distribution suggest potential in the treatment of psychiatric diseases. However, there is little direct evidence of receptor function in vivo to support this. We therefore evaluated 5-HT7 receptors as a potential drug target by generating and assessing a 5-HT7 receptor knockout mouse. No difference in assays sensitive to potential psychotic or anxiety states was observed between the 5-HT7 receptor knockout mice and wild type controls. However, in the Porsolt swim test, 5-HT7 receptor knockout mice showed a significant decrease in immobility compared to controls, a phenotype similar to antidepressant treated mice. Intriguingly, treatment of wild types with SB-258719, a selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist, did not produce a significant decrease in immobility unless animals were tested in the dark (or active) cycle, rather than the light, adding to the body of evidence suggesting a circadian influence on receptor function. Extracellular recordings from hypothalamic slices showed that circadian rhythm phase shifts to 8-OH-DPAT are attenuated in the 5-HT7 receptor KO mice also indicating a role for the receptor in the regulation of circadian rhythms. These pharmacological and genetic knockout studies provide the first direct evidence that 5-HT7 receptor antagonists should be investigated for efficacy in the treatment of depression.
This study evaluated the effect of the synthetic, nonsteroidal antiestrogen drug tamoxifen on the function of brain mitochondria. We observed that tamoxifen concentrations above 30 nmol/mg protein induced a slight decrease on RCR and ADP/O ratio. However, only higher concentrations of tamoxifen (&gt; or = 70 nmol/mg protein) affected the phosphorylative capacity of mitochondria. Those effects were characterized by a decrease on mitochondrial transmembrane potential (DeltaPsim) and repolarization level and an increase on repolarization lag phase with a decrease in ATP levels. Moreover, our results also show that tamoxifen presented a potent capacity to inhibit hydrogen peroxide formation and reduced the extent of lipid peroxidation induced by the pro-oxidant pair ADP/Fe(2+). Tamoxifen also exerted some protection against mitochondrial permeability transition pore (MPT) opening, although in a smaller extension than that promoted by cyclosporin A, the specific inhibitor of the MPT. However, in the presence of tamoxifen plus cyclosporin A, the protection observed was significantly higher when compared with that induced by both agents alone. Furthermore, tamoxifen avoided the oxidation of thiol groups and GSH depletion promoted by Ca(2+). These results show that tamoxifen can afford protection against brain mitochondrial injury promoted by several oxidative stress-related events such as hydrogen peroxide production, lipid peroxidation and the induction of the MPT. Since numerous neurodegenerative diseases are intimately related with mitochondrial dysfunction, future therapeutical strategies could be designed taking into account this protective role of tamoxifen.
We determined the effects of the allosteric gamma-aminobutyric acid B receptor modulators CGP7930 and GS39783 on binding and function of orthosteric ligands with distinct intrinsic properties. In radioligand binding (saturation or displacement) experiments, the affinities of a number of competitive antagonists were decreased by the modulators, with no change in receptor number. The binding curves of the partial agonist CGP47656 comprised a high and a low affinity component; the affinity of the former was increased by the allosteric agents. The maximal stimulation of GTP[gamma](35)S binding via recombinant GABA(B) receptors by CGP47656 was increased 4-fold in the presence of 30 microM CGP7930 or GS39783. Two compounds known so far as &quot;silent&quot; competitive GABA(B) receptor antagonists, CGP35348 and 2-OH-saclofen, did not stimulate GTP[gamma](35)S binding on their own, but became low efficacy partial agonists in the presence of the two modulators. The potency of GABA to inhibit the formation of cAMP induced by a forskolin analog in a recombinant CHO cell line expressing GABA(B) receptors was increased by the modulators. CGP35348 and 2-OH-saclofen, like CGP47656, were partial agonists on their own in this assay, and the allosteric modulators increased the potency as well as the efficacy of all three compounds. With CGP52432, there was a trend towards inverse agonism in the cAMP assay. These results show that the intrinsic properties of orthosteric ligands are highly dependent on the characteristics of the assay system used and that allosteric modulators are useful tools for elucidating these properties.


Research in neuropsychology suggests that the etiology of a neurologic injury determines the neuropathological and neuropsychological changes. This study compared neuropsychological outcome in subjects who had traumatic brain injury (TBI) with subjects who had anoxic brain injury (ABI), who were matched for age, gender, and ventricle-to-brain ratio. There were no group differences for morphologic or neuropsychological measures. Both groups exhibited impaired memory, attention, and executive function, as well as slowed mental processing speed. Intelligence correlated with whole brain volume, and measures of memory correlated with hippocampal atrophy. There was no unique contribution of hippocampal atrophy on neuropsychological outcome between the groups. In the absence of localized lesions, the amount of neural tissue loss, rather than etiology, may be the critical factor in neuropsychological outcome.

With increasing numbers of treatment options available for patients with major depression over the last decade and the growing body of evidence describing their efficacy and safety, clinicians often find it difficult to determine the best and most appropriate evidence-based treatment for each patient. Systematic reviews utilizing statistical methods that synthesize and evaluate data from a number of studies have become increasingly more available over the past decade. We review major findings and lessons learned from salient examples of quantitative analyses of antidepressant research and provide recommendations for meta-analysts, journal and grant reviewers, and research 'consumers' (ie, clinicians) for conducting, reporting, and evaluating such analyses.
The endogenous cannabinoid (eCB) system represents a major therapeutic target for the treatment of a variety of anxiety-related disorders. A recent study has demonstrated that pharmacologic or genetic disruption of CB1-receptor-mediated neurotransmission decreases the extinction of conditioned fear in mice. Here, we examined whether CB1 blockade would similarly disrupt extinction in rats, using fear-potentiated startle as a measure of conditioned fear. We also examined whether pharmacologic enhancement of CB1 activation would lead to enhancements in extinction. Our results indicate that systemic administration of the CB1 antagonist rimonabant (SR141716A) prior to extinction training led to significant, dose-dependent decreases in extinction. While the administration of the CB1 agonist WIN 55,212-2 did not appear to affect extinction, administration of AM404, an inhibitor of eCB breakdown and reuptake, led to dose-dependent enhancements in extinction. In addition to showing decreased fear 1 and 24 h after extinction training, AM404-treated animals showed decreased shock-induced reinstatement of fear. Control experiments demonstrated that the effects of AM404 could not be attributed to alterations in the expression of conditioned fear, locomotion, shock reactivity, or baseline startle, as these parameters seemed unchanged by AM404. Furthermore, coadministration of rimonabant with AM404 blocked this enhancement of extinction, suggesting that AM404 was acting to increase CB1 receptor activation during extinction training. These results demonstrate that the eCB system can be modulated to enhance emotional learning, and suggest that eCB modulators may be therapeutically useful as adjuncts for exposure-based psychotherapies such as those used to treat Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and other anxiety disorders.
The habenular nuclear complex is a major influence on brainstem cell groups that influence attention, but its role in attentional performance has not previously been explored. The present study investigated how habenula lesions affect attentional function as assessed by the 5-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT) in male Lister-Hooded rats. Rats were pretrained in the 5-CSRTT before receiving discrete bilateral lesions of the habenula or a sham procedure. In test sessions immediately following recovery from surgery, lesioned rats showed a marked increase in premature responding. Over the course of testing this increase of premature responding declined in magnitude. In contrast, choice accuracy showed no impairment during the earliest postsurgery test sessions but progressively deteriorated over the course of testing. These opposite time courses strongly imply that different mechanisms mediate these two effects of the habenula lesion. Differential effects of drug treatment on these effects further supported this view. Thus, D-amphetamine (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) increased premature responding without affecting choice accuracy. On the other hand, haloperidol (0.01-0.03 mg/kg i.p.) decreased premature responding without significantly affecting choice accuracy. The results are consistent with the view that elevated premature responding in habenula-lesioned animals is mediated by increased dopaminergic activity, whereas impaired choice accuracy is not. Implications of these findings for the hypothesis that habenula dysfunction is involved in cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia are discussed.
Although substantial evidence has shown interactions between glutamatergic and dopaminergic systems play a cardinal role in the regulation of attentional processes, their involvement in informational filtering has been poorly investigated. Chiefly, little research has focused on functional correlations between the dopaminergic system and the mechanism of action of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists on sensorimotor gating. The present study was targeted at evaluating whether the activation of D1 and D2 receptors is able to interact with the disruption of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle mediated by dizocilpine, a selective, noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist. We tested the effects of SKF 38393 ((+/-)-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-(1H)-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol) (10 mg/kg, s.c.), a selective D1 agonist, and quinpirole (0.3, 0.6 mg/kg, s.c.), a D2 agonist, in rats, per se and in cotreatment with different doses of dizocilpine, ranging from 0.0015 to 0.15 mg/kg (s.c.). Subsequently, the effect of the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 ((R)-(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine) (0.05, 0.1 mg/kg, s.c.) on PPI disruptions mediated by dizocilpine and by combination of dizocilpine and SKF 38393 was tested. Two further experiments were performed to verify whether the synergic effect of the D1 agonist with dizocilpine was counteracted by effective doses of haloperidol (0.1, 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) and clozapine (5, 10 mg/kg, i.p.). All experiments were carried out using standard procedures for the assessment of PPI of the acoustic startle reflex. SKF 38393, while unable to impair sensorimotor gating alone, induced PPI disruption in cotreatment with 0.05 and 0.15 mg/kg of dizocilpine, both ineffective per se. Furthermore, this effect was reversed by SCH 23390, but not by haloperidol or clozapine. Conversely, no synergistic effect was exhibited between quinpirole and dizocilpine, at any given dose. These findings suggest that D1, but not D2 receptors, enhance the disruptive effect of dizocilpine on PPI.
The second messenger for closure of M/KCNQ potassium channels in post-ganglionic neurons and central neurons had remained as a 'mystery in the neuroscience field' for over 25 years. However, recently the details of the pathway leading from muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR)-stimulation to suppression of the M/KCNQ-current were discovered. A key molecule is A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP; AKAP79 in human, or its rat homolog, AKAP150) which forms a trimeric complex with protein kinase C (PKC) and KCNQ channels. AKAP79 or 150 serves as an adapter that brings the anchored C-kinase to the substrate KCNQ channel to permit the rapid and 'definitive' phosphorylation of serine residues, resulting in avoidance of signal dispersion. Thus, these findings suggest that mAChR-induced short-term modulation (or memory) does occur within the already well-integrated molecular complex, without accompanying Hebbian synapse plasticity. However, before this identity is confirmed, many other modulators which affect M-currents remain to be addressed as intriguing issues.

vignette is a diminutive of vigne (vine) and at first was used in the form of a vine branch, e.g., to begin or end a chapter in a book or to frame a medieval miniature. By extension, it has taken on the meaning of image. This stereotactic vignette is by no means a historical account of functional stereotactic neurosurgery in the 1960s, but it is through a description of the evolution of my relationships with close colleagues in those early years that I attempt to recreate the atmosphere and medical dreams of this group of doctors, who were somewhat outside the mainstream of neurosurgery at that time.
The aim of this study was to examine the effects of prenatal and postnatal chronic exposure to mercury (Hg), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and lead (Pb) on the neuromotor development of preschool children. The study population consisted of 110 preschool Inuit children from Nunavik (Canada). Blood Hg, PCBs and Pb concentrations were measured at birth (cord blood) and at the time of testing. Gross motor functions were evaluated and a neurological examination was performed. Fine neuromotor performance was assessed using quantitative measures of postural hand tremor, reaction time, sway oscillations, as well as alternating and pointing movements. Potential covariates were documented including demographic and familial characteristics, other prenatal neurotoxicants (alcohol, tobacco) and nutrients (selenium (Se), Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA)). Hierarchical multivariate regression analyses were performed, controlling for significant covariates. Gross motor development was not linked to prenatal exposures. However, significant associations were observed between blood Pb concentration at testing time and changes in reaction time, sway oscillations, alternating arm movements and action tremor. For some of these outcomes, neuromotor effects of Pb exposure are observed at blood concentrations below 10 microg/dl. Negative effects of PCBs on neuromotor development were not clearly observed, neither were the potential beneficial effects of n-3 PUFA and selenium. Tremor amplitude was related to blood Hg concentrations at testing time, which corroborate an effect already reported among adults.
Marijuana (Cannabis sativa) is the most commonly used illicit drug by pregnant women, but information is limited about the effects of prenatal cannabis exposure on fetal development. The present study evaluated the influence of early maternal marijuana use on fetal growth. Women electing voluntary saline-induced abortions were recruited at a mid-gestational stage of pregnancy (weeks 17-22), and detailed drug use and medical histories were obtained. Toxicological assays (maternal urine and fetal meconium) were used in conjunction with the maternal report to assign groups. Subjects with documented cocaine and opiate use were excluded. Main developmental outcome variables were fetal weight, foot length, body length, and head circumference; ponderal index was also examined. Analyses were adjusted for maternal alcohol and cigarette use. Marijuana (n=44)- and nonmarijuana (n=95)-exposed fetuses had similar rates of growth with increased age. However, there was a 0.08-cm (95% CI -0.15 to -0.01) and 14.53-g (95% CI -28.21 to 0.86) significant reduction of foot length and body weight, respectively, for marijuana-exposed fetuses. Moreover, fetal foot length development was negatively correlated with the amount and frequency of marijuana use reported by the mothers. These findings provide evidence of a negative impact of prenatal marijuana exposure on the mid-gestational fetal growth even when adjusting for maternal use of other substances well known to impair fetal development.
Among the most persistent and bio-accumulative environmental pollutants are the polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), a class of chemicals widely used as flame retardants in plastics and textile coating, and the polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), previously used as coolants and lubricants in electrical equipment. Monitoring programs revealed high levels of both these classes of compounds in human breast milk, raising concerns for their potential noxious effects on infants. The aim of the present study was to investigate the neurotoxic effects of 2,2',4,4',5-penta BDE (BDE 99: 18mg/kg/day) or Aroclor 1254 (A1254, a PCB mixture: 10mg/kg/day) administration, from gestational day (GD) 6 to postnatal day (PND) 21, on neurobehavioral development in the CD-1 Swiss mouse. In addition, we investigated whether the administration route affects the emergence or the magnitude of the toxic effects of BDE 99 or A1254. In particular, we compared self-administration, consisting in letting the mouse drink spontaneously the compound dissolved in oil from a syringe, with gavage, consisting in force-feeding a substance by a tube inserted in the mouth and then into the stomach, a procedure reported to be stress-inducing. Both compounds induced hyperactivity, though BDE 99 affected activity profile only during adolescence and A1254 mainly at adulthood. Levels of total circulating thyroxine were decreased by both BDE 99 and A1254 administration, though only in the latter group the decrease was statistically significant. These findings suggest a different neurotoxic action exerted by PBDEs and PCBs. An effect of the administration route, independent from the compound administered, was found on thigmotactic behavior and gavage administration affected pup body weight gain only in the A1254 group, suggesting that the stress induced by gavage procedure may either affect results per se or modulate the detrimental action of selected compounds.
One of the keys to successful gene therapy is the selection of the appropriate therapeutic gene and its molecular vehicle. A recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vector offers the advantage of the ability to infect non-dividing cells, affording a non-pathogenic, long-term transgene expression without a substantial inflammatory response. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), accumulation of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) in the brain is a triggering event leading to the long-term pathological cascade. Therefore, it is necessary for therapy and prevention of AD to promote the degradation and clearance of Abeta . Neprilysin is a rate-limiting peptidase in Abeta degradation in the brain and a reduction in neprilysin activity will contribute to Abeta deposition and thus to AD development. As an experimental gene therapy for AD, neprilysin gene was introduced in the hippocampus of mice using rAAV vector. The neprilysin gene transfer increased the reduced neprilysin activity, abolished the increase of Abeta levels in the hippocampus of neprilysin-deficient mice, and also remarkably decelerated amyloid deposition in aged AD model mice. Thus, introduction of this Abeta--degrader gene into the brain would have therapeutic potential for AD.
At low energy density (0.03 mJ/mm2), extracorporeal shock waves (ESW), originally developed for clinical lithotripsy, have successfully been used for anti-inflammatory treatment of soft tissues. Since nitric oxide plays a critical role in inflammation, we hypothesized for ESW to increase NO production in cells. Using human umbilical vein endothelial cells as a model system, we observed that ESW, at low energy density, rapidly induced an enhancement of eNOS activity. In these cells, eNOS activity is modulated by tyrosine- and serine-phosphorylation. ESW shifted eNOS to a less-tyrosine-phosphorylated form, without affecting its serine-phosphorylation, thus accounting for its rapid enzyme activation. LPS/IFN-gamma treatment of human umbilical vein endothelial cells induced a rapid inhibition of eNOS activity and concomitant NF-kappaB activation which were efficiently counteracted by ESW treatment. Therefore, the present results indicate that the molecular mechanism of clinically observed anti-inflammatory action of ESW should include tyrosine-dephosphorylation of eNOS, a successive increase in NO production and suppression of NF-kappaB activation.
Many patients with developmental disabilities exhibit various types of sleep disturbance. However, we have no idea of a specific approach to relieve the symptoms on sleep disturbance, although recent basic neuroscience has provided many novel findings on the neuronal mechanisms of the sleep-wakefulness cycle. In this brief review, a flip-flop circuit was introduced to explain neuronal mechanisms of the abrupt change between sleep and wakefulness. The rate of atonia during non-REM sleep was also introduced, as this index may useful for assessing the cholinoaminergic balance of the central nervous system. Sleep hygiene was also based on basic sleep-wakefulness mechanisms. To maintain sleep hygiene is a fundamental approach caring for patients with sleep disturbance, and specific approaches such as medication and treatment of sleep disordered breathing should also be based on the basic mechanisms of the sleep-wakefulness cycle. It was emphasized that effective intervention should only occur after the careful assessment of neuronal background of each patient.
There has been a controversy as to the contribution of the frontal lobe to human memory function. We describe a 49-year-old right-handed patient with memory disturbance following a left medial frontal subcortical hematoma. Her amnesia was characterized by (1) predominant anterograde amnesia, (2) difficulty in both voluntary recall and recognition tasks, (3) a great number of false-alarm responses in a recognition task, and (4) no confabulation. An MRI demonstrated that her lesion was restricted to the left medial frontal area and anterior cingulate gyrus. This case represents a rare instance of amnesia following damage to the frontal lobe. We speculated that the unique feature of her memory impairment resulted from combined lesions in the medial frontal subcortical white matter and anterior cingulate gyrus. It seems that Papez's circuite participated in the development of these symptoms.
In the vast majority of affected individuals, obesity involves overconsumption of food relative to calorie requirements. The sensory function of the stomach may play a key role in the cessation of food ingestion. This sensation of the stomach is, in part, determined by its motor functions, such as tone and compliance and the rate of emptying. However, studies of gastric emptying in normal-weight and obese persons have shown inconsistent results. Gastric capacity was larger in obese persons when tested with an intragastric latex balloon filled with water. In contrast, other studies using the barostat or imaging (single-photon emission computed tomography) techniques reported no differences in gastric volume or compliance between obese and lean subjects. On the other hand, increased body mass and fasting gastric volume are independently associated with delayed satiation under standard laboratory conditions of food ingestion. These data suggest that changes in gastric motor and sensory functions in obesity may present useful targets to prevent and treat obesity. Further well-controlled, validated studies are needed to clarify the potential role of altering the stomach's function as a means of controlling food intake in obesity.
In previous phoria adaptation experiments on normal subjects adaptation tends to reach only approximately 2/3 of the prism-induced phoria while clinical experience indicates that prism adaptation is usually complete. The present data show that increasing the proportion of binocular experience through the phoria-inducing prism allows adaptation to become complete. Longer periods of binocular vision give a better indication of vergence adaptation function. This is particularly important in experiments where normal and abnormal adaptive abilities are being compared.
We describe a non-invasive phakometric method for determining corneal axis rotation relative to the visual axis (beta) together with crystalline lens axis tilt (alpha) and decentration (d) relative to the corneal axis. This does not require corneal contact A-scan ultrasonography for the measurement of intraocular surface separations. Theoretical inherent errors of the method, evaluated by ray tracing through schematic eyes incorporating the full range of human ocular component variations, were found to be larger than the measurement errors (beta &lt; 0.67 degrees , alpha &lt; 0.72 degrees and d &lt; 0.08 mm) observed in nine human eyes with known ocular component dimensions. Intersubject variations (mean +/- S.D.: beta = 6.2 +/- 3.4 degrees temporal, alpha = 0.2 +/- 1.8 degrees temporal and d = 0.1 +/- 0.1 mm temporal) and repeatability (1.96 x S.D. of difference between repeat readings: beta +/- 2.0 degrees , alpha +/- 1.8 degrees and d +/- 0.2 mm) were studied by measuring the left eyes of 45 subjects (aged 18-42 years, 29 females and 16 males, 15 Caucasians, 29 Indian Asians, one African, refractive error range -7.25 to +1.25 D mean spherical equivalent) on two occasions.

For more than a century, the traditional method of stimulating neural activity has been based on electrical methods, and it remains the gold standard to date. We report a technological breakthrough in neural activation in which low-level, pulsed infrared laser light is used to elicit compound nerve and muscle potentials in mammalian peripheral nerve in vivo. Optically induced neural action potentials are spatially precise, artifact free, and damage free and are generated by use of energies well below tissue ablation threshold. Thus optical stimulation presents a simple yet novel approach to contact-free in vivo neural activation that has major implications for clinical neurosurgery, basic neurophysiology, and neuroscience.

We previously reported that serine/threonine protein phosphatases (PPs) play a role in the antinociception induced by the mu-opioid receptor agonist morphine. In this study we evaluated the possible involvement of PPs on the antinociception induced by agonists of others G protein-coupled receptors in the tail flick test in mice. The subcutaneous administration of clonidine (0.25-4 mg/kg), baclofen (2-32 mg/kg) or U50,488H (2-16 mg/kg) (agonists of alpha(2) adrenoceptors, GABA(B) and kappa-opioid receptors, respectively) produced dose-dependent antinociception. The antinociceptive effects of clonidine and baclofen were antagonized in a dose-dependent way by the protein phosphatase inhibitors okadaic acid (0.001-10 pg/mouse, i.c.v.) and cantharidin (0.001-10 ng/mouse, i.c.v.), and okadaic acid was 1000 times more potent than cantharidin in producing this effect. The effects of these drugs appear to be specifically due to the blockade of PPs, since L-norokadaone (an analogue of okadaic acid that has no effect on PPs) did not modify clonidine- or baclofen-induced antinociception over the wide range of doses used (0.001-1000 pg/mouse, i.c.v.). On the other hand, the antinociception induced by activation of kappa-opioid receptors with U50,488H was not modified by okadaic acid or cantharidin. In conclusion, our data support the idea that serine/threonine PPs are differentially involved in the antinociceptive effects of several agonists of G protein-coupled receptors in mice.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have previously been shown to play a role in pain transmission during inflammatory or neuropathic pain states. However, the role of mGluR5 in post-operative pain remains to be fully investigated. The present study was conducted to characterize analgesic activity of 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) in the skin-incision-induced post-operative pain model in rats. MPEP is a potent and selective mGluR5 antagonist with high affinity (K(i)=6.3+/-0.9 nM) in rat cortex using [(3)H]-MPEP as a radioligand, while not competing with the mGluR1-selective radioligand [(3)H]-R214127 (K(i)&gt;10,000 nM) in rat cerebellum. Post-operative pain was examined 2 h following surgery using weight-bearing (WB) difference between injured and uninjured paws as a measure of non-evoked pain. In this model, MPEP, as morphine, showed dose-dependent effects and full efficacy after systemic administration (ED(50)=15 mg/kg, i.p. for MPEP, ED(50)=1.3 mg/kg, s.c. for morphine). In addition, intrathecal (i.t.) and intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) MPEP reduced WB difference (ED(50)=65 microg/rat i.t. and ED(50)=200 microg/rat i.c.v.). Interestingly, intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of MPEP either before or after surgery induced a similar reduction in WB difference (ED(50)=90 microg/rat, i.pl.) while contralateral i.pl. MPEP injection did not produce any effect. These results demonstrate that both peripheral and central mGluR5 receptors play a role in nociceptive transmission observed during post-operative pain. In addition, the data suggest that mGluR5 antagonists could offer a new therapeutic approach to the treatment of post-operative pain.
We report the case of a woman who developed generalized dystonia, severe cognitive deficits and dysphagia following an overdose of the hypoglycaemic drug, sulphonylurea. The MRI reveals frontal and temporal lobe atrophy, but no evidence of damage to the basal ganglia. This case adds to the small number of previously reported cases with secondary dystonia seemingly due to cortical rather than subcortical damage.
Obsessive-compulsive (OC) symptoms and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have been reported in Parkinson's disease (PD). This is interpreted as an indirect evidence for the involvement of frontobasal ganglia circuitry in OCD. However, the evidence for relationship between the OC symptoms and PD is inconsistent. This study systematically assessed OC symptoms and OCD in non-demented idiopathic PD patients (n=69) and matched medically ill controls (n=69). The cases did not differ from controls with respect to OC symptoms, clinical and subclinical OCD, tics and other psychiatric diagnoses. There was no relationship between severity of PD and OC symptoms. The findings do not support relationship between OCD and PD. While the findings of this study do not in any way rule out the involvement of frontobasal ganglia circuitry in OCD, it is speculated that the involvement of different circuitry in the pathophysiology of OCD and PD explain the lack of association between PD and OCD.
Although many overgrowth and growth deficient patients have apparently normal neuropsychological and cognitive functions, there is evidence to suggest that in some instances these functions are somewhat impaired. Altered growth hormone (GH) signaling is primarily responsible for many growth phenotypes and its signaling is regulated by a number of molecules, including members of the suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) family, in particular SOCS2. GH and SOCS2 have recently been shown to regulate neuronal differentiation by controlling expression of a neurogenic transcription factor, Neurogenin-1. Furthermore, SOCS2 regulates neurite outgrowth from neurons. Together, GH and SOCS2 play a role in regulating the numbers and types of neurons formed during development, as well as the connections they make in the central nervous system. This review will explore the possibility that an alteration in the balance of GH and SOCS2 may therefore lead to neural defects and some possible mechanisms will be examined.
To study the occurrence and incidence of various electroencephalographic patterns, the electroencephalograms of unresponsive pediatric patients admitted to the intensive care unit were analyzed. The interpreters were unaware of the patients' clinical diagnoses. A total of 178 electroencephalographic studies performed on unresponsive patients were analyzed over a period of 3 years. The mean age of the study patients was 7.9 years. Sixty-six patients were less than 1 year old. The following electroencephalographic patterns were observed: 58 patients (33%) manifested electroencephalographic patterns consistent with nonconvulsive status epilepticus. Of the patients with nonconvulsive status epilepticus, 32 patients (18%) had generalized nonconvulsive status epilepticus and 26 patients (14%) manifested partial nonconvulsive status epilepticus. The remaining 120 patients (67%) manifested diffuse cerebral dysfunction, with the majority having severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Only 4 patients (2%) had triphasic waves, suggesting a metabolic encephalopathy. Thirty-six percent of the patients under the age of 1 year had electroencephalographic patterns consistent with nonconvulsive status epilepticus. Nonconvulsive status epilepticus is a relatively common electroencephalographic pattern in unresponsive pediatric patients. Metabolic encephalopathy is uncommon in this patient group.

Mate attraction in Aplysia involves the long-distance water-borne protein pheromones attractin, enticin, and temptin which are released during egg-laying. Other water-borne pheromones are predicted to act in concert with attractin, enticin, and temptin, but their identities were unknown. We recently identified a highly expressed Aplysia californica albumen gland gene (Alb-23) that encoded a novel protein by differential library screening of an albumen gland cDNA library. To determine whether Alb-23 ('seductin') was a water-borne pheromone, we employed Western blot analysis, purification and expression of albumen gland proteins, immunolocalization studies, pheromone secretion assays, comparative genomics, and behavioral bioassays. Immunoreactive seductin was detected in eluates of egg cordons, indicating that seductin was secreted onto the cordon during egg laying. Aplysia brasiliana seductin was 94% identical to its A.californica homolog. In T-maze attraction assays, the combination of attractin and seductin was significantly attractive to potential mates, whereas either protein alone was not. Data from this and previous studies support the hypothesis that seductin is a water-borne protein pheromone that acts in concert with attractin, enticin, and temptin to attract Aplysia to form and maintain mating aggregations.
BMS-505130 is a potent and selective serotonin transport inhibitor; K(i) for binding to the serotonin transporter = 0.18 nM (K(i) values for binding to the norepinephrine and dopamine transporters = 4.6 and 2.1 microM, respectively). In platelet serotonin uptake studies BMS-505130 (5 mg/kg, p.o.) produced a robust inhibition of serotonin uptake. In microdialysis studies oral dosing with BMS-505130 produced a dose-dependent increase in cortical serotonin levels that reached a maximal effect of 200% above baseline at a dose of 1 mg/kg, p.o.; the peak serotonin response was transient in nature. Following oral administration, peak plasma concentrations of BMS-505130 reached Tmax at 1.6 +/- 0.7 h and then declined to concentrations &lt;10% of Cmax within the following 6 h; plasma half-life following i.v. dosing was 0.46 +/- 0.02 h. Parallel microdialysis and pharmacokinetic studies revealed that changes in serotonin levels in the cortex mirrored changes in the brain concentration of BMS-505130. In a behavioral assay known to be sensitive to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), mouse tail suspension, BMS-505130 produced a robust response after either oral or intraperitoneal dosing. BMS-505130 exhibits a pharmacological, neurochemical and behavioral profile consistent with a potent SSRI. Moreover, BMS-505130's short half-life may be advantageous for the treatment of premature ejaculation where an acute effect to delay ejaculation followed by a relatively rapid fall in SSRI plasma concentrations might be desirable.
Improgan, an analgesic derived from histamine antagonists, acts in the brain stem to activate descending non-opioid, pain-relieving circuits, but the mechanism of action of this drug remains elusive. Because improgan has a moderate affinity for 5-HT(3) receptors, and, since cholinergic and serotonergic drugs can modulate descending analgesic circuits, roles for 5-HT(3), nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in improgan antinociception were presently investigated in rats. Improgan (80 microg, icv) induced nearly maximal inhibition of hot plate and tail flick nociceptive responses, and these actions we unaffected by antagonists of muscarinic (atropine, 5.9 mg/kg, i.p.) and nicotinic (mecamylamine, 2 mg/kg, i.p.) receptors. Control experiments verified that these antagonist treatments were maximally effective against muscarinic and nicotinic antinociception in both tests. In addition, improgan antinociception was unaffected by icv pretreatment with a 5-HT(3) antagonist (ondansetron, 20 microg). When given alone, icv treatment with neither this antagonist nor a 5-HT(3) agonist (m-chlorophenylbiguanide, 1000 nmol, icv) modified thermal nociceptive latencies. These results show no role for supraspinal cholinergic and 5-HT(3) receptors in improgan antinociception. The findings help to narrow the search for the relevant mediators of the action of this novel analgesic agent.
Alpha-synuclein is a 140 amino acid neuronal protein that has been associated with several neurodegenerative diseases. A point mutation in the gene coding for the alpha-synuclein protein was the first discovery linking this protein to a rare familial form of Parkinson's disease (PD). Subsequently, other mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene have been identified in familial PD. The aggregated proteinaceous inclusions called Lewy bodies found in PD and cortical Lewy body dementia (LBD) were discovered to be predominantly alpha-synuclein. Aberrant aggregation of alpha-synuclein has been detected in an increasing number of neurodegenerative diseases, collectively known as synucleopathies. Alpha-synuclein exists physiologically in both soluble and membrane-bound states, in unstructured and alpha-helical conformations, respectively. The physiological function of alpha-synuclein appears to require its translocation between these subcellular compartments and interconversion between the 2 conformations. Abnormal processing of alpha-synuclein is predicted to lead to pathological changes in its binding properties and function. In this review, genetic and environmental risk factors for alpha-synuclein pathology are described. Various mechanisms for in vitro and in vivo alpha-synuclein aggregation and neurotoxicity are summarized, and their relevance to neuropathology is explored.
Many real networks are equipped with short diameters, high clustering, and power-law degree distributions. With preferential attachment and network growth, the model by Barabsi and Albert simultaneously reproduces these properties, and geographical versions of growing networks have also been analyzed. However, nongrowing networks with intrinsic vertex weights often explain these features more plausibly, since not all networks are really growing. We propose a geographical nongrowing network model with vertex weights. Edges are assumed to form when a pair of vertices are spatially close and/or have large summed weights. Our model generalizes a variety of models as well as the original nongeographical counterpart, such as the unit disk graph, the Boolean model, and the gravity model, which appear in the contexts of percolation, wire communication, mechanical and solid physics, sociology, economy, and marketing. In appropriate configurations, our model produces small-world networks with power-law degree distributions. We also discuss the relation between geography, power laws in networks, and power laws in general quantities serving as vertex weights.

Investigational, conceptual, and interventional advances in the neurosciences strain consensus in research ethics, clinical ethics, legal ethics, and jurisprudence and demand innovative adaptation in public policy. I review these advances, ask how they might change a range of policies, and conclude that their implications -- particularly relating to aggression -- are likely to have been underestimated.
Spinophilin is a protein that binds to protein phosphatase-1 and actin and modulates excitatory synaptic transmission and dendritic spine morphology. We have identified three sites phosphorylated by ERK2 (Ser-15 and Ser-205) and cyclin-dependent PK 5 (Cdk5) (Ser-17), within the actin-binding domain of spinophilin. Cdk5 and ERK2 both phosphorylated spinophilin in intact cells. However, in vitro, phosphorylation by ERK2, but not by Cdk5, was able to modulate the ability of spinophilin to bind to and bundle actin filaments. In neurons and HEK293 cells expressing GFP-tagged variants of spinophilin, imaging studies demonstrated that introduction of a phospho-site mimic (Ser-15 to glutamate) was associated with increased filopodial density. These results support a role for spinophilin phosphorylation by ERK2 in the regulation of spine morphogenesis.

A central question in cognitive neuroscience concerns the extent to which language enables other higher cognitive functions. In the case of mathematics, the resources of the language faculty, both lexical and syntactic, have been claimed to be important for exact calculation, and some functional brain imaging studies have shown that calculation is associated with activation of a network of left-hemisphere language regions, such as the angular gyrus and the banks of the intraparietal sulcus. We investigate the integrity of mathematical calculations in three men with large left-hemisphere perisylvian lesions. Despite severe grammatical impairment and some difficulty in processing phonological and orthographic number words, all basic computational procedures were intact across patients. All three patients solved mathematical problems involving recursiveness and structure-dependent operations (for example, in generating solutions to bracket equations). To our knowledge, these results demonstrate for the first time the remarkable independence of mathematical calculations from language grammar in the mature cognitive system.
Caenorhabditis elegans explores its environment by interrupting its forward movement with occasional turns and reversals. Turns and reversals occur at stable frequencies but irregular intervals, producing probabilistic exploratory behaviors. Here we dissect the roles of individual sensory neurons, interneurons, and motor neurons in exploratory behaviors under different conditions. After animals are removed from bacterial food, they initiate a local search behavior consisting of reversals and deep omega-shaped turns triggered by AWC olfactory neurons, ASK gustatory neurons, and AIB interneurons. Over the following 30 min, the animals disperse as reversals and omega turns are suppressed by ASI gustatory neurons and AIY interneurons. Interneurons and motor neurons downstream of AIB and AIY encode specific aspects of reversal and turn frequency, amplitude, and directionality. SMD motor neurons help encode the steep amplitude of omega turns, RIV motor neurons specify the ventral bias of turns that follow a reversal, and SMB motor neurons set the amplitude of sinusoidal movement. Many of these sensory neurons, interneurons, and motor neurons are also implicated in chemotaxis and thermotaxis. Thus, this circuit may represent a common substrate for multiple navigation behaviors.
Acetaldehyde has long been suggested to be involved in a number of ethanol's pharmacological and behavioral effects, such as its reinforcing, aversive, sedative, amnesic and stimulant properties. However, the role of acetaldehyde in ethanol's effects has been an extremely controversial topic during the past two decades. Opinions ranged from those virtually denying any role for acetaldehyde in ethanol's effects to those who claimed that alcoholism is in fact &quot;acetaldehydism&quot;. Considering the possible key role of acetaldehyde in alcohol addiction, it is critical to clarify the respective functions of acetaldehyde and ethanol molecules in the pharmacological and behavioral effects of alcohol consumption. In the present paper, we review the animal studies reporting evidence that acetaldehyde is involved in the pharmacological and behavioral effects of ethanol. A number of studies demonstrated that acetaldehyde administration induces a range of behavioral effects. Other pharmacological studies indicated that acetaldehyde might be critically involved in several effects of ethanol consumption, including its reinforcing consequences. However, conflicting evidence has also been published. Furthermore, it remains to be shown whether pharmacologically relevant concentrations of acetaldehyde are achieved in the brain after alcohol consumption in order to induce significant effects. Finally, we review current evidence about the central mechanisms of action of acetaldehyde.
Estrogen deficiency in postmenopausal women is associated with changes in physiological processes. The extent to which estrogen loss is associated with cognitive changes noted by postmenopausal women has been more difficult to determine for a variety of reasons. Primate models of menopause are now being used to determine the effects of estrogen loss and replacement on cognitive abilities and to investigate the neural mechanisms by which estrogen may influence cognitive function. The present report presents data from cognitive and neurobiological studies in surgically menopausal monkeys that have examined how estrogen loss and replacement may be affecting cognitive abilities and the cholinergic system; a neural system that is known to influence memory and attention function. These studies are indicating that visuospatial attention function is especially sensitive to estrogen states in young monkeys, but that multiple cognitive domains are sensitive to estrogen states in middle-aged monkeys. In addition, anatomical and functional imaging studies indicate that the primate cholinergic system is modulated by estrogen, and pharmacological studies demonstrate that estrogen uses cholinergic muscarinic receptors to influence visuospatial attention. These studies demonstrate that estrogen influences cognitive abilities in monkey models of menopause and the cholinergic system may be one of the mechanisms by which estrogen modulates cognitive function. Given the current unknowns and concerns regarding the use of hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal women, continued studies in monkey models of menopause are especially needed to further elucidate the effects of estrogen on cognitive and neurobiological processes, with particular emphasis on studies in middle-aged monkeys, determining the optimal aspects of ERT regimens, and identifying the relationships between estrogen effects on cognitive and neurobiological function.

In warm-blooded vertebrates, possibilities for retinal regeneration have recently become reality with the discovery of neural stem cells in the mature eye. A number of different cellular sources of neural stem cells have been identified. These sources include stem cells at the retinal margin, pigmented cells in the ciliary body and iris, non-pigmented cells in the ciliary body and Mller glia within the retina. This review focuses on recent reports of neural stem cells and regeneration in the postnatal chicken retina. In the chicken eye sources of neurogensis and regeneration include: (1) retinal stem cells at the peripheral edge of the retina; (2) Mller glia in central regions of the retina; (3) non-pigmented epithelial cells in the posterior portion of the ciliary body; and (4) possibly pigmented cells in the pars plana of the ciliary body. This review discusses the similarities between the retinal progenitor cells in the postnatal eye and those found in the embryo. In addition, I discuss combinations of growth factors, (insulin, IGF-I, EGF and FGF2) that are capable of stimulating the proliferation and production of neurons from neural progenitors, non-neural epithelial cells, and postmitotic support cells in the avian eye. In summary, the mechanisms that regulate the proliferation and differentiation of cells with neurogenic potential are beginning to be understood and the postnatal chicken eye has proven to be a useful model system to study retinal regeneration.


Today more and more often there are prognoses that in the future psychiatry will have been absorbed by neurology. It would be thanks to the stormy progress of research on the neurophysiological, genetic and molecular foundations of mental disorders. The aim of the article is to assess the possibility as well as the supposed consequences of such an evolution of psychiatry. The considerations concern the peculiarity of the object of interest and the methods used in psychiatry in relation to the neurological object and methodology. This way the appraisal of raison d'etre of one common science: neuropsychiatry becomes possible. The question of fundamental importance for the evaluation of similarities and differences between the psychiatric and neurological perspectives is the way the psychophysical issue and especially the problem of the mind-brain relation are approached. The article presents the manners of solving these problems proposed by the contemporary philosophy of the mind. Together with parting with the full of errors and simplifications heritage of Descartes it appears the necessity to regard the presence of subjective mental states both conscious and unconscious in model of mind-brain relation. The example of such a solution is the biological naturalism of John Searle. The psychical life of the man in its subjective dimension remains the peculiar area of interests for psychiatry irrespective of the progress in research on the biological base of mental disorders. The especially valuable cognitive and therapeutic tool in this aspect is psychotherapy constituting the integral part of psychiatry. The present state of knowledge does not indicate that the psychotherapeutic wing of psychiatry can lose its importance and rather somewhat the contrary. The progress of neurobiology does not have to threaten the autonomy of psychiatry by any means and the maintenance of this autonomy depends decisively on the psychiatrists themselves.

Understanding the biological connections to mental processes was one of the original goals of psychoanalysis, and the development of cognitive and affective neuroscience and its methods might contribute to actualizing this goal. Personality disorders provide an opportunity to examine the complex mental structures of individuals experiencing extreme difficulties in interacting with their social environment. We provide initial information on a collaboration exploring an approach to one of the most serious personality disorders, borderline personality disorder, based upon the study of normal attention, individual differences in temperament, self definition and attachment organization, with the potential to illuminate the psychology and psychobiology of the disorder and to contribute to psychotherapeutic intervention. This developing model of borderline personality disorder can relate the symptoms to more enduring temperamental aspects of the patients. The goal is to understand the development of neural networks that underlie the abnormalities of adults, and eventually work out the interaction between temperament, genes, and experience that produce the disorder, and potentially inform intervention.
To investigate a possible link between some neuropeptides and depression, we analyzed their mRNA levels in brains of rats exposed to chronic mild stresses (CMS; a stress-induced anhedonia model), a commonly used model of depression. Rats exposed for 3 weeks to repeated, unpredictable, mild stressors exhibited an increased self-stimulation threshold, reflecting the development of an anhedonic state, which is regarded as an animal model of major depression. In situ hybridization was employed to monitor mRNA levels of neuropeptide Y (NPY), substance P and galanin in several brain regions. In the CMS rats, NPY mRNA expression levels were significantly decreased in the hippocampal dentate gyrus but increased in the arcuate nucleus. The substance P mRNA levels were increased in the anterodorsal part of the medial amygdaloid nucleus, in the ventromedial and dorsomedial hypothalamic nuclei and the lateral hypothalamic area, whereas galanin mRNA levels were decreased in the latter two regions. These findings suggest a possible involvement of these three peptides in mechanisms underlying depressive disorders and show that similar peptide changes previously demonstrated in genetic rat models also occur in the present stress-induced anhedonia model.


Effects of normal aging on the use of sentence context information during language comprehension were examined by measuring younger and older adults' event-related potential (ERP) responses to congruent sentence-final words as a function of contextual constraint. Half of the sentence contexts were strongly constraining, rendering the target word very predictable, whereas the other half were weakly constraining. Both age groups elicited smaller N400 responses to target words in strongly than in weakly constrained contexts, but this effect was significantly smaller and later for older adults. Older adults with lower reading spans showed greater delays. Age-related changes were driven primarily by decreases in older adults' ability to make use of the richer information available from strongly constraining contexts to guide semantic processing, as word processing (N400s) in weak contexts was qualitatively and quantitatively similar in the two age groups.
Parkinson's disease may be a disease of autointoxication. N-methylated pyridines (e.g. MPP+) are well-established dopaminergic toxins, and the xenobiotic enzyme nicotinamide N-methyltransferase (NNMT) can convert pyridines such as 4-phenylpyridine into MPP+, using S-adenosyl methionine (SAM) as the methyl donor. NNMT has recently been shown to be present in the human brain, a necessity for neurotoxicity, because charged compounds cannot cross the blood-brain barrier. Moreover, it is present in increased concentration in parkinsonian brain. This increase may be part genetic predisposition, and part induction, by excessive exposure to its substrates (particularly nicotinamide) or stress. Elevated enzymic activity would increase MPP+-like compounds such as N-methyl nicotinamide at the same time as decreasing intraneuronal nicotinamide, a neuroprotectant at several levels, creating multiple hits, because Complex 1 would be poisoned and be starved of its major substrate NADH. Developing xenobiotic enzyme inhibitors of NNMT for individuals, or dietary modification for the whole population, could be an important change in thinking on primary and secondary prevention.
Current evidence indicates that mechanisms controlling the intracellular Ca2+ concentration play pivotal roles in determining sperm fertilizing ability. Multiple Ca2+-permeable channels have been identified and characterized in the plasma membrane and in the acrosome membrane of mammalian sperm. This review summarizes the recent findings and assesses the evidence suggesting that these channels play roles in controlling a host of sperm functions ranging from motility to the acrosome reaction, and describes recent advances in the identification of the underlying gene defects of inherited sperm Ca2+ channelopathies.
Given the difficulties with symptom identification and the assessment of mental health problems in persons with intellectual disabilities (ID) there has been a focus on the development of relevant assessment schedules for persons with ID. A Swedish version of the psychopathology inventory for mentally retarded adults (PIMRA, informant version), an instrument designed for identification of specific mental health problems in persons with ID, was evaluated in terms of inter-rater reliability, internal consistency, item grouping, criterion and concurrent validity based on a sample of 101 adults with different levels of ID. The Swedish version of the PIMRA had low inter-rater agreement on specific items but good agreement on low or high total score. In order to investigate internal validity, principal component analyses (PCA) were conducted in steps. Consequently, the majority of the 26 items, which remained after three PCA analyses, were grouped in a pattern approximating five of the original PIMRA subscales. The present analysis identified no item grouping matching the original Affective disorder subscale. Based on these results a revised Swedish version was developed. The concurrent validity analysis yielded a strong association between the total scores of the PIMRA and Reiss Screen for Maladaptive Behaviour (RSMB), between subscales on both instruments describing psychotic symptoms and between the RSMB subscale Aggressive behaviour and the PIMRA subscale Adjustment problems. The outcome of the criterion validity analysis indicated that individuals with a clinical diagnosis obtained higher total PIMRA scores than individuals without a clinical diagnosis and a comparison between the PIMRA subscale Psychosis and the clinical diagnosis indicating psychoses according to DSM-III-R or DSM-IV yielded a higher specificity than sensitivity measure. The results indicate that the PIMRA had a potential to identify individuals with mental health problems in persons with different levels (mild, moderate and severe) of ID and identify individuals with a specific mental disorder. Thus, professionals might use the PIMRA as a complement in the diagnostic process.
One consequence of constant widespread pain is a low quality of life. The purpose of the study was to examine whether the Quality of Life Scale, Swedish version (QOLS-S), regarded as a generic quality-of-life instrument, is a reliable and valid instrument for use in women with fibromyalgia (FM). Women with FM (n = 113) contributed data on the QOLS-S and other standardized instrument at three points in time. Internal consistency reliability estimates ranged from 0.89 to 0.92. Convergent construct validity was indicated by moderate agreement with a global life satisfaction question. Discriminant construct validity was denoted by low correlations with the physical functioning subscale of the SF-36. In a factor analysis three factors emerged: 'personal and social well-being', 'relations with others' and 'active participation'. A few of the items have high cross-loadings, and the instrument could be improved by rewording those items to more closely reflect one specific factor. Overall, these results provide evidence that the QOLS-S has acceptable validity and reliability for use in women with FM.
In order to render reliable assessment of housing accessibility in a cross-national context possible, the objective of this study was to investigate multi-professional, cross-national inter-rater reliability of the ENABLE-AGE project-specific version of the Housing Enabler instrument. The data collection was performed with elderly persons in ordinary housing in five European countries. After participation in rater training courses, 26 raters representing different nationalities and professions performed data collection in independent pairs of raters, n = 64. Inter-rater reliability was calculated by means of percentage agreement as well as Cohen's kappa. The results demonstrated moderate to good overall inter-rater reliability of the project-specific version of the Housing Enabler instrument. The mean agreement for the personal component part of the instrument was 91%. For 13 of the 15 items in this part kappa values could be defined, kappa = 0.43, indicating moderate agreement. In the environmental component part the mean agreement for all 188 items was 85%, while kappa = 0.50, indicating moderate agreement. Given the complexity of the instrument and the number of different professions and countries involved, we consider the Housing Enabler as useful for cross-national research targeting housing accessibility, even if the agreement levels reached were moderate. However, the moderate agreement levels pinpoint the importance of rater training.
Synaptic protein gene expression is altered in schizophrenia. In the hippocampal formation there may be particular involvement of glutamatergic neurons and their synapses, but overall the profile remains unclear. In this in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) study, we examined four informative synaptic protein transcripts: vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) 1, VGLUT2, complexin I, and complexin II, in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DPFC), superior temporal cortex (STC), and hippocampal formation, in 13 subjects with schizophrenia and 18 controls. In these areas, VGLUT1 and complexin II are expressed primarily by excitatory neurons, whereas complexin I is mainly expressed by inhibitory neurons. In schizophrenia, VGLUT1 mRNA was decreased in hippocampal formation and DPFC, complexin II mRNA was reduced in DPFC and STC, and complexin I mRNA decreased in STC. Hippocampal VGLUT1 mRNA declined with age selectively in the schizophrenia group. VGLUT2 mRNA was not quantifiable due to its low level. The data provide additional evidence for a synaptic pathology in schizophrenia, in terms of a reduced expression of three synaptic protein genes. In the hippocampus, the loss of VGLUT1 mRNA supports data indicating that glutamatergic presynaptic deficits are prominent, whereas the pattern of results in temporal and frontal cortex suggests broadly similar changes may affect inhibitory and excitatory neurons. The impairment of synaptic transmission implied by the synaptic protein reductions may contribute to the dysfunction of cortical neural circuits that characterises the disorder.

This Teaching Resource provides lecture notes and slides for a class covering the structure and function of protein phosphatases and is part of the course &quot;Cell Signaling Systems: A Course for Graduate Students.&quot; The lecture begins with a discussion of the importance of phosphatases in physiology, recognized by the award of a Nobel Prize in 1992, and then proceeds to describe the two types of protein phosphatases: serine/threonine and tyrosine phosphatases. The information covered includes the structure, regulation, and substrate specificity of protein phosphatases, with an emphasis on their importance in disease and clinical settings.
Genital and sexual manifestations represent rare clinical phenomena during or after focal seizures. The semiology of these types of automatisms is controversial. In particular, it is unclear whether temporal or frontal structures are involved in their generation and whether these clinical manifestations have a potential lateralizing value. In this view, from a population of 212 consecutive patients with drug resistant focal epilepsy referred to us for presurgical assessment, we retrospectively identified 24 patients with genital ictal manifestations. We evaluated the incidence of these behaviours, the clinical semiology, the associated symptoms/signs with the corresponding ictal EEG findings and their potential role in lateralizing the epileptogenic zone. Our results indicate that ictal genital automatisms are possible in seizures originating from temporal lobe and they cannot be attributed exclusively to frontal lobe seizures. In particular, the most frequent genital automatisms consist in subtle phenomena while hypermotoric behaviour, such as pelvic rhythmic movements are quite rare. No lateralizing value for genital automatisms was disclosed.
We used optical imaging of intrinsic cortical signals, elicited by whisker stimulation, to define areas of activation in primary sensory cortex of normal hamsters and hamsters subjected to neonatal follicle ablation at postnatal day seven (P7). Follicle ablations were unilateral, and spared either C-row whiskers or the second whisker arc. This study was done to determine if the intrinsic cortical connectivity pattern of the barrel cortex, established during the critical period, affects the process of representational plasticity that follows whisker follicle ablation. Additionally, we tested the ability to monitor such changes in individual cortical whisker representations using intrinsic signal imaging. Stimulation of a single whisker yielded peak activation of a barrel-sized patch in the somatotopically appropriate location in normal cortex. In both row and arc-spared animals, functional representations corresponding to spared follicles were significantly stronger and more oblong than normal. The pattern of activation differed in the row-sparing and arc-sparing groups, in that the expansion was preferentially into deprived, not spared areas. Single whisker stimulation in row-spared cases preferentially activated the corresponding barrel arc, while stimulation of one whisker in arc-spared cases produced elongated activation down the barrel row. Since whisker deflection normally has a net inhibitory effect on neighboring barrels, our data suggest that intracortical inhibition fails to develop normally in deprived cortical columns. Because thalamocortical projections are not affected by follicle ablation after P7, we suggest that the effects we observed are largely cortical, not thalamocortical.



We evaluated the effects of phenytoin (DPH) on the affinity for sigma-1 (sigma(1)) receptors of agonist or antagonist sigma(1) ligands in guinea pig brain. Heterologous competition experiments showed that DPH (250 microM and 1 mM) concentration-dependently increased the affinity of the sigma(1) agonists dextromethorphan, (+)-SKF-10,047, (+)-3-PPP, and PRE-084. However, neither DPH 250 microM nor 1 mM increased (in fact, they slightly decreased) the affinity of the sigma(1) receptor antagonists haloperidol, BD 1063, NE-100, progesterone, and BD 1047. These findings suggest that allosteric modulation by DPH of the affinity of sigma(1) receptor ligands depends on the agonist or antagonist characteristics of the ligand. Therefore, determining in vitro the differential modulation by DPH of sigma(1) ligand affinity appears to constitute a procedure that can predict the pharmacological profile of different sigma(1) ligands.
The effect of the premature commitment of neurons to exuberant growth by nicotine on concurrent and subsequent learning is unknown and was the focus of the present study. Animals were trained on a tray reaching for food task (where lots of pieces of chicken feed were available) for 3 weeks before they received two daily injections of nicotine (0.3 mg/kg) or 0.9% saline for 12 days. Measures of tray-reaching performance were obtained before the administration of nicotine and every other week for a total of 7 weeks. Starting on week 8, animals were given a novel motor skill problem that required them to learn to use a forepaw to reach through a slot in a cage for single food pellets located on an external shelf. Pyramidal cells in the forelimb area of both hemispheres were then examined for dendritic length and branching using a Golgi-Cox procedure. Animals treated with saline displayed excellent performance in both reaching tasks and an increase in neuronal branching in Layer V pyramidal cells in the motor cortex contralateral to the reaching paw. In contrast, animals treated with nicotine showed bilateral increases in neuronal branching. Behavioral results showed that nicotine improved forelimb use in the concurrently administered tray-reaching task, but severely degraded quantitative and qualitative scores of skilled forelimb use in the subsequently administered single-pellet reaching task. The results suggest that plasticity coincidence with skilled training is essential to skilled motor learning, but this expenditure can impair subsequent learning.
Ten years after the introduction of the first drug for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, tacrine, it seems appropriate to reappraise the pharmacological processes of innovation in the field of research in dementia. The aim of this review is to pinpoint concrete improvements achieved in this field, in terms of experimental methods and clinical evaluation of the compounds, as well as the neurochemistry of the disease and cellular targets deserving of initial consideration. * The article first considers the use of animal models of Alzheimer's disease, which are classified according to two categories: animals with lesions of some neuronal pathways specifically implicated in clinical symptoms (i.e. lesions of the nucleus basalis of Meynert, the origin of cholinergic projections to the cortex underlying memory processes); and transgenic models, which are intended to reproduce some of the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. Drugs can be tested in animals with such alterations for their effect on neuropathology, neurochemistry and behavioural disturbances. More recently, in silico models have been developed, which offer the possibility of simulating the pharmacodynamic effects of drugs in specific areas of the brain. These experiments are helpful in distinguishing purely symptomatic effects from disease-modifying effects, the latter being the ultimate goal of the modern pharmacology of dementia. * The second breakthrough considered in this article is the codification and standardisation of clinical methods for obtaining a more accurate and earlier diagnosis (the recent introduction of the concept of &quot;Mild Cognitive Impairment&quot;, which includes patients who will later develop a true clinical dementia syndrome). In that respect, the determination of the biological markers of Alzheimer's disease (apolipoprotein E, amyloid substance, protein-tau, isoprostane) as well as progress in neuroimaging (functional positron emission tomography [fPET]-scan, single photon emission-computed tomography [SPECT], functional nuclear magnetic resonance [fNMR]) are discussed in terms of their potential as new tools in the early stages of drug development (surrogate markers). The methods used during the comparative clinical trials (phase III) have been elaborated and internationally standardised during the assessment of the different acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChE-I), with the knowledge that, since 1994, four of these have been officially approved: tacrine, donepezil, rivastigmine and galantamine; the same methods have been used for developing memantine, a recently-launched modulator of glutamatergic neurotransmission. The validated scales now take into consideration not only the cognitive dimensions of Alzheimer's disease but also the behavioural symptoms, with the introduction of the concept of BPSD (behavioural psychological symptoms of dementia). Some proposals to improve this clinical assessment of anti-dementia drugs are presented here. * The section of this article dealing with prospective issues considers the main pathways of interest in drug innovation and the elucidation of new targets for the future compounds. As well as their symptomatic effects on the different components of cognition, drugs should be neuroprotective and limit the lesions documented in Alzheimer's disease, with the aim of progressing far beyond the amyloid hypothesis (immunisation, beta-sheet breakers, secretase inhibitors). The field of excitotoxicity (which is mainly glutamate dependent) appears fruitful, because of the possibility of pharmacological intervention at the different steps in the excitotoxic process. All the new directions presented in this article support the concept of true disease-modifying agents. In conclusion, this prospective review should be considered as a guide in fostering drug innovation in Alzheimer's disease and related disorders and should help to decrease the gap existing between neuroscience and therapeutics.
The aim of this study was to assess whether triple antiplatelet therapy is superior to dual and mono therapy in attenuating platelet and leucocyte function. Aspirin (A), clopidogrel (C), and dipyridamole (D) were administered singly and in various combinations (A, C, D, AC, AD, CD, ACD), each for two weeks (without washout) to 11 healthy subjects and to 11 patients with previous ischaemic stroke in two randomised multiway crossover trials. At the end of each two-week period platelet aggregation, platelet-leucocyte conjugate formation and leucocyte activation were measured ex vivo blinded to treatment. Platelets were stimulated with collagen; additional measurements were made with adenosine diphosphate (ADP), platelet activating factor (PAF), adrenaline and the combination of, ADP, PAF and adrenaline. Results show that in the presence of collagen, ACD was superior to all antagonists or combinations, except AC, in reducing aggregation, platelet-leucocyte conjugate formation, and monocyte activation (all p&lt;0.05). ACD was also more potent than other treatments, except AC, in inhibiting the aggregation and platelet-monocyte conjugate formation induced by the combination of ADP, PAF and adrenaline. The effects were similar in both volunteers and stroke patients. No serious adverse events or major bleeding events occurred. Triple antiplatelet therapy did not appear to be more effective than combined aspirin and clopidogrel in moderating platelet and leucocyte function. Any additional clinical benefit provided by dipyridamole may be through other mechanisms of action.
Tissue-like structures of hippocampal neurons were established in a crystalline three-dimensional (3D) aragonite biomatrix obtained from the exoskeleton of the coral Porites lutea. Cultures were maintained in vitro for up to 5 weeks. Cell viability and regeneration of neuronal properties were studied by immunocytochemical methods, light microscopy image analysis techniques, and scanning electron microscopy. Some portions of the cell population acquired the morphological characteristics of hippocampal pyramidal or granule neurons with axons and dendrites extending in a 3D manner along the surfaces of the crystalline biomatrix. The neurons usually grew on a sheet of glial cells. Within the pore void areas, multiple layers of neurons were formed, many of the neurons growing with no attachment to the crystalline surfaces. The neurons developed mature synaptic connections, with presynaptic sites expressing the synaptic vesicle protein 2 and postsynaptic sites having the shape of dendritic spines and expressing type 1 glutamate receptors, as these cells do under conventional culture conditions. The findings of the present study suggest that neuronal networks growing in a strong 3D aragonite support may find application as tissue replacement material for the central nervous system.
Attempts to bridge genetics and cognition are rapidly coming to the forefront of cognitive neuroscience. It is therefore crucial to evaluate the current state of knowledge about disorders of known genetic origin as a way of assessing whether, and if so how, links between genotype and cognitive phenotype can be drawn, however indirect these links might be. We review recent empirical findings from research on genetic disorders at three levels of description--cognitive, neural systems, and cellular--that caution against simple genotype-phenotype mappings at all levels. Most importantly, interdisciplinary efforts to integrate human genetics and cognition will need to operationalize the mechanisms driving both typical and atypical developmental processes over time.
Over the past two decades, connectionist models have generated a lively debate regarding the underlying mechanisms of cognitive development. This debate has in turn led to important empirical research that might not have occurred otherwise. More recently, advances in developmental neuroscience present a new set of challenges for modelers. In this article, I review some of the insights that have come from modeling work, focusing on (1) explanations for the shape of change; (2) new views on how knowledge may be represented; (3) the richness of experience. The article concludes by considering some of the new challenges and opportunities for modeling cognitive development.
Growth hormone (GH) has numerous effects in the body and is most commonly known for its role in regulating metabolism and body growth. Because GH is involved in many aspects of cell function, its signaling is tightly controlled by several pathways at both the extracellular and intracellular level. Suppressor of cytokine signaling-2 (SOCS2) is one such intracellular regulator of GH signal transduction. Expression of SOCS2 is tightly regulated and alteration of its levels leads to marked abnormalities in metabolism and growth. Unexpectedly, GH and SOCS2 have been recently shown to regulate neural development, neural stem cell differentiation and neuronal growth -- functions that might have important therapeutic implications for both repairing nervous system injuries and treating neurological disease.
Four recent papers related specifically to the familial form of Parkinson's disease reinforce the idea that endogenous levels of alpha-synuclein can strongly influence disease phenotype. Two recent publications of alpha-synuclein-duplication mutations show that the severity of familial Parkinsonian phenotype is dependent upon SNCA gene dosage and corresponding protein levels. Familial point mutations in SNCA were found to impair the efficient lysosomal degradation of alpha-synuclein, potentially resulting in elevated levels of alpha-synuclein. Conversely, the complete knockout of SNCA has little effect on transgenic mice. It is now clear that the regulation of alpha-synuclein levels has potential significance in the pathogenesis and treatment of sporadic PD.
Although the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is well established as providing a genetically based clock for timing circadian rhythms, the mechanisms by which the timing signal is translated into circadian rhythms of behavior and underlying physiology have only recently come to light. The bulk of the SCN outflow terminates in a column of tissue that arches upward and backward from the SCN, and which includes the subparaventricular zone (SPZ) and the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. Neurons within the dorsal SPZ are necessary for organizing circadian rhythms of body temperature, whereas neurons in the ventral SPZ are needed for circadian rhythms of sleep and waking. Ventral SPZ neurons in turn relay to the dorsomedial nucleus, which is crucial for producing circadian rhythms of sleep and waking, locomotor activity, feeding and corticosteroid production. This multistage processor provides the animal with flexibility so that environmental cues, such as food availability, ambient temperature and social interactions, can be integrated with the clock signal to sculpt an adaptive pattern of rhythmic daily activities that maximize the chances of survival and reproduction.
A common trend in neuroscience is convergence on selected model systems. Underlying this approach is an often implicit assumption that mechanisms observed in one species are characteristic of all related species. Although the model system approach has been extremely productive, it might not account for all of the mechanistic differences between species that differ behaviourally. Using the neural system that regulates song learning in songbirds as an example, we demonstrate how integrating model system and comparative approaches can lead to a more complete picture of neural mechanisms, and can resolve issues raised by a focus on selected species.

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), affecting the retina, afflicts one out of ten people aged 80 years or older in the United States. AMD often results in vision loss to the central 15-20 deg of the visual field (i.e. central scotoma), and frequently afflicts both eyes. In most cases, when the central scotoma includes the fovea, patients will adopt an eccentric preferred retinal locus (PRL) for fixation. The onset of a central scotoma results in the absence of retinal inputs to corresponding regions of retinotopically mapped visual cortex. Animal studies have shown evidence for reorganization in adult mammals for such cortical areas following experimentally induced central scotomata. However, it is still unknown whether reorganization occurs in primary visual cortex (V1) of AMD patients. Nor is it known whether the adoption of a PRL corresponds to changes to the retinotopic mapping of V1. Two recent advances hold out the promise for addressing these issues and for contributing to the rehabilitation of AMD patients: improved methods for assessing visual function across the fields of AMD patients using the scanning laser ophthalmoscope, and the advent of brain-imaging methods for studying retinotopic mapping in humans. For the most part, specialists in these two areas come from different disciplines and communities, with few opportunities to interact. The purpose of this review is to summarize key findings on both the clinical and neuroscience issues related to questions about visual adaptation in AMD patients.
The biochemical and morphological specializations of rod and cone photoreceptors reflect their roles in sight. The apoprotein opsin, which converts photons into chemical signals, functions at one end of these highly polarized cells, in the outer segment. Previous work has shown that the mRNA of rod opsin, the opsin specific to rods, is renewed in the outer segment with a diurnal rhythm in the retina of the teleost fish Haplochromis burtoni. Here we show that in the same species, all three cone opsin mRNAs (blue, green, and red) also have a diurnal rhythm of expression. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with primer pairs specific for the cone photoreceptor opsin subtypes was used to detect opsin mRNA abundance in animals sacrificed at 3-h intervals around the clock. All three cone opsins were expressed with diurnal rhythms similar to each other but out of phase with the rod opsin rhythm. Specifically, cone opsin expression occurs at a higher level near the onset of the dark period, when cones are not used for vision. Finally, we found that the rhythm of cone opsin expression in fish appears to be light dependent, as prolonged darkness changes normal diurnal expression patterns.
What distinguishes the locations that we fixate from those that we do not? To answer this question we recorded eye movements while observers viewed natural scenes, and recorded image characteristics centred at the locations that observers fixated. To investigate potential differences in the visual characteristics of fixated versus non-fixated locations, these images were transformed to make intensity, contrast, colour, and edge content explicit. Signal detection and information theoretic techniques were then used to compare fixated regions to those that were not. The presence of contrast and edge information was more strongly discriminatory than luminance or chromaticity. Fixated locations tended to be more distinctive in the high spatial frequencies. Extremes of low frequency luminance information were avoided. With prolonged viewing, consistency in fixation locations between observers decreased. In contrast to [Parkhurst, D. J., Law, K., &amp; Niebur, E. (2002). Modeling the role of salience in the allocation of overt visual attention. Vision Research, 42 (1), 107-123] we found no change in the involvement of image features over time. We attribute this difference in our results to a systematic bias in their metric. We propose that saccade target selection involves an unchanging intermediate level representation of the scene but that the high-level interpretation of this representation changes over time.
Dichoptic stimuli containing unmatched features can produce depth perception despite the absence of binocular disparity, a phenomenon known as da Vinci stereopsis. Unmatched points can arise from depth discontinuities and partial occlusion in the real world. It has been hypothesized that spatial organization of unmatched image features as dictated by the ecological optics of occlusion might determine perceived depth in da Vinci stereopsis. We tested this hypothesis by creating dichoptic stimuli containing unmatched points in which local cues and overall organization could be dissociated. For these stimuli, observers' perception of depth did not depend on the organization of the scene, but only on the local cues. This finding shows the perceived depth of unpaired points need not depend on reconstructing the spatial organization of depth discontinuities in real-world scenes.
3D dipole tracing with 1 ms step of visual evoked potentials recorded from 40 electrodes was performed under exposition of crosses in 5 healthy human subjects. The data on dipole displacement were compared with prediction of the simulation study on distortion of dipole localization by the signal filtration in the low-frequency band. These predictions were experimentally confirmed: the effect depends on the degree of filtration (0.1 or 0.5 Hz) and on the latency of EP waves. Localization and strength of P1 dipoles were not changed under filtration, while for later components--N2 and especially P3--they changed significantly. For the improvement of these distortions time constant of the amplification tract must be some times longer than the time of the dipole activity.
In some captive and free-ranging populations, unmanipulated female Japanese macaques (Macaca fuscata) routinely court, mount (with pelvic thrusting), compete for, and even prefer, on occasion, certain female sexual partners over certain males. The goal of this study was to determine if the cytoarchitecture of the dorsocentral portion of the anterior hypothalamic nucleus (AHdc), was male-typical in female Japanese macaques drawn from one such population. The AHdc is located in the medial preoptic anterior hypothalamus (MPO-AH), a region of the brain that is known to regulate sexual behaviour in primates. Despite their potential for male-typical sexual behaviour and sexual partner preference, our female subjects did not possess male-typical AHdc. The AHdc was significantly larger in males than it was in females, a difference that could be attributed to the significantly larger number of neurons in the male AHdc compared to that of the females. The AHdc of female Japanese macaques were no more male-typical in size than those of female rhesus macaques, a closely related sister species in which females rarely exhibit male-typical sexual behaviour. Although the AHdc may be involved in the regulation of sexual behaviour, this study indicates that a male-typical AHdc is not a prerequisite for the expression of male-typical sexual behaviour and sexual partner preference in Japanese macaques. This study is the first to examine the relationship between sex-atypical sexual activity and the cytoarchitecture of a hypothalamic nucleus in hormonally unmanipulated females.
In the present study, we investigated how different processing stages involved in the perceptual analysis of biological motion (BM) are reflected by modulations in event-related potentials (ERP) in order to elucidate the time course and location of neural processing of BM. Data analysis was carried out using conventional averaging techniques as well as source localization with low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (LORETA). ERPs were recorded in response to point-light displays of a walking person, an inverted walking person and displays of scrambled motion. Analysis yielded a pronounced negativity with a peak at 180 ms after stimulus onset which was more pronounced for upright walkers than for inverted walkers and scrambled motion. A later negative component between 230 and 360 ms after stimulus onset had a larger amplitude for upright and inverted walkers as compared to scrambled walkers. In the later component, negativity was more pronounced in the right hemisphere revealing asymmetries in BM perception. LORETA analysis yielded evidence for sources specific to BM within the right fusiform gyrus and the right superior temporal gyrus for the second component, whereas sources for BM in the early component were located in areas associated with attentional aspects of visual processing. The early component might reflect the pop-out effect of a moving dot pattern representing the highly familiar form of a human figure, whereas the later component might be associated with the specific analysis of motion patterns providing biologically relevant information.
Male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) treated with low-dose (0.5 mg/kg/day) cocaine throughout adolescence (P27-P56) display highly escalated offensive aggression. The current study examined whether adolescent cocaine exposure influenced the immunohistochemical localization of glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 (GAD65), the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), a fast-acting neurotransmitter implicated in the modulation of aggression in various species and models of aggression. Hamsters were administered low doses of cocaine throughout adolescence, scored for offensive aggression using the resident-intruder paradigm, and then examined for changes in GAD65 immunoreactivity in areas of the brain implicated in aggression control. When compared with saline-treated control animals, aggressive cocaine-treated hamsters showed significant differences in the area covered by GAD65 puncta in several notable aggression regions, including the anterior hypothalamus, the medial and central amygdaloid nuclei, and the lateral septum. However, no differences in GAD65 puncta were found in other aggression areas, such as the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the ventrolateral hypothalamus, and the corticomedial amygdala. Together, these results suggest that altered GABA synthesis and function in specific aggression areas may be involved in adolescent cocaine-facilitated offensive aggression.
Brain injury due to seizures results in transiently increased cell proliferation and neurogenesis in the subgranular zone of the adult dentate gyrus. In contrast, the immature postnatal brain appears to be more resistant to cell death after seizure-induced brain injury and paradoxically reacts to seizures by reducing SGZ proliferation. Organotypic hippocampal slice cultures are a useful paradigm for modelling the early postnatal hippocampus. We have investigated the temporal relationship between cell death and cell proliferation after kainate in the granule cell layer of rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures equivalent to post natal day 11 animals. We found stable numbers and densities of mature thionine stained cells in the granule cell layer over 72 h in control cultures grown in defined medium. We also found a slowly declining cell proliferation rate over the same time period under control conditions. We report evidence of early cell death in the granule cell layer after just 2 h exposure to 5 microM kainate, followed by a significant decrease in cell proliferation in the granule cell layer at 24 h. In contrast to control conditions, cell proliferation rose significantly in the kainate exposed cultures by 72 h back to levels seen at 2 h. There were no significant changes in cell labelling with antibody to activated caspase-3 between kainate treated and control cultures at any time point examined. Our results suggest that kainate-induced injury in the early postnatal hippocampus damages precursor cells contributing to a reduction in granule layer cell proliferation.
In the mouse genome, we found one processed Itpa gene-like sequence and two processed Itpa pseudogenes as well as the Itpa gene itself with introns, located on chromosome 2F3, which was isolated by a retro-recombination method. We also identified three types (A, B, C) of Itpa transcripts in mouse tissues. The processed Itpa gene-like sequence located on chromosome 2E1 has a complete open reading frame for exactly the same polypeptide as ITPA encoded by the type A transcript, with a polyadenylation signal. However, no transcribed sequence derived from the Itpa gene-like sequence was detectable in any of the mouse tissues examined, thus naming the sequence as Itpa processed pseudogene alpha. The type A Itpa mRNA, which was expressed in all mouse tissues examined, only encodes mouse ITPA polypeptide consisting of 198 amino acid residues with a capacity to hydrolyze dITP into dIMP. Itpa mRNA was detected in all tissues examined, and its expression is especially high in the testis, brain, and thymus. ITPA protein was mostly detected in the cytoplasm, to a lesser extent in the nuclei of neurons in the brain, and also those of hepatocytes, epithelial cells lining the bile duct, and endothelial cells lining the portal vein in the liver.
Mammalian Trio is a multifunctional, multidomain Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) closely related to Kalirin. Trio is important for proper axon guidance in Drosophila, and mice lacking Trio exhibit both skeletal muscle and neuronal disorders. Full length mammalian Trio and Kalirin both consist of a Sec14P-like domain, several spectrin-like domains, two Rho GEF domains each containing a Dbl-homology (DH) and a pleckstrin-homology (PH) domain, two src homology 3 domains (SH3), Ig/fibronectin-like domains (Ig/FN), and a kinase domain. We have previously described multiple isoforms of Kalirin derived through alternative splicing and multiple transcription start sites, but multiple isoforms of Trio containing different functional domains have not been described. Using a new antibody directed against the spectrin-like region of rat Trio coupled with reverse transcription PCR and cDNA sequencing, we have identified 4 novel isoforms of Trio expressed in rat cortex and cerebellum. Two isoforms, Trio 9S and Trio 9L, are derived through alternative splicing of Trio exon 48 and are abundantly expressed in rat brain. Trio 8 is expressed in postnatal day 30 and adult cerebellum, but not in cortex or skeletal muscle. Trio/duet is expressed in adult cortex and cerebellum. In the rat brain, each of these Trio isoforms is expressed at a higher level than full length Trio.
Mammalian NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase (b5R) is an N-myristoylated protein that is dually targeted to ER and mitochondrial outer membranes. The N-linked myristate is not required for anchorage to membranes because a stretch of hydrophobic amino acids close to the NH2 terminus guarantees a tight interaction of the protein with the phospholipid bilayer. Instead, the fatty acid is required for targeting of b5R to mitochondria because a nonmyristoylated mutant is exclusively localized to the ER. Here, we have investigated the mechanism by which N-linked myristate affects b5R targeting. We find that myristoylation interferes with interaction of the nascent chain with signal recognition particle, so that a portion of the nascent chains escapes from cotranslational integration into the ER and can be post-translationally targeted to the mitochondrial outer membrane. Thus, competition between two cotranslational events, binding of signal recognition particle and modification by N-myristoylation, determines the site of translation and the localization of b5R.
We used multiple-labeling immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy to examine co-expression of immunoreactivity for vesicular glutamate transporters (VGluTs), synaptic vesicle proteins, and soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins in peptide-containing sensory neurons of guinea pigs, mice, and toads. Axon terminals in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord with immunoreactivity (IR) for both substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) lacked IR for synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25), syntaxin, synaptotagmin, synaptophysin, and synapsin, although adjacent varicosities without neuropeptides had IR for these synaptic proteins. Similarly, peptide-containing axon terminals in the superficial dorsal horn lacked IR for VGluT1 and VGluT2, despite the presence of VGluT2-IR in nearby nonpeptide varicosities. VGluT3-IR was sparse in the dorsal horn of the mouse spinal cord and was not present in peptide-containing axons. Most peripheral terminals of sensory neurons with both SP-IR and CGRP-IR in the skin, viscera, and autonomic ganglia of guinea pigs and mice also lacked IR for synaptic vesicle proteins, SNARE proteins, VGluT1, and VGluT2. In dorsal root ganglia from guinea pigs and mice, most small neurons with IR for both SP and CGRP lacked IR for SNAP-25, VGluT1, and VGluT2. Thus, proteins considered essential for vesicular uptake and exocytotic release of glutamate are not expressed at detectable levels by most sensory neurons containing SP and CGRP in rodents and toads. These data raise the possibility that most peptide-containing sensory neurons may not normally release glutamate as a transmitter.
Metabotropic GABAB receptors predominantly function as heterodimers of GABAB(1) and GABAB(2) subunits, but GABAB(1) can also form functional receptors in the absence of GABAB(2). Mice lacking the GABAB(1) subunit have altered behavioural responses in tests for anxiety and depression. In these studies, we investigated anxiety and depression in GABAB(2)-deficient mice. We compared the effects directly with that of genetic deletion of the GABAB(1) receptor subunit. Both GABAB(1) and GABAB(2)-deficient mice were found to be more anxious than wild type in the light-dark box paradigm. In contrast, these mice exhibited an antidepressant-like behaviour in the forced swim test. Taken together, these data suggest that heterodimeric GABAB(1,2) receptors are required for the normal regulation of emotional behaviour.
Event-related potentials were recorded in healthy volunteers to test the accuracy of the human brain to extract, preattentively, auditory abstract rules. The abstract rule was determined by the frequency relationship between two pure tones forming a pair. The standard pairs had identical tone frequency, whereas the deviant pairs had the second tone two, four, six or eight musical steps higher or lower in frequency than the first one. All abstract changes elicited mismatch negativity, which was not affected by the magnitude of change. However, the subsequent P3a increased as a function of the magnitude of the abstract change. These results suggest that mismatch negativity detects violations of abstract rules, and the amount of violation is analyzed in subsequent stages of auditory processing.
Our previous studies have shown that 100 Hz electroacupuncture (EA) produced antinociception through the release of endogenous opioids (mainly dynorphin) and the activated kappa-opioid receptors in normal rats. Acupuncture is an effective treatment in relieving pain, but it develops tolerance after repeated administration. It has been reported that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists could increase the antinociceptive effects induced by morphine and delay the development of tolerance to morphine but nothing has yet been described to reduce EA tolerance. Here we test whether ketamine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, would enhance 100 Hz EA antinociception as well as prevent or delay the development of chronic tolerance to 100 Hz EA in normal rats. The results are as follows: (1) ketamine injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) 15 min prior to EA enhanced the antinociceptive effects of 100 Hz EA at a dose of 5.0 mg/kg, but not 0.2 or 1.0 mg/kg. However, ketamine at either dose did not affect the basal nociceptive threshold (represented by tail-flick latency). (2) Ketamine at a dose of 5.0 mg/kg delayed the development of chronic tolerance to 100 Hz EA antinociception. We conclude that ketamine can enhance antinociception of 100 Hz EA and delay the tolerance to 100 Hz EA in rats. These results suggest that the development of 100 Hz EA tolerance to antinociception was mediated, at least in part, through peripheral NMDA receptors, which may be useful in improving the therapeutic effects of EA in the treatment of pain when EA tolerance occurs.
This study examined the effect of gestational age of rat ventral mesencephalon (VM) on the characteristics of neurospheres generated from this region and on the yield of each cell type after differentiation of these neurospheres. Neurospheres generated from embryonic day (E) 12 and E13 VM had significantly larger diameters and volumes than those from E14 VM. Subsequent differentiation of these neurospheres resulted in decreasing yield of neurones (E12&gt;E13&gt;E14) and increasing yields of both astroglia and oligodendroglia (E12&lt;E13&lt;E14) with increasing donor age. Dopaminergic neurones were generated in low numbers from E12 and E13 cultures, and were virtually absent in E14 cultures. This study suggests that gestational age is a critical factor in the selection of tissue to generate particular cell types from neural stem cells. This has important implications for the use of neural stem cells in transplantation approaches to neurodegenerative diseases.
In young, first-episode, productive, medication-naive patients with schizophrenia, EEG microstates (building blocks of mentation) tend to be shortened. Koenig et al. [Koenig, T., Lehmann, D., Merlo, M., Kochi, K., Hell, D., Koukkou, M., 1999. A deviant EEG brain microstate in acute, neuroleptic-naive schizophrenics at rest. European Archives of Psychiatry and Clinical Neuroscience 249, 205-211] suggested that shortening concerned specific microstate classes. Sequence rules (microstate concatenations, syntax) conceivably might also be affected. In 27 patients of the above type and 27 controls, from three centers, multichannel resting EEG was analyzed into microstates using k-means clustering of momentary potential topographies into four microstate classes (A-D). In patients, microstates were shortened in classes B and D (from 80 to 70 ms and from 94 to 82 ms, respectively), occurred more frequently in classes A and C, and covered more time in A and less in B. Topography differed only in class B where LORETA tomography predominantly showed stronger left and anterior activity in patients. Microstate concatenation (syntax) generally were disturbed in patients; specifically, the class sequence A--&gt;C--&gt;D--&gt;A predominated in controls, but was reversed in patients (A--&gt;D--&gt;C--&gt;A). In schizophrenia, information processing in certain classes of mental operations might deviate because of precocious termination. The intermittent occurrence might account for Bleuler's &quot;double bookkeeping.&quot; The disturbed microstate syntax opens a novel physiological comparison of mental operations between patients and controls.
Functional imaging studies have pointed to a role of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), striatum and thalamus in the pathophysiology of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Effective treatment has been found to change brain activity within this circuitry. The aim of the present study was to explore possible differential effects of OCD responders and non-responders to drug treatment on the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Measurements of rCBF were carried out in 15 out of 22 patients with OCD who completed an open-label trial with fluvoxamine. Patients were studied with 99mTc-HMPAO single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) before and after 12 weeks of treatment. In addition, structural magnetic resonance imaging was obtained on all patients. Regions of interest comprised the OFC, caudate nucleus, putamen and thalamus. Seven patients responded to treatment. Levels of rCBF decreased significantly in the left caudate nucleus and the left and right putamen in both responders and non-responders to treatment. In responders, but not in non-responders, a significant decrease in rCBF was found in the right thalamus. Pre-treatment cerebellar and whole brain HMPAO uptake was significantly higher in responders to treatment compared with non-responders. We suggest that the thalamus plays a central role in the response to drug treatment.
The effect of amitriptyline on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activity was compared with that of fluvoxamine in 38 patients suffering from DMS-IV major depressive disorder. Basal plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol levels were determined in the so-called &quot;observation window&quot; of an hour (08:00-09:00 h), and cortisol levels were determined again at 20:00 h. Clinical and biochemical assessments were performed before therapy (T0), at day 14 (T14), and at day 42 (T42) of the course of antidepressant treatment. At T0, neuroendocrine parameters did not differ in patients from those in controls, except for the ratio between cortisol levels at 20:00 h and the mean level of the &quot;window&quot; (ratio F20/F8), which was significantly higher, suggesting a dysregulation of the circadian pattern of cortisol. Although a decrease in the ratio F20/F8 was already apparent at T14 of both treatments, the repeated measures analysis of variance failed to demonstrate a significant variation with time (T0, T14, and T42) and with treatment (amitriptyline and fluvoxamine) for any hormonal measure. At T42, both treated groups showed a similar level of clinical improvement. Our results did not demonstrate any effect of antidepressant therapy on the cortisol circadian rhythm abnormality.


In this study, the mechanism of OX(1) orexin receptors to regulate adenylyl cyclase activity when recombinantly expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells was investigated. In intact cells, stimulation with orexin-A led to two responses, a weak (21%), high potency (EC(50) approximately 1 nm) inhibition and a strong (4-fold), low potency (EC(50) = approximately 300 nm) stimulation. The inhibition was reversed by pertussis toxin, suggesting the involvement of G(i/o) proteins. Orexin-B was, surprisingly, almost equally as potent as orexin-A in elevating cAMP (pEC(50) = approximately 500 nm). cAMP elevation was not caused by Ca(2+) elevation or by Gbetagamma. In contrast, it relied in part on a novel protein kinase C (PKC) isoform, PKCdelta, as determined using pharmacological inhibitors. Yet, PKC stimulation alone only very weakly stimulated cAMP production (1.1-fold). In the presence of G(s) activity, orexins still elevated cAMP; however, the potencies were greatly increased (EC(50) of orexin-A = approximately 10 nm and EC(50) of orexin-B = approximately 100 nm), and the response was fully dependent on PKCdelta. In permeabilized cells, only a PKC-independent low potency component was seen. This component was sensitive to anti-Galpha(s) antibodies. We conclude that OX(1) receptors stimulate adenylyl cyclase via a low potency G(s) coupling and a high potency phospholipase C --&gt; PKC coupling. The former or some exogenous G activation is essentially required for the PKC to significantly activate adenylyl cyclase. The results also suggest that orexin-B-activated OX(1) receptors couple to G(s) almost as efficiently as the orexin-A-activated receptors, in contrast to Ca(2+) elevation and phospholipase C activation, for which orexin-A is 10-fold more potent.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by accumulation of the neurotoxic peptide beta-amyloid, which is produced by proteolysis of amyloid precursor protein (APP). APP is a large membrane-bound copper-binding protein that is essential in maintaining synaptic function and may play a role in synaptogenesis. beta-Amyloid has been shown to contribute to the oxidative stress that accompanies AD. Later stages of AD are characterized by neuronal apoptosis. However, the biochemical function of APP and the mechanism of the toxicity of beta-amyloid are still unclear. In this study, we show that both beta-amyloid and APP can oxidize cholesterol to form 7beta-hydroxycholesterol, a proapoptotic oxysterol that was neurotoxic at nanomolar concentrations. 7beta-Hydroxycholesterol inhibited secretion of soluble APP from cultured rat hippocampal H19-7/IGF-IR neuronal cells and inhibited tumor necrosis factor-alpha-converting enzyme alpha-secretase activity but had no effect on beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 activity. 7beta-Hydroxycholesterol was also a potent inhibitor of alpha-protein kinase C, with a K(i) of approximately 0.2 nm. The rate of reaction between cholesterol and beta-amyloid was comparable to the rates of cholesterol-metabolizing enzymes (k(cat) = 0.211 min(-)1). The rate of production of 7beta-hydroxycholesterol by APP was approximately 200 times lower than by beta-amyloid. Oxidation of cholesterol was accompanied by stoichiometric production of hydrogen peroxide and required divalent copper. The results suggest that a function of APP may be to produce low levels of 7-hydroxycholesterol. Higher levels produced by beta-amyloid could contribute to the oxidative stress and cell loss observed in Alzheimer's disease.
The Na/Cl-dependent BGT1 transporter has osmoprotective functions by importing the small osmolyte betaine into the cytosol of renal medullary epithelial cells. We have demonstrated previously that the surface localization of the transporter in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells depends on its association with the LIN7 PDZ protein through a PDZ target sequence in the last 5 residues of the transporter (-KETHL). Here we describe a protein kinase C (PKC)-mediated mechanism regulating the association between BGT1 and LIN7. Reduced transport activity paralleled by the intracellular relocalization of the transporter was observed in response to the PKC activation induced by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) treatment. This activation caused clathrin-dependent internalization of the transporter and its targeting to a recycling compartment that contains the truncated transporter lacking the LIN7 binding motif (BGTDelta5) but not the LIN7 partner of BGT1. The decreased association between BGT1 and LIN7 was demonstrated further by coimmunoprecipitation studies and in vitro binding to recombinant LIN7 fusion protein. The TPA treatment induced phosphorylation of surface BGT1 on serine and threonine residues. However, a greater increase in phosphothreonines than phosphoserines was measured in the wild type transporter, whereas the opposite was true in the BGTSer mutant in which a serine replaced the threonine 612 in the LIN7 association motif (-KESHL). No similar increase in relative phosphoserines or phosphothreonines was found in the BGTDelta5 transporter. Moreover, phosphorylation of threonine 612 in a BGT COOH-terminal peptide impaired its association with recombinant LIN7. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the post-translational regulation of BGT1 surface density is a result of transporter phosphorylation and that threonine 612 is an essential residue in this PKC-mediated regulation.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of mild acute and mild sub-chronic challenges on alcohol intake and preference in the genetically selected ratlines of apomorphine susceptible (APO-SUS) and apomorphine unsusceptible (APO-UNSUS) animals. Animals from both lines were subjected to the 24 hr continuous alcohol vs. water paradigm under baseline conditions, after a single stressor and after multiple stressors. The intake of alcohol in ml was measured and converted to two values, namely intake in g/kg/24 hour of, and preference for, alcohol. This study shows that under baseline conditions the APO-UNSUS animals consume/prefer more alcohol than the APO-SUS animals. After an acute challenge the APO-SUS animals show a large increase in consumption, whereas the APO-UNSUS animals display only a small increase. Furthermore, sub-chronic challenges can further increase the consumption of the APO-UNSUS rat, but not that of the APO-SUS rat. The APO-SUS/ APO-UNSUS rats represent a good model to study the interaction between genetic factors and stress on directing alcohol consumption.
Despite many decades of drug development, effective therapies for neuropathic pain remain elusive. The recent recognition of spinal cord glia and glial pro-inflammatory cytokines as important contributors to neuropathic pain suggests an alternative therapeutic strategy; that is, targeting glial activation or its downstream consequences. While several glial-selective drugs have been successful in controlling neuropathic pain in animal models, none are optimal for human use. Thus the aim of the present studies was to explore a novel approach for controlling neuropathic pain. Here, an adeno-associated viral (serotype II; AAV2) vector was created that encodes the anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10 (IL-10). This anti-inflammatory cytokine is known to suppress the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Upon intrathecal administration, this novel AAV2-IL-10 vector was successful in transiently preventing and reversing neuropathic pain. Intrathecal administration of an AAV2 vector encoding beta-galactosidase revealed that AAV2 preferentially infects meningeal cells surrounding the CSF space. Taken together, these data provide initial support that intrathecal gene therapy to drive the production of IL-10 may prove to be an efficacious treatment for neuropathic pain.

The direct effects of glutamate and dizocilpine maleate (MK-801, non-competitive N-Methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonist) on the metabolism of dopamine were investigated in the striatum of normal and parkinsonian rats. L-dopa, L-glutamic acid and MK-801 were administered in the striatum locally by microdialysis. 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) were simultaneously sampled by microdialysis. The concentrations of DOPAC and HVA were assayed by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-ECD). L-dopa increased the concentrations of DOPAC and HVA in the striatum of normal and parkinsonian rats. L-glutamic acid decreased the concentrations of DOPAC and HVA in striatum of normal rats but not parkinsonian rats. MK-801 increased the concentrations of DOPAC and HVA in the striatum of normal rats but not parkinsonian rats. MK-801 prevented the L-glutamic acid-induced decrease of DOPAC and HVA in the striatum of normal rats. Our results indicate that glutamate modulates the metabolism of dopamine (DA) through NMDA receptors and that the improvement of PD by MK-801 is not through improving the metabolism of DA.
Reductive cyclization of 5-hydroxy-3-methyl-3-methoxycarbonylmethylenebenzofuran-2(3H)-one (4) gave 5-hydroxy-3a-methyl-2,3,3a,8a-tatrahydrofuro[2,3-b]benzofuran (5) and the rearrangement product 7-hydroxy-4,5-dihydro-2,5-methano-1,3-benzodioxepine (6). Reaction of compounds 5 and 6 with different isocyanates provided two series novel carbamates (7-12) whose structures were confirmed by X-ray crystallography. These were assessed for anticholinesterase action against freshly prepared human enzyme and proved to be potent inhibitors of either acetyl- (AChE) or butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) with specific compounds exhibiting remarkable selectivity. Because the two series of carbamates (7-12) differ in their phenolic moieties, their respective potency and selectivity for AChE versus BChE was governed by their N-substituted groups. This same characteristic was also present in a series of physovenine analogues (1, 13, 15, 17) and physostigmine analogues (2, 14, 16, 18). These structure-activity relations proved valuable in elucidating the mechanisms underpinning the interaction between carbamate-based cholinesterase inhibitors and their enzyme target. In addition, because physostigmine analogues have demonstrated activity in lowering the Alzheimer's disease protein, amyloid precursor protein (APP), examples of the two new series of carbamates were characterized in culture assays of quantifying cell viability and synthesis of APP.
A library of benzamides was tested for alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonist activity using a chimeric receptor in a functional, cell-based, high-throughput assay. From this library, quinuclidine benzamides were found to have alpha7 nAChR agonist activity. The SAR diverged from the activity of this compound class verses the 5-HT(3) receptor, a structural homologue of the alpha7 nAChR. PNU-282987, the most potent compound from this series, was also shown to open native alpha7 nAChRs in cultured rat neurons and to reverse an amphetamine-induced gating deficit in rats.
To navigate our complex world, our brains have evolved a sophisticated ability to quickly learn arbitrary rules such as 'stop at red'. Studies in monkeys using a laboratory test of this capacity--conditional association learning--have revealed that frontal lobe structures (including the prefrontal cortex) as well as subcortical nuclei of the basal ganglia are involved in such learning. Neural correlates of associative learning have been observed in both brain regions, but whether or not these regions have unique functions is unclear, as they have typically been studied separately using different tasks. Here we show that during associative learning in monkeys, neural activity in these areas changes at different rates: the striatum (an input structure of the basal ganglia) showed rapid, almost bistable, changes compared with a slower trend in the prefrontal cortex that was more in accordance with slow improvements in behavioural performance. Also, pre-saccadic activity began progressively earlier in the striatum but not in the prefrontal cortex as learning took place. These results support the hypothesis that rewarded associations are first identified by the basal ganglia, the output of which 'trains' slower learning mechanisms in the frontal cortex.
The adducin family of proteins interacts with the actin cytoskeleton and the plasma membrane in a calcium- and cAMP-dependent manner. Thus, adducins may be involved in changes in cytoskeletal organization resulting from synaptic stimulation. beta-Adducin knock-out mice were examined in physiological and behavioral paradigms related to synaptic plasticity to elucidate the role the adducin family plays in processes underlying learning and memory. In situ hybridization for alpha- and beta-adducin demonstrates that these mRNAs are found throughout the brain, with high levels of expression in the hippocampus. Schaffer collateral-CA1 tetanic long-term potentiation decayed rapidly in acute hippocampal slices from beta-adducin knock-out mice, although baseline spine morphology and postsynaptic density were normal. Interestingly, the input-output relationship was significantly increased in hippocampal slices from beta-adducin knock-out mice. Furthermore, beta-adducin knock-out mice were impaired in performance of fear conditioning and the water maze paradigm. The current results indicate that beta-adducin may play an important role in the cellular mechanisms underlying activity-dependent synaptic plasticity associated with learning and memory.
The authors report a 35-year-old man whose unilateral cerebellar lesion resulted in marked deficits in coordinating simultaneous cyclic movements of the arm and leg on his ipsilesional side. He exhibited no such deficits when making simultaneous movements of the contralesional limbs or when moving paired left and right limbs. Thus, the cerebellum, which is already known to underlie within-limb interjoint coordination, also contributes to coordination between limbs.
A 30-year-old white man presented with a sporadic form of gradually progressive spastic gait and, later, supranuclear vertical and horizontal gaze palsy, mild cognitive impairment, loss of postural reflexes, and falls. DNA analysis revealed H1/H1 haplotype without tau gene (exons 9 to 13) mutation. Eight years later, postmortem revealed a tauopathy similar to progressive supranuclear palsy. Unusual aspects were early age at onset, neurofibrillary tangle, and tau involvement of the cord.
Most mu-opioid receptor agonists recruit beta-arrestin2, with some exceptions such as morphine. Surprisingly, however, the acute analgesic effect of morphine is enhanced in the absence of beta-arrestin2. To resolve this paradox, we examined the effects of morphine and fentanyl in acute brain slices of the locus coeruleus and the periaqueductal gray from beta-arrestin2 knockout mice. We report that, in these mice, presynaptic inhibition of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents was enhanced, whereas postsynaptic G protein-coupled K(+) (Kir3/GIRK) currents were unaffected. The frequency, but not amplitude, of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents was increased in beta-arrestin2 knockout mice, indicating a higher release probability compared to WT mice. The increased release probability resulted from increased cAMP levels because of impaired phosphodiesterase 4 function and conferred an enhanced efficacy of morphine to inhibit GABA release. Thus, beta-arrestin2 attenuates presynaptic inhibition by opioids independent of mu-opioid receptor-driven recruitment, which may make beta-arrestin2 a promising target for regulating analgesia.
Although dependent on the integrity of a central pacemaker in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SCN), endogenous daily (circadian) rhythms are expressed in a wide variety of peripheral organs. The pathways by which the pacemaker controls the periphery are unclear. Here, we used parabiosis between intact and SCN-lesioned mice to show that nonneural (behavioral or bloodborne) signals are adequate to maintain circadian rhythms of clock gene expression in liver and kidney, but not in heart, spleen, or skeletal muscle. These results indicate that the SCN regulates expression of circadian oscillations in different peripheral organs by diverse pathways.
Diabetes mellitus can lead to functional and structural deficits in both the peripheral and central nervous system. The pathogenesis of these deficits is multifactorial, probably involving, among others, microvascular dysfunction and alterations in intracellular calcium homeostasis. The present study examined the effects of treatment with the Ca2+ antagonist nimodipine (20 mg/kg, intraperitoneal injection, every 48 h) on functional deficits in the peripheral and central nervous system in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. In a prevention experiment, treatment was initiated immediately after diabetes induction and continued for 10 weeks. In a reversal experiment, treatment was initiated 16 weeks after diabetes induction and continued for 12 weeks. Sciatic nerve motor and sensory conduction velocity, brainstem auditory-evoked potentials, and visual-evoked potentials were measured in control, untreated, and nimodipine-treated diabetic rats. In addition, long-term potentiation, a form of synaptic plasticity used as a model for learning and memory at the cellular level, was examined in hippocampal slices. Nimodipine treatment partially prevented deficits in nerve conduction velocity and hippocampal long-term potentiation in diabetic rats. However, nimodipine intervention treatment was unable to reverse established deficits in nerve conduction velocity, evoked potential latencies, or long-term potentiation. It is concluded that nimodipine can partially prevent early functional deficits in the peripheral and central nervous system of streptozotocin-diabetic rats but is unable to reverse late deficits.
The basolateral amygdala (ABL) contains pyramidal projection neurons (PNs) and several discrete subpopulations of nonpyramidal interneurons. Interneurons containing the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin (PV) constitute about half of all ABL interneurons, and provide a robust innervation of the perisomatic domain of PNs. Although it is known that PNs reciprocate this projection by innervating PV interneurons, little is known about the details of these connections. In the present study, we investigated the innervation of PV interneurons by individual PNs in rat amygdalar slices. PNs in the basolateral nucleus, identified in vitro by their distinctive electrophysiological characteristics in whole cell patch-clamp recordings, were filled with biocytin by diffusion from the patch electrode. PV interneurons and biocytin-labeled PNs were visualized with a two-color immunoperoxidase procedure using nickel-enhanced DAB (black) for biocytin and non-enhanced DAB (brown) for PV. In slices with well-stained PN axons and PV neurons, light microscopy revealed numerous synapse-like contacts between these structures. The main PV+ targets of PN axons were the somata and proximal dendrites of PV neurons, although there were also contacts with more distal PV dendrites. In many cases, the PN axons ran along PV somata and/or proximal dendrites, forming multiple contacts. However, the great majority the PN axon terminals did not contact PV neurons. These observations suggest that there are robust reciprocal perisomatic PN-to-PV connections that may be important for the precise timing of rhythmic activity in the basolateral amygdala.
Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) and Urocortin are important neurotransmitters in the regulation of physiological and behavioral responses to stress. Centrally administered CRF or Urocortin produces anxiety-like responses in numerous animal models of anxiety disorders. Previous studies in our lab have shown that Urocortin infused into the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala produces anxiety-like responses in the social interaction test. Subsequently, in the current study we prepared a specific CRF1 receptor antagonist (N-Cyclopropylmethyl-2,5-dimethyl-N-propyl-N'-(2,4,6-trichloro-phenyl)-pyrimidine-4,6-diamine, NBI3b1996) to examine in this paradigm. This CRF1 receptor antagonist inhibited the ex vivo binding of 125I-sauvagine to rat cerebellum with an ED50 of 6 mg/kg, i.p. NBI3b1996 produced a dose-dependent antagonism of Urocortin-induced anxiety-like behavior in Social Interaction test with an ED50 of 6 mg/kg, i.p. The compound had no effect on baseline social interaction. In addition, the CRF1 receptor antagonist prevented the stress-induced decrease in social interaction. These results provide further support for the CRF1 receptor in anxiety-like behavior and suggest this pathway is quiescent in unstressed animals.
Stimulation of spinal serotonin (5-HT) receptors results in analgesia and release of acetylcholine. We investigated the involvement of 5-HT1, 5-HT2, and 5-HT3 receptor subtypes in the regulation of spinal acetylcholine release. A spinal microdialysis probe was placed dorsally at about the C5 level in anaesthetized rats. The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram was found to increase acetylcholine release when infused via the microdialysis probe. Several doses of the 5-HT receptor agonists 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetraline (8-OH-DPAT, 5-HT1A), 1,4-dihydro-3-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridinyl)-5H-pyrrolo[3,2-b]pyridin-5-one dihydrochloride (CP93129, 5-HT1B), alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine maleate (m5-HT, 5-HT2), 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI, 5-HT2C), and 1-(m-chlorophenyl)-biguanide (5-HT3) were subsequently infused via the microdialysis probe. Only 8-OH-DPAT, CP93129, and m5-HT increased acetylcholine release dose dependently. The 5-HT1A receptor selective antagonist (S)-N-tert-butyl-3-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine-1-yl)-2-phenylpropanamide hydrochloride and the 5-HT2A receptor selective antagonist ketanserin tartrate inhibited the 8-OH-DPAT and the m5-HT induced acetylcholine release. The results suggest that 5-HT1A and the 5-HT2A receptors are involved in the regulation of acetylcholine release in the spinal cord.
Previous work has shown that administration of the neurotrophin NT-3 intrathecally or to the proximal stump can prevent axotomy-induced sensory neuron loss and that NT-3 can stimulate sensory neuron differentiation in vitro. We have examined the effect of axotomy and systemic NT-3 administration on neuronal loss, apoptosis (defined by morphology and activated caspase-3 immunoreactivity), and nestin expression (a protein expressed by neuronal precursor cells) in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) following axotomy of the adult rat sciatic nerve. Systemic administration of 1.25 or 5 mg of NT-3 over 1 month had no effect on the incidence of apoptotic neurons but prevented the overall loss of neurons seen at 4 weeks in vehicle-treated animals. Nestin-immunoreactive neurons began to appear 2 weeks after sciatic transection in untreated animals and steadily increased in incidence over the next 6 weeks. NT-3 administration increased the number of nestin-immunoreactive neurons at 1 month by two- to threefold. Nestin-IR neurons had a mean diameter of 20.78 +/- 2.5 microm and expressed the neuronal markers neurofilament 200, betaIII-tubulin, protein gene product 9.5, growth associated protein 43, trkA, and calcitonin gene-related peptide. Our results suggest that the presence of nestin in DRG neurons after nerve injury is due to recent differentiation and that exogenous NT-3 may prevent neuron loss by stimulating this process, rather than preventing neuron death.
Trio, a member of the Dbl family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs), has a series of spectrin repeats, two GEF domains, protein interaction domains, and a putative kinase domain, potentially important in neuronal axon guidance and cell migration. Most knowledge about Trio is based on studies of Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila, while the function of Trio in vertebrates is unclear. The aim of these experiments was to establish the patterns of Trio expression in the postnatal rat brain. During postnatal (P) development, high levels of Trio mRNA are found in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, caudate/putamen, and olfactory bulb, with lower levels in the septal nucleus, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, and hypothalamus. Except for the cerebellum, Trio mRNA in major brain areas is highest at P1, decreasing gradually during development, with low but detectable levels at P30. In P14 cerebral cortex, pyramidal neurons with strongly staining soma and dendrites are observed primarily in layer 5. In hippocampus, strong staining is observed in pyramidal neurons, granule cells, and isolated interneurons. Cerebellar Purkinje neurons exhibit intense staining in the soma and in extensive dendritic arbors at P7 and P14. Levels of Trio mRNA and the intensity of Trio immunostaining in cerebellar Purkinje cells increase from P1 to P30. Consistent with the in situ hybridization pattern, Western blot analyses show that Trio levels in the hippocampus and cortex are high at P1, decreasing until P30. The data suggest that Trio plays an important role during neuronal development.
Elimination of apoptotic neurons without inflammation is crucial for brain tissue homeostasis, but the molecular mechanism has not been firmly established. Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-2 (TREM2) is a recently identified innate immune receptor. Here, we show expression of TREM2 in microglia. TREM2 stimulation induced DAP12 phosphorylation, extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation, and cytoskeleton reorganization and increased phagocytosis. Knockdown of TREM2 in microglia inhibited phagocytosis of apoptotic neurons and increased gene transcription of tumor necrosis factor alpha and nitric oxide synthase-2, whereas overexpression of TREM2 increased phagocytosis and decreased microglial proinflammatory responses. Thus, TREM2 deficiency results in impaired clearance of apoptotic neurons and inflammation that might be responsible for the brain degeneration observed in patients with polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy/Nasu-Hakola disease.
The analysis of electrophysiological data often produces results that are continuous in one or more dimensions, e.g., time-frequency maps, peri-stimulus time histograms, and cross-correlation functions. Classical inferences made on the ensuing statistical maps must control family wise error (FWE) when searching across the map's dimensions. In this paper, we borrow multiple comparisons procedures, established in neuroimaging, and apply them to electrophysiological data. These procedures use random field theory (RFT) to adjust p-values from statistics that are functions of time and/or frequency. This RFT adjustment for continuous statistical processes plays the same role as a Bonnferonni adjustment in the context of discrete statistical tests. Here, by analysing the time-frequency decompositions of single channel EEG data we show that RFT adjustments can be used in the analysis of electrophysiological data and illustrate the advantages of this method over existing approaches.
A pathogenic truncation of an amber mutation at codon 145 (Y145STOP) in Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease (GSS) was investigated through the real-time imaging in living cells, by utilizing GFP-PrP constructs. GFP-PrP(1-144) exhibited an aberrant localization to mitochondria in mouse neuroblastoma neuro2a (N2a) and HpL3-4 cells, a hippocampal cell line established from prnp gene-ablated mice, whereas full-length GFP-PrP did not. The aberrant mitochondrial localization was also confirmed by Western blot analysis. Since GFP-PrP(1-121), as previously reported, and full-length GFP-PrP do not exhibit such mitochondrial localization, the mitochondrial localization of GFP-PrP(1-144) requires not only PrP residues 121-144 (in human sequence) but also COOH-terminal truncation in the current experimental condition. Subsequently, the GFP-PrP(1-144) induced a change in the mitochondrial innermembrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)), release of cytochrome c from the intermembrane space into the cytosol, and DNA fragmentation in these cells. Non-fluorescent PrP(1-144) also induced the DNA fragmentation in N2a and HpL3-4 cells after the proteasomal inhibition. These data may provide clues as to the molecular mechanism of the neurotoxic property of Y145STOP mutation. Furthermore, immunoelectron microscopy revealed numerous electron-dense deposits in mitochondria clusters of GFP-PrP(1-144)-transfected N2a cells, whereas no deposit was detected in the cells transfected with full-length GFP-PrP. Co-localization of GFP/PrP-immunogold particles with porin-immunogold particles as a mitochondrial marker was observed in such electron-dense vesicular foci, resembling those found in autophagic vacuoles forming secondary lysosomes. Whether such electron-dense deposits may serve as a seed for the growth of amyloid plaques, a characteristic feature of GSS with Y145STOP, awaits further investigations.
Oxidative stress links diverse neuropathological conditions that include stroke, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease and has been modeled in vitro with various paradigms that lead to neuronal cell death following the increased accumulation of reactive oxygen species. For example, immortalized neurons and immature primary cortical neurons undergo cell death in response to depletion of the antioxidant glutathione, which can be elicited by administration of glutamate at high concentrations. We have demonstrated previously that this glutamate-induced oxidative toxicity requires activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase member ERK1/2, but the mechanisms by which this activation takes place in oxidatively stressed neurons are still not fully known. In this study, we demonstrate that during oxidative stress, ERK-directed phosphatases of both the serine/threonine- and tyrosine-directed classes are selectively and reversibly inhibited via a mechanism that is dependent upon the oxidation of cysteine thiols. Furthermore, the impact of ERK-directed phosphatases on ERK1/2 activation and oxidative toxicity in neurons was tested in a neuronal cell line and in primary cortical cultures. Overexpression of the highly ERK-specific phosphatase MKP3 and its catalytic mutant, MKP3 C293S, were neuroprotective in transiently transfected HT22 cells and primary neurons. The neuroprotective effect of the MKP3 C293S mutant, which enhances ERK1/2 phosphorylation but blocks its nuclear translocation, demonstrates the necessity for active ERK1/2 nuclear localization for oxidative toxicity in neurons. Together, these data implicate the inhibition of endogenous ERK-directed phosphatases as a mechanism that leads to aberrant ERK1/2 activation and nuclear accumulation during oxidative toxicity in neurons.
In the nervous system, protein phosphorylation is an essential feature of synaptic function. Although protein phosphorylation is known to be important for many synaptic processes and in disease, little is known about global phosphorylation of synaptic proteins. Heterogeneity and low abundance make protein phosphorylation analysis difficult, particularly for mammalian tissue samples. Using a new approach, combining both protein and peptide immobilized metal affinity chromatography and mass spectrometry data acquisition strategies, we have produced the first large scale map of the mouse synapse phosphoproteome. We report over 650 phosphorylation events corresponding to 331 sites (289 have been unambiguously assigned), 92% of which are novel. These represent 79 proteins, half of which are novel phosphoproteins, and include several highly phosphorylated proteins such as MAP1B (33 sites) and Bassoon (30 sites). An additional 149 candidate phosphoproteins were identified by profiling the composition of the protein immobilized metal affinity chromatography enrichment. All major synaptic protein classes were observed, including components of important pre- and postsynaptic complexes as well as low abundance signaling proteins. Bioinformatic and in vitro phosphorylation assays of peptide arrays suggest that a small number of kinases phosphorylate many proteins and that each substrate is phosphorylated by many kinases. These data substantially increase existing knowledge of synapse protein phosphorylation and support a model where the synapse phosphoproteome is functionally organized into a highly interconnected signaling network.
The mamba toxin MT-7 is the most selective ligand currently available for the muscarinic M1 receptor subtype. The toxin binds stably to the receptor and blocks the agonist-induced activation non-competitively. Although its mode of action on M1 receptors is not yet fully understood, some of the toxin properties support an allosteric mechanism. Thus, the toxin fails to elicit a complete inhibition of the binding of either the muscarinic antagonist [3H]N-methyl-scopolamine ([3H]NMS) or the agonist [3H]acetylcholine ([3H]ACh). When added to ligand-occupied M1 receptors, the toxin slows the dissociation rate of [3H]NMS and increases that of [3H]ACh. Site-directed mutagenesis studies have provided important information about the toxin amino acid residues which are critical for the stable binding to the receptor and for the allosteric modulation of antagonist dissociation. In vivo studies have shown that the intracerebral injection of MT-7 causes a long-lasting blockade of M1 receptor, thus providing a tool for the characterization of the functional role of this receptor subtype in discrete brain areas.

A small number of mammalian retinal ganglion cells act as photoreceptors for regulating certain non-image forming photoresponses. These intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells express the putative photopigment melanopsin. Ablation of the melanopsin gene renders these cells insensitive to light; however, the precise role of melanopsin in supporting cellular photosensitivity is unconfirmed. Here we show that heterologous expression of human melanopsin in a mouse paraneuronal cell line (Neuro-2a) is sufficient to render these cells photoreceptive. Under such conditions, melanopsin acts as a sensory photopigment, coupled to a native ion channel via a G-protein signalling cascade, to drive physiological light detection. The melanopsin photoresponse relies on the presence of cis-isoforms of retinaldehyde and is selectively sensitive to short-wavelength light. We also present evidence to show that melanopsin functions as a bistable pigment in this system, having an intrinsic photoisomerase regeneration function that is chromatically shifted to longer wavelengths.
Melanopsin has been proposed to be the photopigment of the intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs); these photoreceptors of the mammalian eye drive circadian and pupillary adjustments through direct projections to the brain. Their action spectrum (lambda(max) approximately 480 nm) implicates an opsin and melanopsin is the only opsin known to exist in these cells. Melanopsin is required for ipRGC photosensitivity and for behavioural photoresponses that survive disrupted rod and cone function. Heterologously expressed melanopsin apparently binds retinaldehyde and mediates photic activation of G proteins. However, its amino-acid sequence differs from vertebrate photosensory opsins and some have suggested that melanopsin may be a photoisomerase, providing retinoid chromophore to an unidentified opsin. To determine whether melanopsin is a functional sensory photopigment, here we transiently expressed it in HEK293 cells that stably expressed TRPC3 channels. Light triggered a membrane depolarization in these cells and increased intracellular calcium. The light response resembled that of ipRGCs, with almost identical spectral sensitivity (lambda(max) approximately 479 nm). The phototransduction pathway included Gq or a related G protein, phospholipase C and TRPC3 channels. We conclude that mammalian melanopsin is a functional sensory photopigment, that it is the photopigment of ganglion-cell photoreceptors, and that these photoreceptors may use an invertebrate-like phototransduction cascade.
An essential, evolutionarily stable feature of brain function is the detection of animate entities, and one of the main cues to identify them is their movement. We developed a model of a simple interaction between two objects, in which an increase of the correlation between their movements varied the amount of interactivity and animacy observers attributed to them. Functional magnetic resonance imaging revealed that activation in the posterior superior temporal sulcus and gyrus (pSTS/pSTG) increased in relation to the degree of correlated motion between the two objects. This activation increase was not different when subjects performed an explicit or implicit task while observing these interacting objects. These data suggest that the pSTS and pSTG play a role in the automatic identification of animate entities, by responding directly to an objective movement characteristic inducing the percept of animacy, such as the amount of interactivity between two moving objects.
Spontaneous synaptic vesicle fusion is a common property of all synapses. To trace the origin of spontaneously fused vesicles in hippocampal synapses, we tagged vesicles with fluorescent styryl dyes, antibodies against synaptotagmin-1, or horseradish peroxidase. We could show that synaptic vesicles recycle at rest, and after spontaneous exo-endocytosis, they populate a reluctantly releasable pool of limited size. Interestingly, vesicles in this spontaneously labeled pool were more likely to re-fuse spontaneously compared to vesicles labeled with activity. We found that blocking vesicle refilling at rest selectively depleted neurotransmitter from spontaneously fusing vesicles without significantly altering evoked transmission. Furthermore, in the absence of the vesicle SNARE protein synaptobrevin (VAMP), activity-dependent and spontaneously recycling vesicles could mix, suggesting a role for synaptobrevin in the separation of the two pools. Taken together these results suggest that spontaneously recycling vesicles and activity-dependent recycling vesicles originate from distinct pools with limited cross-talk with each other.
In vertebrate olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), the odorant-triggered receptor current flows through two distinct ion channels on the sensory cilia: Ca2+ influx through a cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channel followed by Cl- efflux through a Ca2+-activated anion channel. The excitatory Cl- current amplifies the small CNG current and crucially depends on a high intracellular Cl- concentration. We show here that a (Na+)-(K+)-(2Cl-) cotransporter, NKCC1, is required for this Cl- current, in that ORNs deficient in Nkcc1 or incubated with an NKCC blocker (bumetanide) lack the Cl- current. Surprisingly, immunocytochemistry indicates that NKCC1 is located on the somata and dendrites of ORNs rather than the cilia, where transduction occurs. This topography is remarkably similar to the situation in secretory epithelial cells, where basolateral Cl- uptake and apical Cl- efflux facilitate transepithelial fluid movement. Thus, a single functional architecture serves two entirely different purposes, probably underscoring the epithelial origin of the ORNs.
Little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying differences in the ligand binding properties of AMPA, kainate, and NMDA subtype glutamate receptors. Crystal structures of the GluR5 and GluR6 kainate receptor ligand binding cores in complexes with glutamate, 2S,4R-4-methylglutamate, kainate, and quisqualate have now been solved. The structures reveal that the ligand binding cavities are 40% (GluR5) and 16% (GluR6) larger than for GluR2. The binding of AMPA- and GluR5-selective agonists to GluR6 is prevented by steric occlusion, which also interferes with the high-affinity binding of 2S,4R-4-methylglutamate to AMPA receptors. Strikingly, the extent of domain closure produced by the GluR6 partial agonist kainate is only 3 degrees less than for glutamate and 11 degrees greater than for the GluR2 kainate complex. This, together with extensive interdomain contacts between domains 1 and 2 of GluR5 and GluR6, absent from AMPA receptors, likely contributes to the high stability of GluR5 and GluR6 kainate complexes.
A combination of genetic factors and early life events is thought to determine the vulnerability of an individual to develop a complex neurodevelopmental disorder like schizophrenia. Pharmacogenetically selected, apomorphine-susceptible Wistar rats (APO-SUS) display a number of behavioral and pathophysiological features reminiscent of such disorders. Here, we report microarray analyses revealing in APO-SUS rats, relative to their counterpart APO-UNSUS rats, a reduced expression of Aph-1b, a component of the gamma-secretase enzyme complex that is involved in multiple (neuro)developmental signaling pathways. The reduced expression is due to a duplicon-based genomic rearrangement event resulting in an Aph-1b dosage imbalance. The expression levels of the other gamma-secretase components were not affected. However, gamma-secretase cleavage activity was significantly changed, and the APO-SUS/-UNSUS Aph-1b genotypes segregated with a number of behavioral phenotypes. Thus, a subtle imbalance in the expression of a single, developmentally important protein may be sufficient to cause a complex phenotype.
The manifestations of Parkinson's disease are caused by reduced dopaminergic innervation of the striatum. Loss-of-function mutations in the DJ-1 gene cause early-onset familial parkinsonism. To investigate a possible role for DJ-1 in the dopaminergic system, we generated a mouse model bearing a germline disruption of DJ-1. Although DJ-1(-/-) mice had normal numbers of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, evoked dopamine overflow in the striatum was markedly reduced, primarily as a result of increased reuptake. Nigral neurons lacking DJ-1 were less sensitive to the inhibitory effects of D2 autoreceptor stimulation. Corticostriatal long-term potentiation was normal in medium spiny neurons of DJ-1(-/-) mice, but long-term depression (LTD) was absent. The LTD deficit was reversed by treatment with D2 but not D1 receptor agonists. Furthermore, DJ-1(-/-) mice displayed hypoactivity in the open field. Collectively, our findings suggest an essential role for DJ-1 in dopaminergic physiology and D2 receptor-mediated functions.
In this issue of Neuron, Sara et al. find that spontaneously released miniature synaptic potentials arise from a pool of vesicles distinct from those released by neural activity. This modification of a basic tenet of the quantal hypothesis has important implications for the analysis of changes in synaptic transmission.
We examined the mechanisms through which the prolonged presentation of either a high-contrast stimulus or an artificial scotoma [equivalent to the stimulation of the receptive field (RF) surround] induces changes in the RF properties of neurons intracellularly recorded in cat primary visual cortex. Discharge and synaptic RFs were quantitatively characterized using bright and dark bars randomly flashed in various positions. Compared with the lack of stimulation (0% contrast for 15-30 s), stimulation with high-contrast sine-wave gratings (15-30 s) was followed by a strong reduction in gain and a weak but significant reduction in width of spike discharge RFs. These reductions were accompanied by a membrane potential hyperpolarization, a decrease of synaptic RF width, and varying changes of synaptic RF gain. Passive hyperpolarization by DC injection also produced significant reduction in the width and gain of discharge RF. Mimicking, in single neurons, high-contrast stimulation with high-intensity current injection also induced a membrane potential hyperpolarization, whose amplitude was correlated with discharge RF gain and width changes. Recovery from adaptation to high-contrast stimulation during the period of gray screen or scotoma presentation was associated with an increase in gain and discharge RF size. Stimulation of the RF surround with an artificial scotoma did not have any additional aftereffects over those of adaptation to a gray screen, indicating that the contraction and expansion of RF gain and size are attributable to intrinsic and synaptic mechanisms underlying adaptation and de-adaptation to strong visual stimuli.
Much evidence indicates that fear conditioning involves potentiation of some thalamic inputs to the lateral amygdala (LA). In turn, the LA would excite more neurons in the central nucleus (CE), leading to the generation of fear responses via their brainstem and hypothalamic projections. However, the posterior thalamus not only projects to LA but also to the medial sector of CE (CEm), suggesting that CEm might also be a site of plasticity. To test whether CEm also exhibits activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, we performed whole-cell recordings of CEm neurons in amygdala slices and stimulated thalamic axons coursing through the internal capsule and, as a control, the basolateral (BL) nucleus. High-frequency stimulation of thalamic inputs led to a long-lasting potentiation of thalamic responses, whereas BL-evoked responses remained unchanged. This thalamic long-term potentiation (LTP) developed even when slices were prepared with a cut severing the connections between the LA and CEm but was greatly reduced when an NMDA receptor antagonist was added to the perfusate shortly before and during LTP induction. Yet, intracellular dialysis with the NMDA receptor antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate did not prevent induction of the thalamic LTP, suggesting that presynaptic NMDA receptors are required for its induction. Consistent with this, the thalamic LTP also developed when the cells were dialyzed with a calcium chelator or kept hyperpolarized during induction. Finally, this thalamic LTP was associated with reduced amounts of paired-pulse facilitation, suggesting that it is expressed presynaptically. These results are consistent with the idea that the CEm plays an active role in fear conditioning.
The hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) is an area of active proliferation and neurogenesis within the adult brain. The molecular events controlling adult cell genesis in the hippocampus essentially remain unknown. It has been reported previously that adult male and female rats from the strains Sprague Dawley (SD) and spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) have a marked difference in proliferation rates of cells in the hippocampal DG. To exploit this natural variability and identify potential regulators of cell genesis in the hippocampus, hippocampal gene expression from male SHR as well as male and female SD rats was analyzed using a cDNA array strategy. Hippocampal expression of the gene-encoding glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) varied strongly in parallel with cell-proliferation rates in the adult rat DG. Moreover, robust GIP immunoreactivity could be detected in the DG. The GIP receptor is expressed by cultured adult hippocampal progenitors and throughout the granule cell layer of the DG, including progenitor cells. Thus, these cells have the ability to respond to GIP. Indeed, exogenously delivered GIP induced proliferation of adult-derived hippocampal progenitors in vivo as well as in vitro, and adult GIP receptor knock-out mice exhibit a significantly lower number of newborn cells in the hippocampal DG compared with wild-type mice. This investigation demonstrates the presence of GIP in the brain for the first time and provides evidence for a regulatory function for GIP in progenitor cell proliferation.
Overproduction of the amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide is a key factor in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the mechanisms of its pathogenic effects have not been defined. Patients with AD have cerebrovascular alterations attributable to the deleterious effects of Abeta on cerebral blood vessels. We report here that NADPH oxidase, the major source of free radicals in blood vessels, is responsible for the cerebrovascular dysregulation induced by Abeta. Thus, the free-radical production and the associated alterations in vasoregulation induced by Abeta are abrogated by the NADPH oxidase peptide inhibitor gp91ds-tat and are not observed in mice lacking the catalytic subunit of NADPH oxidase (gp91phox). Furthermore, oxidative stress and cerebrovascular dysfunction do not occur in transgenic mice overexpressing the amyloid precursor protein but lacking gp91phox. The mechanisms by which NADPH oxidase-derived radicals mediate the cerebrovascular dysfunction involve reduced bioavailability of nitric oxide. Thus, a gp91phox-containing NADPH oxidase is the critical link between Abeta and cerebrovascular dysfunction, which may underlie the alteration in cerebral blood flow regulation observed in AD patients.
Repeated episodes of spontaneous large-scale neuronal bursting and calcium influx in the developing brain can potentially affect such fundamental processes as circuit formation and gene expression. Between postnatal day 3 (P3) and P7, the immature cortex can express one such form of activation whereby a wave of neuronal activity propagates through cortical networks, generating massive calcium influx. We previously showed that this activity could be triggered by brief stimulation of muscarinic receptors. Here, we show, by monitoring large cortical areas at low magnification, that although all areas respond to muscarinic agonists to some extent, only some areas are likely to generate the coordinated wave-like activation. The waves can be triggered repeatedly in frontal areas where, as we also show, waves occur spontaneously at a low frequency. In parietal and occipital areas, no such waves are seen. This selectivity may be related in part to differences in the cortical distribution of dopaminergic signaling, because we find that activation of dopamine receptors enables the response. Because M1 muscarinic receptors are typically coupled with G-alpha(q)/11, we investigated whether other receptors known to couple with this G-protein (group I glutamate metabotropic receptors, neurotensin type 1) could similarly elicit wave-like activation in responsive cortical areas. Our results suggest that multiple neurotransmitter systems can enable this form of activation in the frontal cortex. The findings suggest that a poorly recognized, developmentally regulated form of strong network activation found predominantly in the frontal cortex could potentially exert a profound influence on brain development.
The activity of the thalamus is state dependent. During slow-wave sleep, rhythmic burst firing is prominent, whereas during waking or rapid eye movement sleep, tonic, single-spike activity dominates. These state-dependent changes result from the actions of modulatory neurotransmitters. In the present study, we investigated the functional and cellular effects of the neuropeptide thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) on the spontaneously active ferret geniculate slice. This peptide and its receptors are prominently expressed in the thalamic network, yet the role of thalamic TRH remains obscure. Bath application of TRH resulted in a transient cessation of both spindle waves and the epileptiform slow oscillation induced by application of bicuculline. With intracellular recordings, TRH application to the GABAergic neurons of the perigeniculate (PGN) or thalamocortical cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus resulted in depolarization and increased membrane resistance. In perigeniculate neurons, this effect reversed near the reversal potential for K+, suggesting that it is mediated by a decrease in K+ conductance. In thalamocortical cells, the TRH-induced depolarization was of sufficient amplitude to block the generation of rebound Ca2+ spikes, whereas the even larger direct depolarization of PGN neurons transformed these cells from the burst to tonic, single-spike mode of action potential generation. Furthermore, application of TRH prominently enhanced the afterdepolarization that follows rebound Ca2+ spikes, suggesting that this transmitter may also enhance Ca2+-activated nonspecific currents. These data suggest a novel role for TRH in the brain as an intrinsic regulator of thalamocortical network activity and provide a potential mechanism for the wake-promoting and anti-epileptic effects of this peptide.
AMPA-type glutamate receptors play a key role in mediating postsynaptic responses of excitatory neurotransmitters. It is now well accepted that AMPA receptors are also present at the presynapse, where they are thought to modulate neurotransmitter release. However, the mechanisms through which they control synaptic vesicle traffic have remained elusive. We used cultured hippocampal neurons and growth cone particles prepared from fetal rat brain to investigate the functional role of presynaptic AMPA receptors. We show here that stimulation of presynaptic AMPA receptors induces activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) through a nonreceptor tyrosine kinase-dependent and Na+/Ca2+-independent mechanism. This pathway is activated predominantly in axonal growth cones compared with the somatodendritic compartment. After stimulation of presynaptic AMPA receptors, synapsin I is phosphorylated at MAPK-specific sites. These events are paralleled by a prominent increase in evoked synaptic vesicle recycling that is blocked by the specific MAPK inhibitor 2-(2-amino-3-methoxyphenyl)-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one. Similarly, in synaptosomes isolated from adult brain, AMPA stimulation induces MAPK activation and phosphorylation of synapsin I at MAPK-dependent sites and enhances significantly synaptic vesicle recycling. These results reveal a novel pathway for activation of presynaptic MAPK and suggest a role of this pathway in the regulation of short-term presynaptic plasticity.
Anti-GD1a ganglioside antibodies (Abs) are the serological hallmark of the acute motor axonal form of the post-infectious paralysis, Guillain-Barre syndrome. Development of a disease model in mice has been impeded by the weak immunogenicity of gangliosides and the apparent resistance of GD1a-containing neural membranes to anti-GD1a antibody-mediated injury. Here we used mice with altered ganglioside biosynthesis to generate such a model at motor nerve terminals. First, we bypassed immunological tolerance by immunizing GD1a-deficient, beta-1,4-N-acetylgalactosaminyl transferase knock-out mice with GD1a ganglioside-mimicking antigens from Campylobacter jejuni and generated high-titer anti-GD1a antisera and complement fixing monoclonal Abs (mAbs). Next, we exposed ex vivo nerve-muscle preparations from GD1a-overexpressing, GD3 synthase knock-out mice to the anti-GD1a mAbs in the presence of a source of complement and investigated morphological and electrophysiological damage. Dense antibody and complement deposits were observed only over presynaptic motor axons, accompanied by severe ultrastructural damage and electrophysiological blockade of motor nerve terminal function. Perisynaptic Schwann cells and postsynaptic membranes were unaffected. In contrast, normal mice were not only unresponsive to immunization with GD1a but also resistant to neural injury during anti-GD1a Ab exposure, demonstrating the central role of membrane antigen density in modulating both immune tolerance to GD1a and axonal susceptibility to anti-GD1a Abmediated injury. Identical paralyzing effects were observed when testing mouse and human anti-GD1a-positive sera. These data indicate that anti-GD1a Abs arise via molecular mimicry and are likely to be clinically relevant in injuring peripheral nerve axonal membranes containing sufficiently high levels of GD1a.
Several lines of evidence support the idea that individuals who commit suicide have a certain biological predisposition, part of which is given by genes. Studies investigating genetic factors increasing suicide predisposition have been limited by current knowledge of the suicide neurobiology and have typically investigated one or a few genes at a time, whereas it is anticipated that several genes account for the total genetic variance mediating suicide. This review focuses on the advantages and the interest of using the microarray technology to investigate the neurobiology of suicide and discusses, by means of a data analysis example, the possible methodological problems and bioinformatic strategies that should be employed in order to separate the signal from the large amount of background noise, which is usually generated in such studies. Microarray expression studies and related platforms are promising tools to gain better insight into the neurobiology of suicide.
Celiac disease is a common autoimmune disorder that has genetic, environmental, and immunologic components. It is characterized by an immune response to ingested wheat gluten and related proteins of rye and barley that leads to inflammation, villous atrophy, and crypt hyperplasia in the intestine. The disease is closely associated with genes that code for human leukocyte antigens DQ2 and DQ8. Transglutaminase 2 appears to be an important component of the disease, both as a deamidating enzyme that can enhance the immunostimulatory effect of gluten and as a target autoantigen in the immune response. Sensitive and specific serologic tests, including those for anti-transglutaminase antibody, are facilitating fast and noninvasive screening for celiac disease. Thus, they are contributing to a more accurate estimate of the prevalence of the disease and its association with other disorders. Celiac disease is associated with increased rates of anemia, osteoporosis, cancer, neurologic deficits, and additional autoimmune disorders. A gluten-free diet is the mainstay of safe and effective treatment of celiac disease, although its effect on some of the extraintestinal manifestations of the disease remains to be determined.
The VDAC (voltage-dependent anion channel) plays a central role in apoptosis, participating in the release of apoptogenic factors including cytochrome c. The mechanisms by which VDAC forms a protein-conducting channel for the passage of cytochrome c are not clear. The present study approaches this problem by addressing the oligomeric status of VDAC and its role in the induction of the permeability transition pore and cytochrome c release. Chemical cross-linking of isolated mitochondria or purified VDAC with five different reagents proved that VDAC exists as dimers, trimers or tetramers. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer between fluorescently labelled VDACs supports the concept of dynamic VDAC oligomerization. Mitochondrial cross-linking prevented both permeability transition pore opening and release of cytochrome c, yet had no effect on electron transport or Ca2+ uptake. Bilayer-reconstituted purified cross-linked VDAC showed decreased conductance and voltage-independent channel activity. In the dithiobis(succinimidyl propionate)-cross-linked VDAC, these channel properties could be reverted to those of the native VDAC by cleavage of the cross-linking. Cross-linking of VDAC reconstituted into liposomes inhibited the release of the proteoliposome-encapsulated cytochrome c. Moreover, encapsulated, but not soluble cytochrome c induced oligomerization of liposome-reconstituted VDAC. Thus the results indicate that VDAC exists in a dynamic equilibrium between dimers and tetramers and suggest that oligomeric VDAC may be involved in mitochondria-mediated apoptosis.
A primary pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease is beta-amyloid (Abeta)-containing plaques in brain and cerebral vasculature. Reductions in the formation of Abeta peptides by gamma-secretase inhibitors may be a viable therapy for reducing Abeta in Alzheimer's disease. Here we report on the effects of two orally active gamma-secretase inhibitors. BMS-289948 (4-chloro-N-(2,5-difluorophenyl)-N-((1R)-{4-fluoro-2-[3-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)propyl]phenyl}ethyl)benzenesulfonamide hydrochloride) and BMS-299897 (4-[2-((1R)-1-{[(4-chlorophenyl)sulfonyl]-2,5-difluoroanilino}ethyl)-5-fluorophenyl]butanoic acid) markedly reduced both brain and plasma Abeta(1-40) in APP-YAC mice with ED(50) values of 86 and 22 mg/kg per os (po), respectively, for BMS-289948, and 30 and 16 mg/kg po, respectively, for BMS-299897. Both compounds also dose-dependently increased brain concentrations of APP carboxy-terminal fragments, consistent with inhibition of gamma-secretase. BMS-289948 and BMS-299897 (100 mg/kg po) reduced brain and plasma Abeta(1-40) rapidly (within 20min) and maximally within 3 h. BMS-299897 also dose-dependently reduced cortical, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and plasma Abeta in guinea pigs with ED(50) values of 30 mg/kg intraperitoneally, without affecting CSF levels of alpha-sAPP. The reductions in cortical Abeta correlated significantly with the reductions in both plasma (r(2) = 0.77) and CSF (r(2) = 0.61) Abeta. The decreases in Abeta were apparent at 3 and 6 h post-administration of BMS-299897, but not at 12h. These results demonstrate that BMS-289948 and BMS-299897 are orally bioavailable, functional gamma-secretase inhibitors with the ability to markedly reduce Abeta peptide concentrations in APP-YAC transgenic mice and in guinea pigs. These compounds may be useful pharmacologically for examining the effects of reductions in beta-amyloid peptides in both animal models and in Alzheimer's disease.
We investigated P2 receptor expression and function in macrophages from mouse, and in the J774 cell line, and revealed a larger spectrum of P2 receptor subtypes than previously recognised. The nucleotides adenosine triphosphate (ATP), adenosine diphosphate, uridine triphosphate and uridine diphosphate evoked an increase in intracellular calcium and the activation of a potassium current. The sensitivity of these responses to the antagonists suramin, PPADS, MRS 2179 and Cibacron blue suggest the presence of at least three functional P2Y receptor subtypes, most probably P2Y(2), P2Y(4) and P2Y(6). ATP also activated P2X receptors, giving rise to a rapidly activating cation conductance. This response was insensitive to the antagonists suramin and Cibacron blue, was potentiated by Zn(2+) and inhibited by acidification suggesting involvement of P2X(4) receptors. In low divalent cation solution, responses to ATP became larger, and dibenzoyl-ATP became more potent than ATP, indicating the presence of P2X(7) receptors. Immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, Western blots and RT-PCR show that P2X(4) and P2X(7) receptors are the most prominent in both macrophage types, while the expression of the other P2X subunits is variable and sometimes weak or undetectable. These techniques also demonstrated the presence of mRNA for P2Y(1), P2Y(2), P2Y(4) and P2Y(6) receptors along with protein expression for the three subtypes we investigated, namely, P2Y(1), P2Y(2) and P2Y(4).


Analogues of L-glutamine were designed and synthesized to test a hydrogen-bond hypothesis between ligand and neutral amino acid transporter ASCT2. The key design feature contains a substituted phenyl ring on the amide nitrogen that contains electron withdrawing and electron donating groups that alter the pKa of the amide NH. Through this study a preliminary binding site map has been developed, and a potent commercially available competitive inhibitor of the ASCT2 transporter has been identified.
The acquisition of a water maze based task requiring egocentric spatial orientation in the absence of distal cues was studied in four groups of rats: animals in which the fimbria-fornix had been transected, rats that received bilateral ablations of the anteromedial prefrontal cortex, animals in which both of these structures had been lesioned, and a sham-operated control group. Isolated lesions of both the anteromedial prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus were associated with a significantly impaired task acquisition. Both of these individually lesioned groups did, however, eventually demonstrate full functional recovery by reaching the task proficiency of the sham-operated control group. In contrast, the group in which both of these structures had been lesioned failed to demonstrate full functional recovery and was severely and long-lastingly impaired when compared to all other groups. Behavioural challenges in the form of a no-platform session and two reversals of platform position demonstrated that while the sham-operated control group and the group subjected to fimbria-fornix transections in isolation utilized rather pure egocentric orientation strategies, the two prefrontally lesioned groups (and especially the combined lesion group) employed a different set of solution strategies which at least partly relied on a &quot;circling&quot; method. Even in the behaviour of the prefrontally lesioned groups, however, indications of a certain level of cognitive representations of the platform positions were seen. It is concluded that both the prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus contribute to the mediation of egocentric spatial orientation. Furthermore, the hippocampus is a significant and potentially irreplaceable part of the neural substrate of functional recovery of the presently studied task after prefrontal lesions--while the prefrontal cortex may play a similar role with respect to hippocampal lesions.
Notch-Delta signaling has been implicated in several alternative modes of function in the vertebrate retina. To further investigate these functions, we examined retinas from zebrafish embryos in which bidirectional Notch-Delta signaling was inactivated either by the mind bomb (mib) mutation, which disrupts E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, or by treatment with gamma-secretase inhibitors, which prevent intramembrane proteolysis of Notch and Delta. We found that inactivating Notch-Delta signaling did not prevent differentiation of retinal neurons, but it did disrupt spatial patterning in both the apical-basal and planar dimensions of the retinal epithelium. Retinal neurons differentiated, but their laminar arrangement was disrupted. Photoreceptor differentiation was initiated normally, but its progression was slowed. Although confined to the apical retinal surface as in normal retinas, the planar organization of cone photoreceptors was disrupted: cones of the same spectral subtype were clumped rather than regularly spaced. In contrast to neurons, Mller glia failed to differentiate suggesting an instructive role for Notch-Delta signaling in gliogenesis.
In the tadpole larvae of the ascidian Halocynthia roretzi, six motor neurons, Moto-A, -B, and -C (a pair of each), are localized proximal to the caudal neural tube and show distinct morphology and innervation patterns. To gain insights into early mechanisms underlying differentiation of individual motor neurons, we have isolated an ascidian homologue of Islet, a LIM type homeobox gene. Earliest expression of Islet was detected in a pair of bilateral blastomeres on the dorsal edge of the late gastrula. At the neurula stage, this expression began to disappear and more posterior cells started to express Islet. Compared to expression of a series of motor neuron genes, it was confirmed that early Islet-positive blastomeres are the common precursors of Moto-A and -B, and late Islet-positive cells in the posterior neural tube are the precursors of Moto-C. Overexpression of Islet induced ectopic expression of motor neuron markers, suggesting that Islet is capable of regulating motor neuron differentiation. Since early expression of Islet colocalizes with that of HrBMPb, the ascidian homologue of BMP2/4, we tested a role of BMP in specification of the motor neuron fate. Overexpression of HrBMPb led to expansion of Lim and Islet expression toward the central area of the neural plate, and microinjection of mRNA coding for a dominant-negative BMP receptor weakened the expression of these genes. Our results suggest that determination of the ascidian motor neuron fate takes place at late gastrula stage and local BMP signaling may play a role in this step.
Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein 1 (TRAP1) is a member of the molecular chaperone HSP90 (90-kDa heat shock protein) family. We have previously demonstrated that Dictyostelium discoideum TRAP1 (Dd-TRAP1) synthesized at the vegetative growth phase is retained during the whole course of D. discoideum development, and that at the multicellular slug stage, it is located in prespore-specific vacuoles (PSVs) of prespore cells as well as in the cell membrane and mitochondria. Thereupon, we examined the function of Dd-TRAP1 in prepore and spore differentiation, using Dd-TRAP1-knockdown cells (TRAP1-RNAi cells) produced by the RNA interference method. As was expected, Dd-TRAP1 contained in the PSV was found to be exocytosed during sporulation to constitute the outer-most layer of the spore cell wall. In the TRAP1-RNAi cells, PSV formation and therefore prespore differentiation were significantly impaired, particularly under a heat stress condition. Although the TRAP1-RNAi cells formed apparently normal-shaped spores with a cellulosic wall, the spores were less resistant to heat and detergent treatments, as compared with those of parental MB35 cells derived from Ax-2 cells. These findings strongly suggest that Dd-TRAP1 may be closely involved in late development including spore differentiation, as well as in early development as realized by its induction of prestarvation response.
TRAP1 (tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein 1) is a member of the molecular chaperone HSP90 (90-kDa heat shock protein) family. In this study, we mainly examined the behavior of Dictyostelium TRAP1 homologue, Dd-TRAP1, during Dictyostelium development by immunoelectron microscopy. In vegetatively growing D. discoideum Ax-2 cells, Dd-TRAP1 locates in nucleolus and vesicles in addition to the cell cortex including cell membrane. Many of Dd-TRAP1 molecules moved to the mitochondrial matrix in response to differentiation, although Dd-TRAP1 on the cell membrane seems to be retained. Some Dd-TRAP1 was also found to be secreted to locate outside the cell membrane in Ax-2 cells starved for 6 h. At the multicellular slug stage, Dd-TRAP1 was primarily located in mitochondria and cell membrane in both prestalk and prespore cells. More importantly, in differentiating prespore cells, a significant number of Dd-TRAP1 locates in the PSV (prespore-specific vacuole) that is a sole cell type-specific organelle and essential for spore wall formation, whereas some Dd-TRAP1 in the cell cortical region of prestalk cells. These findings strongly suggest the importance of Dd-TRAP1 regulated temporally and spatially during Dictyostelium development. Incidentally, we also have certified that the glucose-regulated protein 94 (Dd-GRP94) is predominantly located in Golgi vesicles and cisternae, followed by its colocalization with Dd-TRAP1 in the PSV.
Studies using animal models of stroke have demonstrated that free radicals are highly reactive molecules generated predominantly during cellular respiration and normal metabolism. Imbalance between cellular production of free radicals and the ability of cells to defend against them is referred to as oxidative stress. After ischemic brain damage introduced by ischemic stroke or reperfusion, production of reactive oxygen species may increase, sometimes drastically, leading to tissue damage via several different cellular molecular pathways. The damage can become more widespread due to weakened cellular antioxidant defense systems after ischemic stroke. These experimental findings have important implications for the treatment of human cerebral ischemia. Agents directed at eliminating oxygen radicals must be administered before, or in the early stages of, reperfusion after ischemia. The therapeutic window seems to be narrow and limited to, at most, a few hours. Future research may clarify the current hypothesis that the accuracy of gene expression could account for the recovery of cellular function after ischemic stroke. This may open the window to the future use of drug combinations that may be rationally administered sequentially. If the phenomenon of ischemic tolerance plays a role in this concept is still a matter of debate.

Testosterone has been shown to exacerbate cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury, which suggests that the well-known stress-induced testosterone reduction could be a protective response. We hypothesized that stress-induced testosterone reduction contributes to ischemia tolerance in cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury in male rats. In intact male rats, stress was induced by brief anesthesia at 6 h before transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Testosterone levels were significantly decreased 6 h after stress. Testosterone reduction was associated with a 50% reduction in cerebral lesion volume in the stressed animals. Further, the stress-induced cerebral ischemia tolerance was eliminated by testosterone replacement in castrated males. Immunohistochemical staining showed that androgen receptors were up-regulated after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury and partially colocalized with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) positive cells in the parietal cortex and extensively colocalized in the caudate putamen. Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) and 90 (Hsp90) are involved in ischemia tolerance, and were not colocalized with TUNEL in the immunohistochemical staining, suggesting an antiapoptotic role of Hsp's. To determine the effect of testosterone on MCAO-induced Hsp70 and -90 expression, a testosterone replacement or withdrawal paradigm was used. Testosterone-replaced animals exhibited a decrease in Hsp expression, whereas testosterone withdrawal (mimicking the stress-induced testosterone suppression) normalized this deficit. In summary, stress-induced testosterone reduction contributes to ischemia tolerance in cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury in males, which could be related to the loss of inhibition by testosterone of Hsp70 and -90 expression.



The behavioral assessment of experimental pain is essential for the analysis of pain mechanisms and the validation of therapeutic targets. Arthritic pain, in particular, is significantly associated with negative affective states and disorders. Here we present a standardized method for the quantitative analysis of audible and ultrasonic (25 +/- 4 kHz) vocalizations in awake rats as a measure of higher integrated behavior in a model of arthritic pain. A bat detector and a condenser microphone were used to record ultrasonic and audible vocalizations, respectively, in response to innocuous and noxious mechanical stimulation of the knee before and after induction of acute arthritis in one knee. A computerized system was used to analyze number and duration of the filtered signals. For the behavioral tests, the animal was placed in a customized recording chamber to ensure consistent stimulus application and stable recordings and to eliminate any movement-induced noise. Noxious stimuli produced stronger vocalizations than innocuous stimuli. Both audible and ultrasonic vocalizations to innocuous (allodynia) and noxious (hyperalgesia) stimuli increased after the induction of acute arthritis. These changes were accompanied by increased knee joint circumference, lowered hind limb withdrawal thresholds and reduced exploratory behavior in the same animals. The computerized analysis of audible and ultrasonic vocalizations is a valid, quantitative, reliable and convenient method to measure pain-related behavior.
We describe an electroencephalographic (EEG) device and protocol that allows recording of electrophysiological signals generated by the human brain during transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) despite the TMS-induced high-voltage artifacts. The key hardware components include slew-rate limited preamplifiers to prevent saturation of the EEG system due to TMS. The protocol involves artifact subtraction to isolate the electrophysiological signals from residual TMS-induced contaminations. The TMS compatibility of the protocol is illustrated with examples of two data sets demonstrating the feasibility of the approach in the single-pulse TMS design, as well as during repetitive TMS. Our data show that both high-amplitude potentials evoked by visual checkerboard stimulation and low-amplitude steady-state oscillations induced by auditory click-trains can be retrieved with the present protocol. The signals recorded during TMS perfectly matched control EEG responses to the same visual and auditory stimuli. The main field of application of the present protocol is in cognitive neuroscience complementing behavioral studies that use TMS to induce transient, 'virtual lesions'. Combined EEG-TMS techniques provide neuroscientists with a unique method to test hypothesis on functional connectivity, as well as on mechanisms of functional orchestration, reorganization, and plasticity.
Face recognition is a unique visual skill enabling us to recognize a large number of person identities, despite many differences in the visual image from one exposure to another due to changes in viewpoint, illumination, or simply passage of time. Previous familiarity with a face may facilitate recognition when visual changes are important. Using event-related fMRI in 13 healthy observers, we studied the brain systems involved in extracting face identity independent of modifications in visual appearance during a repetition priming paradigm in which two different photographs of the same face (either famous or unfamiliar) were repeated at varying delays. We found that functionally defined face-selective areas in the lateral fusiform cortex showed no repetition effects for faces across changes in image views, irrespective of pre-existing familiarity, suggesting that face representations formed in this region do not generalize across different visual images, even for well-known faces. Repetition of different but easily recognizable views of an unfamiliar face produced selective repetition decreases in a medial portion of the right fusiform gyrus, whereas distinct views of a famous face produced repetition decreases in left middle temporal and left inferior frontal cortex selectively, but no decreases in fusiform cortex. These findings reveal that different views of the same familiar face may not be integrated within a single representation at initial perceptual stages subserved by the fusiform face areas, but rather involve later processing stages where more abstract identity information is accessed.
The cerebral A(1) adenosine receptor (A(1)AR) has recently become accessible for in vivo imaging using the selective A(1)AR ligand [(18)F]CPFPX and PET. For broad application in neurosciences, imaging at distribution equilibrium is advantageous to quantify stimulus-dependent changes in receptor availability and to avoid arterial blood sampling. Here we propose a bolus/infusion (B/I) protocol to assess the total distribution volume (DV(t)) of [(18)F]CPFPX under equilibrium conditions. Employing a bolus-to-infusion ratio of 0.8 h, (near) equilibrium conditions were attained within 60 min. The regional DV(t)' given by arterial and venous equilibrium analyses agreed well with conventional two-tissue compartment model analyses (r(2) &gt; 0.94 and r(2) &gt; 0.84, respectively) and Logan's graphical analyses (r(2) = 1.0 and r(2) &gt; 0.93, respectively) (n = 4 healthy volunteers). The mean regional DV(t)' values of these equilibrium analyses and of venous equilibrium analyses in additional seven volunteers demonstrated excellent agreement with the results of earlier bolus studies (r(2) &gt; 0.98). Error simulations show that minor deviations from true equilibrium are associated with negligible to small DV(t) errors. In conclusion, [(18)F]CPFPX shows suitable characteristics for A(1)AR quantification by B/I PET scanning. Carefully standardized venous equilibrium analyses may substitute arterial analyses and thus considerably enhance applicability of A(1)AR PET in clinical routine.
It has been confirmed that some kinds of what are called memory strategies dramatically improve the performance of memory recall. However, there has been no direct research to examine changes in brain activity associated with the use of the method of loci within individuals. In the present study, using fMRI, we compared brain activations before and after instruction in the method of loci during both the encoding and recall phases. The resulting behavioral data showed that the use of the method of loci significantly increased scores for memory recall. The imaging data showed that encoding after instruction in the method of loci, relative to encoding before it, was associated with signal increases in the right inferior frontal gyrus, bilateral middle frontal gyrus, left fusiform gyrus, and bilateral lingual gyrus/posterior cingulate gyrus. Comparison of recall after instruction in the method of loci with that before it showed significant activation in the left parahippocampal gyrus/retrosplenial cortex/cingulate gyrus/lingual gyrus, left precuneus, left fusiform gyrus, and right lingual gyrus/cingulate gyrus. The present study demonstrated the changes in brain activation pattern associated with the use of the method of loci; left fusiform and lingual activity was associated with both the encoding and recall phases, bilateral prefrontal activity with the encoding phase, and activity of the posterior part of the parahippocampal gyrus, retrosplenial cortex, and precuneus with the recall phase. These findings suggest that brain networks mediating episodic encoding and retrieval vary with how individuals encode the same stimuli.
Neuroimaging data have implicated regions of the ventral temporal cortex (e.g., fusiform gyrus) as functionally important in face recognition. Recent evidence, however, suggests that these regions are not face-specific, but rather reflect subordinate-level categorical processing underpinned by perceptual expertise. Moreover, when people possess expertise for a particular class of stimuli (e.g., faces), subordinate-level identification is thought to be an automatic process. To investigate the neural substrates of person construal, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to contrast brain activity while participants judged faces at different levels of semantic specificity (i.e., identity vs. occupation). The results revealed that participants were quicker to access identity than occupational knowledge. In addition, greater activity was observed in bilateral regions of the fusiform gyrus on identity than occupation trials. Taken together, these findings support the viewpoint that person construal is characterized by the ability to access subordinate-level semantic information about people, a capacity that is underpinned by neural activity in discrete regions of the ventral temporal cortex.
Previous studies have shown activation of right orbitofrontal cortex during judgments of odor familiarity. In the present study, we sought to extend our knowledge about the neural circuits involved in such a task by exploring the involvement of the right prefrontal areas and limbic/primary olfactory structures. Fourteen right-handed male subjects were tested using fMRI with a single functional run of two olfactory conditions (odor detection and familiarity judgments). Each condition included three epochs. During the familiarity condition, subjects rated whether odors were familiar or unfamiliar. During the detection condition, participants decided if odors were present. When contrasting the familiarity with the detection conditions, activated areas were found mainly in the right piriform cortex (PC) and hippocampus, the left inferior frontal gyrus and amygdala, and bilaterally in the mid-fusiform gyrus. Further analyses demonstrated that the right PC was more strongly activated than the left PC. This result supports the notion that the right PC is preferentially involved in judgments of odor familiarity.
The present study was aimed at investigating changes in brain metabolites due to visual cortex activation in migraineurs and normal subjects by (1)H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). Twenty-two migraine patients with aura, 22 migraine patients without aura, and 10 control subjects were assessed. The volume of interest (about 8 cm(3)) was placed on the visual cortex area and the visual stimulus was applied using MR-compatible goggles with a flashing red light at a frequency of 8 Hz and an intensity of 14 lx. Data were acquired over 36'40&quot;. The experimental time course was: baseline phase, from 0 to 3'40&quot; (1 spectrum); on phase (flashing light condition), from 3'40&quot; to 29'20&quot; (1540&quot;) (7 spectra), and off phase, from 29'20&quot; to the end of the experiment at 36'40&quot; (2 spectra). The main result of photic stimulation in patients with migraine with aura is the more consistent decrease (-14.61%) of the N-acetylaspartate (NAA) signal, which is significantly greater than that found in migraine patients without aura and control subjects. A parallel slight increase in the lactate peak was also detected. The above findings support little differences in brain metabolites between the two patient groups assessed in interictal periods, which suggests a less efficient mitochondrial functioning in migraine with aura patients.
Using in vivo microdialysis, we examined glucose levels in the extracellular fluid (ECF) of the hippocampus and in the blood prior to and during pentobarbital (45 mg/kg) or ketamine-xylazine (66 mg/kg, 7 mg/kg) anesthesia. Anesthesia with either pentobarbital or ketamine-xylazine significantly increased hippocampal ECF glucose levels (mean peak increases of +71% and +85%, respectively). In addition, there were substantial increases in blood glucose levels (mean peak increases of +24% and +30%, respectively). The increased levels of hippocampal ECF glucose during anesthesia complement past evidence for decreases in ECF glucose in the hippocampus observed while rats perform a memory task sensitive to hippocampal damage, providing further support for the view that ECF glucose levels in the hippocampus are dynamically coupled to local neural activity.
The memory-enhancing effect of emotion can be powerful and long-lasting. Most studies investigating the neural bases of this phenomenon have focused on encoding and early consolidation processes, and hence little is known regarding the contribution of retrieval processes, particularly after lengthy retention intervals. To address this issue, we used event-related functional MRI to measure neural activity during the retrieval of emotional and neutral pictures after a retention interval of 1 yr. Retrieval activity for emotional and neutral pictures was separately analyzed for successfully (hits) vs. unsuccessfully (misses) retrieved items and for responses based on recollection vs. familiarity. Recognition performance was better for emotional than for neutral pictures, and this effect was found only for recollection-based responses. Successful retrieval of emotional pictures elicited greater activity than successful retrieval of neutral pictures in the amygdala, entorhinal cortex, and hippocampus. Moreover, in the amygdala and hippocampus, the emotion effect was greater for recollection than for familiarity, whereas in the entorhinal cortex, it was similar for both forms of retrieval. These findings clarify the role of the amygdala and the medial temporal lobe memory regions in recollection and familiarity of emotional memory after lengthy retention intervals.
The feeding-relevant pathway by which food deprivation (FD) augments cocaine action is unknown. Systemic administration of the 28 amino acid acylated peptide ghrelin (1-10 nmol) increases food intake in rats and circulating levels of rat ghrelin are up-regulated by FD. The present experiment examined the impact of ghrelin or vehicle pretreatment on the locomotion and stereotypy induced by systemic cocaine hydrochloride. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were pretreated at -60 min with 0 or 5 nmol rat ghrelin (IP) and then injected (IP) at time 0 with 0, 2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg/kg cocaine. Locomotor activity was monitored over a 45-min post-cocaine period. Rats received the same ghrelin dose, but a different cocaine dose (in random order) on each of the four drug trials, with each drug trial separated by at least 2 days. Administration of 5 nmol ghrelin-0 mg/kg cocaine slightly increased locomotion relative to that of 0 nmol ghrelin-0 mg/kg cocaine. Cocaine increased locomotion as a function of dose in the 0 nmol ghrelin group, but the effect of cocaine was even greater when preceded by 5 nmol ghrelin. These results indicate that acute injection of ghrelin, at a feeding-relevant dose, augments the acute effects of cocaine on locomotion in rats.
The behavioural phenotype of transgenic mice (3- to 5-months old) overexpressing galanin (GalOE) under the platelet-derived growth factor B (PDGF-B) promoter was evaluated in a battery of tests, including open field, locomotor cages, light-dark exploration test, elevated plus-maze and the Porsolt forced swim test. Learning and memory were assessed in the passive avoidance and the Morris water maze tasks. No difference between genotypes was found in exploratory activity in the open field. GalOE mice showed a slight increase in spontaneous locomotor activity assessed in the locomotor cages, but the amphetamine-induced increase in locomotor activity was somewhat lower in GalOE mice. Anxiety-like behaviour in the three different tests including open field, light-dark exploration and elevated plus-maze did not differ between genotypes. In the Porsolt forced swim test, GalOE mice displayed an increased time of immobility, indicative of increased learned helplessness possibly reflecting increased stress-susceptibility and/or depression-like behaviour. GalOE mice showed normal learning and memory retention in the passive avoidance and the Morris water maze tasks. These data support the hypothesis that galanin may have a role in functions related to mood states including affective disorders.
Mutations in the human parkin gene (huParkin) are the predominant genetic cause of familial parkinsonism. The huParkin locus, spanning about 1.4 Mb, is one of the largest in the human genome. Despite its huge size, huParkin codes for a rather short transcript of about 4.5 kb. To gain an insight into the structure, function and evolutionary history of huParkin, we have characterized the pufferfish [Fugu rubripes (Fugu)] ortholog of huParkin. A remarkable feature of the Fugu parkin gene (fuparkin) is its unusually compact size. It spans only about 4 kb and is thus 350-fold smaller than its human ortholog. The Fugu and human parkin genes are otherwise highly similar in their genomic organization and expression pattern. Furthermore, like human Parkin, Fugu parkin also functions as an ubiquitin ligase. These shared features between fuparkin and huParkin suggest that the physiological function and regulation of the parkin gene are conserved during the evolution of vertebrates. Conceivably, the compact locus of fuparkin could serve as a useful model to understand the transcriptional regulation of huParkin.
The central neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1 receptor (Y1-R) system has been implicated in feeding, endocrine, and autonomic regulation. In the present study, we systematically examined the brain distribution of Y1-R mRNA in rodents by using radioisotopic in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH) with a novel sensitive cRNA probe. Within the rat hypothalamus, Y1-R-specific hybridization was observed in the anteroventral periventricular, ventromedial preoptic, suprachiasmatic, paraventricular (PVH), dorsomedial, ventromedial, arcuate, and mamillary nuclei. In the rat, Y1-R mRNA expression was also seen in the subfornical organ, anterior hypothalamic area, dorsal hypothalamic area, and in the lateral hypothalamic area. In addition, Y1-R hybridization was evident in several extrahypothalamic forebrain and hindbrain sites involved in feeding and/or autonomic regulation in the rat. A similar distribution pattern of Y1-R mRNA was observed in the mouse brain. Moreover, by using a transgenic mouse line expressing green fluorescent protein under the control of the melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4-R) promoter, we observed Y1-R mRNA expression in MC4-R-positive cells in several brain sites such as the PVH and central nucleus of the amygdala. Additionally, dual-label ISHH demonstrated that hypophysiotropic PVH cells coexpress Y1-R and pro-thyrotropin-releasing hormone mRNAs in the rat. These observations are consistent with the proposed roles of the central NPY/Y1-R system in energy homeostasis.



Low voltage-activated, rapidly inactivating T-type Ca(2+) channels are found in a variety of cells where they regulate electrical activity and Ca(2+) entry. In whole-cell patch clamp recordings from bovine adrenal zona fasciculata cells, cis-polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids including docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), eicosapentaenoic acid, and alpha-linolenic acid inhibited T-type Ca(2+) current (I(T-Ca)) with IC(50)s of 2.4, 6.1, and 14.4microM, respectively. Inhibition of I(T-Ca) by DHA was partially use-dependent. In the absence of stimulation, DHA (5microM) inhibited I(T-Ca) by 59.7+/-8.1% (n=5). When voltage steps to -10mV were applied at 12s intervals, block increased to 80.5+/-7.2%. Inhibition of I(T-Ca) by DHA was accompanied by a shift of -11.7mV in the voltage dependence of steady-state inactivation, and a smaller -3.3mV shift in the voltage dependence of activation. omega-3 fatty acids also selectively altered the gating kinetics of T-type Ca(2+) channels. DHA accelerated T channel recovery from inactivation by approximately 3-fold, but did not affect the kinetics of T channel activation or deactivation. Arachidonic acid, an omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid, also inhibited T-type Ca(2+) current at micromolar concentrations, while the trans polyunsaturated fatty acid linolelaidic acid was ineffective. These results identify cis polyunsaturated fatty acids as relatively potent, new T-type Ca(2+) channel antagonists. omega-3 fatty acids are essential dietary components that have been shown to possess remarkable neuroprotective and cardioprotective properties that are likely mediated through suppression of electrical activity and associated Ca(2+) entry. Inhibition of T-type Ca(2+) channels in neurons and cardiac myocytes could contribute significantly to their protective actions.
AlsinLF, the product of the ALS2 gene, inhibits Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) mutant-induced neurotoxicity via its Rho guanine nucleotide-exchanging factor domain. We here identified Rac1, a Rho family small GTPase, as a target for the Rho guanine nucleotide-exchanging factor activity of alsinLF. Rac1 associates with alsinLF. The amount of the GTP form of Rac1 is up-regulated by enforced overexpression of alsinLF. We further found not only that constitutively active Rac1 suppresses motoneuronal cell death induced by SOD1 mutants but also that the neuroprotective activity of alsinLF was completely inhibited by knocking down the endogenous Rac1 expression with small interfering RNA for Rac1, indicating that Rac1 is the major effector for alsinLF-mediated neuroprotection. Such alsinLF/Rac1-mediated neuroprotection occurs specifically against the SOD1 mutant-induced cell death but not against the cell death induced by any other neurotoxic insults in motoneuronal NSC34 cells. We further demonstrated that the alsinLF/Rac1-mediated neuroprotective signal is transmitted to the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt anti-apoptotic axis. Among three Akt family proteins, Akt3 is the major downstream mediator for alsinLF/Rac1-mediated neuroprotection, which is specifically effective against SOD1 mutant-induced neurotoxicity.
To allow the monitoring of synaptotagmin 1 trafficking in vivo, we generated transgenic mice expressing a synaptotagmin 1-enhanced cyan fluorescent protein (ECFP) fusion protein under control of the Thy1 promoter. Transgenic synaptotagmin 1-ECFP is expressed throughout the brain where it localizes to synapses and marks synapses in vivo. However, when we crossed transgenic synaptotagmin 1-ECFP mice with synaptotagmin 1 knock-out mice, we detected no rescue of survival or function. Furthermore, viral overexpression of synaptotagmin 1-ECFP in synaptotagmin 1-deficient neurons failed to restore normal Ca2+-triggered release, whereas overexpression of wild type synaptotagmin 1 did so efficiently. To determine whether synaptotagmin 1-ECFP is non-functional because the ECFP-fusion interferes with its biochemical activities, we measured Ca2+-independent binding of synaptotagmin 1-ECFP to SNARE complexes, and Ca2+-dependent binding of synaptotagmin 1-ECFP to phospholipids and to itself. Although the apparent Ca2+ affinity of synaptotagmin 1-ECFP was decreased compared with wild type synaptotagmin 1, we observed no major changes in Ca2+-dependent or -independent activities, indicating that the non-functionality of the synaptotagmin 1-ECFP fusion protein was not because of inactivation of its biochemical properties. These data suggest that synaptotagmin 1-ECFP is suitable for monitoring synaptic vesicle traffic in vivo because the synaptotagmin 1-ECFP marks synaptic vesicles without participating in exocytosis. In addition, the data demonstrate that synaptotagmin 1 function requires a free C terminus, possibly because of spatial constraints at the release sites.
During cortical development, newly generated neurons migrate radially toward their final positions. Although several candidate genes essential for this radial migration have been reported, the signaling pathways regulating it are largely unclear. Here we studied the role of phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase and its downstream signaling molecules in the radial migration of cortical neurons in vivo and in vitro. The expression of constitutively active and dominant-negative PI 3-kinases markedly inhibited radial migration. In the neocortical slice culture, a PI 3-kinase inhibitor suppressed the formation of GTP-bound Rac1 and Cdc42 and radial migration. Constitutively active and dominant-negative forms of Rac1 and Cdc42 but not Akt also significantly inhibited radial migration. In migrating neurons, wild-type Rac1 and Cdc42 showed different localizations; Rac1 localized to the plasma membrane and Cdc42 to the perinuclear region on the side of the leading processes. These results suggest that both the PI 3-kinase/Rac1 and Cdc42 pathways are involved in the radial migration of cortical neurons and that they have different roles.
Hippocampal granule neurons that are newly formed during adulthood might be involved in learning and memory processes. Experimental data suggest that only hippocampus-dependent learning tasks stimulate neurogenesis. To further address this issue, the effects of active shock avoidance (ASA) learning on hippocampal progenitor proliferation and survival of newly formed cells were investigated. ASA training, although considered as hippocampus-independent, is known to induce several neurobiological alterations in the hippocampus. Adult Wistar rats were trained in a shuttle box using a 1-day or 4-day paradigm and brains were analyzed for the mitotic marker Ki-67. Effects on survival of newly generated cells were examined by immunocytochemistry for 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU), which was injected 1 week before the training. Neither proliferation nor survival was affected by the ASA learning task. Because elevated glucocorticoid levels have a negative impact on hippocampal neurogenesis, blood samples were taken throughout the 4-day training paradigm. Both trained animals and control rats that were only placed in the shuttle box without receiving foot shocks showed a similar rise in corticosterone, enabling us to exclusively investigate the effects of ASA learning on neurogenesis without differential interference of stress between groups. On the other hand, the finding that ASA induced elevations in plasma corticosterone, but did not influence proliferation or survival of newly formed cells, indicates that this type of stress does not affect neurogenesis. The present study shows that, in line with the existing data on other hippocampus-independent learning tasks, ASA training has no effect on hippocampal neurogenesis.
ABT-594 ((R)-5-(2-azetidinylmethoxy)-2-chloropyridine) represents a novel class of broad-spectrum analgesics whose primary mechanism of action is activation of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The present study characterized the effects of ABT-594 in a rat chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain model, where it attenuated mechanical allodynia with an ED50 = 40 nmol/kg (i.p.). This anti-allodynic effect was not blocked by systemic (i.p.) pretreatment with naloxone but was blocked completely with mecamylamine. Pretreatment with chlorisondamine (0.2-5 micromol/kg, i.p.) only partially blocked the effects of ABT-594 at the higher doses tested. In contrast, central (i.c.v.) pretreatment with chlorisondamine completely blocked ABT-594's anti-allodynic effect. Taken together, the data demonstrate that ABT-594 has a potent anti-allodynic effect in the rat vincristine model and that, in addition to its strong central site of action, ABT-594's effects are partially mediated by peripheral nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in this animal model of chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain.
Caesalpinia bonducella F., is a shrub widely distributed throughout the coastal region of India and is ethnically used by the tribal people of Andaman and Nicober Island as a remedy of symptoms of diabetes mellitus. This ethnic report prompted the detail investigation of hypoglycemic activity of Caesalpinia bonducella seeds, initially on physiological hyperglycemic model and then on type 1 and type 2 sub-acute diabetic animal models which has already been reported. Evaluation of different extracts from Caesalpinia bonducella in chronic type 2 diabetic model alongwith insulin secretagogue activity of five fractions isolated from the Caesalpinia bonducella seed kernel are presented in this paper. Both the aqueous and ethanolic extracts showed potent hypoglycemic activity in chronic type 2 diabetic model. Two fractions BM 169 and BM 170 B could increase secretion of insulin from isolated islets.
2',7'-Difluorofluorescein (Oregon Green 488) is a new fluorescein-based dye, which has found many applications, above all in biochemistry and neurosciences, and its use has become very popular in the last years. In recent years, we have been investigating the excited-state proton exchange reactions of fluorescein and the effect of suitable proton acceptors and donors which promote these reactions. The excited-state proton transfer reactions may appreciably influence the fluorescence results when using these dyes. We present steady-state emission evidence that acetate buffer species promote an excited-state proton transfer between neutral, monoanionic, and dianionic forms of 2',7'-difluorofluorescein. The time course of the excited species in this reaction was characterized through time-resolved fluorescence measurements, and the kinetics of the reaction was solved by using the global compartmental analysis. A previous identifiability study on the compartmental system set the conditions to design the fluorescence decay surface. This is the first experimental system, studied within this kinetic model, solved under identifiability conditions through global compartmental analysis. The recovered rate constant values for deactivation were 2.94 x 10(8) s(-1) for the monoanion and 2.47 x 10(8) s(-1) for the dianion, whereas the rate constant values of the buffer-mediated excited-state reaction were 9.70 x 10(8) and 1.79 x 10(8) M(-1) s(-1) for the deprotonation and protonation, respectively. With these values, a pK(a) = 4.02 was obtained. In this work, we additionally provide an absorption study, including acid-base equilibria, determination of ground-state pK(a) values (1.02, 3.61, and 4.69), and recovery of molar absorption coefficients of every prototropic species, including absorption and NMR evidence for the existence of three tautomers in neutral species. Steady-state emission spectra of 2',7'-difluorofluorescein in aqueous solution are also described, where the strong photoacid behavior of the cation is noteworthy.
Cortical-basal ganglia circuits have a critical role in motor control and motor learning. In songbirds, the anterior forebrain pathway (AFP) is a basal ganglia-forebrain circuit required for song learning and adult vocal plasticity but not for production of learned song. Here, we investigate functional contributions of this circuit to the control of song, a complex, learned motor skill. We test the hypothesis that neural activity in the AFP of adult birds can direct moment-by-moment changes in the primary motor areas responsible for generating song. We show that song-triggered microstimulation in the output nucleus of the AFP induces acute and specific changes in learned parameters of song. Moreover, under both natural and experimental conditions, variability in the pattern of AFP activity is associated with variability in song structure. Finally, lesions of the output nucleus of the AFP prevent naturally occurring modulation of song variability. These findings demonstrate a previously unappreciated capacity of the AFP to direct real-time changes in song. More generally, they suggest that frontal cortical and basal ganglia areas may contribute to motor learning by biasing motor output towards desired targets or by introducing stochastic variability required for reinforcement learning.

Recent studies suggest that the disease isoform of prion protein (PrPSc) is non-neurotoxic in the absence of cellular isoform of prion protein (PrPC), indicating that PrPC may participate directly in the neurodegenerative damage by itself. Meanwhile, transgenic mice harboring a high-copy-number of wild-type mouse (Mo) PrPC develop a spontaneous neurological dysfunction in an age-dependent manner, even without inoculation of PrPSc and thus, investigations of these aged transgenic mice may lead to the understanding how PrPC participate in the neurotoxic property of PrP. Here we demonstrate mitochondria-mediated neuronal apoptosis in aged transgenic mice overexpressing wild-type MoPrPC (Tg(MoPrP)4053/FVB). The aged mice exhibited an aberrant mitochondrial localization of PrPC concomitant with decreased proteasomal activity, while younger littermates did not. Such aberrant mitochondrial localization was accompanied by decreased mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) activity, cytochrome c release into the cytosol, caspase-3 activation, and DNA fragmentation, most predominantly in hippocampal neuronal cells. Following cell culture studies confirmed that decrease in the proteasomal activity is fundamental for the PrPC-related, mitochondria-mediated apoptosis. Hence, the neurotoxic property of PrPC could be explained by the mitochondria-mediated neuronal apoptosis, at least in part.

The neurofibromatosis 2 tumour suppressor merlin/schwannomin is structurally related to the ezrin-radixin-moesin family of proteins, which anchor actin cytoskeleton to specific membrane proteins and participate in cell signalling. Merlin inhibits cell growth with a yet unknown mechanism. As most tumour suppressors are linked to cell cycle control, we investigated merlin's behaviour during cell cycle. In glioma and osteosarcoma cells, endogenous merlin was targeted to the nucleus in a cell cycle-specific manner. Merlin accumulated perinuclearly at the G2/M phase, and shifted to the nucleus at early G1. During mitosis, merlin localized to mitotic spindles and at the contractile ring. Nuclear merlin was strongly reduced in confluent cells. Blocking of the CRM1/exportin nuclear export pathway led to accumulation of merlin in the nucleus. Activation of the p21-activated kinase or protein kinase A, which result in phosphorylation of merlin, did not affect its nuclear localization. Merlin regulates the activity of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2) and nuclear localization of both proteins was induced by cell adhesion. Unlike ERK2, nuclear localization of merlin was not, however, dependent on intact actin cytoskeleton. These results link merlin to events related to cell cycle control and may help to resolve its tumour suppressor function.
We have used mouse 27k cDNA arrays to compare gene expression patterns in four sets of three hearts each of neonatal wild types and four sets of three hearts each of littermates lacking the major cardiac gap junction protein, connexin43 (Cx43). Each individual set of hearts was hybridized against aliquots of an RNA standard prepared from selected mouse tissues, allowing calculation of variability and coordination of gene expression among the samples from both genotypes. Overall variance of gene expression was found to be markedly higher in wild-type hearts than in those from Cx43 null littermates. Expression levels of 586 of 5,613 adequately quantifiable distinct genes with known protein products were statistically altered in the Cx43 null hearts, 38 upregulated and 548 downregulated compared with wild types. Downregulation was confirmed for seven tested genes by quantitative RT-PCR. Functions of proteins encoded by the altered genes encompassed all functional categories, with largest percent changes in genes involved in intracellular transport and transcription factors. Among the downregulated genes in the Cx43 null hearts were those related to neuronal and glial function, suggesting that cardiac innervation might be compromised as a consequence of Cx43 deletion. This was supported by immunodetection of sympathetic innervation, using antibodies to the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin and to the adrenergic nerve terminal marker tyrosine hydroxylase. These findings reinforce the proposal that the cardiac abnormality in Cx43 null animals may be contributed by altered innervation and indicate that Cx43 deletion has consequences in addition to reduced intercellular communication.
Serotonin (5-HT) immunostained sections were analyzed using integrated optical density (IOD) measures obtained throughout the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) in Mongolian gerbils at selected times during a 12:12 h light:dark cycle. Substantial diurnal variation occurred in 5-HT neuronal staining density, with lowest and highest IOD values occurring at the light/dark and dark/light transitions, respectively. The injection of pargyline and tryptophan increased 5-HT immunostaining comparable to the highest level observed in control animals. Transitions between light and dark periods appear to be major environmental events that influence 5-HT levels in the DRN.
Ciglitazone, rosiglitazone, and pioglitazone belong to a relatively new class of antidiabetic agents referred to as thiazolidinediones (TZDs). Later, TZDs were found to be peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma agonists and to elicit anti-inflammatory effects in both in vitro and in vivo models in response to stimuli such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA). In the present study, we sought to investigate the effects of oral administration of ciglitazone on basal inflammatory cytokine expression in healthy adult rats. The analysis of cytokine expression in the spleen revealed a reduction in IL-4 production after ciglitazone treatment. In contrast, in the brain, ciglitazone administration increased IL-1beta synthesis at the protein and mRNA level, while TNF-alpha protein expression was also increased. To ensure that the latter findings were not an indirect effect originating from the periphery, we delivered ciglitazone intracerebrally for a 7-day period using an osmotic pump, which confirmed the increase in IL-1beta and TNF-alpha expression. Our results show that despite anti-inflammatory effects described for ciglitazone in &quot;primed&quot; models, ciglitazone can positively modulate basal inflammatory mediators within the central nervous system (CNS) of healthy adult rodents.
In adulthood, androgens and androgen receptors might contribute to the sexually dimorphic performance in spatial learning and memory, but their roles seem complex. To study the potential role of androgen receptors in spatial learning and memory, we tested adult 6-8-month-old mutant mice with a naturally occurring defect in the androgen receptor gene (testicular feminization mutant or tfm) and C57Bl/6J wild-type mice. Because the trait is X-linked, only tfm males are completely androgen insensitive while female tfm mice are heterozygous, carrying one wild-type and one tfm copy of the androgen receptor. Here we show that female tfm carrier mice outperform tfm male mice in the water maze, while there are no gender differences in water maze performance in wild-type mice. In tfm mice, there were no gender differences in measures of anxiety in the open field or plus maze or sensorimotor function, indicating that potential differences in these measures did not contribute to the differences observed in the water maze. There were no differences in tfm and wild-type female and male mice in emotional learning and memory in the passive avoidance test. These findings support a beneficial role for androgen receptors in spatial learning and memory.
Relationships between neuronal firing pattern and mechanosensory input in the deep dorsal horn were investigated using whole-cell recordings from isolated hamster spinal cord with innervation from an attached skin patch. Neurons that fired repetitively to depolarizing current (tonic cells) responded to both moving and static stimulation of their cutaneous receptive fields, and discharged continuously for the duration of stimulus application. Neurons responding to depolarizing current with transient, rapidly adapting firing (phasic cells) were significantly more responsive to stimulus movement than to static skin contact. Phasic cells typically issued a brief discharge at the onset or termination of a stimulus; their responses during static skin contact were weaker than tonic cells. Tonic cells were activated during both ramp and steady-state skin indentations, whereas phasic cells responded with their strongest excitation to displacement velocities exceeding 8 microm/ms. Mechanosensory input to phasic cells originated primarily from low threshold receptors, whereas tonic cells demonstrated a mixture of inputs from both low and high threshold sources. A third class of neurons responded to depolarizing current with a pronounced firing delay and displayed a sensitivity to cutaneous stimuli that was similar to tonic cells except they showed a modest decrease in firing as skin indentation velocity increased. The results suggest a correlation between functional properties of mechanoreceptive afferent fibers and intrinsic discharge properties of laminae III-V neurons that may significantly influence integration of cutaneous mechanosensory information at the first spinal relay.
This study investigated the effects of the calcium channel blockers nicardipine, calcicludine, omega-conotoxin GVIA, omega-agatoxin IVA, SNX-482, and NiCl on spontaneous muscle action potential of a rat spinal cord-muscle co-culture system. Spontaneous muscle action potential of the innervated muscle cells was blocked by d-tubocurarine (1 microM), but was not significantly affected by the L-type channel blocker nicardipine (100 nM). The neuronal L-type calcium channel blocker, calcicludine (50 and 100 nM), also had no effect on the frequency of spontaneous muscle action potential. However, nicardipine (100 nM) and calcicludine (100 nM) significantly increased the amplitude of muscle action potential. Application of the N-type calcium channel blocker, omega-conotoxin GVIA (50 and 100 nM), and the P/Q-type calcium channel blocker, omega-agatoxin IVA (10, 30, 50, and 100 nM), blocked the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous muscle action potential of the spinal cord-muscle co-cultured cells. In contrast, spontaneous muscle action potential was not affected by the R-type calcium channel blockers SNX-482 (100 nM) or NiCl (500 nM). These results indicate that blockers of N- and P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channels inhibit transmitter release at neuromuscular junctions in the rat spinal cord-muscle co-culture system.
GADD34, a stress response protein associated with cell rescue, DNA repair and apoptosis, is expressed in the ischaemic brain. The C-terminal region of GADD34 has homology with the Herpes Simplex Virus protein, ICP34.5, which overcomes the protein synthesis block after viral infection by actively dephosphorylating eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2alpha (eIF2alpha). The carboxy terminus of GADD34 is also capable of dephosphorylating eIF2alpha and therefore has the capacity to restore the protein synthesis shutoff associated with ischaemia. This study examines the distribution and time course of GADD34 expression after focal cerebral ischaemia. Focal ischaemia or sham procedure was carried out on Sprague-Dawley rats with survival times of 4, 12, 24 h, 7 and 30 days. Brains were processed for histology and immunohistochemistry. Ischaemic damage was mapped onto line diagrams and GADD34 positive cells counted in selected regions of cortex and caudate. GADD34 immunopositive cells (mainly neurones), expressed as cells/mm2, were present in ischaemic brains at 4 h (e.g., peri-infarct cortex 20 +/- 5; contralateral cortex 3 +/- 1, P &lt; 0.05). Of the time points examined, numbers of GADD34 positive cells were highest 24 h after ischaemia (peri-infarct cortex 31 +/- 7.3, contralateral cortex 0.1 +/- 0.1, P &lt; 0.05). Immunopositive cells, following a similar time course, were identified within the peri-infarct zone in the caudate nucleus and in ipsilateral cingulate cortex (possibly as a consequence of cortical spreading depression). GADD34 positive cells did not co-localise with a marker of irreversible cell death (TUNEL). Taken together, GADD34 positive cells in key neuroanatomical locations pertinent to the evolving ischaemic lesion, the lack of co-localisation with TUNEL and the protein's known effects on restoring protein synthesis, repairing DNA and involvement in ischaemic pre-conditioning suggests that it has the potential to influence cell survival in ischaemically compromised tissue.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus contain the master mammalian circadian clock, which is mainly reset by light. Temporal restricted feeding, a potent synchronizer of peripheral oscillators, has only weak influence on light-entrained rhythms via the SCN, unless restricted feeding is coupled with calorie restriction, thereby altering phase angle of photic synchronization. Effects of daytime restricted feeding were investigated on the mouse circadian system. Normocaloric feeding at midday led to a predominantly diurnal (60%) food intake and decreased blood glucose in the afternoon, but it did not affect the phase of locomotor activity rhythm or vasopressin expression in the SCN. In contrast, hypocaloric feeding at midday led to 2-4 h phase advances of three circadian outputs, locomotor activity rhythm, pineal melatonin, and vasopressin mRNA cycle in the SCN, and it decreased daily levels of blood glucose. Furthermore, Per1 and Cry2 oscillations in the SCN were phase advanced by 1 and 3 h, respectively, in hypocalorie- but not in normocalorie-fed mice. The phase of Per2 and Bmal1 expression remained unchanged regardless of feeding condition. Moreover, the shape of behavioral phase-response curve to light and light-induced expression of Per1 in the SCN were markedly modified in hypocalorie-fed mice compared with animals fed ad libitum. The present study shows that diurnal hypocaloric feeding affects not only the temporal organization of the SCN clockwork and circadian outputs in mice under light/dark cycle but also photic responses of the circadian system, thus indicating that energy metabolism modulates circadian rhythmicity and gating of photic inputs in mammals.
Recent studies have reported on the molecular mechanisms underlying dendritic spine (spine) dynamics. Because most of these studies investigated spine dynamics by overexpressing constitutively active or dominant-negative PSD (postsynaptic density) proteins in cultured mature neurons, the results represent the enlargement of mature spines or their return to an immature state. Here, we developed the technique of in utero electroporation to investigate spine dynamics. Using this technique, we demonstrated the suppression of spine maturation by the C-terminal variants of PSD-Zip70 in vitro and in vivo. Transient overexpression of the C terminus of PSD-Zip70 and knock-down of PSD-Zip70 also displayed the destabilization of mature spines. We further found the PSD-Zip70 and SPAR (spine-associated RapGAP) interaction via the short C-terminal region of PSD-Zip70 and the GK-binding domain of SPAR. In association with immature spines induced by overexpression of the PSD-Zip70 C terminus or knock-down of PSD-Zip70, SPAR lost its spine localization. Overexpression of the GK-binding domain of SPAR also induced to form immature spines without affecting the localization of PSD-Zip70 in the small heads of filopodial spines. Our results suggest that PSD-Zip70 in collaboration with SPAR is critically involved in spine maturity, especially in the mature spine formation and the maintenance of spine maturity.
Through tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) receptors, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) performs many biological functions such as neural survival, differentiation, and plasticity. T1, an isoform of TrkB receptors that lacks a tyrosine kinase, predominates in the adult mammalian CNS, yet its role remains controversial. In this study, to examine whether T1 transduces a signal and to determine its function, we first performed an affinity purification of T1-binding protein with the T1-specific C-terminal peptide and identified Rho GDP dissociation inhibitor 1 (GDI1), a GDP dissociation inhibitor of Rho small G-proteins, as a signaling protein directly associated with T1. The binding of BDNF to T1 caused Rho GDI1 to dissociate from the C-terminal tail of T1. Astrocytes cultured for 30 d expressed only endogenous T1 among the BDNF receptors. In 30 d cultured astrocytes, Rho GDI1, when dissociated in a BDNF-dependent manner, controlled the activities of the Rho GTPases, which resulted in rapid changes in astrocytic morphology. Furthermore, using 2 d cultured astrocytes that were transfected with T1, a T1 deletion mutant, or cyan fluorescent protein fusion protein of the T1-specific C-terminal sequence, we demonstrated that T1-Rho GDI1 signaling was indispensable for regulating the activities of Rho GTPases and for the subsequent morphological changes among astrocytes. Therefore, these findings indicate that the T1 signaling cascade can alter astrocytic morphology via regulation of Rho GTPase activity.
Mitochondria release proteins that propagate both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent cell death pathways. AIF (apoptosis-inducing factor) is an important caspase-independent death regulator in multiple neuronal injury pathways. Presently, there is considerable controversy as to whether AIF is neuroprotective or proapoptotic in neuronal injury, such as oxidative stress or excitotoxicity. To evaluate the role of AIF in BAX-dependent (DNA damage induced) and BAX-independent (excitotoxic) neuronal death, we used Harlequin (Hq) mice, which are hypomorphic for AIF. Neurons carrying double mutations for Hq/Apaf1-/- (apoptosis proteases-activating factor) are impaired in both caspase-dependent and AIF-mediated mitochondrial cell death pathways. These mutant cells exhibit extended neuroprotection against DNA damage, as well as glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. Specifically, AIF is involved in NMDA- and kainic acid- but not AMPA-induced excitotoxicity. In vivo excitotoxic studies using kainic acid-induced seizure showed that Hq mice had significantly less hippocampal damage than wild-type littermates. Our results demonstrate an important role for AIF in both BAX-dependent and BAX-independent mechanisms of neuronal injury.
This meeting report documents the exciting ongoing research aimed at developing new therapeutic agents for neurodegenerative diseases at the interface between academia and industry, and illustrates the direction the NIH &quot;roadmap&quot; for medical research is taking. Some of the projects have resulted in very promising drugs, identified and developed by academic centers, entering clinical trials.
The 2-vessel occlusion approach to produce global ischemia in rats requires concomitant reduction of systemic blood pressure. We have utilized the hypotensive effect of halothane administrated by artificial respiration to prevent respiratory arrest and to ensure stable physiological conditions. Systemic blood pressure was reduced to 40-45 mmHg by instant adjustments of the halothane concentration. Bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries caused a profound and reproducible ischemia, as analyzed by laser-Doppler flowmetry. In the rats exposed to 11, 12, or 13 min of ischemia, 5% died and 5% developed seizures. The extent of neuronal death in CA1 was highly correlated to the duration of ischemia. Following 11 min of ischemia, CA1 neuronal cell death, as analyzed by Fluoro-Jade, was absent 1 day after injury, variable at day 4, and consistent at day 7. The numbers of cresyl violet- and NeuN-positive neurons at day 7 were 8% and 20% of control, respectively. OX42 immunoreactivity was low and variable at day 4, but pronounced at day 7. In conclusion, this rat global ischemia model is relatively simple to perform, has a low mortality, and produces a profound and highly reproducible delayed cell death of hippocampal CA1 neurons.
Thyroid hormones (THs) are important for brain development, and polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) accumulation in humans is a serious problem because PCBs may affect TH functions. To determine the effects of hydroxylated metabolites of PCBs (OH-PCBs) on brain development, we performed mouse cerebellar culture assays. 4-OH-2',3,3',4',5'-pentachlorobiphenyl and 4-OH-2',3,3',4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl significantly inhibited the TH-dependent extension of Purkinje cell dendrites even at 5 x 10(-11) M and 5 x 10(-12) M, respectively. OH-PCBs may disturb TH-dependent brain development.
RA175 is a new member of the immunoglobulin superfamily with trans interaction activity, and it plays a role as a tumor suppressor in lung carcinoma (TSLC1) and as a cell adhesion molecule promoting the formation of functional synapses (SynCAM). Little is known about the biological function of RA175/TSLC1/SynCAM neural network formation during neurogenesis. We examined the distribution and colocalization of the RA175/TSLC1/SynCAM protein with other members of the immunoglobulin superfamily such as NCAM, L1, and TAG-1 in the mouse developing nervous system. Consistent with the expression of RA175/TSLC1/SynCAM mRNA, the protein was localized in the brain neuroepithelium at embryonic day (E) 9.5, neural crest at E10.5, motor neurons at E10.5, and olfactory epithelium at E16.5. In contrast with its mRNA, the protein was intensely detected on the fasciculated axons in the floor plates, ventral root, and dorsal funiculus in the E10.5-11.5 spinal cord and colocalized with NCAM and L1 on the ventral root and dorsal funiculus and partly colocalized with TAG-1 on the commissural axons and dorsal funiculus. In the E13.5-15.5 brain, RA175/TSLC1/SynCAM colocalized with NCAM and L1 on the developing thalamocortical fibers from the internal capsule (IC) and partly colocalized with TAG-1 on the cortical efferent axons in the intermediate zone (IZ). RA175/TSLC1/SynCAM was localized on the axons of some of the cortical neurons cultured in vitro. Thus, in addition to cell adhesion activity in the neuroepithelium and the synapses, RA175/TSLC1/SynCAM may be involved in neuronal migration, axon growth, pathfinding, and fasciculation on the axons of differentiating neurons.

Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is associated with vasculopathy, which may result in a variety of cerebrovascular complications. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the spectrum of cerebrovascular disease in a pediatric population with NF1. Of 316 patients with NF1 who underwent brain MRI, 8 (2.5%) children were reported to have an abnormality of the cerebrovascular system, including narrowed or ectatic vessels, vascular stenoses, aneurysm, and moyamoya.



Experimental destruction of olfactory neurons stimulates proliferation and differentiation of local neural precursors and is used as a model to study in vivo mechanisms for degeneration and regeneration of the nervous system. Quiescin-sulfhydryl oxidases (QSOX) have a potential role in the control of the cell cycle or growth regulation and have recently been described in the central nervous system. In mice, we show an expression of QSOX in olfactory mucosa. Northern- and western-blot analysis show that the destruction of olfactory epithelium is associated with a reversible reduction in QSOX expression. Interestingly, QSOX is not localized in olfactory neurons (ON) but in cells of the lamina propria, suggesting that olfactory epithelium destruction may act as a signal of down-regulation of QSOX expression.
We used electric median nerve stimuli to elucidate the functional properties of neurons in the human secondary somatosensory cortex during exploration of small objects and muscle contraction. Somatosensory evoked fields were recorded from nine healthy subjects with a 204-channel neuromagnetometer. Electrical stimuli were applied once every 3 s to the left median nerve at the wrist. The conditions during the stimulation were rest (control session), exploration of small objects (exploration session) and clenching the hand while the wrist was being electrically stimulated (clench session). The strengths of equivalent current dipoles of evoked fields from the secondary somatosensory cortex were increased during the exploration session, but those of evoked fields were decreased by the clench session.
Patterned spontaneous activity is generated in developing neuronal circuits in the brain and spinal cord. Here we test the hypothesis that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is released with spontaneous rhythmic neural discharge in the embryonic rat. The level of endogenous rhythmic discharge generated by in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparations was increased from control by elevating extracellular potassium and decreased by tetrodotoxin or a cocktail of receptor antagonists. The concentration of BDNF in the bathing medium was detected via ELISA. BDNF levels were decreased by 45-65% in the presence of TTX or receptor antagonists and increased by 25% in elevated extracellular potassium. These data demonstrate that BDNF is released in association with an endogenous rhythmic activity generated by the developing CNS.

Brain grey matter density changes were quantified using voxel based morphometry in 26 patients with minimal to mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) treated with three cholinesterase inhibitors over 20 weeks. Patients whose drug treatment also inhibited butyrylcholinesterase did not show the widespread cortical atrophic changes in parietotemporal regions invariably reported in untreated AD patients, and which were detectable in the subgroups treated with selective acetylcholinesterase inhibition. This finding is the first empirical evidence that dual cholinesterase inhibition may have neuroprotective potential in AD.
Following spinal root injury, dorsal root ganglia suffer mechanical trauma and compromised blood supply. Little is known about the consequences for neuronal survival. Here we used cyanide treatment in vitro to examine effects of moderate hypoxia on adult rat dorsal root ganglion cells identified by GAP-43 immunostaining. 400 microM-4 mM cyanide caused sustained increases in intracellular Ca2+. Cyanide at 2 mM led to a significant increase in apoptosis, detected using TUNEL labelling and confirmed by ultrastructural analysis, and a further increase when cultures were left overnight in fresh medium. Our study shows that dorsal root ganglion neurons die by apoptosis following hypoxia and that cell death increases over time. Cyanide response provides a simple assay for testing neuroprotective agents and examining underlying mechanisms.
Serine racemase (SR), localized to astrocytic glia that ensheathe synapses, converts L-serine to D-serine, an endogenous ligand of the NMDA receptor. We report the activation of SR by glutamate neurotransmission involving alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptors via glutamate receptor interacting protein (GRIP) and the physiologic regulation of cerebellar granule cell migration by SR. GRIP physiologically binds SR, augmenting SR activity and D-serine release. GRIP infection of neonatal mouse cerebellum in vivo enhances granule cell migration. Selective degradation of D-serine by D-amino acid oxidase and pharmacologic inhibition of SR impede migration, whereas D-serine activates the process. Thus, in neuronal migration, glutamate stimulates Bergmann glia to form and release D-serine, which, together with glutamate, activates NMDA receptors on granule neurons, chemokinetically enhancing migration.
Analyzing neural dynamics underlying complex behavior is a major challenge in systems neurobiology. To meet this challenge through computational neuroscience, we have constructed a brain-based device (Darwin X) that interacts with a real environment, and whose behavior is guided by a simulated nervous system incorporating detailed aspects of the anatomy and physiology of the hippocampus and its surrounding regions. Darwin X integrates cues from its environment to solve a spatial memory task. Place-specific units, similar to place cells in the rodent, emerged by integrating visual and self-movement cues during exploration without prior assumptions in the model about environmental inputs. Because synthetic neural modeling using brain-based devices allows recording from all elements of the simulated nervous system during behavior, we were able to identify different functional hippocampal pathways. We did this by tracing back from reference neuronal units in the CA1 region of the simulated hippocampus to all of the synaptically connected units that were coactive during a particular exploratory behavior. Our analysis identified a number of different functional pathways within the simulated hippocampus that incorporate either the perforant path or the trisynaptic loop. Place fields, which were activated by the trisynaptic circuit, tended to be more selective and informative. However, place units that were activated by the perforant path were prevalent in the model and were crucial for generating appropriate exploratory behavior. Thus, in the model, different functional pathways influence place field activity and, hence, behavior during navigation.
Predicting reward is essential in learning approach behaviors. Dopaminergic activity has been implicated in reward, movement, and cognitive processes, all essential elements in learning. The nucleus accumbens (NAc) receives converging inputs from corticolimbic information-processing areas and from mesolimbic dopamine neurons originating in the ventral tegmental area. Previously, we reported that in mice, a dopamine D2 receptor knockout (D2R-KO) eliminated the prereward inhibitory response, increased place-field size of NAc neurons, and reduced locomotor activity without marked change in intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) behavior. The present study investigated the specific contribution of dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) in mediating reward, locomotor activity, and spatial associative processes and in regulating NAc neural responses. In contrast to D2R-KO animals, here we find D1R-KO in mice selectively eliminated the prereward excitatory response and decreased place-field size of NAc neurons. Furthermore, D1R-KO impaired ICSS behavior, seriously reduced locomotor activity, and retarded acquisition of a place learning task. Thus, the present results suggest that D1R may be an important determinant in brain stimulation reward (ICSS) and participates in coding for a type of reward prediction of NAc neurons and in spatial learning.
Because of the slow speed of sound relative to light, acoustic and visual signals from a distant event often will be received asynchronously. Here, using acoustic signals with a robust cue to sound source distance, we show that judgments of perceived temporal alignment with a visual marker depend on the depth simulated in the acoustic signal. For distant sounds, a large delay of sound relative to vision is required for the signals to be perceived as temporally aligned. For nearer sources, the time lag corresponding to audiovisual alignment is smaller and scales at rate approximating the speed of sound. Thus, when robust cues to auditory distance are present, the brain can synchronize disparate audiovisual signals to external events despite considerable differences in time of arrival at the perceiver. This ability is functionally important as it allows auditory and visual signals to be synchronized to the external event that caused them.
Inositol pyrophosphates physiologically regulate vesicular endocytosis, ribosomal disposition, and directly phosphorylate proteins. Here we demonstrate roles in cell death and regulation of telomere length. Lethal actions of wortmannin and caffeine are selectively abolished in yeast mutants that cannot synthesize inositol pyrophosphates. Wortmannin and caffeine appear to act through the phosphoinositide 3-kinase-related protein kinases Tel1 and Mec1, known regulators of telomere length. Inositol pyrophosphates physiologically antagonize the actions of these kinases, which is demonstrated by the fact that yeast mutants with reduced or elevated levels of inositol pyrophosphates, respectively, display longer and shorter telomeres.
Fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) occur in bursts in the myenteric plexus during evoked motor reflexes in the guinea-pig ileum in vitro. This study used electrophysiological methods to study fEPSPs during stimulus trains to mimic bursts of synaptic activity in vitro. The amplitude of fEPSPs or fast excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) declined (rundown) during stimulus trains at frequencies of 0.5, 5, 10 and 20 Hz. At 0.5 Hz, fEPSP or fEPSC amplitude declined by 50% after the first stimulus but remained constant for the remainder of the train. At 5, 10 and 20 Hz, synaptic responses ran down completely with time constants of 0.35, 0.21 and 0.11 s, respectively. Recovery from rundown occurred with a time constant of 7 s. Mecamylamine, a nicotinic cholinergic receptor antagonist, or PPADS, a P2X receptor antagonist, reduced fEPSP amplitude, but they had no effect on rundown. Responses caused by trains of ionophoretically applied ATP or ACh (to mimic fEPSPs) did not rundown. Blockade of presynaptic inhibitory muscarinic, adenosine A1, opioid, alpha2-adrenergic and 5-HT1A receptors or pertussis toxin (PTX) treatment did not alter rundown. Antidromic action potentials followed a 10-Hz stimulus train. Iberiotoxin (100 nM), a blocker of large conductance calcium activated K+ (BK) channels, did not alter rundown. These data suggest that synaptic rundown is not due to: (a) action potential failure; (b) nicotinic or P2X receptor desensitization; (c) presynaptic inhibition mediated by pertussis-toxin sensitive G-proteins, or (d) BK channel activation. Synaptic rundown is likely due to depletion of a readily releasable pool (RRP) of neurotransmitter.
The dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) serotonin (5-HT) system has been implicated in acute responses to stress and in stress-related psychiatric disorders such as anxiety and depression. Substantial findings suggest that the neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is instrumental in modulating the activity of this system during stress. Because the DRN is neurochemically heterogeneous, dual immunoelectron microscopy was used to examine cellular substrates for interactions between CRF and either 5-HT or gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the dorsolateral and ventromedial DRN. CRF immunoreactivity was identified primarily within axon terminals, where immunolabeling was particularly enriched in dense-core vesicles. Although CRF terminals targeted 5-HT-containing dendrites in the dorsolateral DRN (16%; n = 251 terminals), synaptic contacts with dendrites that lacked detectable 5-HT immunolabeling were more numerous (48%). In contrast, dual labeling for CRF and GABA (n = 240 terminals) in the dorsolateral DRN revealed that substantially more CRF terminals contacted GABA dendrites (42%) as opposed to unlabeled dendrites (29%). In the ventromedial DRN, contacts between CRF axon terminals and either 5-HT-labeled dendrites or GABA-containing dendrites were fewer than in the dorsolateral DRN. As in the dorsolateral DRN, CRF terminals more frequently contacted GABA dendrites than 5-HT dendrites (30% vs. 8%, respectively). The findings support physiological studies suggesting that CRF has both direct and indirect effects on DRN-5-HT neurons and further implicate GABA as a primary mediator by which CRF and stressors alter the activity of the DRN-5-HT system.
The mu-opioid receptor (MOR) mediates reward and dependence associated with opioids and other commonly abused substances. Variability in the MOR gene, OPRM1, may influence risk for opioid dependence. In this study, associations between two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), dbSNP rs540825 and dbSNP rs562859, and opioid dependence were investigated. The two SNPs are located in the protein coding region of the novel exon X of an alternative splice variant of OPRM1, and can be detected using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) methods. Genotyping at the two SNPs was performed for 170 severe opioid dependent individuals and 128 carefully screened controls. Although no differences were found between cases and controls, there were significant prevalence differences between African-American (AA) subjects and European-American (EA) subjects for SNP 540825 allele and genotype frequencies. The 540825 and 562859 polymorphisms were found to be in complete linkage disequilibrium (LD) for both ethnic groups, and LD existed between the 562859 SNP and the A(-1320)G SNP in the promoter region of OPRM1 in AAs, based on genotyping data previously carried out on the same subjects. LD between these two markers, separated by 55 kb, links the entire distance studied in this project. The results indicate that polymorphisms in the novel splice variant are not associated with opioid dependence, but are in LD with other polymorphisms in OPRM1.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is secreted from several different central nervous system (CNS) structures, and any changes in the CSF composition will accurately reflect pathological processes. Proteomics offers a comprehensive bird's eye view to analyze CSF proteins at a systems level. This paper reviews the variety of analytical methods that have been used for proteomics analysis of CSF, including sample preparation, two-dimensional liquid and gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, bioinformatics, and non-gel methods. The differentially expressed CSF proteins that have been identified by proteomics methods are discussed.
Neurotrophins are known to regulate dendritic development, but the mechanisms that mediate neurotrophin-dependent dendrite formation are largely unknown. Here we show that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) induces the formation of primary dendrites in cortical neurons by a protein synthesis-independent mechanism. BDNF leads to the rapid activation of PI3-kinase, MAP kinase, and PLC-gamma in cortical neurons, and pharmacological inhibition of PI3-kinase and MAP kinase in dissociated cell cultures and cortical slice cultures suppresses the ability of BDNF to induce dendrite formation. A constitutively active form of PI3-kinase, but not MEK, is sufficient to induce primary dendrite formation in cortical neurons. These observations indicate that BDNF induces primary dendrite formation via activation of the PI3-kinase and MAP kinase pathways and provide insight into the mechanisms that mediate the morphological effects of neurotrophin signaling.
During metamorphosis of the hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, some larval muscles degenerate while others are respecified for new functions. In larvae, accessory planta retractor muscles (APRMs) are present in abdominal segments 1 to 6 (A1 to A6). APRMs serve as proleg retractors in A3 to A6 and body wall muscles in A1 and A2. At pupation, all APRMs degenerate except those in A2 and A3, which are respecified to circulate hemolymph in pupae. The motoneurons that innervate APRMs, the APRs, likewise undergo segment-specific programmed cell death (PCD), as a direct, cell-autonomous response to the prepupal peak of ecdysteroids. The segment-specific patterns of APR and APRM death differ. The present study tested the hypothesis that APRM death is a direct, cell-autonomous response to the prepupal peak of ecdysteroids. Prevention of the prepupal peak prevented APRM degeneration, and replacement of the peak by infusion of 20-hydroxyecdysone restored the correct segment-specific pattern of APRM degeneration. Surgical denervation of APRMs did not perturb their segment-specific degeneration at pupation, indicating that signals from APRs are not required for the muscles' segment-specific responses to ecdysteroids. The possibility that instructive signals originate from APRMs' epidermal attachment points was tested by treating the epidermis with a juvenile hormone analog to prevent pupal development. This manipulation likewise did not alter APRM fate. We conclude that both the muscles and motoneurons in this motor system respond directly and cell-autonomously to prepupal ecdysteroids to produce a segment-specific pattern of PCD that is matched to the functional requirements of the pupal body.
The Nogo-66 receptor (NgR) plays a pivotal role in the inhibition of neuroregeneration as the receptor for multiple neurite outgrowth inhibitors such as Nogo-A. We have previously shown that NgR undergoes zinc metalloproteinase-mediated ectodomain shedding in neuroblastoma cells. Here, we demonstrate that the NgR-related protein NgR homologue-1 is released from neuroblastoma cells as a full-length ectodomain (NgRH1-ecto) and an N-terminal fragment (NTF-NgRH1) containing the leucine-rich repeat region of the protein. Inhibitors of the major protease classes failed to block the release of NgRH1-ecto, suggesting that this occurs via a protease-independent mechanism, presumably by a phospholipase-like enzyme. The release of NTF-NgRH1 was blocked by a hydroxamate-based zinc metalloproteinase inhibitor and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-2 and -3, but not -1, implicating the involvement of membrane-type matrix metalloproteinases in this process. Our findings thus highlight the parallels between the ectodomain shedding of NgRH1 and that previously described for NgR.
APH-1 is a polytopic membrane protein that functions as a component of presenilin-gamma-secretase complexes. Two homologous genes of APH-1 exist in humans, APH-1a and APH-1b, and alternative splicing of the former generates two isoforms, APH-1aS and APH-1aL. We performed semi-quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analysis to investigate mRNA expression of these three APH-1 forms in human cell lines and tissues. We found that both APH-1a and APH-1b were expressed in almost all tissues, and that APH-1aS was 1.5-3 times more abundantly expressed than APH-1aL. We examined the effect of small interfering RNA-mediated knock down of APH-1a or APH-1b on APH-1 mRNA expression and presenilin complex protein expression. We found that knock down of APH-1a, but not APH-1b, resulted in impaired maturation of nicastrin and reduced expression of presenilin 1, presenilin 2, and PEN-2 proteins. These findings indicate that APH-1a plays an essential role in the formation of presenilin-gamma-secretase complexes.
Excessive excitatory amino acid (EAA) release in cerebral ischemia is a major mechanism responsible for neuronal damage and death. A substantial fraction of ischemic EAA release occurs via volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs). Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), which is abundantly produced during ischemia and reperfusion, activates a number of protein kinases critical for VRAC functioning and has recently been reported to activate VRACs. In the present study, we explored the effects of H2O2 on volume-dependent EAA release in cultured astrocytes, measured as the release of preloaded D-[3H]aspartate. 100-1,000 microm H2O2 enhanced swelling-induced EAA release by approximately 2.5-3-fold (EC50 approximately 10 microM). The VRAC blockers ATP, phloretin, and 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)-benzoate (NPPB) potently inhibited both control swelling-induced and the H2O2-potentiated release, suggesting a role for VRACs. The H2O2-induced component of EAA release was attenuated by the Ca2+ chelator 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid-acetoxymethyl ester (BAPTA-AM) and completely eliminated by the calmodulin antagonists trifluoperazine and W-7 and the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) inhibitor KN-93. Inhibitors of tyrosine kinases, protein kinase C, and the myosin light chain kinase were ineffective in blocking the H2O2 response. H2O2 treatment of swollen astrocytes, but not swelling alone, resulted in CaMKII activation that was inhibited by KN-93, as determined by a phospho-Thr286 CaMKII antibody. These data demonstrate that H2O2 strongly up-regulates astrocytic volume-sensitive EAA release via a CaMKII-dependent mechanism and in this way may potently promote pathological EAA release and brain damage in ischemia.
Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) is a transcriptional activator involved in adaptation to hypoxic stress. Previous studies from our laboratory demonstrated that pharmacological activators of HIF-1 (e.g. deferoxamine, cobalt chloride) could also protect cultured primary neurons or an immortalized hippocampal neuroblast line (HT22) from oxidative stress-induced death. However, whether HIF-1 activation is sufficient to abrogate neuronal death resulting from oxidative stress or other hypoxia-independent death inducers remains unclear. To address this question we utilized a HIF-1alpha fusion protein that partially lacks the domain required for oxygen-dependent degradation of HIF-1alpha and that has a VP16 transcriptional activation domain from herpes simplex virus. HT22 cells were infected with a retrovirus encoding either the HIF-1alpha-VP16 fusion protein or the activation domain of the VP16 protein alone as a control. Expression of HIF-1alpha-VP16, but not VP16 alone, increased luciferase activity driven by a canonical hypoxia response element, increased mRNA of established HIF-1 target genes, and increased activity of one of these HIF-1 target genes. Unexpectedly, enhanced HIF-1 activity in HT22 cells enhanced sensitivity to oxidative death induced by glutathione depletion. Accordingly, suppression of HIF-1alpha expression using RNA interference prevented oxidative death. By contrast, HIF-1alpha-VP16-expressing HT22 cells were more resistant to DNA damage (induced by camptothecin) or endoplasmic reticulum stress (induced by thapsigargin and tunicamycin) than were VP16-expressing cells, and suppression of HIF-1alpha expression using RNA interference rendered HT22 cells more sensitive to death induced by DNA damage or endoplasmic reticulum stress. Together, these data demonstrate that HIF-1 can mediate prodeath or prosurvival responses in the same cell type depending on the injury stimulus.
Parathyroid hormone (PTH) is the major mediator of calcium homeostasis and bone remodeling and is now known to be an effective drug for osteoporosis treatment. Yet the mechanisms responsible for its functions in bone are largely unknown. Here we report that the expression of amphiregulin (AR), a member of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family, is rapidly and highly up-regulated by PTH in several osteoblastic cell lines and bone tissues. Other osteotropic hormones (1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and prostaglandin E2) also strongly stimulate AR expression. We found all EGF-like ligands and their receptors are expressed in osteoblasts, but AR is the only member that is highly regulated by PTH. Functional studies demonstrated that although AR is a potent growth factor for preosteoblasts, it completely inhibits further differentiation. AR also strongly and quickly stimulated Akt and ERK phosphorylation and c-fos and c-jun expression in an EGF receptor-dependent manner. Moreover, AR null mice displayed significantly less tibial trabecular bone than wild-type mice. Taken together, we have identified a novel growth factor that is PTH-regulated and appears to have an important role in bone metabolism.
Individual differences in responses to mild, acute stressors in laboratory animals have commonly been observed in behavioural tests and at the level of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses. These differences are associated with dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens. Although the effect of mild stressors on dopamine transmission has been studied with microdialysis, it has not been studied at the level of the catecholaminergic network in the nucleus accumbens. In this study we have used microdialysis to measure extracellular concentrations of dopamine in vivo and immunocytochemistry for the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase to assess the effect of a single exposure to novelty on the neurochemistry of the nucleus acc umbens in apomorphine-susceptible and apomorphine-unsusceptible rats. These rats are a valid animal model for studying individual differences in responses to environmental stressors and drugs of abuse. We demonstrated that a mild stressor like novelty increased the extracellular concentration of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens in apomorphine-susceptible rats to a larger and longer-lasting degree than in apomorphine-unsusceptible rats. Furthermore we demonstrated that novelty increased the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibre network in the nucleus accumbens shell of apomorphine-susceptible rats, which are rats that are particularly reactive to stressors, but not in the shell of apomorphine-unsusceptible rats, which are rats that are relatively stress-resistant. In conclusion, we have shown that the accumbal dopaminergic system of apomorphine-susceptible rats is more sensitive to an environmental stressor than that of apomorphine-unsusceptible rats. Combined with the fact that these animals also differ in their sensitivity to drugs of abuse, which are known to affect the dopaminergic system, these data provide a solid basis for further studying the differences in the dopaminergic responsiveness to drugs of abuse between apomorphine-susceptible and apomorphine-unsusceptible rats.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors mediate fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. Their modulation is believed to affect learning and memory, and their dysfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurological and psychiatric diseases. Despite a wealth of functional data, little is known about the intact, three-dimensional structure of these ligand-gated ion channels. Here, we present the structure of native AMPA receptors (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid; AMPA-Rs) purified from rat brain, as determined by single-particle electron microscopy. Unlike the homotetrameric recombinant GluR2 (ref. 3), the native heterotetrameric AMPA-R adopted various conformations, which reflect primarily a variable separation of the two dimeric extracellular amino-terminal domains. Members of the stargazin/TARP family of transmembrane proteins co-purified with AMPA-Rs and contributed to the density representing the transmembrane region of the complex. Glutamate and cyclothiazide markedly altered the conformational equilibrium of the channel complex, suggesting that desensitization is related to separation of the N-terminal domains. These data provide a glimpse of the conformational changes of an important ligand-gated ion channel of the brain.

A major obstacle for successful axon regeneration in the adult central nervous system (CNS) arises from inhibitory molecules in CNS myelin, which signal through a common receptor complex on neurons consisting of the ligand-binding Nogo-66 receptor (NgR) and two transmembrane coreceptors, p75 and LINGO-1. However, p75 expression is only detectable in subpopulations of mature neurons, raising the question of how these inhibitory signals are transduced in neurons lacking p75. In this study, we demonstrate that TROY (also known as TAJ), a TNF receptor family member selectively expressed in the adult nervous system, can form a functional receptor complex with NgR and LINGO-1 to mediate cellular responses to myelin inhibitors. Also, both overexpressing a dominant-negative TROY or presence of a soluble TROY protein can efficiently block neuronal response to myelin inhibitors. Our results implicate TROY in mediating myelin inhibition, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms of regeneration failure in the adult nervous system.

Touch is an active process, but how do the body's somatic sensors influence its movement? In this issue of Neuron, Nguyen and Kleinfeld show that afferent activity from the whiskers on a rat's face trigger rapid and prolonged excitation of the motor neurons that drive movements of the same whiskers. Positive feedback through this sensorimotor loop may serve to optimize the interaction between sensors and stimuli.
Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging, we identified brain regions involved in successful relational memory (RM) during encoding and retrieval for semantic and perceptual associations or in general, independent of phase and content. Participants were scanned while encoding and later retrieving associations between pairs of words (semantic RM) or associations between words and fonts (perceptual RM). Encoding success activity (ESA) was identified by comparing study-phase activity for items subsequently remembered (hits) versus forgotten (misses) and retrieval success activity (RSA) by comparing test-phase activity for hits versus misses. The study yielded three main sets of findings. First, ESA-RSA differences were found within the medial temporal lobes (MTLs) and within the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Within the left MTL, ESA was greater in the anterior hippocampus, and RSA was greater in the posterior parahippocampal cortex/hippocampus. This finding is consistent with the notion of an encoding-retrieval gradient along the longitudinal MTL axis. Within the left PFC, ESA was greater in ventrolateral PFC, and RSA was greater in dorsolateral and anterior PFC. This is the first evidence of a dissociation in successful encoding and retrieval activity within left PFC. Second, consistent with the transfer-appropriate processing principle, some ESA regions were reactivated during RSA in a content-specific manner. For semantic RM, these regions included the left ventrolateral PFC, whereas for perceptual RM, they included occipitoparietal and right parahippocampal regions. Finally, only one region in the entire brain was associated with RM in general (i.e., for both semantic and perceptual ESA and RSA): the left hippocampus. This finding highlights the fundamental role of the hippocampus in RM.
In a number of neuronal models of learning, signaling by the neurotransmitter nitric oxide (NO), synthesized by the enzyme neuronal NO synthase (nNOS), is essential for the formation of long-term memory (LTM). Using the molluscan model system Lymnaea, we investigate here whether LTM formation is associated with specific changes in the activity of members of the NOS gene family: Lym-nNOS1, Lym-nNOS2, and the antisense RNA-producing pseudogene (anti-NOS). We show that expression of the Lym-nNOS1 gene is transiently upregulated in cerebral ganglia after conditioning. The activation of the gene is precisely timed and occurs at the end of a critical period during which NO is required for memory consolidation. Moreover, we demonstrate that this induction of the Lym-nNOS1 gene is targeted to an identified modulatory neuron called the cerebral giant cell (CGC). This neuron gates the conditioned feeding response and is an essential part of the neural network involved in LTM formation. We also show that the expression of the anti-NOS gene, which functions as a negative regulator of nNOS expression, is downregulated in the CGC by training at 4 h after conditioning, during the critical period of NO requirement. This appears to be the first report of the timed and targeted differential regulation of the activity of a group of related genes involved in the production of a neurotransmitter that is necessary for learning, measured in an identified neuron of known function. We also provide the first example of the behavioral regulation of a pseudogene.
The dual nature of the NMDA receptor as a mediator of excitotoxic cell death and activity-dependent cell survival likely results from divergent patterns of kinase activation, transcription factor activation, and gene expression. To begin to address this divergence, we examined cellular and molecular signaling events that couple excitotoxic and nontoxic levels of NMDA receptor stimulation to activation of the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB)/cAMP response element (CRE) pathway in cultured cortical neurons. Pulses (10 min) of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic activity (nontoxic) triggered sustained (up to 3 h) CREB phosphorylation (pCREB) at serine 133. In contrast, brief stimulation with an excitotoxic concentration of NMDA (50 microm) triggered transient pCREB. The duration of pCREB was dependent on calcineurin activity. Excitotoxic levels of NMDA stimulated calcineurin activity, whereas synaptic activity did not. Calcineurin inhibition reduced NMDA toxicity and converted the transient increase in pCREB into a sustained increase. In accordance with these observations, sustained pCREB (up to 3 h) did not require persistent kinase pathway activity. The sequence of stimulation with excitotoxic levels of NMDA and neuroprotective synaptic activity determined which stimulus exerted control over pCREB duration. Constitutively active and dominant-negative CREB constructs were used to implicate CREB in synaptic activity-dependent neuroprotection against NMDA-induced excitotoxicity. Together these data provide a framework to begin to understand how the neuroprotective and excitotoxic effects of NMDA receptor activity function in an antagonistic manner at the level of the CREB/CRE transcriptional pathway.
Antidepressants increase proliferation of neuronal progenitor cells and expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus. We investigated the role of BDNF signaling in antidepressant-induced neurogenesis by using transgenic mice with either reduced BDNF levels (BDNF+/-) or impaired trkB activation (trkB.T1-overexpressing mice). In both transgenic strains, chronic (21 d) imipramine treatment increased the number of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells to degree similar to that seen in wild-type mice 24 h after BrdU administration, although the basal proliferation rate was increased in both transgenic strains. Three weeks after BrdU administration and the last antidepressant injection, the amount of newborn (BrdU- or TUC-4-positive) cells was significantly reduced in both BDNF+/- and trkB.T1-overexpressing mice, which suggests that normal BDNF signaling is required for the long-term survival of newborn hippocampal neurons. Moreover, the antidepressant-induced increase in the surviving BrdU-positive neurons seen in wild-type mice 3 weeks after treatment was essentially lost in mice with reduced BDNF signaling. Furthermore, we observed that chronic treatment with imipramine or fluoxetine produced a temporally similar increase in both BrdU-positive and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end-labeled neurons in the dentate gyrus, indicating that these drugs simultaneously increase both neurogenesis and neuronal elimination. These data suggest that antidepressants increase turnover of hippocampal neurons rather than neurogenesis per se and that BDNF signaling is required for the long-term survival of newborn neurons in mouse hippocampus.

Tau2 antibody recognizes a phosphorylation-independent epitope that is pathologically modified as tau protein is phosphorylated to form neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Similar modification of tau2 epitope can be induced even in the absence phosphorylation of tau, as we first demonstrated in ischemic foci and in glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs) of multiple system atrophy. This modification of tau2 epitope is distinguishable from those observed in degenerative tauopathies because (1) it is a conformational change, which is reversible upon exposure to a detergent; (2) it shows an absence of fibrils composed of phosphorylated tau protein; and (3) it is characterized by the lack of immunohistochemical labeling by anti-tau antibodies other than tau2. In this study, we expanded this observation to inflammatory foci of different pathologies (human immunodeficiency virus encephalopathy, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy or multiple sclerosis) by examining formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections immunostained with a panel of anti-tau antibodies. It was found that tau2 was the only anti-tau antibody that immunolabeled microglia/macrophages in these lesions, and this immunoreactivity was reversibly diminished upon exposure to a detergent. Exclusive apparition of tau2 immunoreactivity in these cells without neurofibrillary pathology may be a secondary event shared with ischemic foci and GCIs. It is, however, related to a unique conformational state of tau, possibly grouped under the name of &quot;tautwopathy&quot;, that may represent an initial stage of tau deposition distinct from degenerative tauopathies characterized by fibrils composed of phosphorylated tau protein.




Chronic exposure of pubertal male rats to ethanol results in a decline in serum testosterone, increased gonadotropins, pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) content, and decreased or inappropriately normal serum LH and FSH levels, suggesting impaired secretory release of gonadotropins. The molecular mechanisms behind this disorder are undefined, but a disruption of vesicle-mediated secretory processes is possible because intracellular protein trafficking pathways are involved in secretion of glycoproteins such as FSH and LH. Because small GTP-binding proteins of Rab family have been implicated as key regulators of membrane and protein trafficking in mammalian cells, this study was designed to test if ethanol-impaired pituitary FSH and LH secretion is associated with changes in Rab proteins, particularly Rab1B, Rab3B, Rab6, and Rab11. Male Sprague-Dawley rats 35 days old were pair-fed a Lieber-DeCarli diet with ethanol or without ethanol for 5 to 60 days. After ethanol exposure, serum testosterone levels decreased while LH and FSH were inappropriately unchanged. Immunohistochemical staining showed decreased Rab1B, Rab3B, and Rab11 protein levels in ethanol-treated pituitaries. Immunoblotting showed that ethanol induced a transient reduction in Rab6 after 5 days of ethanol exposure, whereas Rab3B decreased after 20 days, Rab11 after 30 days, and Rab1B after 60 days. Despite these changes in Rab proteins, mRNA levels were unaffected by ethanol exposure. We concluded that reductions in key Rab proteins may lead to altered vesicle trafficking and may play a role in disruption of pituitary FSH and LH secretion caused by ethanol.
Chronic exposure of pubertal male rats to ethanol results in a decline in serum testosterone and decreased or inappropriately normal serum luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) levels suggesting a functional defect in the pituitary. The molecular mechanisms behind this disorder are undefined. A role for ethanol-induced oxidative damage in the pathophysiology is supported by studies in liver, muscle, and heart of experimental animals, but there is limited evidence in the pituitary. We examined markers of oxidative damage to lipids and proteins in pituitaries from rats consuming ethanol for 5, 10, 20, 30, and 60 days in addition to markers of damage to nucleic acids in pituitaries after 60 days of ethanol exposure. There were increases in 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine immunoreactivity, a marker of oxidative damage to nucleic acids, and an overall increase in malondialdehyde and 4-hydroxynonenal, markers of lipid peroxidation. Protein carbonylation and protein nitrotyrosination, markers of protein oxidation, were significantly increased after 30 days and 60 days of ethanol consumption, respectively. After 60 days of ethanol exposure, TUNEL assay revealed that cell death in the ethanol-treated pituitaries was not significantly different from that in the pair-fed controls at the time of examination. We also measured serum testosterone, FSH, and LH after ethanol consumption for 5, 10, 20, 30, and 60 days. Through 5 to 60 days of ethanol exposure, testosterone levels were consistently lower whereas LH and FSH were inappropriately unchanged, suggesting pituitary malfunction. These results provide evidence for ethanol-induced oxidative damage at the pituitary level, which may contribute to pituitary dysfunction.
Neuroimaging of animal models of alcoholism offers a unique path for translational research to the human condition. Animal models permit manipulation of variables that are uncontrollable in clinical, human investigation. This symposium, which took place at the annual meeting of the Research Society on Alcoholism in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on June 29th, 2004, presented initial findings based on neuroimaging studies from the two centers of the Integrative Neuroscience Initiative on Alcoholism funded by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Effects of alcohol exposure were assessed with in vitro glucose metabolic imaging of rat brain, in vitro receptor imaging of monkey brain, in vivo magnetic resonance imaging of monkey brain, and in vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopic quantification of alcohol metabolism kinetics in rat brain.
This article represents the proceedings of a symposium at the 2004 annual meeting of the Research Society on Alcoholism in Vancouver, Canada. The symposium was organized by Etienne Quertemont and chaired by Kathleen A. Grant. The presentations were (1) Behavioral stimulant effects of intracranial injections of ethanol and acetaldehyde in rats, by Merc Correa, Maria N. Arizzi and John D. Salamone; (2) Behavioral characterization of acetaldehyde in mice, by Etienne Quertemont and Sophie Tambour; (3) Role of brain catalase and central formed acetaldehyde in ethanol's behavioral effects, by Carlos M.G. Aragon; (4) Contrasting the reinforcing actions of acetaldehyde and ethanol within the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of alcohol-preferring (P) rats, by William J. McBride, Zachary A. Rodd, Avram Goldstein, Alejandro Zaffaroni and Ting-Kai Li; and (5) Acetaldehyde increases dopaminergic transmission in the limbic system, by Milena Pisano and Marco Diana.


Compensatory adrenal growth after unilateral adrenalectomy (ULA) leads to adrenocortical hyperplasia. Because zonal growth contributions are not clear, we characterized the phenotype of cortical cells that proliferate using immunofluorescence histochemistry and zone-specific cell counting. Rats underwent ULA, sham adrenalectomy (sham), or no surgery and were killed at 2 or 5 days. Adrenals were weighed and sections immunostained for Ki67 (proliferation), cytochrome P-450 aldosterone synthase (P450aldo, glomerulosa), and cytochrome P-450 11beta-hydroxylase (P45011beta, fasciculata). Unbiased stereology was used to count proliferating glomerulosa and fasciculata cells. Adrenal weight increased after ULA compared with sham and no surgery at both time points, and there was no difference between sham and no surgery. However, either ULA or sham increased Ki67-positive cells in the outer fasciculata at both time points compared with no surgery. Outer fasciculata-restricted proliferation is thus associated with adrenal weight gain in ULA but not sham. Experiment repetition using proliferating cell nuclear antigen and bromodeoxyuridine showed similar results. After ULA, adrenal DNA, RNA, and protein increased at both time points, whereas after sham, only adrenal DNA increased at 2 days. Compensatory growth thus results from hyperplasia and hypertrophy, whereas sham induces only a transient adrenal hyperplasia. Dexamethasone pretreatment prevented the increase in adrenal weight after ULA and blocked Ki67 labeling in the outer fasciculata but not zona glomerulosa in all groups. These results clearly show that the outer fasciculata is the primary adrenal zone responsible for compensatory growth, responding to steroid-suppressible stress signals that alone are ineffective in increasing adrenal mass.
Autonomic responses may underlie associations among anxiety, vestibular dysfunction, and unexplained syncope. Mental stress (MS), an anxiety-inducing stimulus, causes forearm vasodilation, whereas the vestibulosympathetic reflex (VSR) causes forearm vasoconstriction. The purpose of this study was to examine the combined effects of mental and vestibular stimulation on neurovascular control in the forearm. Heart rate, arterial pressure (Finapres), and forearm blood flow (Doppler) were measured in 10 healthy volunteers in the prone position during 1) head-down rotation (HDR), 2) MS (mental arithmetic), and 3) HDR + MS. Forearm vascular resistance (FVR) increased during HDR (from 232 +/- 40 to 319 +/- 53 units) and decreased during MS (from 260 +/- 57 to 154 +/- 22 units). During HDR + MS, FVR did not change [change (Delta) = -31 +/- 50 units] and was not significantly different from the algebraic sum of each trial performed alone (Delta = -20 +/- 42 units). Arm muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA; microneurography) was measured in seven additional subjects. MSNA increased during HDR (from 13 +/- 2 to 17 +/- 2 bursts/min) and HDR + MS (from 11 +/- 2 to 16 +/- 2 bursts/min). Increases in MSNA during HDR + MS (Delta = 5 +/- 2 bursts/min) were not different from the algebraic sum of each trial performed alone (Delta = 6 +/- 2 bursts/min). We conclude that an additive neurovascular interaction exists between MS and the VSR in the forearm. Activation of the VSR prevented forearm vasodilation during MS, suggesting that activation of the VSR may help protect against stress-induced syncope.

Researchers have recently begun to use the tools of neuroscience to examine the social psychological responses associated with race. This article serves as a review of the developing literature in this area. It advances the argument that neuroscience studies of race have the potential to shape fundamental assumptions about race, and the interplay between social and biological processes more generally.
Microcontact printing is a remarkable surface patterning technique. Developed about 10 years ago, it has triggered enormous interest from the surface science community, as well as from engineers and biologists. The last five years have been rich in improvements to the microcontact printing process itself, as well as in new technical innovations, many designed to suit new applications. In this review, we describe the evolution of microcontact printing over the past five years. The review is categorized into three main sections: the improvements made to the technique, new variations, and new applications.
Our regular readers will notice that the title of our journal has changed from Annals of General Hospital Psychiatry (AGHP) to Annals of General Psychiatry (AGP) since January 1st, 2005. This was judged as necessary, in order to be able to serve better the aims of the journal. Our initial thoughts were that including the term 'General Hospital' in the journal's title would help us to launch a journal dedicated to the idea of Psychiatry as a medical specialty. But they were not justified; so, now the Annals of General Psychiatry (AGP) is born! It is still an Open Access, peer-reviewed, online journal covering the wider field of Psychiatry, Neurosciences and Psychological Medicine, and aims at publishing articles on all aspects of psychiatry. Primary research articles are the journal's priority, and both basic and clinical neuroscience contributions are encouraged. The AGP strongly supports and follows the principles of evidence-based medicine. AGP's articles are archived in PubMed Central, the US National Library of Medicine's full-text repository of life science literature, and also in repositories at the University of Potsdam in Germany, at INIST in France and in e-Depot, the National Library of the Netherlands' digital archive of all electronic publications. We hope that the change in the journal's name will cure the confusion caused by its previous title and help to achieve the journal's aims and scope, that is to help the world-wide promotion of research and publishing in the mental health area.
We have shown previously that intraparenchymal infusion of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) continuously into the posterior putamen in five Parkinson's disease patients is safe and may represent a new treatment option. Here, we report a continuation of this phase I study. After 2 years of continual GDNF infusion, there were no serious clinical side effects and no significant detrimental effects on cognition. Patients showed a 57% and 63% improvement in their off-medication motor and activities of daily living subscores of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, respectively, and health-related quality-of-life measures (Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39 and Short Form-36) showed general improvement over time.
Using an indirect immunoperoxidase technique, the location of cell bodies and fibers containing substance P, neurokinin A and neurokinin B was studied in the cat spinal cord. The former two neuropeptides showed a widespread distribution throughout the whole spinal cord, whereas the distribution of neurokinin B was more restricted. Neurokinin A-immunoreactive structures showed a more widespread distribution and a higher density than the immunoreactive structures observed to contain substance P. In the cat spinal cord, we observed cell bodies containing neurokinin A, but no cell bodies containing neurokinin B or substance P were found. These cell bodies were located in laminae V (sacral 1 and 2 levels), VI (sacral 1 and 3), VII (lumbar 7, sacral 1 and 3, caudal 1) and X (sacral 1). Laminae I and II showed the highest density of immunoreactive fibers for each of the three tachykinins studied, being in general lamina IV who showed the lowest number of immunoreactive fibers containing substance P, neurokinin A or B. The anatomical distribution of the three tachykinins studied in the cat spinal cord indicates that the neuropeptides could be involved in the neurotransmission and/or in the neuromodulation of nociceptive information, as well as in autonomic and affective responses to pain. Moreover, the involvement of substance P, neurokinin A or B in other functions unrelated to the transmission of pain is also possible (autonomic and motor functions). The distribution of the neuropeptides studied in the cat is compared with the location of the same neuropeptides in the spinal cord of other species. The possible origin of the tachykinergic fibers in the cat spinal cord is also discussed.


Advances in neuroimaging over the past 2 decades are products of breakthroughs in imaging technology, developments of more powerful computers and image-processing software, and expanding knowledge in basic and clinical neuroscience. In addition to the insights into normal brain structure and function that such methods provide and the information that can be gained from disease-related changes in structure and function, the promise of achieving diagnostic specificity through neuroimaging lies with the potential identification of pathognomonic proteins. Recent advances in imaging beta-amyloid plaques, one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer disease, offer such a technological breakthrough and the possibility for more efficient assessment of antiamyloid interventions as well as specific noninvasive diagnostic capabilities.


Research in the neurosciences continues to provide evidence that sleep plays a role in the processes of learning and memory. There is less of a consensus, however, regarding the precise stages of memory development during which sleep is considered a requirement, simply favorable, or not important. This article begins with an overview of recent studies regarding sleep and learning, predominantly in the procedural memory domain, and is measured against our current understanding of the mechanisms that govern memory formation. Based on these considerations, I offer a new neurocognitive framework of procedural learning, consisting first of acquisition, followed by two specific stages of consolidation, one involving a process of stabilization, the other involving enhancement, whereby delayed learning occurs. Psychophysiological evidence indicates that initial acquisition does not rely fundamentally on sleep. This also appears to be true for the stabilization phase of consolidation, with durable representations, resistant to interference, clearly developing in a successful manner during time awake (or just time, per se). In contrast, the consolidation stage, resulting in additional/enhanced learning in the absence of further rehearsal, does appear to rely on the process of sleep, with evidence for specific sleep-stage dependencies across the procedural domain. Evaluations at a molecular, cellular, and systems level currently offer several sleep specific candidates that could play a role in sleep-dependent learning. These include the upregulation of select plasticity-associated genes, increased protein synthesis, changes in neurotransmitter concentration, and specific electrical events in neuronal networks that modulate synaptic potentiation.
The common assumption that perceptual sensitivities are related to neural representations of sensory stimuli has seldom been directly demonstrated. The authors analyzed the similarity of spike trains evoked by complex sounds in the rat auditory cortex and related cortical responses to performance in an auditory task. Rats initially learned to identify 2 highly different periodic, frequency-modulated sounds and then were tested with increasingly similar sounds. Rats correctly classified most novel sounds; their accuracy was negatively correlated with acoustic similarity. Rats discriminated novel sounds with slower modulation more accurately than sounds with faster modulation. This asymmetry was consistent with similarities in cortical representations of the sounds, demonstrating that perceptual sensitivities to complex sounds can be predicted from the cortical responses they evoke.
The authors examined the role of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) in the expression of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). After cannulas were implanted, male DBA/2J mice underwent an unbiased Pavlovian-conditioning procedure for ethanol-induced CPP. Before preference testing, the mice were injected intra-VTA (Experiments 1 and 3) or intra-NAc (Experiment 2) with the nonselective opioid antagonist methylnaloxonium (0-ng, 375-ng, or 750-ng total infusion; Experiments 1 and 2) or the gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA(B)) agonist baclofen (0-ng, 25-ng, or 50-ng total infusion; Experiment 3). Intra-VTA methylnaloxonium or baclofen decreased ethanol-induced CPP, whereas intra-NAc methylnaloxonium had no effect. These findings indicate that the conditioned rewarding effect of ethanol is expressed through a VTA-dependent mechanism that involves both opioid and GABA(B) receptors.
Effects of continuous (100%) versus partial (25%) reinforcement were studied on Pavlovian delay and trace eyeblink conditioning in rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) with either lesions to the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) or sham lesions. Concomitant heart rate changes evoked by the conditioned stimulus were also assessed. Partial reinforcement retarded eyeblink conditioning in both the trace and delay paradigm, but this impairment was greater during trace conditioning and in rabbits with mPFC lesions. Accompanying conditioned stimulus-evoked heart rate slowing was attenuated under all conditions by the mPFC lesions, although this result was not always statistically significant.
Dopamine release within the nucleus accumbens shell is suggested to control the salience of environmental stimuli, and previous research has shown that the indirect dopamine agonist D-amphetamine can alter the salience of both aversive and neutral stimuli. In experiment 1, the effect of systemic injection of D-amphetamine (0.5, 1 mg/kg) on fear conditioning to a tone was assessed in an 'off-baseline' conditioned suppression procedure using several footshock intensities. Although the effects of amphetamine on conditioning were unclear, the results indicated a deficit of simple tone habituation in amphetamine-treated rats. In experiment 2, habituation of the orienting reaction to a tone was assessed by the progressive reduction of lick suppression upon repeated presentation of the auditory stimulus. D-Amphetamine delayed tone habituation, whether administered systemically (0.5, 1 mg/kg) or into the nucleus accumbens shell (3, 10 microg/0.5 microl). These data are consistent with electrophysiological and neurochemical data demonstrating the role of nucleus accumbens dopamine in novelty processing. The relevance of the data to latent inhibition is discussed.
This field-portable reaction time test and analysis software run on devices using the Palm operating system. It is designed to emulate a test and commercial device widely used in sleep deprivation, shift work, fatigue, and stimulant drug research but provides additional capabilities. Experimental comparisons with the standard commercial device in a 40-hour total sleep deprivation study show it to be comparably sensitive to selected experimental variables. A Pocket PC-compatible version is under developement.
Cardiac Vagal Tone has been proposed as a stable biological marker for the ability to sustain attention and regulate emotion [Porges, Monographs of the Society for Research in Child Development 59 (1994) 167-186]. Vagal tone is a physiological index of parasympathetic nervous system influence on the heart that has predicted a number of emotional behaviors and styles in infants, children, and adults. Little research, however, has sought to explore the link between vagal tone and established variables relating to personality and self-regulation. In this study, vagal tone was collected during 5-min baseline, stress, and recovery periods. Subjects (n = 98) also completed a short form of the Marlowe-Crowne Social Desirability Scale, the Behavioral Activation and Behavioral Inhibition Scales, the Taylor Manifest Anxiety Scale, the Self-Consciousness Scale, and the Openness to Experience subscale of the Five Factor Personality Inventory. Poorer modulation for vagal tone was associated with greater social anxiety, while lower vagal tone across recording periods was associated with greater defensiveness and lower behavioral activation sensitivity.
In natural situations, unpredictable events processing often interacts with the ongoing cognitive activities. In a similar manner, the insertion of deviant unpredictable stimuli into a classical oddball task evokes both the P3a and P3b event-related potentials (ERPs) components that are, respectively, thought to index reallocation of attentional resources or inhibitory process and memory updating mechanism. This study aims at characterising the influence of the emotional arousal and valence of a deviant and unpredictable non-target stimulus on these components. ERPs were recorded from 28 sites during a visual three-stimulus oddball paradigm. Unpleasant, neutral and pleasant pictures served as non-target unpredictable items and subjects were asked to realize a perceptually difficult standard/target discrimination task. A temporal principal component analysis (PCA) allowed us to show that non-target pictures elicited both a P3a and a P3b. Moreover, the P3b component was modulated by the emotional arousal and the valence of the pictures. Thus, the memory updating process may be modulated by the affective arousal and valence of unpredictable disturbing stimuli, even if the task does not require any explicit emotional categorization.
We have previously identified a common polymorphism at the tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) locus (-7351C&gt;T), located within a GC-box in the retinoic acid (RA) and steroid hormone responsive t-PA enhancer. The aim of the present study was to functionally characterize this t-PA variant. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) using crude nuclear extracts from human endothelial, HeLa, and NT2 neuronal cells revealed a 10-fold greater protein binding affinity to the wild-type C allele compared with the mutant T allele variant. Sp1 and Sp3 were identified as the GC-box binding proteins. Luciferase reporter assays showed that the C allele generated higher transcriptional activity after induction by RA, compared with the T allele variant. Further EMSAs showed that RA treatment enhanced Sp1/Sp3 binding to the GC-box. Formation of the Sp1/Sp3 containing complex was inhibited by anti-RA receptor (RAR) antibodies, suggesting that Sp1/Sp3 and RAR interact. The t-PA -7351C&gt;T polymorphism is therefore functional at the level of transcription. The reduced binding affinity of Sp1/Sp3 to the T allele could explain our earlier observations of a reduced t-PA release and an increased risk of myocardial infarction in individuals carrying this allele.

A rare case of glioblastoma with isolated cutaneous metastasis adjacent to the scar site is described. Its pathogenesis and clinical significance are discussed.
Rapid resolution of acute subdural haematoma (ASDH) has rarely been observed. Two elderly patients with rapid resolution of ASDH are described. In the present cases, it was indicated that a mechanism of rapid resolution of ASDH was attributable to cerebrospinal fluid dilution and cerebral atrophy resulting from aging.
Functional MRI (fMRI) shows areas of the brain that are active during a task, but the standard approach (offline analysis after the imaging has finished) precludes tailoring of the imaging to the individual patient, e.g. for assessing normal function around an individual lesion. The aims of the study were to explore the technical feasibility of acquiring functional images in real-time (rt-fMRI), develop the necessary software interfaces and protocols for image acquisition, and to compare images of functional activation acquired in real-time with the standard offline statistical parametric method in patients with solitary brain tumours. Patients with a solitary supratentorial lesion were studied. The rt-fMRI paradigms were sequential finger opposition, ankle movement and language function (correct recognition of grammatically violated sentences). Datasets were analysed using AFNI software (National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA) for the real-time analysis and SPM99 (Functional Imaging Laboratory, University College, London, UK) for the offline analysis. From 11 patients, useful data were obtained in nine. The finger tapping task produced most consistent activation between real-time and offline analysis with good anatomic localization to the primary motor cortex contralateral to the tapping finger. Ankle movement produced weaker activation and correlation with real-time analysis. For the language task the offline analysis provided reproducible activation patterns, but the real-time method showed no activation at the chosen threshold of p = 0.001. Tumourous areas of brain did not show any activation with either method of analysis during any task. rt-fMRI is feasible and could be a valuable functional evaluation tool in the planning of surgery for tumours in motor regions of the brain. Further paradigm development is required for evaluation of language, and possibly other more complex executive functions.
Alpha3IA (6-(4-pyridyl)-5-(4-methoxyphenyl)-3-carbomethoxy-1-methyl-1H-pyridin-2-one) is a pyridone with higher binding and functional affinity and greater inverse agonist efficacy for GABA(A) receptors containing an alpha3 rather than an alpha1, alpha2 or alpha5 subunit. If doses are selected that minimise the occupancy at these latter subtypes, then the in vivo effects of alpha3IA are most probably mediated by the alpha3 subtype. Alpha3IA has good CNS penetration in rats and mice as measured using a [(3)H]Ro 15-1788 in vivo binding assay. At doses in rats that produce relatively low levels of occupancy (12%) in the cerebellum (i.e. alpha1-containing receptors), alpha3IA (30 mg kg(-1) i.p.), like the nonselective partial inverse agonist N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide (FG 7142), not only caused behavioural disruption in an operant, chain-pulling assay but was also anxiogenic in the elevated plus maze, an anxiogenic-like effect that could be blocked with the benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788 (flumazenil). Neurochemically, alpha3IA (30 mg kg(-1) i.p.) as well as FG 7142 (15 mg kg(-1) i.p.) increased the concentration of the dopamine metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in rat medial prefrontal cortex by 74 and 68%, respectively, relative to vehicle-treated animals, a response that mimicked that seen following immobilisation stress. Taken together, these data demonstrate that an inverse agonist selective for GABA(A) receptors containing an alpha3 subunit is anxiogenic, and suggest that since alpha3-containing GABA(A) receptors play a role in anxiety, then agonists selective for this subtype should be anxiolytic.
1. alpha(1)-Adrenoceptor (AR) subtypes in mouse carotid arteries were characterised using a combination of agonist/antagonist pharmacology and knockout (KO) mice. 2. Phenylephrine (PE) was most potent in the alpha(1B)-KO (pEC(50)=6.9+/-0.2) followed by control (pEC(50)=6.3+/-0.06) and alpha(1D)-KO (pEC(50)=5.5+/-0.07). Both N-[5-(4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazol-2yl)-2-hydroxy-5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl] methanesulphonamide hydrobromide (A-61603) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) were more potent in the alpha(1D)-KO (pEC(50)=7.4+/-0.27 and 7.4+/-0.05, respectively) than the control (pEC(50)=6.9+/-0.09 and 6.9+/-0.08, respectively) and equipotent with the control in the alpha(1B)-KO (pEC(50)=6.7+/-0.07 and 6.8+/-0.04). Maximum responses to PE and A-61603 were reduced in the alpha(1D)-KO compared to control; there was no difference in maximum responses to 5-HT. 3. In control arteries, prazosin and 5-methylurapidil acted competitively with pA(2) of 9.6 and 7.5, respectively. BMY7378 produced antagonism only at the highest concentration used (100 nM; pK(B) 8.3). 4. Prazosin, 5-methylurapidil and BMY7378 acted competitively in alpha(1B)-KO carotid arteries with pA(2) of 10.3, 7.6 and 9.6, respectively. 5. In the alpha(1D)-KO, against PE, 5-methylurapidil produced a pA(2) of 8.1. pK(B) values were calculated for prazosin (10.6) and BMY7378 (7.0). Against A-61603, 5-methylurapidil had a pA(2) of 8.5, prazosin 8.6, while BMY7378 had no effect. 6. In conclusion, the alpha(1B)-KO mediates contraction solely through alpha(1D)-ARs and the alpha(1D)-KO through alpha(1A)-ARs. Extrapolating back to the control from the knockout data suggests that all three subtypes could be involved in the responses, but we propose that the alpha(1D)-AR causes the contractile response and that the role of the alpha(1B)-AR is mainly regulatory.

It has been proposed recently that a deficit in keeping track of spatial locations may contribute to the severity of unilateral neglect in some right hemisphere stroke patients. However, performance on traditional spatial working memory (SWM) tasks (e.g. Corsi blocks) might be confounded by failure to encode leftward locations, rather than a true deficit of maintaining locations in SWM. Here we introduced new procedures for circumventing this to measure SWM capacity in neglect. In a first experiment, 20 right hemisphere stroke patients (10 with and 10 without neglect) were tested on a computerized vertical variant of the Corsi task. Sequences of spatial locations in a vertical column were displayed and participants had to tap out the remembered sequence on a touchscreen. Patients with left neglect were impaired on this vertical SWM task compared with all control groups. However, poor performance on this task (as for Corsi blocks) might involve impaired memory for stimulus sequence, or poor visuomotor control of manual responding, rather than reduced SWM capacity per se. A second experiment therefore employed a purer measure of vertical SWM. After the displayed sequence, a single location was now probed visually, with observers judging verbally (yes/no) if it had been in the preceding sequence. Hence order no longer mattered, and no spatial motor response was required. Again, the neglect group was impaired relative to all others, now with very little overlap between the performances of individual neglect patients versus individuals in control groups. Poor performance on the second task, which provides a purer measure of SWM capacity, correlated with severity of left neglect on cancellation tasks (but not on line bisection), consistent with recent proposals that SWM deficits can exacerbate left neglect on visual search tasks when present conjointly. Lesion anatomy indicated that neglect patients with a SWM deficit were most likely to have damage to parietal white matter, plus, in the second experiment, to the insula also. These findings demonstrate that an impairment in SWM capacity can contribute to the neglect syndrome in patients with stroke involving regions within the right parietal lobe and insula.
Paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia (PKD) is characterized by brief episodes of choreic/dystonic movements precipitated by sudden movement. The condition responds to antiepileptic medication, particularly carbemazepine. Autosomal dominant inheritance is often seen, and a locus in the pericentromeric region of chromosome 16 has been identified in some families. Little is known of the pathophysiology of PKD, although an ion channel abnormality is thought likely. We assessed a number of electrophysiological parameters in 11 patients with idiopathic PKD, a proportion of them on and off treatment. We identified reduced short intracortical inhibition (SICI), reduced early phase of transcallosal inhibition, and a reduced first phase of spinal reciprocal inhibition (RI) in subjects with PKD. The cortical silent period, the startle response and the second and third phases of RI were normal. Treatment with carbamazepine normalized the abnormalities in transcallosal inhibition, but had no effect on other parameters. Patients with PKD show a discrete set of abnormalities in cortical and spinal inhibitory circuits that differ from those seen in primary dystonia and epilepsy, and which may provide clues to the underlying pathophysiology of the disorder.
Iris Murdoch (I.M.) was among the most celebrated British writers of the post-war era. Her final novel, however, received a less than enthusiastic critical response on its publication in 1995. Not long afterwards, I.M. began to show signs of insidious cognitive decline, and received a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, which was confirmed histologically after her death in 1999. Anecdotal evidence, as well as the natural history of the condition, would suggest that the changes of Alzheimer's disease were already established in I.M. while she was writing her final work. The end product was unlikely, however, to have been influenced by the compensatory use of dictionaries or thesauri, let alone by later editorial interference. These facts present a unique opportunity to examine the effects of the early stages of Alzheimer's disease on spontaneous written output from an individual with exceptional expertise in this area. Techniques of automated textual analysis were used to obtain detailed comparisons among three of her novels: her first published work, a work written during the prime of her creative life and the final novel. Whilst there were few disparities at the levels of overall structure and syntax, measures of lexical diversity and the lexical characteristics of these three texts varied markedly and in a consistent fashion. This unique set of findings is discussed in the context of the debate as to whether syntax and semantics decline separately or in parallel in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
We studied a patient who experienced 'palinaesthesia', an illusion of persistent touch following tactile stimulation on the left hand, subsequent to a right parietal meningioma affecting primary somatosensory regions in the postcentral gyrus (SI) and superior parietal gyrus (Brodmann area 7), but preserving the secondary somatosensory cortex (SII) in the upper lateral sulcus. This subjective sensation was accompanied by transient increases in objective measures of tactile threshold. The patient had mild deficits in superficial tactile perception, but showed severe left-sided extinction for offsets of tactile stimuli during bilateral stimulation, but not for onsets of stimuli. Functional MRI revealed increased neural activity during palinaesthesia selectively arising within the ipsilesional-right SI cortex, but no abnormality within left SI and bilateral SII. Right SI responded to the onset of new tactile stimuli on the left hand but not to their offset. By contrast, any tactile events on either hand modulated activity in contralateral SII regions, even undetected left-sided offsets. These data demonstrate that illusory persistence of touch following stimulation on the hand may result from sustained neural activity in a restricted region of the SI cortex outlasting the offset of the actual tactile stimuli. These findings also provide direct evidence for a critical role of SI in mediating conscious somatosensory experience on contralateral parts of the body.
Object naming studies have generally observed that both normal and brain damaged individuals are faster and more accurate at identifying non-living objects than living objects (). However, a potential confounding variable, manipulability, has been present in past studies that may mediate this effect. Previous studies that have observed a non-living advantage have often used manipulable and non-manipulable exemplars to represent the non-living and living groups, respectively. Under conditions which controlled for object manipulability and familiarity, results demonstrated advantages for the identification of non-manipulable and for living objects.
Fragile X syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder that is caused by large methylated expansions of a CGG repeat (&gt;200) region upstream of the FMR1 gene that results in the lack of expression of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Affected individuals display a neurobehavioral phenotype that includes a significant impairment in social cognition alongside deficits in attentional control, inhibition and working memory. In contrast, relatively little is known about the trajectory and specificity of any cognitive impairment associated with the fragile X premutation (&quot;carrier-status&quot;) (approximately 55-200 repeats). Here, we focus on one aspect of cognition that has been well documented in the fragile X full mutation, namely social cognition. The results suggest that premutation males display a pattern of deficit similar in profile, albeit milder in presentation, to that of the full mutation. However, little evidence emerged for a correlation between CGG repeat length and severity of phenotypic outcomes. The findings are discussed in the context of functional neuroimaging and brain-behaviour-molecular correlates. We speculate that the deficiencies in social cognition are attributable to impairment of neural pathways modulated by the cerebellum.
Neuroimaging and lesion studies have provided insights into the neural mechanisms underlying numerical processing, yet the roles of the right and left hemispheres have not been systematically investigated within a single study. To address this issue, we investigated subitizing and magnitude comparison abilities in a split-brain patient. The first experiment examined the two hemispheres' abilities to enumerate briefly presented sets of one to four stimuli. Both hemispheres were equally able to perform this task. The second and third experiments examined the hemispheres' abilities to make magnitude judgments about two simultaneously presented stimuli that were either identically coded (i.e., two Arabic numerals, two number words, or two arrays of dots) or differently coded (e.g., an Arabic numeral and a number word). Although the left hemisphere was more accurate than the right when the task involved number words, both hemispheres were able to make comparisons between numerical representations regardless of stimuli coding. In addition, both hemispheres exhibited a distance effect. The results are discussed in the context of Dehaene's triple-code model.
In the last decade, the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) has become a widely employed neuropsychological research instrument for the investigation of executive function. The task has been employed in a wide range of formats, from 'manual' procedures to more recently introduced computerised versions. Computer-based formats often require that responses on the task should be artificially delayed by a number of seconds between trials to collect skin-conductance data. Participants, however, may become frustrated when they want to select from a particular deck in the time-limited versions--so that an unintended emotional experience of frustration might well disrupt a task presumed to be reliant on emotion-based learning. We investigated the effect of the various types of Iowa Gambling Task format on performance, using three types of task: the classic manual administration, with no time limitations; a computerised administration with a 6-s enforced delay; and a control computerised version which had no time constraints. We also evaluated the subjective experience of participants on each task. There were no significant differences in performance, between formats, in behavioural terms. Subjective experience measures on the task also showed consistent effects across all three formats-with substantial, and rapidly developing, awareness of which decks were 'good' and 'bad.'
The present study investigated whether the differential sensitivity of selectively bred gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB)-sensitive (GHB-S) and GHB-resistant (GHB-R) rats to GHB- and baclofen-induced sedation/hypnosis generalized to the motor incoordinating effect of the two drugs. To this aim, GHB-S and GHB-R rats were tested on a Rota-Rod after the acute administration of GHB (100-500 mg/kg, i.p.) and baclofen (1.25-5 mg/kg, i.p.). Significant line differences were observed in the dose-response curves for both GHB and baclofen, with GHB-S rats displaying a greater sensitivity to the motor incoordinating effects of both drugs than GHB-R rats. No line difference was observed in diazepam (1.25-5 mg/kg, i.p.), pentobarbital (5-15 mg/kg, i.p.), and ethanol (1-1.5 g/kg, i.p.) dose-response curves. These results suggest that the differential sensitivity of GHB-S and GHB-R rats to GHB and baclofen extends to the effects produced by doses of the two drugs which are 5-10 times lower than those for which rats have been selectively bred. These results are discussed in terms of the GABA(B) receptor being the likely neural substrate on which the differential sensitivity of GHB-S and GHB-R rats resides.
In freshly isolated neurons of the ventral tegmental area of young rats, we first examined the role of G proteins in the functional modulation of the glycine receptor (GlyR). GTP-gamma-S [guanosine-5'-0-(2-thiotriphosphate)] (2 mM) or GDP-beta-S [guanosine 5'-0-(2-thiodiphosphate)] (2 mM) was added to the pipette solution of whole-cell recordings to regulate G protein activities. GTP-gamma-S enhanced the amplitude of glycine-induced current (I(Gly)), suggesting modulation of GlyRs via a G protein-coupled pathway. GDP-beta-S suppressed I(Gly), suggesting that basal G protein activity positively modulates the GlyRs. We next examined effects of G proteins in ethanol potentiation of GlyR function. Activation of G proteins with 2 mM GTP-gamma-S attenuated, but did not eliminate, ethanol-induced potentiation of I(Gly). These results suggest that GTP-gamma-S and ethanol share the same pathway of activating GlyRs. When G proteins are maximally activated by GTP-gamma-S, the action of ethanol was partially occluded. When 2 mM GDP-beta-S was added in pipette solution, ethanol-induced potentiation of I(Gly) was significantly attenuated, suggesting that GDP-beta-S partially blocked the action of ethanol. However, the inability of GTP-gamma-S (or GDP-beta-S) to eliminate completely the potentiating effect of ethanol indicates that some other factors, in addition to G proteins, may also contribute to the action of ethanol on GlyRs.
Hypoxia is damaging in neurons, but it can also produce beneficial effects by consolidating the activity of neural networks such as facilitation of respiratory activity [T.L. Baker-Herman, D.D. Fuller, R.W. Bavis, A.G. Zabka, F.J. Golder, N.J. Doperalski, R.A. Johnson, J.J. Watters, G.S. Mitchell, Nature Neuroscience 7 (2004) 48-55; J.L. Feldman, G.S. Mitchell, E.E. Nattie, Ann. Rev. Neurosci. 26 (2003) 239-266; D.M. Blitz, J.M. Ramirez, J. Neurophysiol. 87 (2002) 2964-2971]. The underlying mechanisms are unknown, and we hypothesized they may be similar to ischemic preconditioning in the heart, involving mitochondrial K(ATP) (mK(ATP)) channels. By measuring the mitochondrial potential (Psi(m)) and Ca2+ ([Ca2+]m) in neurons of pre-Botzinger complex (pBC), we examined the functional expression of mK(ATP) channels in the respiratory network. The opener of mK(ATP) channels diazoxide decreased Psi(m) and [Ca2+]m both in pBC neurons and in isolated immobilized mitochondria. 5-Hydroxydecanoate (5-HD), the blocker of mK(ATP) channels, increased both Psi(m) and [Ca2+]m. Phorbol 12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) mimicked the effects of diazoxide. Protein kinase C (PKC) was stimulated during hypoxia that occurred mostly at the mitochondria. Brief hypoxia induced facilitation of the respiratory activity, which was prevented after blockade of mK(ATP) channels with 5-HD and PKC with staurosporine. Diazoxide potentiated the motor output and subsequent application of hypoxia was ineffective. We propose that a PKC-induced stimulation of K(ATP) channels in the mitochondria of respiratory neurons is responsible for the hypoxic facilitation of rhythmic activity.
The postnatal subventricular zone (SVZ) contains the largest pool of dividing and migrating neural precursors in the adult rodent brain. Neuronal precursors migrate throughout the SVZ and along the rostral migratory stream (RMS) towards the olfactory bulb where they differentiate into interneurons. To facilitate the investigation of cell migration in the SVZ and RMS, an inexpensive migration assay was developed for use in acute brain slices. Acute sagittal slices were kept at 37 degrees C in 5% O2/95% CO2-saturated solution and migrating cells in the SVZ and RMS were visualized using an upright infrared-differential interference contrast microscope. Time-lapse movies were acquired to identify the direction and measure the speed of cell migration. The neurotransmitter GABA and inhibitors of GABA receptors or transporters can be bath applied to determine the function of endogenous GABA on the direction and speed of cell migration. In parallel, the levels of endogenous GABA released from acute SVZ or RMS explants were measured with mass spectrometry. Additional techniques such as electrophysiology and immunohistochemistry confirmed the identity of cells as neuronal precursors and characterized the expression of GABA receptors and transporters. This report describes how modulations in the direction and speed of neuronal precursor migration can be accurately monitored and how changes in local GABA levels can be measured. The described techniques can be used to identify the endogenous factors that regulate cell migration. Identifying such factors is essential for the future therapeutic use of SVZ cells to replace damaged or lost cells.
We present a neuroanatomical tracing method in a stereological approach to study the proportional distribution of fibers of a particular projection over two chemically different populations of neurons. The fiber projection from the presubiculum to the medial division of the entorhinal cortex of the rat serves as a model projection. Potential target interneurons express calcium binding proteins, either parvalbumin or calretinin. The three markers were simultaneously stained in one and the same histological section. The procedure is according to a three-phase procedure, i.e., in vivo tracer injection phase, histology phase, laserscanning phase. Steps involved are: (1) Surgical application to the presubiculum (injection) of the neuroanatomical tracer, biotinylated dextran amine (BDA), with the purpose of labeling fibers innervating the entorhinal cortex. After surgery, transport of the tracer takes place during the one-week survival period; (2) Fluorescence detection of the labeled fibers through staining with fluorochromated avidin (avidin-Alexa Fluor 488 [green fluorescence]); (3) Simultaneous Immunofluorescence detection of two interneuron markers (using the appropriate primary antibodies and secondary antibodies conjugated to the fluorochromes Alexa Fluor 594 [red fluorescence] and Alexa Fluor 633 [infrared fluorescence]); (4) Acquisition of low-magnification images in a confocal laserscanning microscope and the preparation on a computer of a montage image covering the entire entorhinal cortex; (5) Overlaying this montage with a sampling grid; (6) Acquisition at high magnification of Z-series of confocal images in a statistical valid way based on this grid. Each marker was visualized in its own laser excitation/emission channel: 488, 568 and 647 nm; (7) Image processing and 3D reconstruction followed by evaluation of the results. The present approach can be used to examine whether or not a particular class of chemically identified neurons receives preferential innervation by a particular fiber projection.
In the present protocol, we demonstrate a high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) system that enables detection of very low amounts of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) (0.03 pmol) and glutamate (0.8 pmol). The HPLC system consists of two pumps, an electrochemical detector, a high-pressure six-way switching valve, a guard column, a microbore column, and a column oven. A microdialysis probe was implanted in the right parietal cortex in rats. Dialysates were collected every 5 min and were split into two equal aliquots for separate analysis of GABA and glutamate. After derivatization with o-phthalaldehyde (OPA), samples were isocratically separated and purified by the guard column. To make the peak of GABA or glutamate appear in an opportune place in a chromatogram, a six-way switching valve was used to control the eluate containing GABA or glutamate to be led to the microbore column and electrochemical detector. By the use of this system, decrease in extracellular concentration of GABA, which precedes the appearance of electrical discharge initiated by hyperbaric oxygen (HBO2) exposure, was detected by microdialysis at the time resolution of 5 min.
In 1973, a technique of administering 6-hydroxydopamine (2,4,5-trihydroxyphenylethylamine) intracisternally to neonate rats was introduced to selectively reduce brain dopamine (neonate-lesioned rat). This neonate treatment proved unique when compared to rats lesioned as adults with 6-hydroxydopamine--prompting the discovery of differing functional characteristics resulting from the age at which brain dopamine is reduced. A realization was that neonate-lesioned rats modeled the loss of central dopamine and the increased susceptibility for self-injury in Lesch-Nyhan disease, which allowed identification of drugs useful in treating self-injury in mentally retarded patients. The neonate-lesioned rat has also been proposed to model the hyperactivity observed in attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. Because the neonate-lesioned rat exhibits enhanced sensitization to repeated NMDA receptor antagonist administration and has functional changes characteristic of schizophrenia, the neonate lesioning is believed to emulate the hypothesized NMDA hypofunction in this psychiatric disorder. Besides modeling features of neurological and psychiatric disorders, important neurobiological concepts emerged from pharmacological studies in the neonate-lesioned rats. One was the discovery of coupling of D1/D2-dopamine receptor function. Another was the progressive increase in responsiveness to repeated D1-dopamine agonist administration referred to as &quot;priming&quot; of D1-dopamine receptor function. Additionally, a unique profile of signaling protein expression related to neonate reduction of dopamine has been identified. Thus, from modeling characteristics of disease to defining adaptive mechanisms related to neonatal loss of dopamine, the neonate-lesioned rat has had a persisting influence on neuroscience. Despite an extraordinary legacy from studies of the neurobiology of this treatment, a host of unknowns remain that will inspire future investigations.
Cytochrome oxidase is a rate-limiting enzyme in oxidative phosphorylation, the major energy-synthesizing pathway used by the central nervous system, and cytochrome oxidase histochemistry has been extensively utilized to map changes in neural metabolism following experimental manipulations. However, the value of cytochrome oxidase activity in predicting behavior has not been analyzed. We argue that this endeavor is important because genetic composition and embryonic environment can engender differences in baseline neural metabolism in pertinent neural circuits, and these differences could represent differences in the degree to which specific behaviors are 'primed.' Here we review our studies in which differences in cytochrome oxidase activity and in behavior were studied in parallel. Using mammalian and reptilian models, we find that embryonic experiences that shape the propensity to display social behaviors also affect cytochrome oxidase activity in limbic brain areas, and elevated cytochrome oxidase activity in preoptic, hypothalamic, and amygdaloid nuclei correlates with heightened aggressive and sexual tendencies. Selective breeding regimes were used to create rodent genetic lines that differ in their susceptibility to display learned helplessness and in behavioral excitability. Differences in cytochrome oxidase activity in areas like the paraventricular hypothalamus, frontal cortex, habenula, septum, and hippocampus correlate with differences in susceptibility to display learned helplessness, and differences in activity in the dentate gyrus and perirhinal and posterior parietal cortex correlate with differences in hyperactivity. Thus, genetic and embryonic manipulations that engender specific behavioral differences produce specific neurometabolic profiles. We propose that knowledge of neurometabolic differences can yield valuable predictions about behavioral phenotype in other systems.
In two experiments, we investigated the effect of the numerical distance of incongruous results from correct results and stimulus probability on the N270/N400 event-related brain potential components. In Experiment 1, 12 subjects saw two one-digit addends and a possible solution and signaled if the proposed result (falling in the range of 3-17) was true or false. Incorrect results could deviate by +/-2 or by +/-9 from the correct answer. The probability of correct results was 50%. Twelve subjects carried out a similar task in Experiment 2 without giving behavioral responses. The probability of incorrect results was 20%, 50% or 80% in different conditions. Both raw potentials and incorrect minus correct difference potentials were analyzed. A fronto-central N3 and a centro-parietal dN3 (incorrect-correct difference) were present for incongruous results in both experiments. The amplitude of the dN3 was not sensitive to numerical distance, but the latency of the dN3 was longer when numerical distance was larger. The overall amplitude of the N3 and of the dN3 was not sensitive to the probability manipulation. However, there was a parietally localized effect of probability on N3 amplitude. The dN3 in mental addition is most probably identical to the arithmetic N400 effect reported earlier in mental multiplication. The distance effect in latency may be a correlate of the discrimination of correct vs. incorrect results. A parietally localized probability effect (right greater than left) was found in the N3 amplitude. The dN3 was insensitive to the probability manipulation. In accord with its insensitivity to stimulus probability, the dN3 seems to be more related to the N400 than to the N2b. Posterior attentional processes sensitive to the allocation of attentional resources may have contributed to the topography of the dN3. The N3 is more related to the detection of expectation violation, while the P3 reflects the ease of identifying stimulus categories.
Action observation gives rise to activation in corresponding areas of the premotor and primary motor cortices. We tested the hypothesis that this activation depends on visual-motor connections established through correlated experience of observing and executing the same action. Previous work has shown that hand opening and hand closing gestures are facilitated when subjects observe the movement they are performing, relative to a condition in which they observe a different movement from the one they are performing. Experiment 1 replicated this finding in a simple reaction time (RT) procedure using stimulus-response (SR) movements in orthogonal planes. This implies that the effect is an example of automatic imitation, an instruction-independent tendency to execute movements that are topologically similar to those observed, and not merely an example of spatially compatible responding. In Experiment 2, the automatic imitation effect found in Experiment 1 was abolished by a brief period of training in which subjects responded to hand opening by closing their hands, and to hand closing by opening their hands. This outcome is consistent with the hypothesis that, rather than being innate, the cortical connections mediating motor activation by action observation are formed through experience.
Recognition of emotional facial expressions is universal for all humans, but signed language users must also recognize certain non-affective facial expressions as linguistic markers. fMRI was used to investigate the neural systems underlying recognition of these functionally distinct expressions, comparing deaf ASL signers and hearing nonsigners. Within the superior temporal sulcus (STS), activation for emotional expressions was right lateralized for the hearing group and bilateral for the deaf group. In contrast, activation within STS for linguistic facial expressions was left lateralized only for signers and only when linguistic facial expressions co-occurred with verbs. Within the fusiform gyrus (FG), activation was left lateralized for ASL signers for both expression types, whereas activation was bilateral for both expression types for nonsigners. We propose that left lateralization in FG may be due to continuous analysis of local facial features during on-line sign language processing. The results indicate that function in part drives the lateralization of neural systems that process human facial expressions.
The ability to put a name to a face is a vital aspect of human interaction, but many people find this extremely difficult, especially after being introduced to someone for the first time. Creating enduring associations between arbitrary stimuli in this manner is also a prime example of what patients with amnesia find most difficult. To help develop a better understanding of this type of memory, we sought to obtain measures of the neural events responsible for successfully forming a new face-name association. We used event-related potentials (ERPs) extracted from high-density scalp EEG recordings in order to compare (1) memory for faces, (2) memory for names, and (3) memory for face-name associations. Each visual face appeared simultaneously with a unique spoken name. Signals observed 200-800 ms after the onset of face-name pairs predicted subsequent memory for faces, names, or face-name associations. Difference potentials observed as a function of subsequent memory performance were not identical for these three memory tests, nor were potentials predicting associative memory equivalent to the sum of potentials predicting item memory, suggesting that different neural events at the time of encoding are relevant for these distinct aspects of remembering people.
The study of dynamical changes in the neural activity preceding an epileptic seizure allows the characterization of a preictal state several minutes prior to seizure onset. This opens new perspectives for studying the mechanisms of ictogenesis as well as for possible therapeutic interventions that represent a major breakthrough. In this review we present and discuss the results from our group in this domain using nonlinear analysis of brain signals, as well as its limitation and open questions.
Schizophrenia is a biologically based disorder characterised by false perceptions (hallucinations) and false beliefs (delusions). The underlying physiological cause of these mental abnormalities remains unknown. There is increasing evidence that one class of symptom, the 'made experiences' including delusions of alien control and thought insertion, is associated with abnormalities in the mechanism that predicts the outcome of intended actions (the forward model). For these patients active movements feel like passive movements. As a result these patients do not feel in control of their actions. However, comparison with various neurological disorders, such as those associated with parietal lobe lesions, suggest that this abnormal experience is not sufficient to explain the feeling that some other agent is controlling is one's actions. Preliminary evidence suggests that patients with schizophrenia have an exaggerated sense of agency. In combination with the feeling of not being in control, this exaggerated sense of agency could explain delusions of alien control in which the patient attributes his own actions to another agent. Little is yet know about the neural basis of the predictive mechanisms that create the feeling that we are in control of our movements. Such prediction requires integration of information about intended movements generated in frontal cortex with sensory processing in posterior regions of the brain. Measures of functional connectivity suggest that long-range interactions between frontal and posterior regions are abnormally reduced in patients with schizophrenia. Further research is needed to explore the precise involvement of long-range connections in the mechanisms of forward modelling.
The sensitivity of our hearing is enhanced by an active process that both amplifies and tunes the movements of the ear's sensory receptors, the hair cells. In a quiet environment, the active process can even evoke spontaneous emission of sounds from an ear. Recent research indicates that, at least in non-mammalian tetrapods, the active process results from the interaction of negative stiffness in the mechanosensitive hair bundles with two motor processes, one due to myosin-based adaptation and the other to Ca2+ -dependent reclosure of transduction channels. These three processes together explain many of the complex phenomena characteristic of the hearing process.
Although there are many types of epilepsy of both genetic and acquired forms, temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) with hippocampal sclerosis is probably the single most common human epilepsy, and the one most intensely studied. Despite a wealth of descriptive data obtained from patient histories, imaging techniques, electroencephalographic recording, and histological studies, the epileptogenic process remains poorly understood. Progress toward understanding the etiology of an acquired neurological disorder is largely dependent on the degree to which experimental animal models reflect the human condition. Recent observations suggest that significant disparities exist between the features of human TLE with hippocampal sclerosis and those of animal models that involve prolonged status epilepticus to initiate the epileptogenic process. TLE most commonly involves patients with focal seizures who exhibit limited and often asymmetrical brain damage, did not experience status epilepticus prior to the onset of epilepsy, and who appear relatively normal on neurological examination. Conversely, animals subjected to prolonged status epilepticus exhibit severe brain damage, behavioral abnormalities, and frequent generalized seizures. In addition, although many TLE patients exhibit an atrophic hippocampus that may, or may not, be a source of spontaneous seizures, hippocampal damage in animals subjected to status epilepticus is an inconsistent and often minor part of a much greater constellation of damage to other brain structures. Furthermore, many patients exhibit developmental structural abnormalities that presumably play a role in the clinical etiology, whereas most animal models involve severe insults in initially normal laboratory rats. Although much has been learned using the current animal models, the available data suggest the need for a critical reappraisal of the assumptions underlying their use, and the need to develop experimental preparations that may more closely model the human epileptic state.
A major challenge confronting neuroscientists is associated with the multiple spatial and temporal scales of investigation of neural structure and function. I shall discuss the use of computational neural modeling as one method to bridge some of the different spatial and temporal levels. This approach will be illustrated using large-scale, neurobiologically realistic network models of auditory and visual pattern recognition that relate neuronal dynamics to fMRI data. It will be demonstrated that the models are capable of exhibiting the salient features of both electrophysiological neuronal activities and fMRI values that are in agreement with empirically observed data.
Neurons and synapses in the central nervous system are plastic, undergoing long-term changes throughout life. Studies of molecular and cellular mechanisms of such changes not only provide important insight into how we learn and store new knowledge in our brains, but they also reveal the mechanisms of pathological changes that occur following injury. The author proposes that during induction, neuronal mechanisms underlying physiological functions, such as learning and memory, may share some common signaling molecules with abnormal or injury-related changes in the brain. Distinct synaptic and neuronal network mechanisms are involved in pathological pain as compared to cognitive learning and memory. Nociceptive information is transmitted and regulated at different levels of the brain, from the spinal cord to the forebrain. Furthermore, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent and calcium-calmodulin activated adenylyl cyclases (AC1 and AC8) in the anterior cingulate cortex play important roles in the induction and expression of persistent inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Neuronal activity in the anterior cingulate cortex can also influence nociceptive transmission in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord by activating the endogenous facilitatory system. Our results provide important synaptic and molecular insights into physiological responses to injury.
The management of low-grade gliomas represents one of the most challenging and controversial areas in neuro-oncology. Many aspects of the treatment of low-grade gliomas are debated, including the optimal timing of surgery and radiotherapy, the benefit of extensive surgery, and the impact of these variables on the natural history of these indolent and generally incurable tumours. The recently published results of several large multicentre trials addressing the timing and dose of radiotherapy have provided solid evidence for delayed and reduced dose irradiation. These studies have also confirmed prognostic variables that can be used to guide management of individual patients. Among these variables is the observation that tumours with oligodendroglial features have a better natural history and response profile. The recognition that as many as two thirds of low-grade gliomas have oligodendroglial features, advances in molecular diagnostics making accurate pathologic diagnosis of oligodendroglial tumours possible, and the established chemosensitivity of malignant oligodendrogliomas, have raised new issues surrounding the potential value of chemotherapy for low-grade gliomas. This review will be restricted to low-grade diffuse astrocytomas, oligodendrogliomas, and low-grade mixed oligoastrocytomas in adults, and provide evidence-based guidelines for the management of these tumours, including the emerging role of chemotherapy as initial treatment.

Epidemiological studies have shown a positive relationship between cycad flour consumption and the development of the neurodegenerative disorder, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis - parkinsonism - dementia complex (ALS-PDC). Apolipoprotein E (apo E) allele variations have been associated with genetic susceptibility in neurodegenerative diseases, including ALS-PDC. We have studied cycad toxicity in a mouse model of ALS-PDC with a particular interest in its impact on the central nervous system (CNS) in both apo E knock-out (KO) mice and their wild-type (WT) counterparts. Behavioral motor tests, motor neuron counts, and immunohistochemical staining in brain and spinal cord, as well as routine histological examinations on internal organs, were performed to evaluate cycad toxicity. Plasma cholesterol levels were also measured before and during the study. Cycad treatment was associated with higher levels of plasma cholesterol only in apo E KO mice; increased levels of plasma cholesterol did not result in increased athero genesis. Cycad-fed wild-type mice developed progressive behavioral deficits including ALS-PDC-like pathological outcomes, while cycad-fed apo E KO mice were not significantly affected. Cycad-fed wild-type mice had shorter gait length measurements along with higher active caspase-3 levels in the striatum, substantia nigra, primary motor cortex, and spinal cord as compared with corresponding controls. These changes were associated with decreased labeling for glutamate transporter 1B and tyrosine hydroxylase activity levels. No evidence of cycad toxicity was observed in internal organs of either wild-type or apo E KO mice. Our data demonstrate that apo E KO mice are less susceptible to cycad toxicity, suggesting a role for apo E as a possible genetic susceptibility factor for some forms of toxin-induced neurodegeneration.
Diagnosis and staging of laryngeal cancer is currently based on physical examination, endoscopy, and imaging techniques such as computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance (MR) and histology. While imaging techniques have a pivotal role for defining the size of the primary tumor, they are less accurate for defining metastatic involvement of regional lymph nodes, especially if lymph nodes are smaller than 10-15 mm. The aim of this study was to comparatively assess the relevance of (99m)Tc-tetrofosmin scintigraphy for the staging of laryngeal tumors versus the CT scan. We evaluated the sensitivity of imaging with (99m)Tc-tetrofosmin in 28 consecutively enrolled patients with squamous cell laryngeal carcinoma. Total-body scintigraphy with 99mTc-tetrofosmin was performed preoperatively, and the results were compared to CT images of the neck and mediastinum. CT and (99m)Tc-tetrofosmin scintigraphy were equally sensitive (96%) in identifying the primary tumor. While CT was more sensitive for detecting metastatic lymph nodes (100% versus 50%), (99m)Tc-tetrofosmin scintigraphy was more specific (100% versus 56%; p &lt; 0.04). The overall diagnostic capabilities of the two techniques for detecting lymph node metastases were comparable (Youden Index: J = 0.56 for CT and J = 0.50 for (99m)Tc-tetrofosmin scintigraphy). (99m)Tc-tetrofosmin scintigraphy is a useful complement to CT for staging laryngeal tumors, especially for detecting metastatic lymph nodes and distant metastases.
The role of mitochondria in Ca2+ handling has acquired renewed interest in recent years in the field of cell signaling. Detailed studies of Ca2+ dynamics in this organelle at the single cell level have been hampered by technical problems in the available Ca2+ probes. Some of the latest generation GFP-based Ca2+ probes (Camgaroos, Cameleons and Pericams) show great potential to address this issue. Our data show that the choice of targeting sequence influences not only the overall efficiency of subcellular localization of the probes, but also their functional characteristics within the matrix. In particular, we here show that the use of a tandemly duplicated mitochondrial targeting sequence is capable of improving the delivery efficacy of all tested probes into the organelle's matrix, in particular that of Cameleon, a GFP-based Ca2+ probe that is otherwise largely mistargeted to the cytosol. The devised strategy should be generally applicable to other proteins that are characterized by poor targeting. Last, but not least, we also demonstrate that if the targeting sequence is not removed from the imported protein, the fluorescent properties and the Ca2+ affinity of the probe can be grossly affected.
Two classes of ovarian steroids, estrogens and progestins, are potent in protecting neurons against acute toxic events as well as chronic neurodegeneration. Herein we review the evidence for neuroprotection by both classes of steroids, provide plausible mechanisms for these potent neuroprotective activities and indicate the need for further clinical trials of both estrogens and progestins in protection against acute and chronic conditions that cause neuronal death. Estrogens at concentrations ranging from physiological to pharmacological are neuroprotective in a variety of in vitro and in vivo models of cerebral ischemia and brain trauma as well as in reducing key neuropathologies of Alzheimer's disease. While the mechanisms of this potent neuroprotection are currently unresolved, a mitochondrial mechanism is involved. Progestins have been recently shown to activate many of the signaling pathways used by estrogens to neuroprotect, and progestins have been shown to protect against neuronal loss in vitro and in vivo in a variety of models of acute insult. Collectively, results of these animal and tissue culture models suggest that the loss of both estrogens and progestins at the menopause makes the brain more vulnerable to acute insults and chronic neurodegenerative diseases. Further clinical assessment of appropriate regimens of estrogens, progestins and their combination are supported by these data.
The direct homo- and heteromeric association between G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), adenosine A2A receptor (A(2A)R) and dopamine D2 receptor (D2R), occurs although little is known about the selectivity of their formation (A(2A)R/A(2A)R vs. A(2A)R/D2R). In order to stimulate the heteromerization of A(2A)R and D2R, we have designed a single-polypeptide-chain heterodimeric A(2A)R/D2R complex by fusing the C-terminus of the A(2A)R via transmembrane (TM) of a type II TM protein with the N-terminus of D2R in tandem. This was successfully expressed on the cell surface as a full-length protein with specific binding to the respective ligands and functional coupling to G-proteins comparable to wild-type receptors, suggesting the possible creation of physiologically relevant heteromeric A(2A)R/D2R. This expression system would be useful to exclusively clarify the properties of heteromeric GPCRs irrespective of homomeric receptors.
We hypothesized that areas in the temporal lobe that have been implicated in the phonological processing of spoken words would also be activated during the generation and phonological processing of imagined speech. We tested this hypothesis using functional magnetic resonance imaging during a behaviorally controlled task of metrical stress evaluation. Subjects were presented with bisyllabic words and had to determine the alternation of strong and weak syllables. Thus, they were required to discriminate between weak-initial words and strong-initial words. In one condition, the stimuli were presented auditorily to the subjects (by headphones). In the other condition the stimuli were presented visually on a screen and subjects were asked to imagine hearing the word. Results showed activation of the supplementary motor area, inferior frontal gyrus (Broca's area) and insula in both conditions. In the superior temporal gyrus (STG) and in the superior temporal sulcus (STS) strong activation was observed during the auditory (perceptual) condition. However, a region located in the posterior part of the STS/STG also responded during the imagery condition. No activation of this same region of the STS was observed during a control condition which also involved processing of visually presented words, but which required a semantic decision from the subject. We suggest that processing of metrical stress, with or without auditory input, relies in part on cortical interface systems located in the posterior part of STS/STG. These results corroborate behavioral evidence regarding phonological loop involvement in auditory-verbal imagery.
In everyday life, we often focus greater attention on behaviorally relevant stimuli to limit the processing of distracting events. For example, when distracting voices intrude upon a conversation at a noisy social gathering, we concentrate more attention on the speaker of interest to better comprehend his or her speech. In the present study, we investigated whether dorsal/caudal regions of the anterior cingulate cortex (dACC), thought to make a major contribution to cognitive control, boost attentional resources toward behaviorally relevant stimuli as a means for limiting the processing of distracting events. Sixteen healthy participants performed a cued global/local selective attention task while brain activity was recorded with event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. Consistent with our hypotheses, greater dACC activity during distracting events predicted reduced behavioral measures of interference from those same events. dACC activity also differed for cues to attend to global versus local features of upcoming visual objects, further indicating a role in directing attention toward task-relevant stimuli. Our findings indicate a role for dACC in focusing attention on behaviorally relevant stimuli, especially when the achievement of our behavioral goals is threatened by distracting events.
Plants release hundreds of volatiles that are important in the interaction with herbivorous animals, but which odorants are detected by which species? In this study, single receptor neurons on the antenna of the oligophagous strawberry blossom weevil Anthonomus rubi were screened for sensitivity to naturally produced plant compounds by the use of gas chromatography linked to electrophysiological recordings from single cells. The narrow tuning of the neurons was demonstrated by responses solely to a few structurally related sesquiterpenes, aromatics or monoterpene hydrocarbons out of hundreds of plant constituents tested. We present five olfactory receptor neuron types, identified according to one primary odorant i.e. the compound to which the neurons are most sensitive. These odorants, (-)-germacrene D, (-)-beta-caryophyllene, methyl salicylate, E-beta-ocimene and (3E)-4,8-dimethyl-1,3,7-nonatriene, present in the intact strawberry plant, are induced in higher amounts by weevil feeding. This suggests that these compounds can provide information about the presence of conspecifics. We used protocols especially designed to allow comparison with previously investigated species. Striking similarities, but also differences, are demonstrated between receptor neuron specificity in the strawberry weevil and moths.
Glutamate-induced cobalt uptake reveals non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (non-NMDA) glutamate receptors (GluRs) in rat taste bud cells. However, it is not known which type of non-NMDA glutamate receptors is involved. We used a cobalt staining technique combined with pharmacological tests for kainate or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors and/or immunohistochemistry against subunits of GluRs to examine the presence of non-NMDA receptors in rat foliate tastebud cells. Cobalt uptake into taste cells was elicited by treating taste buds with glutamate, kainate or SYM 2081, a kainate receptor agonist. Treating taste buds with AMPA or fluorowillardiine did not stimulate significant cobalt uptake. Moreover, 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2, 3-dione significantly reduced cobalt staining elicited by glutamate or kainate receptor agonists, but SYM 2206, an AMPA receptor antagonist, did not. Immunohistochemistry against subunits of GluRs reveals GluR6 and KA1-like immunoreactivity. Moreover, most glutamate-induced cobalt-stained cells showed GluR6 and KA1-like immunoreactivity. These results suggest that glutamate-induced cobalt uptake in taste cells occurs mainly via kainate type GluRs.
To analyze the mechanisms of perception and processing of pheromonal signals in vitro, we previously developed a new culture system for vomeronasal receptor neurons (VRNs), referred to as the vomeronasal pocket (VN pocket). However, very few VRNs were found to express the olfactory marker protein (OMP) and to have protruding microvilli in VN pockets, indicating that these VRNs are immature and that VN pockets are not appropriate for pheromonal recognition. To induce VRN maturation in VN pockets, we here attempted to coculture VN pockets with a VRN target-accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) neurons. At 3 weeks of coculture with AOB neurons, the number of OMP-immunopositive VRNs increased. By electron microscopy, the development of microvilli in VRNs was found to occur coincidentally with OMP expression in vitro. These results indicate that VRN maturation is induced by coculture with AOB neurons. The OMP expression of VRNs was induced not only by AOB neurons but also by neurons of other parts of the central nervous system (CNS). Thus, VRN maturation requires only CNS neurons. Since the maturation of VRNs was not induced in one-well separate cultures, the nonspecific induction of OMP expression by CNS neurons suggests the involvement of a direct contact effect with CNS in VRN maturation.






I retrospectively reviewed 21 patients who had tibialization of the fibula for infected nonunions with scarring of soft tissues. Most of the patients had unsuccessfully had other operations to restore continuity of the tibia before this treatment. The prerequisites were adequate vascularity, an intact sensate sole, and intact fibula. Proximal site tibiofibular synostosis was done in all patients. Three patients required a supplementary procedure at the proximal tibiofibular junction because of screws cutting out. Distal tibiofibular synostosis was done as a second-stage procedure in a majority of the patients 3 to 6 weeks after the proximal procedure. Protected weightbearing was recommended for 4 to 8 months. The transplanted fibula hypertrophied and approached the diameter of the tibia (or double the size of original fibula) in 2-3 years. Tibialization of the fibula is a safe, nondestructive, salvage procedure for treating difficult infected nonunions of the tibia. It is a simple technique that can be done in hospitals with a moderate infrastructure. Despite scarring, shortening, and limitation of knee and ankle motion, the patients were satisfied to be able to take part in normal daily activities on their own. After the success of synostosis, all patients engaged in activities of daily living and during the followup of 4-14 years none developed stress fracture of the tibialized fibula.
What are the conceptual and empirical bases for current interventions for acute stress reactions following trauma exposure? This review compares the two major alternatives to managing acute stress reactions, outlines their conceptual bases and critiques the evidence for their efficacy in preventing subsequent stress disorders. The review integrates current evidence for cognitive behavior therapy with recent neuroscience findings that fear reduction learning can be enhanced by modulating glutamatergic systems. D-cycloserine provides exciting opportunities to enhance the effects of cognitive-behavioral therapy, and points to closer understanding of the biological mechanisms that underpin clinical gains achieved by psychological therapies.
Many biological phenomena, notably in neuroscience, can be modeled by dynamical systems. We describe a recent improvement of a Matlab software package for dynamical systems with applications to modeling single neurons and all-to-all connected networks of neurons. The new software features consist of an object-oriented approach to bifurcation computations and the partial inclusion of C-code to speed up the computation. As an application, we study the origin of the spiking behaviour of neurons when the equilibrium state is destabilized by an incoming current. We show that Class II behaviour, i.e. firing with a finite frequency, is possible even if the destabilization occurs through a saddle-node bifurcation. Furthermore, we show that synchronization of an all-to-all connected network of such neurons with only excitatory connections is also possible in this case.
Patients with anosognosia fail to acknowledge, or feel distressed by, their disability. Given the recent suggestion that right (frontal) systems are selectively involved in negative emotions, it might be claimed that anosognosia results from a disruption in negative emotions. This is not consistent with the finding that some anosognosic patients exhibit substantial fluctuations in emotion, including the experience of negative emotions such as sadness. The present study investigates a patient (IW) with a right convexity lesion and anosognosia. He reported being frequently overcome by powerful emotions, especially sadness. IW was assessed on a self-report emotion questionnaire, where his reports were typically of higher levels of emotion than the control group. He was also assessed on the more indirect measure of Affective Story Recall. Here his pattern of emotional experience was similar to that of two control groups, one of which consisted of non-anosognosic patients with hemiparesis. His performance on Story Recall was notable in that he directed his emotions to a different 'object' to that of controls (other vs. self, respectively). These findings are not consistent with any claim that anosognosia results from an absence of negative emotions.
Using positron emission tomography we explored brain regions activated during the perception of face expressions, emotional voices and combined audio-visual pairs. A convergence region situated in the left lateral temporal cortex was more activated by bimodal stimuli than by either visual only or auditory only stimuli. Separate analyses for the emotions happiness and fear revealed supplementary convergence areas situated mainly anteriorly in the left hemisphere for happy pairings and in the right hemisphere for fear pairings indicating different neuro-anatomical substrates for multisensory integration of positive versus negative emotions. Activation in the right extended amygdala was obtained for fearful faces and fearful audio-visual pairs but not for fearful voices only. These results suggest that during the multisensory perception of emotion, affective information from face and voice converge in heteromodal regions of the human brain.
Diabetes mellitus is one of the most common metabolic diseases in the world. The complications associated with this disease are often responsible for a decreased quality of life in many patients. For example, the diabetic population has a greater probability to suffer from cardiovascular problems and heart failure than the general population. Due to the importance heart mitochondria have in the context of the bioenergetics of the myocardium, it appears logical to explore mitochondrial dysfunction as an important link between hyperglycaemia and heart alterations observed during diabetes. One important factor that can lead to mitochondrial dysfunction is the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), caused by the formation of poly-protein pores (MPT pores), occurring with mitochondrial calcium overload and increased oxidative stress, conditions already described to exist in myocytes exposed to hyperglycaemia. The MPT has been involved as determinant in the survival of myocytes after anoxia and reoxigenation, as well as in triggering cell death. The present review deals with cardiac mitochondrial alterations observed in drug-induced hyperglycaemic animals or in the GK rat, a hereditary model of hyperglycaemia. Respiration rates, susceptibility to oxidative stress, protein expression and MPT induction are altered in hyperglycaemic animals, which in extreme conditions can alter the bioenergetics of the diabetic myocardium and even cause myocardial cell death. The study of the cardiac mitochondrial function of hyperglycaemic animals offer an important insight, not only to explain cardiac alterations found in diabetic patients, but also in the design of new therapeutic approaches to reduce mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death typically associated with diabetes.
The mechanical force incurred by spinal cord injury results in degenerative neural tissue damage beyond the site of initial injury. By nature, the central nervous system (CNS) does not regenerate itself. Cell therapy, in particular, stem cell implantation has become a possible solution for spinal cord injury. Embryonic stem cells and fetal stem cells are the forefathers of the field of stem cell therapy. Isolation and preparation of specific populations of adult stem cells have evolved to the point of stable, long-term culturing with the capability to differentiate into neural phenotypes from all three of the neural lineages: neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Thus, adult stem cells will transcend ethical concerns, technical difficulties, and probably immunorejection. A variety of adult stem cells have been implanted in a rat model of spinal cord injury, ranging from olfactory ensheathing cells, cultured spinal cord stem cells, bone marrow derived stem cells, dermis derived stem cells, and a few others. Although no definite decisions on which adult stem cells are most effective for this CNS injury, their ability to incorporate into the spinal cord, differentiate, and to improve locomotor recovery hold promise for a cure.
Oxidative stress, bioenergetic impairment and mitochondrial failure have all been implicated in the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD), as well as retinal degeneration in glaucoma and retinitis pigmentosa. Moreover, at least 75 debilitating, and often lethal, diseases are directly attributable to deletions or mutations in mitochondrial DNA, or in nuclear-encoded proteins destined for delivery to the mitochondria. Such widespread mitochondrial involvement in disease reflects the regulatory position mitochondrial failure plays in both acute necrotic cell death, and in the less catastrophic process of apoptosis. The potent feminizing hormone, 17 beta-estradiol (E2), has shown cytoprotective activities in a host of cell and animal models of stroke, myocardial infarct and neurodegenerative diseases. The discovery that 17alpha-estradiol, an isomer of E2, is equally as cytoprotective as E2 yet is &gt;200-fold less active as a hormone, has permitted development of novel, more potent analogs where cytoprotection is independent of hormonal potency. Studies of structure-activity-relationships, glutathione interactions and mitochondrial function have led to a mechanistic model in which these steroidal phenols intercalate into cell membranes where they block lipid peroxidation reactions, and are in turn recycled via glutathione. Such a mechanism would be particularly germane in mitochondria where function is directly dependent on the impermeability of the inner membrane, and where glutathione levels are maintained at extraordinarily high 8-10mM concentrations. Indeed, the parental estrogens and novel analogs stabilize mitochondria under Ca(2+) loading otherwise sufficient to collapse membrane potential. The cytoprotective and mitoprotective potencies for 14 of these analogs are significantly correlated, suggesting that these compounds prevent cell death in large measure by maintaining functionally intact mitochondria. This therapeutic strategy is germane not only to sudden mitochondrial failure in acute circumstances, such as during a stroke or myocardial infarction, but also to gradual mitochondrial dysfunction associated with chronic degenerative disorders such as AD, PD and HD.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV) and hereditary inclusion body myopathy (hIBM) share similar clinical features, including onset in young adulthood with preferential involvement of the anterior compartment of the lower legs and sparing of the quadriceps femoris muscles. The most significant muscle pathology is the presence of rimmed vacuoles, which appear to play a major role in muscle atrophy and weakness. After the discovery of the gene locus in both DMRV and hIBM on chromosome 9 and mutations in the gene encoding the enzyme UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase (GNE), it became clear that they are allelic disorders. From gene analysis, it is evident that these diseases are not restricted to people of Japanese and Jewish ancestry, but that they are widely distributed throughout all ethnic groups. Although defective glycosylation to a muscle fiber has been suggested, the mechanism by which myofibrillar degeneration is followed by rimmed vacuole formation remains to be clarified.
One of the seminal discoveries in developmental neuroscience is that altering visual experience through monocular deprivation can alter both the physiological and the anatomical representation of the two eyes, called ocular dominance columns, in primary visual cortex. This rearrangement is restricted to a critical period that starts a few days or weeks after vision is established and ends before adulthood. In contrast to the original hypothesis proposed by Hubel and Wiesel, ocular dominance columns are already substantially formed before the onset of the critical period. Indeed, before the critical period there is a period of ocular dominance column formation during which there is robust spontaneous activity and visual experience. Recent findings raise important questions about whether activity guides ocular dominance column formation in this 'precritical period'. One developmental event that marks the passage from the precritical period to the critical period is the activation of a GABAergic circuit. How these events trigger the transition from the precritical to critical period is not known.
The hormones that regulate the hypothalamic circuits that control essential functions, such as reproduction and energy homeostasis, also specify brain architecture by regulating key developmental events. The cellular mechanisms underlying the developmental actions of testosterone and estrogen to determine patterns of neuronal cell death, synaptogenesis and axon guidance are being identified. Recent neuroanatomical evidence indicates that the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin may direct the development of hypothalamic pathways involved in energy homeostasis by promoting axonal projections from the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus to other hypothalamic sites that mediate the effects of leptin on food intake and body weight. Understanding how sex steroids and leptin regulate hypothalamic development will enable us to identify hormonally directed signaling events essential to the specification of neural circuitry that is optimized for sustained homeostasis.
The retrograde communication of neurotrophic signals from axon terminals to neuron cell bodies is crucial for neuron survival and plasticity. Several mechanisms have been proposed in the past, but recent evidence strongly supports the hypothesis that the retrograde propagation of self-regenerating signaling organelles, derived from the endocytosis of activated neurotrophin-bound receptor tyrosine kinases, is the primary mechanism responsible for this long-distance communication.
Cognitive development is determined by both genetics and environment. One point of convergence of these two influences is the neural activity-dependent regulation of programs of gene expression that specify neuronal fate and function. Human genetic studies have linked several transcriptional regulators to neurodevelopmental disorders including mental retardation and autism spectrum disorders. Recent reports on two such factors, CREB-binding protein and methyl-CpG-binding protein 2, have begun to reveal how epigenetics and neuronal activity act to modulate the program of gene expression required for synaptic development and function.
Resident among the highly structured adult nervous system, a few cells, referred to as neural progenitors or stem cells, maintain the ability to self-renew or differentiate. From the time of their specification during neural induction and throughout the building of the nervous system, neural progenitor cells preserve their broad developmental potential and replicative capacity to be able to produce the vast array of neuronal and glial cell types of the mature nervous system as, and when, required. Recently, considerable attention has been focused on identifying the molecular mechanisms responsible for maintaining neural progenitor or stem cell fate throughout ontogeny. The expression of a subset of SOX transcription factors is initiated concomitant with the acquisition of neural progenitor identity and is then maintained in the entire progenitor population of the developing and adult nervous system. Strikingly, studies in the central and peripheral nervous system of chick and mouse have revealed that SOX factors are key regulators of neural progenitor identity, promoting self-renewal in a context-dependent manner by sustaining the undifferentiated state of progenitor cells and maintaining their ability to either proliferate or differentiate.
Phencyclidine has attracted the attention of neuroscientists for many years because of its ability to produce, in humans, a range of symptoms remarkably similar to those of patients suffering from schizophrenia. The main action of phencyclidine is as a non-competitive antagonist of the NMDA class of glutamate receptor. In the past few years, dramatic advances have been made in our understanding of the neuroanatomical and pathological basis of schizophrenia. In turn, these have allowed assessment of the ability of phencyclidine to produce equivalent changes in the rodent CNS. It has now become clear that chronic intermittent low doses of phencyclidine produce a pattern of metabolic and neurochemical changes in the rodent brain that mirror those observed in the brains of schizophrenic patients with impressive precision. This should be of enormous benefit in the search for new anti-psychotic drugs with improved efficacy against the full range of schizophrenic symptoms.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most prevalent childhood developmental disorder and is also of unclear neurobiological aetiology. However, recent advances in molecular genetics and brain imaging implicate dopaminergic hypofunction in the frontal lobes and basal ganglia in ADHD. Psychostimulants (e.g. methylphenidate and amphetamine, which are potent inhibitors of the dopamine transporter) are the first choice medication for ADHD and have a good acute efficacy and safety profile when used for this disorder. Whether long-term psychostimulant administration to adolescents alters neural development and behaviour or increases the risk of substance abuse is less certain. The precise molecular mechanism of action of psychostimulants is beginning to be established. Furthermore, preclinical studies have begun to use lower clinically relevant doses and oral administration of psychostimulants to determine their long-term effect on development, behaviour and neurochemistry, which is an important public health issue associated with chronic medication of adolescents with ADHD.
Chronic use of benzodiazepines for the treatment of anxiety has revealed that these drugs can lead to dependence as indicated by withdrawal symptoms following cessation and tolerance to the drugs effects. Together with their reinforcing properties, this has led to them being labelled as scheduled drugs. Our new knowledge regarding the molecular structure of the benzodiazepine binding site and the growing ability to differentiate GABA(A) receptor subtypes, either by genetic manipulation or subtype selective compounds, have begun to facilitate our understanding of what underlies the mechanism of benzodiazepine dependence. In addition, the involvement of GABA(A) receptors in this phenomenon is leading to a greater understanding of other drugs such as alcohol and opiates.
Over the past decade, functional neuroimaging has contributed greatly to our knowledge about the neuropharmacology of substance misuse in man. Techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission tomography (SPET) can measure changes in regional cerebral activity, whereas changes in neuropharmacological parameters (e.g. receptor number and neurotransmitter levels) can be directly measured only with PET and SPET. Recently, a series of studies have shown common effects of substances of misuse on the brain, such as an acute increase in dopamine release (followed by hypofunction after chronic use) and cue exposure-induced activation of the frontal cortex, as well as specific effects, such as ecstasy-induced decreases in serotonergic transporters and occupancy of opiate receptors by substitute drugs (e.g. methadone and buprenorphine) in opiate addicts.
According to the dopamine (DA) hypothesis of reward, DA systems in the brain, particularly in the nucleus accumbens, are thought to directly mediate the rewarding or primary motivational characteristics of natural stimuli such as food, water and sex, as well as various drugs of abuse. However, there are numerous problems associated with this hypothesis. Interference with accumbens DA transmission does not substantially blunt primary motivation for natural rewards such as food, but it does disrupt the propensity of animals to engage in effortful responding to obtain food. Electrophysiological and voltammetric studies indicate that novel stimuli, conditioned stimuli that predict reward, and instrumental behaviors that deliver natural rewards all act to stimulate DA activity. Accumbens DA acts as a modulator of several functions related to motivated behavior, and can influence normal and pathological cognitive function, activational aspects of motivation, anergia or psychomotor slowing in depression, the impact of conditioned stimuli, plasticity and a variety of sensorimotor functions.
Recent studies have suggested that the development of addictive behaviours shares common features with traditional learning models. Synaptic plasticity, a possible substrate for learning, has been demonstrated in neural reward circuits and might contribute to the learning of addictive behaviours. Changes in the strength of synaptic connections have been investigated in dopaminergic cells of the ventral tegmental area in response to several addictive drugs. Rapid and persistent forms of synaptic plasticity (specifically, long-lasting synaptic potentiation) have been demonstrated to accompany some of the behavioural effects of addictive drugs. We hypothesize that drug-induced synaptic plasticity might play a role in reward-related learning and addiction by modifying the fine tuning of dopaminergic cell firing.
Chronic vulnerability to relapse is a formidable challenge for the treatment of drug addiction. The neurobiological basis of relapse and its prevention has, therefore, attracted major attention in addiction research. Current conceptualizations of addiction recognize craving as a central driving force for ongoing drug use, as well as for relapse following abstinence. Progress has been made in understanding experiential factors, neurocircuitry components and signaling mechanisms that mediate conditioned drug-seeking behaviour, craving and long-lasting susceptibility to relapse. Importantly, stress contributes to drug craving, and there is evidence for overlap between the neural and neuroendocrine mechanisms implicated in drug desire evoked by drug cues and stress. Recent research has substantially advanced our understanding of the neurobiological factors responsible for drug craving and relapse, with promising therapeutic implications.
The cytolysin is a novel, two-peptide lytic toxin produced by some strains of Enterococcus faecalis. It is toxic in animal models of enterococcal infection, and associated with acutely terminal outcome in human infection. The cytolysin exerts activity against a broad spectrum of cell types including a wide range of gram positive bacteria, eukaryotic cells such as human, bovine and horse erythrocytes, retinal cells, polymorphonuclear leukocytes, and human intestinal epithelial cells. The cytolysin likely originated as a bacteriocin involved with niche control in the complex microbial ecologies associated with eukaryotic hosts. However, additional anti-eukaryotic activities may have been selected for as enterococci adapted to eukaryotic cell predation in water or soil ecologies. Cytolytic activity requires two unique peptides that possess modifications characteristic of the lantibiotic bacteriocins, and these peptides are broadly similar in size to most cationic eukaryotic defensins. Expression of the cytolysin is tightly controlled by a novel mode of gene regulation in which the smaller peptide signals high-level expression of the cytolysin gene cluster. This complex regulation of cytolysin expression may have evolved to balance defense against eukaryotic predators with stealth.
The proneural basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins promote neurogenesis by inducing changes in gene expression required for neuronal differentiation. Here we characterize one aspect of this differentiation program by analyzing a small family of putative corepressors encoded by MTG genes. We show that MTG genes are expressed sequentially during neurogenesis as cells undergo neuronal differentiation in both the chick spinal cord and in the Xenopus primary nervous system. Using in ovo electroporation, we show that misexpressing wild-type forms of MTG proteins in the developing chick spinal cord does not detectably alter neuronal differentiation. By contrast, the number of differentiated neurons is markedly reduced when a putative dominant-negative mutant of the MTG proteins is expressed in neural precursors in a manner that can be rescued by wild-type MTGR1. Together, these results suggest that MTG family members act downstream of proneural proteins, presumably as corepressors, to promote neuronal differentiation.
Temporal patterning is an important aspect of embryonic development, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood. Drosophila neuroblasts are an excellent model for studying temporal identity: they sequentially express four genes (hunchback --&gt; Kruppel --&gt; pdm1 --&gt; castor) whose temporal regulation is essential for generating neuronal diversity. Here we show that hunchback --&gt; Kruppel timing is regulated transcriptionally and requires neuroblast cytokinesis, consistent with asymmetric partitioning of transcriptional regulators during neuroblast division or feedback signaling from the neuroblast progeny. Surprisingly, Kruppel --&gt; pdm1 --&gt; castor timing occurs normally in isolated or G(2)-arrested neuroblasts, and thus involves a neuroblast-intrinsic timer. Finally, we find that Hunchback potently regulates the neuroblast temporal identity timer: prolonged Hunchback expression keeps the neuroblast &quot;young&quot; for multiple divisions, and subsequent downregulation allows resumption of Kruppel --&gt; pdm1 --&gt; castor expression and the normal neuroblast lineage. We conclude that two distinct &quot;timers&quot; regulate neuroblast gene expression: a hunchback --&gt; Kruppel timer requiring cytokinesis, and a Kruppel --&gt; pdm1 --&gt; castor timer which is cell cycle independent.


Complementary and alternative medicines (CAMs) are increasingly used by patients in the Western world. Some of the most popular herbal remedies are known to act on the cytochrome P450 system, with potential effects on antiepileptic drug (AED) levels. Few studies have explored their use in people with epilepsy. We surveyed 400 patients attending epilepsy clinics in Greater Manchester. Thirty-four percent of our patients had used or were using CAMs; the majority had not told their doctor. Use of CAMs was not predicted by age, sex, seizure frequency, number of AEDs, or dissatisfaction with conventional medicine. Patients who had gone onto higher education were significantly (P &lt; 0.05) more likely to have used or be using CAMs. The majority of patients did not use CAMs for their epilepsy but for general health purposes. Most patients stated that CAMs had little or no effect on seizure frequency or severity.

Efficacy and tolerability of Hypericum LI 160 was compared to fluoxetine and placebo in mild to moderate Major Depression (DSM-IV) in a 4-week randomized, double-blind trial. One hundred and sixty-three outpatients from 15 general practitioner centers received either 900 mg Hypericum LI 160, 20 mg fluoxetine, or placebo daily. Amelioration was measured by the Hamilton and the Montgomery-Asberg Depression scales. Response and remission rates and global ratings by investigators and patients were measured. Adverse event reports, laboratory screening, vital signs, physical exams and ECG were collected. No significant differences could be observed regarding efficacy measures except for remission rate (Hypericum 24%; fluoxetine 28%; placebo 7 %). Hypericum was significantly better tolerated than fluoxetine. Hypericum LI 160 or fluoxetine were not more effective in short-term treatment in mild to moderate depression than placebo.

Loss-of-function mutations in the cystatin B (CSTB), a cysteine protease inhibitor, gene underlie progressive myoclonus epilepsy of Unverricht-Lundborg type (EPM1), characterized by myoclonic and tonic-clonic seizures, ataxia and a progressive course. A minisatellite repeat expansion in the promoter region of the CSTB gene is the most common mutation in EPM1 patients and leads to reduced mRNA levels. Seven other mutations altering the structure of CSTB, or predicting altered splicing, have been described. Using a novel monoclonal CSTB antibody and organelle-specific markers in human primary myoblasts, we show here that endogenous CSTB localizes not only to the nucleus and cytoplasm but also associates with lysosomes. Upon differentiation to myotubes, CSTB becomes excluded from the nucleus and lysosomes, suggesting that the subcellular distribution of CSTB is dependent on the differentiation status of the cell. Four patient mutations altering the CSTB polypeptide were transiently expressed in BHK-21 cells. The p.Lys73fsX2-truncated mutant protein shows diffuse cytoplasmic and nuclear distribution, whereas p.Arg68X is rapidly degraded. Two missense mutations, the previously described p.Gly4Arg affecting the highly conserved glycine, critical for cathepsin binding, and a novel mutation, p.Gln71Pro, fail to associate with lysosomes. These data imply an important lysosome-associated physiological function for CSTB and suggest that loss of this association contributes to the molecular pathogenesis of EPM1.
Despite the important role in the development and activation of T cells, NK cells, mast cells, and macrophages, the expression and function of SLP-76 in B cells have been largely unknown. Here we demonstrate that SLP-76 is expressed in all mouse B cell lines tested and in normal splenic B cells, and serves as an SHP-1 substrate. Dephosphorylation of SLP-76 by SHP-1 inhibits its association with Nck, down-regulating c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation and exerting a positive effect on apoptosis. Knockdown of SLP-76 in WEHI-231 cells by small interfering RNA attenuated JNK activation, but showed little effects on extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) or p38 activation. Although WEHI-231 does not express linker for activation of T cells (LAT), SLP-76 localizes in membrane fraction, which increases following B cell receptor (BCR) cross-linking. Further analyses revealed that SLP-76 complexed with Gads is associated with tyrosine-phosphorylated CD22 through the SH2 domains of SLP-76 and Gads. Given that SHP-1 binds to CD22 upon BCR ligation, our findings suggest that dephosphorylation of SLP-76 recruited to CD22 by SHP-1 inhibits BCR-induced JNK activation, dictating apoptosis.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is frequently accompanied by memory impairments and, although their bases are unknown, most research has focused on the hippocampus. The present study investigated the importance of another medial temporal lobe structure, the perirhinal cortex (Prh), in changes in memory in TLE using kindling as a model. Rats were kindled twice daily with anterior Prh stimulation until three fully generalized seizures were evoked. Beginning 7 days later and on successive days, rats were tested in an elevated plus maze, a large circular open field, an open field object exploration task and a delayed-match-to-place task in a water maze in order to assess anxiety-related and exploratory behaviour, object recognition memory and spatial cognition. Kindling increased anxiety-related behaviour in both the elevated plus and open field mazes and disrupted spontaneous object recognition but spared all other behaviours tested. These results are consistent with other findings indicating a greater role for the Prh in object memory and emotional behaviour than in spatial memory and contrast with the selective disruption of spatial memory produced by dorsal hippocampal kindling. The site-selectivity of the behavioural disruptions produced by kindling indicates that such effects are probably mediated by changes particular to the site of seizure initiation rather than to changes in the characteristic circuitry activated by limbic seizure generalization. Further investigation of the behavioural effects of Prh kindling may be useful for studying the mechanisms of mnemonic and affective dysfunction associated with TLE and offer insights into bases for variability in such dysfunction across patients.
At the neuromuscular junction elimination of supernumerary synaptic connections during development is owing to a competitive process between single neuronal populations, whereas in the central nervous system the interaction of different types of input could affect the process. In the cerebellum, the regression from multiple- to mono-innervation of the Purkinje cells by climbing fibres is virtually completed during the first two weeks of postnatal development. While it is clear that parallel fibres are important in the control of the regression, there are conflicting results in relation to whether an early phase of regression is independent of parallel fibre effects. We studied the precise timing of climbing fibre synapse development and decline and the relationship with the functional maturation of parallel fibres. Until postnatal day (P) 6 or 7, the synaptic currents generated by different climbing fibres become progressively more uniform in amplitude. However, between P7 and 14, the amplitudes of the currents increasingly diverge until only one fibre remains connected. These data are taken as evidence that, in multiply innervated Purkinje cells, competition between different climbing fibres appears at P7 and continues during the second postnatal week. Morphological and electrophysiological data demonstrate that parallel fibres synapses appear at P7 and their development is significantly correlated with the time course of the climbing fibre regression. These results provide no evidence for climbing fibre regression independent of parallel fibres before P7 and also suggest a dominant role of the parallel fibre input in the later phase.
We have previously shown that olfactory-discrimination (OD) learning is accompanied by enhanced spine density along proximal apical dendrites of layer II pyramidal neurons in the piriform (olfactory) cortex. Here we studied the temporal dynamics of learning-induced modifications in dendritic spine density throughout the dendritic trees of these neurons. We observed a transient increase in proximal apical spine density after OD learning, suggesting a strengthening of intrinsic excitatory inputs interconnecting neurons within the olfactory cortex. By contrast, the afferent pathway receiving direct input from the olfactory bulb shows spine pruning, suggesting that the connectivity is weakened. The changes in spine density can be attributed to a net change in number of spines, as the morphometric parameters of the dendrites are unaffected by learning. We suggest that spine density changes may represent a mechanism of selective synaptic reorganization required for olfactory learning consolidation.
AH neurons in the enteric nervous system play an essential role in initiating intestinal reflexes and factors that control AH neuron excitability therefore influence the state of the digestive system. Prominent afterhyperpolarizations that follow action potentials in these neurons strongly affect their excitability. In the present work, we have investigated the regulation of the afterhyperpolarizing current (I(AHP)) by protein kinase C (PKC). Electrophysiological responses and protein translocation were investigated in AH neurons of freshly dissected preparations of myenteric ganglia from the guinea-pig ileum. The activator of conventional and novel PKCs, phorbol dibutyrate, but not the activator of novel PKCs, ingenol, blocked the I(AHP). Phorbol dibutyrate had no effect on the hyperpolarization-activated current (I(h)) or on the A current (I(A)). Stimulation of synaptic inputs to the neurons also reduced the I(AHP), and had no effect on I(h) or I(A). Phorbol dibutyrate also reduced a background outward current that was present after the I(AHP) current had been blocked by clotrimazole. Both phorbol dibutyrate and ingenol caused translocation of the novel PKC, PKCepsilon, in these neurons. Only phorbol dibutyrate caused translocation of PKCgamma, a conventional PKC. The studies thus indicate that the activation of PKC by phorbol esters and by nerve stimulation affects AH neurons in a similar way, and that PKC activation targets both the I(AHP) and another background K(+) current. The I(AHP) is targeted by a conventional PKC, suggested to be PKCgamma, as this is the only conventional PKC that is prominent in AH neurons.
Abuse of androgenic anabolic steroids can affect brain function leading to behavioural changes. In this study, the effects of the testosterone analogue, 19-nortestosterone, on rat neural stem cells was examined. The androgen receptor is expressed by cultured embryonic and adult neural stem cells, and is also present in the ventricular epithelium during development and in the adult brain in, among others, dentate gyrus. In neural stem cells stimulated with epidermal growth factor, nandrolone reduced cell proliferation, especially in adult ones. The decrease was abolished by flutamide, a receptor antagonist. Nandrolone also decreased the BrdU labelling of neural stem cells in the dentate gyrus, demonstrating an effect of the hormone on cell proliferation in vivo. The effect of nandrolone was observed with both female and male rats but it was more pronounced in pregnant rats, indicating an involvement of oestrogen in nandrolone action. Nandrolone also decreased the number of newly born neuronal cells in the dentate gyrus of male rats. The results show that nandrolone has important effects on the proliferation and differentiation of neural stem cells expressing the cognate androgen receptor. The data show that the use of nandrolone may severely affect the formation of neural stem cells and could therefore have long-term negative consequences in the brain.
The 5-HT1A receptor is expressed presynaptically as the primary somatodendritic autoreceptor on serotonergic raphe neurons, and postsynaptically in several brain regions. Signaling of the 5-HT1A autoreceptor was studied in RN46A cells, a model of serotonergic raphe neurons that express endogenous 5-HT1A receptors. In undifferentiated RN46A cells stably transfected with the wild-type 5-HT1A receptor, 5-HT1A receptor activation inhibited forskolin-induced cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) formation (by 50%), increased [Ca2+]i, and induced a novel inhibition (up to 60%) of phospho-p42/p44-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Upon differentiation of non-transfected or 5-HT1A-transfected RN46A cells, agonist-mediated inhibition of MAPK was enhanced. These actions were blocked by pretreatment with pertussis toxin indicating mediation via Gi/Go proteins and the calcium response was blocked by preactivation of protein kinase C (PKC). In cells overexpressing the G beta gamma scavenger carboxyl-terminal domain of G protein receptor kinase 2 (GRK-CT), 5-HT1A receptor activation inhibited cAMP formation, but coupling to calcium mobilization and inhibition of MAPK was abolished. The activity of 5-HT1A receptors containing mutations of PKC sites in the second (i2: T149A) or third intracellular loop (i3: T229A/S253G/T343A) was tested. At comparable levels of receptor expression, the signaling of the 5-HT1A i3 mutant was similar to the 5-HT1A wild-type receptor, while the i2 and quadruple (i2/i3) mutants failed to couple to G beta gamma-mediated increase in [Ca2+]i or inhibition of MAPK, but did couple to G alpha i-mediated inhibition of cAMP. Thus, the i2-domain of the 5-HT1A autoreceptor is crucial for coupling to G beta gamma subunits and their subsequent responses (e.g. calcium mobilization and inhibition of MAPK activity).
A 'leak' potassium (K+) conductance (gK(Leak)) modulated by amine neurotransmitters is a major determinant of neonatal rat facial motoneuron excitability. Although the molecular identity of gK(Leak) is unknown, TASK-1 and TASK-3 channel mRNA is found in facial motoneurons. External pH, across the physiological range (pH 6-8), and noradrenaline (NA) modulated a conductance that displayed a relatively linear current/voltage relationship and reversed at the K+ equilibrium potential, consistent with inhibition of gK(Leak). The pH-sensitive current (I(pH)), was maximal around pH 8, fully inhibited near pH 6 and was described by a modified Hill equation with a pK of 7.1. The NA-induced current (I(NA)) was occluded at pH 6 and enhanced at pH 7.7. The TASK-1 selective inhibitor anandamide (10 microM), its stable analogue methanandamide (10 microM), the TASK-3 selective inhibitor ruthenium red (10 microM) and Zn2+ (100-300 microM) all failed to alter facial motoneuron membrane current or block I(NA) or I(pH). Isoflurane, a volatile anaesthetic that enhances heteromeric TASK-1/TASK-3 currents, increased gK(Leak). Ba2+, Cs+ and Rb+ blocked I(NA) and I(pH) voltage-dependently with maximal block at hyperpolarized potentials. 4-Aminopyridine (4-AP, 4 mM) voltage-independently blocked I(NA) and I(pH). In summary, gK(Leak) displays some of the properties of a TASK-like conductance. The linearity of gK(Leak) and an independence of activation on external [K+] suggests against pH-sensitive inwardly rectifying K+ channels. Our results argue against principal contributions to gK(Leak) by homomeric TASK-1 or TASK-3 channels, while the potentiation by isoflurane supports a predominant role for heterodimeric TASK-1/TASK-3 channels.
Accumulation of cytoplasmic zinc is linked with a cascade of events leading to neuronal death. In many in vivo models of zinc-induced cell death, toxic concentrations of synaptically released zinc enter vulnerable neurons via neurotransmitter- or voltage-gated ion channels. In vitro studies demonstrate, in addition, that zinc can be liberated from intracellular stores following oxidative stress and contribute to cell death processes, including apoptosis. Here we describe accumulation of intracellular zinc in an in vivo model of cell death in the absence of presynaptic zinc release. We focused on the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) because LGN neurons undergo apoptosis when separated from their target, the primary visual cortex (V1), and the LGN is mostly devoid of zinc-containing presynaptic terminals. Infant and adult rats and adult mice received unilateral ablation of V1, either by aspiration or kainate injection. One to 14 days later, brain sections were stained with selenium autometallography or fluorescently labeled to localize zinc, or stained immunochemically for activated caspase-3. V1 lesions led to zinc accumulation in LGN neurons in infant and adult subjects. Zinc-containing neurons were evident 1-3 days after aspiration lesions, depending on age, but not until 14 days after kainate injection. Zinc accumulation was followed rapidly by immunostaining for activated caspase-3. Our data indicate that like neurotrauma and excitotoxicity, target deprivation leads to accumulation of zinc in apoptotic neurons. Moreover, zinc accumulation in vivo can occur in the absence of presynaptic zinc release. Together these findings suggest that accumulation of intracellular zinc is a ubiquitous component of the cell death cascade in neurons.
It is believed that oxidative stress (OS) plays an important role in the loss of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD) and that treatment with antioxidants might be neuroprotective. However, most currently available antioxidants cannot readily penetrate the blood brain barrier after systemic administration. We now report that AD4, the novel low molecular weight thiol antioxidant and the N-acytel cysteine (NAC) related compound, is capable of penetrating the brain and protects neurons in general and especially dopaminergic cells against various OS-generating neurotoxins in tissue cultures. Moreover, we found that treatment with AD4 markedly decreased the damage of dopaminergic neurons in three experimental models of PD. AD4 suppressed amphetamine-induced rotational behaviour in rats with unilateral 6-OHDA-induced nigral lesion. It attenuated the reduction in striatal dopamine levels in mice treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6,-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). It also reduced the dopaminergic neuronal loss following chronic intrajugular administration of rotenone in rats. Our findings suggest that AD4 is a novel potential new neuroprotective drug that might be effective at slowing down nigral neuronal degeneration and illness progression in patients with PD.

The activity of some neurons in the lateral mammillary nucleus (LMN) of the rat corresponds with the animal's current head direction (HD). HD cells have been studied extensively but the circuitry responsible for the generation and maintenance of the HD signal has not been established. The present study tested the hypothesis that a polysynaptic pathway connects the vestibular nuclei with the LMN via one or more relay nuclei. This circuitry could provide a substrate for the integration of sensory input necessary for HD cell activity. This hypothesis is based upon the prior demonstration that labyrinthectomy abolishes HD selectivity in thalamic neurons. Viral transneuronal tracing with pseudorabies virus (PRV) was used to test this hypothesis. We injected recombinants of PRV into the LMN and surrounding nuclei of adult male rats and defined the patterns of retrograde transneuronal infection at survival intervals of 60 and 72 h. Infected medial vestibular neurons (MVN) were only observed at the longest postinoculation interval in animals in which the injection site was localized largely to the LMN. Robust infection of the dorsal tegmental nucleus (DTN) and nucleus prepositus hypoglossi (PH) in these cases, but not in controls, at both survival intervals identified these nuclei as potential relays of vestibular input to the LMN. These data are consistent with the conclusion that vestibular information that contributes to the LMN HD cell activity is relayed to this caudal hypothalamic cell group via a polysynaptic brainstem circuit.
It has been shown that high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to the human primary motor hand area (M1-HAND) can induce a lasting increase in corticospinal excitability. Here we recorded motor evoked potentials (MEPs) from the right first dorsal interosseus muscle to investigate how sub-threshold high-frequency rTMS to the M1-HAND modulates cortical and spinal excitability. In a first experiment, we gave 1500 stimuli of 5 Hz rTMS. At an intensity of 90% of active motor threshold, rTMS produced no effect on MEP amplitude at rest. Increasing the intensity to 90% of resting motor threshold (RMT), rTMS produced an increase in MEP amplitude. This facilitatory effect gradually built up during the course of rTMS, reaching significance after the administration of 900 stimuli. In a second experiment, MEPs were elicited during tonic contraction using weak anodal electrical or magnetic test stimuli. 1500 (but not 600) conditioning stimuli at 90% of RMT induced a facilitation of MEPs in the contracting FDI muscle. In a third experiment, 600 conditioning stimuli were given at 90% of RMT to the M1-HAND. Using two well-established conditioning-test paradigms, we found a decrease in short-latency intracortical inhibition (SICI), and a facilitation of the first peak of facilitatory I-waves interaction (SICF). There was no correlation between the relative changes in SICI and SICF. These results demonstrate that subthreshold 5 Hz rTMS can induce lasting changes in specific neuronal subpopulations in the human corticospinal motor system, depending on the intensity and duration of rTMS. Short 5 Hz rTMS (600 stimuli) at 90% of RMT can selectively shape the excitability of distinct intracortical circuits, whereas prolonged 5 Hz rTMS (&gt; or =900 stimuli) provokes an overall increase in excitability of the corticospinal output system, including spinal motoneurones.
Brain-imaging studies have shown that visually-cued, voluntary swallowing activates a distributed network of cortical regions including the precentral and postcentral gyri, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), insula, frontoparietal operculum, cuneus and precuneus. To elucidate the functional contributions of these discrete activation foci for swallowing, a &quot;Go, No-Go&quot; functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) paradigm was designed. Brain activation associated with visually-cued swallowing was compared with brain activation evoked by a comparable visual cue instructing the subject not to swallow. Region-of-interest analyses performed on data from eight healthy subjects showed a significantly greater number of activated voxels within the precentral gyrus, postcentral gyrus, and ACC during the &quot;Go&quot; condition compared to the &quot;No-Go&quot; condition. This finding suggests that the precentral gyrus, postcentral gyrus, and ACC contribute primarily to the act of swallowing. In contrast, the numbers of activated voxels within the cuneus and precuneus were not significantly different for the &quot;Go&quot; and &quot;No-Go&quot; conditions, suggesting that these regions mediate processing of the cue to swallow. Together these findings support the view that the discrete cortical foci previously implicated in swallowing mediate functionally distinct components of the swallowing act.
During a step, the body enters a state of falling as a foot is lifted from the ground. This has important implications for the control of body trajectory when stepping in different directions. A model has been proposed in which the central nervous system controls body trajectory by a predictive, ballistic &quot;throw&quot; of the body occurring just before the stepping foot leaves the ground. Here we investigate this model and ask how far into the future the body trajectory is predetermined by this initial ballistic throw. We measured body centre-of-mass (CoM) and foot trajectories during two-step sequences involving stepping onto illuminated targets, one for each foot. The targets were varied spatially such that leading foot placement could be dissociated from final CoM position. The results showed that the body throw was altered when stepping in different directions. However, the throw varied only with leading foot placement and not with final CoM position. Thus, provided the leading foot was placed identically, the same throw was used for steps in which body trajectories would later diverge. Furthermore, these trajectories did not diverge while the stepping foot was in the air but occurred after it touched down. The results are consistent with the ballistic stepping model. However, they suggest that the throw is limited in its predictive capacity, being concerned only with where the stepping foot is to be placed rather than final CoM position. This constitutes a one-step-at-a-time strategy that allows the body to be safely &quot;caught&quot; between steps.
This study compared the behavioral effects of 3 anticonvulsants in impulsive aggressive men. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel groups design, participants were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 6-week treatments: phenytoin (n = 7), carbamazepine (n = 7), valproate (n = 7), or placebo (n = 8). The efficacy measure was the average aggression score, a global severity index from the Overt Aggression Scale (J. M. Silver &amp; S. C. Yudofsky, 1991). Analysis showed a significant reduction in impulsive aggression during all 3 anticonvulsant conditions compared with placebo. However, the treatment effect during carbamazepine administration was slightly delayed compared with phenytoin and valproate. These findings suggest that increased use of anticonvulsants could make a significant impact in the control of impulsive aggression in both mental health and criminal justice settings.
Corneal neovascularization is a significant, sight-threatening, complication of many ocular surface disorders, but its underlying molecular background is still not fully understood. In the present study, we analysed the expression and role of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), a proteolytic enzyme suggested to regulate angiogenesis, in a mouse model of inflammation-related corneal neovascularization. A silk suture was placed centrally in pigmented mice corneas causing limbal vasculature to sprout, forming new vessels. Neovascularization progressed centrally involving the entire cornea after about 12 days. Histological analysis revealed vascularization of the corneal stroma accompanied by a marked inflammatory response. The neovascularization correlated with an increased expression of MMP-2 mRNA and protein that was mainly found in cells that stained positively for S100A4, a marker for activated keratocytes. MMP-2-deficient mice and wild-type mice were compared in a kinetic study, showing a statistically significant delay of neovascularization in MMP-2-deficient mice. These results implicate a role for MMP-2 in experimental inflammation-associated corneal neovascularization.
Bone marrow stromal cells (MSCs) constitute a heterogeneous cell layer in the bone marrow, supporting the growth and differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells. Recently, it has been reported that MSCs harbor pluripotent stem cells capable of neural differentiation and that simple treatment of MSCs with chemical inducing agents leads to their rapid transdifferentiation into neural cells. We examined whether native or neurally induced MSCs would reconstitute an axonal growth-promoting milieu after cervical spinal cord injury (SCI), and whether such cells could act as vehicles of growth factor gene delivery to further augment axonal growth. One month after grafting to cystic sites of SCI, native MSCs supported modest growth of host sensory and motor axons. Cells &quot;neurally&quot; induced in vitro did not sustain a neural phenotype in vivo and supported host axonal growth to a degree equal to native MSCs. Transduction of MSCs to overexpress brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) resulted in a significant increase in the extent and diversity of host axonal growth, enhancing the growth of host serotonergic, coerulospinal, and dorsal column sensory axons. Measurement of neurotrophin production from implanted cells in the lesion site revealed that the grafts naturally contain nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and that transduction with BDNF markedly raises levels of BDNF production. Despite the extensive nature of host axonal penetration into the lesion site, functional recovery was not observed on a tape removal or rope-walking task. Thus, MSCs can support host axonal growth after spinal cord injury and are suitable cell types for ex vivo gene delivery. Combination therapy with other experimental approaches will likely be required to achieve axonal growth beyond the lesion site and functional recovery.
Accumulating evidence suggests that inflammation plays a major role in the pathogenesis of motoneuron death in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) both in humans and transgenic mouse models. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are involved in the inflammatory process. Agonists of PPAR-alpha, -gamma, and -delta show anti-inflammatory effects both in vitro and in vivo. We investigated the therapeutic effect of pioglitazone, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonist, in the G93A SOD1 transgenic mouse model of ALS. Orally administered pioglitazone improved motor performance, delayed weight loss, attenuated motor neuron loss, and extended survival of G93A mice as compared to the untreated control littermate group. Pioglitazone treatment extended survival by 13%, and it reduced gliosis as assessed by immunohistochemical staining for CD-40 and GFAP. Pioglitazone also reduced iNOS, NFkappa-B, and 3-nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity in the spinal cords of G93A transgenic mice. These results suggest that pioglitazone may have therapeutic potential for human ALS.
Epidemiological and experimental studies have suggested that high dietary intake of fats is associated with cognitive decline and a significantly increased risk of dementia. Since oxidative stress and inflammation have been speculated to be critical mechanisms underlying neurodegenerative diseases, we hypothesized that a high fat (HF) diet might induce cerebral oxidative stress or neural inflammation and subsequently contribute to the high risk of dementia. To test this hypothesis, male rats were placed on either a HF diet or a low fat (LF) diet starting at 1 month of age and lasting for 5 months. Intracellular reactive oxidative species (ROS) generation in the cerebral cortex was measured by the oxidant-sensitive dye 5-(6)-chloromethyl-2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (CM-H(2)DCFDA). Cortical tissue concentration of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) was determined using an enzymatic immunoassay. Expression of NADPH oxidase subunits, cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), nuclear transcription factor NF(kappa)-B (NF-kappaB) p65 subunit, Ikappa B(IkappaB), and phospho-Ikappa B(phospho-IkappaB) was evaluated by Western blot analysis. The HF diet significantly increased ROS generation and expression of gp91(phox), p22(phox), p47(phox), and p67(phox) NADPH oxidase subunits in cerebral cortex. Elevated PGE(2) levels and markedly increased COX-2 expression suggested a neural inflammatory response in response to excessive fat intake. These findings were further supported by significantly increased phospho-IkappaB and nuclear NF-kappaB expression that suggested a role of IkappaB phosphorylation in HF diet-induced NF-kappaB translocation. The present study revealed that HF diet induced neural oxidative stress, inflammation, and NF-kappaB activation in rat cerebral cortex, and provided novel evidence regarding the link between high dietary fat and increased risk of dementia.
We describe a new test of vibrissae-elicited forelimb placing ability that allows testing of sensorimotor integration across the midline. Rats were given unilateral brain lesions using one of three methods: (1) middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) causing significant damage to the cortex and striatum, (2) aspiration lesions to remove tissue from the sensorimotor cortex, and (3) infusions of the catecholamine neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the medial forebrain bundle, producing a parkinsonian syndrome. Application of the new test to these animals revealed that with some lesion types, the ability of vibrissae on the unimpaired side of the body to trigger placing in the functionally impaired forelimb recovers before vibrissae on the impaired side can elicit placing. This occurs despite the lack of any apparent vibrissae sensory deficit, since the contralesional vibrissae maintained the ability to trigger placing in the unimpaired forelimb in all lesions studied. Chronically, MCAo-lesioned rats do not place the impaired forelimb upon stimulation of the impaired-side vibrissae, but do place if the vibrissae on the good side are stimulated (i.e., when the placing is triggered &quot;across the midline&quot;). This is in contrast to 6-OHDA-lesioned rats which, consistent with parkinsonian akinesia, cannot place the impaired limb regardless of sensory trigger. Also, differences in the pattern of recovery between MCAo- and aspiration-lesioned rats suggest a possible anatomical substrate for cross-midline placing ability and its recovery. Unlike other tests, cross-midline placing methods can readily distinguish between severe stroke and severe parkinsonism in rats.
The functional and pharmacological attributes of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor are related to its subunit composition, thus resolving the subunit composition of NMDA receptors in specific classes of synapses is an important step in characterizing excitatory circuits. Toward this end, mouse monoclonal antibodies were raised against fusion protein antigens corresponding to the putative amino acid sequences of human NMDA receptor subunits NR2A and NR2B. The subunit specificity of these monoclonal antibodies was demonstrated with transfected human and rat NMDA receptor cDNAs, and their immunoreactivity was established in rat, macaque monkey, and human brain tissue. At the light microscopic level, both NR2A and NR2B exhibit a distribution in monkey and rat hippocampus very similar to NMDA receptor subunit NR1, and both are highly colocalized with NR1. Electron microscopic immunogold studies demonstrated that both NR2A and NR2B are often present in asymmetric synapses in CA1, commonly colocalized with NR1, and often colocalized with each other in the same asymmetric synapses. Both assembly and synthetic pools are present within spines and spine necks, respectively, particularly for NR2A. The confocal and ultrastructural data suggest that whereas NR1, NR2A, and NR2B are essentially uniformly colocalized in hippocampal projection neurons, there is extensive heterogeneity at the synaptic level that would lead to multiple functional classes of NMDA receptor-mediated synapses, and extensive capacity for plasticity at the synapse. Thus, the subunit profile of a given synapse may be dynamic, with regulation of local synthesis and insertion of different subunits into the synapse leading to a complex, heterogeneous, and shifting set of functional attributes of the NMDA receptor.
Advances made in diverse areas of neuroscience suggest that neurotransmitter systems, additional to the monoaminergic, contribute to the pathophysiology of mood disorders. This ever accruing body of preclinical and clinical research is providing increased recognition of the contribution made by amino acid neurotransmitters to the neurobiology of mood disorders. This review examines evidence supporting the role of GABA and glutamate in these processes and explores the potential to target these systems in the development of novel compounds; the viability of these agents for treatment-related co-morbidities will also be considered.
The pathophysiology of anorexia nervosa (AN) is complex and involves alterations of serotonin, dopamine and histamine neurotransmitters. In addition, receptor activity is disturbed, presumably in response to the neurotransmitter changes. These alterations are reviewed in relation to symptomatology and outcome of AN. Neuropeptide and peripheral orexigenic and satiety peptide research is in its infancy but holds much promise to shed light on the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in this illness. Current drug therapies have not demonstrated the efficacy desired in the treatment of AN. Current therapies are reviewed and new drug targets are explored. Compounds that interact with serotonin, histamine and dopamine receptors may offer unique treatment opportunities. In the future, the manipulation of peptides may add to the therapeutic potential of pharmacotherapy.
The inability to experiment directly on humans strongly constrains biomedical research, creating a great need to develop cultures that mimic human tissues and organs as experimental systems that can be used to directly understand and manipulate biological processes. The advent of availability of primary human cells now makes possible engineering of such organ cultures. Here we report the generation of a human &quot;skin&quot; arguably the simplest human tissue. Beginning with three primary cell types taken from adult tissues, this organ culture develops into a mature tissue containing a stratified epithelium and an interconnected network of mature microvessels, with appropriate matrix molecules and cytokines. Surprisingly, pericytes and monocytes appear adjacent to and within &quot;blood&quot; vessels, respectively. These cultures respond appropriately to stimulators of specific biological processes, providing a vehicle to investigate basic biological processes, such as 1) cell-cell and cell-microenvironment interaction; 2) transdifferentiation of one cell type to another and/or differentiation from stem cells present in adult tissues; and 3) opportunities for genetic manipulation of human tissues to understand function. Moreover, this &quot;skin&quot; can potentially be developed into a tailored &quot;living bandage&quot; for patients with impaired healing and can serve as prototype for the development of other human organ cultures.
Dysfunction and death of spinal cord neurons are critical determinants of neurological deficits in various pathological conditions, including multiple sclerosis (MS) and spinal cord injury. Yet, the molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal/axonal damage remain undefined. Our previous studies raised the possibility that a decrease in the levels of plasma membrane calcium ATPase isoform 2 (PMCA2), a major pump extruding calcium from neurons, promotes neuronal pathology in the spinal cord during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS, and after spinal cord trauma. However, the causal relationship between alterations in PMCA2 levels and neuronal injury was not well established. We now report that inhibition of PMCA activity in purified spinal cord neuronal cultures delays calcium clearance, increases the number of nonphosphorylated neurofilament H (SMI-32) immunoreactive cells, and induces swelling and beading of SMI-32-positive neurites. These changes are followed by activation of caspase-3 and neuronal loss. Importantly, the number of spinal cord motor neurons is significantly decreased in PMCA2-deficient mice and the deafwaddler(2J), a mouse with a functionally null mutation in the PMCA2 gene. Our findings suggest that a reduction in PMCA2 level or activity leading to delays in calcium clearance may cause neuronal damage and loss in the spinal cord.

Sexual experience, like repeated drug use, produces long-term changes including sensitization in the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum. To better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the neuroadaptations following sexual experience, we employed a DNA microarray approach to identify genes differentially expressed between sexually experienced and sexually naive female hamsters within the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum. For 6 weeks, a stimulus male was placed in the home cage of one-half of the hormonally primed, ovariectomized female hamsters. On the seventh week, the two experimental groups were subdivided, with one half paired with a stimulus male. In comparison with sexually naive animals, sexually experienced hamsters receiving a stimulus male on week 7 exhibited an increase in a large number of genes. Conversely, sexually experienced female hamsters not receiving a stimulus male on week 7 exhibited a reduction in the expression of many genes. For directional changes and the categories of genes regulated by the experimental conditions, data were consistent across the nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum. However, the specific genes exhibiting changes in expression were disparate. These experiments, among the first to profile genes regulated by female sexual behavior, will provide insight into the mechanisms by which both motivated behaviors and drugs of abuse induce long-term changes in the mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopamine pathways.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) demonstrate remarkable proliferative and developmental capacity. Clinical interest arises from their ability to provide an apparently unlimited cell supply for transplantation, and from the hope that they can be directed to desirable phenotypes in high purity. Here we present for the first time a method for obtaining oligodendrocytes and their progenitors in high yield from hESCs. We expanded hESCs, promoted their differentiation into oligodendroglial progenitors, amplified those progenitors, and then promoted oligodendroglial differentiation using positive selection and mechanical enrichment. Transplantation into the shiverer model of dysmyelination resulted in integration, differentiation into oligodendrocytes, and compact myelin formation, demonstrating that these cells display a functional phenotype. This differentiation protocol provides a means of generating human oligodendroglial lineage cells in high purity, for use in studies of lineage development, screening assays of oligodendroglial-specific compounds, and treating neurodegenerative diseases and traumatic injuries to the adult CNS.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of sexual hormones in a young adult population affected by articular forms of temporomandibular disorders (TMD), measuring 17beta-estradiol and progesterone serum levels. In the study, we included 40 patients (20 males and 20 females) with a Research Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular Disorders (RDC/TMD) axis I group II diagnosis of disk displacement and/or group III diagnosis of arthralgia, osteoarthritis or osteoarhrosis, and 32 healthy controls. In female patients, blood samples were collected in follicular and luteal phases of the same menstrual cycle, while only one blood sample was drawn in male patients. Serum levels of estradiol and progesterone were determined using a radioimmunoassay and the comparison between the two groups was performed using a t test. Regarding estradiol, our results showed significantly higher serum levels in patients affected by TMD than in healthy controls, both in males (p &lt; 0.01) and in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle in females (p &lt; 0.05), while no difference was found for progesterone serum levels. Considering the multifactorial etiology of TMD and the hypothesis that some joint tissues (e.g., bone, cartilage, collagen, proteins) could be a target for sexual hormones, these data suggest that high serum estrogen levels might be implicated in the physiopathology of TMD.


During mating in hamsters, both tactile and nontactile sensory stimulation experienced by the female affect sexual behavior and progestational neuroendocrine reflexes. To test the interactions of these types of mating stimulation, c-Fos immunohistochemistry measured brain cellular activity during sexual behavior under conditions that included combinations of tactile and nontactile mating stimulation. Test groups received: (1) mating stimulation from a male, females being either fully mated or mated while wearing a vaginal mask, or (2) experimenter applied manual vaginocervical stimulation (VCS)-with or without males present, or (3) handling similar to VCS but without insertions-with or without males present. Numbers of c-Fos immunoreactive cells were counted in specific subdivisions of the posterior medial amygdala (MeP) and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH). The medial amygdala dorsal and ventral subdivisions responded differentially to components of mating stimulation. The posterodorsal Me (MePD) cellular activation was greatest during mating conditions that included VCS and/or males present. However, the posteroventral Me (MePV) was sensitive to male exposure and not to VCS. Also, MePV and VMH shell responses mirrored each other, both being primarily sensitive to male exposure. In separate tests, manual VCS induced pseudopregnancy, though the procedure was most effective with additional nontactile stimulation from males present. In summary, contextual cues provided by nontactile male stimulation enhance the effect of vaginocervical and other tactile stimulation on reproductive processes. Furthermore, c-Fos expression in the female hamster medial amygdala is region and context dependent.
Zearalenone is a resorcylic acid lactone compound that is produced by fungal infection of edible grains and is believed to influence reproduction by binding to estrogen receptors. In order to study the potential estrogenic effects of this compound in the brain, we examined the effects of zearalenone on the expression of neuronal progestin receptors and feminine sexual behavior in female rats. Ovariectomized rats were treated with zearalenone (0.2, 1.0, or 2.0 mg), estradiol benzoate, or vehicle daily for 3 days. They were then either perfused, and progestin receptors visualized by immunocytochemistry, or injected with progesterone and tested for sexual receptivity with male rats. Progestin receptor-containing cells were counted in the medial preoptic area and ventromedial hypothalamus. The two highest doses of zearalenone increased the concentration of neuronal progestin receptors, as did 10 microg of estradiol. The highest dose of zearalenone (2 mg) also induced progestin receptor staining density comparable to that of 10 microg of estradiol benzoate. In behavioral tests, ovariectomized animals treated with 2 mg of zearalenone followed by progesterone showed levels of sexual receptivity comparable to females treated daily with estradiol benzoate (2 microg) followed by progesterone. These studies suggest that, although structurally distinct and less potent than estradiol, zearalenone can act as an estrogen agonist in the rat brain.
Plasma amyloid beta protein (Abeta42) levels and late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) have been linked to the same region on chromosome 10q. The PLAU gene within this region encodes urokinase-type plasminogen activator, which converts plasminogen to plasmin. Abeta aggregates induce PLAU expression thereby increasing plasmin, which degrades both aggregated and non-aggregated forms of Abeta. We evaluated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in PLAU for association with Abeta42 and LOAD. PLAU SNP compound genotypes composed of haplotype pairs showed significant association with AD in three independent case-control series. PLAU SNP haplotypes associated significantly with plasma Abeta42 in 10 extended LOAD families. One of the SNPs analyzed was a missense C/T polymorphism in exon 6 of PLAU (PLAU_1=rs2227564), which causes a proline to leucine change (P141L). We analyzed PLAU_1 for association with AD in six case-control series and 24 extended LOAD families. The CT and TT PLAU_1 genotypes showed association (P=0.05) with an overall estimated odds ratio of 1.2 (1.0-1.5). The CT and TT genotypes of PLAU_1 were also associated with significant age-dependent elevation of plasma Abeta42 in 24 extended LOAD families (P=0.0006). In knockout mice lacking the PLAU gene, plasma--but not brain--Abeta42 as well as Abeta40 was significantly elevated, also in an age-dependent manner. The PLAU_1 associations were independent of the associations we found among plasma Abeta42, LOAD and variants in the IDE or VR22 region. These results provide strong evidence that PLAU or a nearby gene is involved in the development of LOAD. PLAU_1 is a plausible pathogenic mutation that could act by increasing Abeta42, but additional biological experiments are required to show this definitively.

Deltamethrin (DLT; 0.7mg/kg/body wt/day, i.p., dissolved in propylene glycol) administration during postnatal days 913 in Albino rat pups, resulted in a delayed appearance of radial glial fibers, that guide the migration of granule cells. Moreover, the radial glial fibers in the DLT-treated pups were disorganized, hypertrophied and heavily stained. Thus, it is being proposed that although after exposure to DLT the neuronal proliferation occurs at normal rate, the neuronal migration along the stumpy and crumpled radial fibers hamper the journey of the healthy neurons to their proper destination.
We previously demonstrated that intravenous or intra-cerebral administration of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) inhibitors increases the antitumor activity of temozolomide (TMZ), an oral anticancer drug used for the treatment of malignant melanoma and primary or secondary brain tumors. Since the oral route has a number of advantages in terms of safety and convenience with respect to intravenous injection, in this study we tested whether administration per os of the novel PARP-1 inhibitor GPI 15427 allows sufficient absorption of the compound and achievement of brain concentrations capable of enhancing the efficacy of TMZ against tumors growing at the CNS. Pharmacokinetics analysis of GPI 15427 levels in plasma and brain was assessed in Sprague-Dawley rats after oral dosing, by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. Antitumor activity of oral GPI 15427 in association with TMZ was evaluated in BD2F1 mice injected intracranially with B16 melanoma or L5178Y lymphoma. Pharmacokinetics studies revealed that GPI 15427 possesses a substantial oral bioavailability (plasma Cmax after a single dose of 40 mg/kg: 1041+/-516 ng/ml). Moreover, the brain levels and brain/plasma ratios of GPI 15427 (3.37 at 0.5 h and 3.19 at 1 h) indicated that the compound readily penetrates the blood-brain barrier. GPI 15427 (10 or 40 mg/kg/per os) was then administered for five days, 1 h before TMZ (100 mg/kg/i.p.), to tumor-bearing mice. The results indicated that GPI 15427+TMZ was well tolerated and significantly increased life-span of the animals with respect to TMZ. In conclusion, PARP-1 inhibitor GPI 15427 is efficacious as chemosensitizer for the treatment of tumors located at the CNS site when it is administered by oral route.
The authors claim that projective identification in the process of analysis should be considered in a circumscribed manner and seen as a very specific type of communication between the patient and the analyst, characterised through a modality that is simultaneously active, unconscious and discrete. In other words, the patient actively, though unconsciously and discretely--that is, in specific moments of the analysis--brings about particular changes in the analysts state. From the analyst's side, the effect of this type of communication is a sudden change in his general state--a sense of passivity and coercion and a change in the state of consciousness. This altered consciousness can range from an almost automatic repetition of a relational script to a moderate or serious contraction of the field of attention to full-fledged changes in the analyst's sense of self. The authors propose the theory that this type of communication is, in fact, the expression of traumatic contents of experiences emerging from the non-declarative memory. These contents belong to a pre-symbolic and pre-representative area of the mind. They are made of inert fragments of psychic material that are felt rather than thought, which can thus be viewed as a kind of writing to be completed. These pieces of psychic material are the expression of traumatic experiences that in turn exercise a traumatic effect on the analyst, inducing an altered state of consciousness in him as well. Such material should be understood as belonging to an unrepressed unconscious. Restitution of these fragments to the patient in representable forms must take place gradually and without trying to accelerate the timing, in order to avoid the possibility that the restitution itself constitute an acting on the part of the analyst, which would thus be a traumatic response to the traumatic action of the analytic material.
We analysed evoked magnetic responses to moving random dot stimuli, initially using a 19-channel magnetoencephalography (MEG) system, and subsequently using a 151-channel MEG system. Random dot displays were used to construct complex motion sequences, which we refer to as expansion, contraction, deformation, and rotation. We also investigated lateral translation and a condition in which the directions of the dots were randomised. In all stimulus conditions, the dots were first stationary, then traveled for a brief period (317 s or 542 ms), and were then stationary again. In all conditions, evoked magnetic responses were observed with a widespread bilateral distribution over the observers' heads. Initial recordings revealed a substantially larger evoked magnetic response to the expansion condition than the other conditions. In a revised study, we used a 151-channel MEG system and two stimulus diameters (9.3 and 48 deg), the smaller comparable with the first experiment. The responses were analysed using a nonparametric approach and confirmed our initial observations. In a third study, speed gradients were removed and a new design permitted direct comparisons between motion conditions. The results from all three experiments are consistent with the greater ecological validity of the expansion stimulus.


Key voice features--fundamental frequency (F0) and formant frequencies--can vary extensively between individuals. Much of the variation can be traced to differences in the size of the larynx and vocal-tract cavities, but whether these differences in turn simply reflect differences in speaker body size (i.e., neutral vocal allometry) remains unclear. Quantitative analyses were therefore undertaken to test the relationship between speaker body size and voice F0 and formant frequencies for human vowels. To test the taxonomic generality of the relationships, the same analyses were conducted on the vowel-like grunts of baboons, whose phylogenetic proximity to humans and similar vocal production biology and voice acoustic patterns recommend them for such comparative research. For adults of both species, males were larger than females and had lower mean voice F0 and formant frequencies. However, beyond this, F0 variation did not track body-size variation between the sexes in either species, nor within sexes in humans. In humans, formant variation correlated significantly with speaker height but only in males and not in females. Implications for general vocal allometry are discussed as are implications for speech origins theories, and challenges to them, related to laryngeal position and vocal tract length.

Cell proliferation is a key factor in sex determination where a size increase relative to the XX gonad is one of the first signs of testis differentiation. Moreover, proliferation of Sertoli cells during development is important in building up the stock of supporting cells necessary for subsequent successful fertility. Because proliferation is such an essential part of testis development, the hypothesis under long-term investigation is that it is under fail-safe control by multiple alternative growth factors. This study was undertaken to investigate the role of glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) on developing mouse Sertoli cells in vitro. Sertoli cells, isolated from mouse embryos at three stages of testis development, were maintained for 2-7 days in vitro (div) in the presence or absence of GDNF at 1, 10 and 100 ng mL(-1). Overall the presence of extracellular matrix gel had little effect on proliferative activity, but encouraged expression of the epithelial phenotype. A statistically significant difference in proliferation, assessed by immunocytochemical staining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen, was seen with GDNF at embryonic day (E)12.5 after 2 div (at both 10 and 100 ng mL(-1), P &lt; 0.001) and 7 div (at both 10 and 100 ng mL(-1), P &lt; 0.05); at E13.5 after 3 div (at both 10 and 100 ng mL(-1), P &lt; 0.05) and at E14.5 after 7 div (100 ng mL(-1), P &lt; 0.01), compared with controls cultured without growth factor. In conclusion, GDNF stimulates mitosis throughout this critical developmental window. The in vitro approach used here is a useful adjunct to the knockout mouse model and has been applied to show that GDNF exerts a proliferative effect on developing mouse Sertoli cells.
The vestibular system participates in cardiovascular regulation during postural changes. In prior studies (Holmes MJ, Cotter LA, Arendt HE, Cas SP, and Yates BJ. Brain Res 938: 62-72, 2002, and Jian BJ, Cotter LA, Emanuel BA, Cass SP, and Yates BJ. J Appl Physiol 86: 1552-1560, 1999), transection of the vestibular nerves resulted in instability in blood pressure during nose-up body tilts, particularly when no visual information reflecting body position in space was available. However, recovery of orthostatic tolerance occurred within 1 wk, presumably because the vestibular nuclei integrate a variety of sensory inputs reflecting body location. The present study tested the hypothesis that lesions of the vestibular nuclei result in persistent cardiovascular deficits during orthostatic challenges. Blood pressure and heart rate were monitored in five conscious cats during nose-up tilts of varying amplitude, both before and after chemical lesions of the vestibular nuclei. Before lesions, blood pressure remained relatively stable during tilts. In all animals, the blood pressure responses to nose-up tilts were altered by damage to the medial and inferior vestibular nuclei; these effects were noted both when animals were tested in the presence and absence of visual feedback. In four of the five animals, the lesions also resulted in augmented heart rate increases from baseline values during 60 degrees nose-up tilts. These effects persisted for longer than 1 wk, but they gradually resolved over time, except in the animal with the worst deficits. These observations suggest that recovery of compensatory cardiovascular responses after loss of vestibular inputs is accomplished at least in part through plastic changes in the vestibular nuclei and the enhancement of the ability of vestibular nucleus neurons to discriminate body position in space by employing nonlabyrinthine signals.
Circadian rhythms in behavior, metabolism, and physiology are based upon transcriptional/translational feedback loops involving a core set of clock genes that interact to regulate their own expression. In mammals, the SCN is the site of a master biological clock regulating circadian locomotor rhythms. The products of the clock genes mPer1, mPer2, mCry1, and mCry2 form essential components of both negative and positive elements within the SCN oscillator. The primary aims of this study were to examine clock gene abundance under longterm LL in an attempt to provide molecular correlates of the lengthened tau and daily phase delays described by Aschoff's rule. Wheel-running behavior was recorded from mice maintained in either DD or LL for 50 days. The abundance of the clock genes mPer1, mPer2, mCry1, and mCry2 and their protein products was then examined (every approximately 4 h) within the SCN using in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. Under LL conditions, mPer1, mPer2, mCry1, and mCry2 messages remained rhythmic, although the waveform of mCry2 was altered compared to DD. In LL, mPER1, mCRY1, and mCRY2 protein levels were also rhythmic and comparable to the patterns observed in DD. However, mPER2 is elevated and constitutively expressed under LL. Thus, rhythmic expression of these clock genes is not dependent on the rhythmic production of mPER2, and the acute up-regulation of mPer1 and mPer2 described for short (nonparametric) light pulses is not sustained under LL conditions. These findings suggest that mPER2 is important for the generation of phase delays in the molecular clockwork, providing a possible molecular explanation for Aschoff's rule: LL lengthens the circadian period by inhibiting the degeneration of mPER2, and constitutively elevated levels of mPER2 enhance the phase-delaying limb of the molecular oscillator.
The faculty of language is unique to the human species. This implies that there are human-specific biological changes that lie at the basis of human language. However, it is not clear what the nature of such changes are, and how they could be shaped by evolution. In this paper, emphasis is laid on describing language in a Chomskyan manner, as a mental object. This serves as a standpoint to speculate about the biological basis of the emergence and evolution of language.
The tumor suppressor gene p53 plays an important role in the regulation of apoptosis through transcriptional activation of cell cycle control. Degradation of p53 hinders its role in apoptosis regulation. Recent studies have shown that MDM2-mediated ubiquitylation and the ubiquitin-proteasome system are critical regulating systems of p53 ubiquitylation. However, the mechanism regulating p53-mediated neuronal apoptosis after cerebral ischemia remains unknown. We examined the MDM2 pathway and the ubiquitin-proteasome system using a transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI) model and analyzed the interaction between p53 regulation and superoxide using copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) transgenic mice after tFCI. p53 degradation and ubiquitylation were detected after tFCI. The accumulation of ubiquitylated p53 was inhibited and p53 degradation was facilitated by SOD1. Nuclear translocation and MDM2/Akt interaction were detected after tFCI and were inhibited by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibition and promoted by SOD1. Cytosolic translocation of the p53/MDM2 complex was detected after tFCI and was promoted by SOD1. Moreover, accumulation of multiubiquitin chains and direct oxidative injury to a proteasome were detected and inhibited by SOD1 after tFCI. These results suggest that SOD1 promotes the MDM2 pathway and the ubiquitin-proteasome system after tFCI and that production of reactive oxygen species after tFCI prevents p53 degradation by inhibiting both systems.
Conflicting results have recently been published about the benefits of combined T(4) and T(3) in treating hypothyroid patients. However, these studies may have been underpowered to detect differences in psychological well-being specifically related to T(4) replacement. We conducted a large, double-blind, randomized controlled trial of partial substitution of 50 microg T(4) by 10 microg T(3) vs. the original dose of T(4) in 697 hypothyroid patients. Thyroid function showed a rise in TSH (132%), a fall in free T(4) (35%, P &lt; 0.001), and unchanged basal free T(3) levels (P = 0.92). At 3 months, there was a large (39%) placebo effect improvement in psychiatric caseness defined by the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ) 12 score in the control group compared with baseline, and this was sustained at 12 months. Differences vs. the intervention (T(3)) group were more modest with improvements in GHQ caseness (odds ratio, 0.61; 95% confidence interval, 0.42, 0.90; P = 0.01) and Hospital Anxiety and Depression questionnaire-anxiety scores at 3 months (P &lt; 0.03) but not GHQ Likert scores, Hospital Anxiety and Depression questionnaire-depression, thyroid symptoms, or visual analog scales of mood and the initial differences were lost at 12 months. These results may be consistent with a subgroup of patients showing transient improvement after partial substitution with T(3) but do not provide conclusive evidence of specific benefit from partial substitution of T(4) by T(3) in patients on T(4) replacement. They also emphasize the large and sustained placebo effect that can follow changes in thyroid hormone administration.
Forty elderly patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) were compared to a comparison group of forty age-matched healthy volunteers on a range of measures of cognitive performance, and levels of arterial haemoglobin oxygen saturation recorded. Members of the patient group were found to have significantly lower oxygen saturation compared to the comparison group, and performed significantly poorer on tests of delayed word recall and serial subtractions, but not on other tasks. Correlational analysis between participants' oxygen saturation levels and test scores across the whole sample indicated significant positive relationships existed for the digit symbol substitution and serial subtractions tasks. The results are discussed in terms of cerebral oxygen delivery, glucose metabolism, age related cognitive decline, and relative task demands.
Vertically acquired citrobacter meningitis in the neonate is very rare and carries a very high mortality and morbidity. Overall, approximately 30% of neonates with Citrobacter meningitis die and 50% sustain some damage to the CNS. The authors describe a case of a newborn with Citrobacter koseri meningitis with multiple brain abscesses, with a successful outcome following multiple burr-hole aspirations and prolonged antibiotic therapy. An aggressive surgical approach combined with intravenous antibiotics (including imipenems, to which the organism is very sensitive) for a minimum of 4 weeks appears to improve the outcome of infection with this virulent organism.
Bilateral cerebellopontine angle (CPA) tumors identified on MRI are considered bilateral acoustic neuromas, the definitive diagnostic criterion of neurofibromatosis 2 (NF-2). We report the case of a 67-year-old man with progressive bilateral hearing loss, vertigo, and imbalance. MRI revealed bilateral enhancing CPA lesions, which were suggestive of acoustic neuromas and a diagnosis of NF-2. However, autopsy showed metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung. Therefore, metastatic carcinoma to the CPA can mimic bilateral acoustic neuromas; imaging studies alone may be insufficient to diagnose NF-2.



Right-hemisphere patients with left neglect often demonstrate abnormal visual search, re-examining stimuli to the right while ignoring those to the left. But re-fixations alone do not reveal if patients misjudge whether they have searched a location before. Here, we not only tracked the eye movements of 16 neglect patients during search, but also asked them to click a response button only when they judged they were fixating a target for the very first time. ''Re-clicking'' on previously found targets would indicate that patients erroneously respond to these as new discoveries. Lesions were mapped with high-resolution MRI. Neglect patients with damage involving the right intraparietal sulcus or right inferior frontal lobe ''re-clicked'' on previously found targets on the right at a pathological rate, whereas those with medial occipito-temporal lesions did not. For the intraparietal sulcus patients, the probability of erroneous re-clicks on an old target increased with time since first discovering it; whereas for frontal patients it was independent of search time, suggesting different underlying mechanisms in these two types of patient. Re-click deficits correlated with degree of leftward neglect, mainly due to both being severe in intraparietal cases. These results demonstrate that misjudging previously searched locations for new ones can contribute to pathological search in neglect, with potentially different mechanisms being involved in intraparietal versus inferior frontal patients. When combined with a spatial bias to the right, such deficits might explain why many neglect patients often re-examine rightward locations, at the expense of items to their left.
Observing actions made by others activates the cortical circuits responsible for the planning and execution of those same actions. This observation-execution matching system (mirror-neuron system) is thought to play an important role in the understanding of actions made by others. In an fMRI experiment, we tested whether this system also becomes active during the processing of action-related sentences. Participants listened to sentences describing actions performed with the mouth, the hand, or the leg. Abstract sentences of comparable syntactic structure were used as control stimuli. The results showed that listening to action-related sentences activates a left fronto-parieto-temporal network that includes the pars opercularis of the inferior frontal gyrus (Broca's area), those sectors of the premotor cortex where the actions described are motorically coded, as well as the inferior parietal lobule, the intraparietal sulcus, and the posterior middle temporal gyrus. These data provide the first direct evidence that listening to sentences that describe actions engages the visuomotor circuits which subserve action execution and observation.
Pocket gophers (Thomomys bottae) are rodents that spend much of their lives in near-lightless subterranean burrows. The visual adaptations associated with this extreme environment were investigated by making anatomical observations of retinal organization and by recording retinal responses to photic stimulation. The size of the eye is within the normal range for rodents, the lens transmits light well down into the ultraviolet, and the retina conforms to the normal mammalian plan. Electroretinogram recording revealed the presence of three types of photopigments, a rod pigment with a spectral peak of about 495 nm and two types of cone pigment with respective peak values of about 367 nm (UV) and 505 nm (medium-wavelength sensitive). Both in terms of responsivity to lights varying in temporal frequency and in response recovery following intense light adaptation, the cone responses of the pocket gopher are similar to those of other rodents. Labeling experiments indicate an abundance of cones that reach densities in excess of 30,000 mm-2. Cones containing UV opsin are found throughout the retina, but those containing medium-wavelength sensitive opsin are mostly restricted to the dorsal retina where coexpression of the two photopigments is apparently the rule. Rod densities are lower than those typical for nocturnal mammals.
In zebra finches, the vocal organ (syrinx) is larger in males than in females. Specific details about the mechanisms responsible for this dimorphism are not known, but may involve sex differences in steroid hormone action early in post-hatching development. The distribution of androgen receptor (AR), aromatase (AROM), estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha), and estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) mRNAs was examined at post-hatching days 3, 10 and 17. A low level of AR was equivalently expressed in the syrinx muscles of both sexes at all three ages. We detected no specific expression of AROM or ERalpha mRNAs. In contrast, ERbeta mRNA was detected in chondrocytes of the forming bone. The density of this expression increased with age as the chondrocytes hypertrophied, but did not differ between the sexes. Taken together, these data suggest that estrogens may act on cartilage/bone, and androgens may act on muscle fibers in early post-hatching development to influence syrinx morphology. However, the lack of a sex difference in steroid receptor mRNA expression in the syrinx suggests that, similar to the forebrain regions that control song, the interaction of androgens and estrogens with their receptors is not sufficient to induce full sexual differentiation of this organ.
Children with gestational cocaine exposure may be at risk of difficulties in attentional functioning and impulse control. We administered the Gordon Diagnostic System and subtests of the Halstead-Reitan Battery to inner-city children with (COC) and without (CON) gestational cocaine exposure at age 10 years. Subtle differences were found between groups, with differences in Gordon Delay (Efficiency Ratio) and Gordon Distractibility (Total Commissions). With these two exceptions, children had similar performance, with both groups performing poorly. Attentional functioning and impulse control were also assessed in school. Teachers did not distinguish between COC and CON, although both groups presented behavioral problems. We conclude that gestational cocaine exposure may be associated with subtle problems in attention and impulse control, putting exposed children at higher risk of developing significant behavioral problems as cognitive demands increase.
Immune activation results in adaptive neuroendocrine responses, including activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, which are dependent on the integrity of medullary catecholaminergic (CA) systems. In contrast, although specific roles of pontine, midbrain, and hypothalamic CA systems in neuroendocrine function have been described, the functional roles of these CA systems in modulating neuroendocrine function during immune responses have not been investigated. We have, therefore, investigated the effects of immune activation on the various CA systems of the central nervous system (CNS) and explored this relationship with changes in plasma corticosterone and plasma prolactin. Male BALB/c mice were injected with lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 500 microg/kg i.p.) and 2 h later cardiac blood was taken and mice were perfused with fixative. Immunostaining procedures were performed using antibodies raised against c-Fos and tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker of CA neurons, and detailed topographical analysis of the CA systems within the CNS was performed. LPS-injected mice had increased concentrations of plasma corticosterone and decreased concentrations of plasma prolactin compared with vehicle-injected controls. LPS-injected mice had increased numbers of c-Fos-positive CA neurons within the medullary (A1, A2, C1, C2), pontine (A6) and midbrain (A10) cell groups when compared with vehicle-injected controls. Among hypothalamic CA cell groups, LPS had differential effects on the numbers of c-Fos-positive CA neurons in topographically organised subdivisions of the arcuate nucleus (A12). Changes in plasma prolactin concentrations correlated with the numbers of c-Fos-positive CA neurons within the area postrema, the medullary CA cell groups, the medial posterior division of the arcuate, and the zona incerta. The present study identifies topographically organised, anatomically distinct CA systems that are likely to modulate some of the neuroendocrine responses to immune activation, and may provide novel targets for the relief of symptoms associated with illness and disease.
The importance of olfactory learning in host plant selection is well demonstrated in insects, including the heliothine moths. In the present study olfactory conditioning of the proboscis extension response was performed to determine the moths' ability to learn and discriminate three plant odorants: beta-ocimene and beta-myrcene (activating the same receptor neurone type), and racemic linalool (activating two different types). The conditioned stimulus (CS) was an air puff with each odorant blown into a constant air stream and over the antennae, and the unconditioned stimulus (US) was sucrose solution applied first to the antennal taste sensilla, then to the proboscis. Conditioning with increasing odorant concentrations induced increased learning performance. The concentration threshold for learning was 100 times lower for racemic linalool than for the two other odorants, a fact that can be correlated with a higher sensitivity of the moths' antennae to racemic linalool as shown in electroantennogram recordings. After correcting for the different odour sensitivities, the moths' ability to discriminate the odorants was studied. Differential conditioning experiments were carried out, in which moths had to distinguish between a rewarded (CS+) odorant and an explicitly unrewarded odorant (CS-), choosing odour concentrations giving the same learning rate in previous experiments. The best discrimination was found with beta-myrcene as the rewarded odorant and racemic linalool as the unrewarded. The opposite combination gave lower discrimination, indicating a higher salience for beta-myrcene than for racemic linalool. The moths could also discriminate between beta-ocimene and beta-myrcene, which was surprising, since they activate the same receptor neurone type. No difference in salience was found between these two odorants.
Three age groups of participants (5-6 years, 7-8 years, adults) matched faces on the basis of facial identity. The procedure involved either low- or high-pass filtered faces or hybrid faces composed from two faces associated with different spatial bandwidths. The comparison stimuli were unfiltered faces. In the three age groups, the data indicated a significant bias for processing of low-pass information in priority. In a second task, participants were asked to identify the emotion (smiling or grimacing) or gender (male or female) of hybrid high-pass/low-pass faces. Opposite results emerged in the two tasks irrespective of the age group; the gender discrimination task indicated a bias for low-pass information, and the emotion task indicated a bias for high-pass information. These differences suggest independent processing routes for functionally different types of information such as emotion, gender, and identity. These routes are already established by 5 years of age.
C. Oriet and P. Jolicoeur (2003) reported 2 experiments in which the perceptual contrast of stimuli was manipulated in a task-switching paradigm. They failed to observe an interaction in the reaction time data between task switching, perceptual contrast, and response-stimulus interval. Using the locus of slack logic, they concluded from these results that early perceptual processing of stimuli awaits the completion of a task-set reconfiguration stage, rather than proceeding in parallel with it. Here, an assumption necessary for this argument is questioned, and it is shown that an existing computational model of task switching, without successive stages for task-set reconfiguration and perceptual processing, produces a similar pattern of data. Thus, C. Oriet and P. Jolicoeur's data are compatible with models in which early perceptual processing and task-set reconfiguration take place in parallel.
Watching a rubber hand being stroked, while one's own unseen hand is synchronously stroked, may cause the rubber hand to be attributed to one's own body, to &quot;feel like it's my hand.&quot; A behavioral measure of the rubber hand illusion (RHI) is a drift of the perceived position of one's own hand toward the rubber hand. The authors investigated (a) the influence of general body scheme representations on the RHI in Experiments 1 and 2 and (b) the necessary conditions of visuotactile stimulation underlying the RHI in Experiments 3 and 4. Overall, the results suggest that at the level of the process underlying the build up of the RHI, bottom-up processes of visuotactile correlation drive the illusion as a necessary, but not sufficient, condition. Conversely, at the level of the phenomenological content, the illusion is modulated by top-down influences originating from the representation of one's own body.

Chronic migraine management almost always requires daily oral preventative medication with potential adverse effects. Daily oral preventative therapy may also not be effective in terminating chronic migraine. Chronic central sensitisation caused by repetitive migraine attacks in a young person may lower the threshold for future migraine episodes leading to an intractable and debilitating disease course. The objective was to determine if short-term parenteral dihydroergotamine, dexamethasone and hydroxyzine can terminate chronic migraine and be followed by a continuous respite or conversion to a more benign episodic form without the need for daily oral preventative medication (&quot;carry-over effect&quot;). We treated ten patients, seven adolescents and three adults, with parenteral dihydroergotamine, dexamethasone and hydroxyzine given once a week for a maximum of three weeks. No oral preventative daily medication was administered. The setting was a private practice. Chronic migraine was terminated in all 7 adolescents. Their post-treatment course was converted to a more benign episodic migraine course and no adolescent required daily oral migraine preventative therapy for significantly long carry-over post-treatment observational periods. None of the three adult chronic migraine cases could be terminated satisfactorily as they all required daily oral preventative therapy. In the adolescent group only, this strategy terminated chronic migraine and resulted in a significant carry-over effect that appeared to favourably modify the long-term course without the need for daily pharmacological, potentially toxic, preventive therapy. Although this is a very small study, which requires confirmation by a larger controlled study, our data suggest a significant carryover effect in the young migraineur by administering short-term parenteral dihydroergotamine, dexamethasone and hydroxyzine.
Apolipoprotein AI (apoAI), a major component of high-density lipoproteins, is one of the major amyloid fibril proteins and a minor constituent of the senile plaques observed in Alzheimer's disease. We examined colocalization of apoAI in various kinds of systemic amyloidosis in this study. Forty-three of 48 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded heart specimens with various forms of systemic amyloidosis reacted immunohistochemically with anti-human apoAI antibody. ApoAI was also detected in water-extracted amyloid material by immunoblotting. In addition, we observed colocalization of apoAI and murine amyloid A (AA) amyloidosis in human apoAI transgenic mice. This is the first report of colocalization of apoAI with amyloid deposits in various forms of human systemic amyloidosis and murine AA amyloidosis in human apoAI transgenic mice. ApoAI may not always be a major component of amyloid fibrils, even when it is present in systemic amyloid deposits.

Classically, the central nervous system (CNS) and the immune system are thought to operate independently of each other. This simplistic view has been corrected in recent years, first with the recognition that the brain dynamically modulates the immune system, and later with the reverse; that is, that the immune system modulates the CNS as well. The evidence that the immune system regulates CNS functions is first reviewed. This immune-to-brain communication pathway triggers the production of a constellation of CNS-mediated phenomena, collectively referred to as 'sickness responses'. These sickness responses are created by immune-to-brain signals activating CNS glia to release glial proinflammatory cytokines. The most recently recognized member of this constellation of changes is enhanced pain responsivity. The hypothesis is then developed that pathological, chronic pain may result from 'tapping into' this ancient survival-oriented circuitry, including the activation of immune and glial cells and the release of immune/glial proinflammatory cytokines. This can occur at the level of peripheral nerves, dorsal root ganglia, spinal cord, and likely at higher brain areas. The implications of this model for human chronic pain syndromes and clinical resolution of these chronic pain states are then discussed.
In the 20 years since the founding of the Journal of Interpersonal Violence, there have been exciting new discoveries on the long-term physical health effects of family violence. As exciting as these discoveries have been, we still know little about why the experience of family violence makes people sick. Some of the most promising areas of study on this topic will be in neuroscience, sleep studies, and cognitive variables such as hostility. Once we understand mechanisms, we can design interventions that can ameliorate these effects.
CC chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2)/monocyte chemotactic protein-1, a member of the CC chemokine family, is a chemoattractant for monocytes and T cells through interaction with its receptor CCR2. In the present study, we examined a T helper cell type 1 (Th1)-dependent disease, proteolipid protein-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, in a transgenic mouse line that constitutively expressed low levels of CCL2 in the central nervous system (CNS) under control of the astrocyte-specific glial fibrillary acidic protein promoter. CCL2 transgenic mice developed significantly milder clinical disease than littermate controls. As determined by flow cytometry, mononuclear cell infiltrates in the CNS tissues of CCL2 transgenic and littermate-control mice contained equal numbers of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and the CCL2 transgenic mice showed an enhanced number of CNS-infiltrating monocytes. CNS antigen-specific T cells from CCL2 transgenic mice produced markedly less interferon-gamma. Overexpression of CCL2 in the CNS resulted in decreased interleukin-12 receptor expression by antigen-specific T cells. Collectively, these results indicate that sustained, tissue-specific expression of CCL2 in vivo down-regulates the Th1 autoimmune response, culminating in milder clinical disease.
The increasing use of proteomics has created a basis for new strategies to develop methodologies for rapid identification of protein patterns in living organisms. It has also become evident that proteomics has other potential applications than protein and peptide identification, e.g. protein characterization, with the aim of revealing their structure, function(s) and interactions of proteins. In comparative proteomics studies, the protein expression of a certain biological system is compared with another system or the same system under perturbed conditions. Global identification of proteins in neuroscience is extremely complex, owing to the limited availability of biological material and very low concentrations of the molecules. Moreover, in addition to proteins, there are number of peptides that must also be considered in global studies on the central nervous system. In this overview, we focus on and discuss problems related to the different sources of biological material and sample handling, which are part of all preparatory and analytical steps. Straightforward protocols are desirable to avoid excessive purification steps, since loss of material at each step is inevitable. We would like to merge the two worlds of proteomics/peptidomics and neuroscience, and finally we consider different practical and technical aspects, illustrated with examples from our laboratory.
Accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) is a mass spectrometric method for quantifying rare isotopes. It has had a great impact in geochronology and archaeology and is now being applied in biomedicine. AMS measures radioisotopes such as 3H, 14C, 26Al, 36Cl and 41Ca, with zepto- or attomole sensitivity and high precision and throughput, allowing safe human pharmacokinetic studies involving microgram doses, agents having low bioavailability or toxicology studies where administered doses must be kept low (&lt;1 microg kg(-1)). It is used to study long-term pharmacokinetics, to identify biomolecular interactions, to determine chronic and low-dose effects or molecular targets of neurotoxic substances, to quantify transport across the blood-brain barrier and to resolve molecular turnover rates in the human brain on the time-scale of decades. We review here how AMS is applied in neurotoxicology and neuroscience.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has frequently been extensively studied to explore several different central nervous system (CNS) disorders because it contains proteins, enzymes, hormones, neuropeptides and neurotransmitters that play critical regulatory roles in many different physiological processes. Individual neuropeptidergic systems in CSF have been studied. In theory, peptidomics offers a bird's-eye, comprehensive and systems-level approach to analyze all of the peptidergic systems that have been expressed in CSF at any given time. In this study, low molecular mass (M(r) &lt; 5 kDa) peptides were isolated by ultrafiltration. The isolated peptides, with or without trypsin digestion, were preferentially enriched with a solid-phase extraction cartridge, and the peptides were separated with capillary liquid chromatography and analyzed with on-line quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MS). In this proof-of-principle study, the 20 representative MS-characterized peptides were shown to be derived from 12 proteins, among which four proteins, amyloid-like protein 1, secretogranin I, granin-like neuroendocrine peptide precursor and neurosecretory protein VGF, have been shown elsewhere to be either associated with CNS disorders or to play a central role in the CNS. The long-term goals of this peptidomics study are to monitor the changes (amount; modifications) of CSF peptides, clarify the aberrant processing of large intact protein precursors, elucidate the molecular mechanisms of CNS disorders and find biomarkers. This analytical method is effective for the analysis of the human lumbar CSF peptidome.
Two research groups have recently reported a significant association between schizophrenia and genetic variants of Frizzled-3 (FZD3) gene. We examined a possible association in a Japanese sample of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, unipolar depression and controls with four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), tested in previous reports. We failed to find significant association in the four SNPs or haplotype analysis. The FZD3 gene might not play a role in conferring susceptibility to major psychosis in our sample.
Increased production and reduced clearance of amyloid beta (Abeta) plays a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have recently shown that the neurotrophic peptide mixture Cerebrolysin (Cbl) has the ability of improving synaptic functioning and reducing amyloid deposition in a transgenic (tg) animal model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Since in AD, potentially toxic Abeta aggregates accumulate not only around neurons but also in the blood vessels, then it is important to investigate whether bioactive compounds such as Cbl might have the capacity to ameliorate the age-related cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) in tg models. To this end, tg mice expressing mutant human amyloid precursor protein (APP) under the Thy1 promoter were treated with Cbl or saline alone starting at 7 or 12 months of age for a total of three months. Neuropathological analysis with an antibody against Abeta showed that Cbl decreased amyloid deposition around the blood vessels in a time dependent manner. These effects were accompanied by a reduction in perivascular microgliosis and astrogliosis and increased expression of markers of vascular fitness such as CD31 and ZO-1. No lymphocytic infiltration was observed associated with Abeta in the vessels. Consistent with these findings, ultrastructural analysis showed that while in tg mice treated with saline alone there was an abundant accumulation of amyloid fibers in the vascular wall accompanied by thickening of the basal membrane and endothelial cell damage, in Cbl-treated mice there was considerable reduction in the subcellular alterations of endothelial and smooth muscle cells with preservation of basal membranes and intercellular junctions. Taken together, these results suggest that Cbl treatment might have beneficial effects in patients with cognitive impairment due to cerebrovascular amyloidosis by reducing Abeta accumulation and promoting the preservation of the cerebrovasculature.
We used cerebral cortex injections of fluorocitrate to determine if selective astrocytic disturbances affect the electroencephalogram (EEG). Rats were halothane-anaesthetized and 0.8 nmol of sodium fluorocitrate was injected into hindlimb (motor-sensory) cortex. Extra-dural EEG electrodes were implanted after which the anaesthesia was ceased. EEG was recorded at 1, 3, 5, 7, 24 and 48 hours. There was a broad-band reduction in frequencies in the EEG between 20 and 100 Hz commencing within 1 hour of injection and largely restricted to the side of injection and to frontal cortex, and maximal at 3 hours. Halothane had a suppressive effect on gamma power after citrate injection, but also prevented EEG suppression caused by fluorocitrate, consistent with the hypothesis that some of the action of fluorocitrate depended on gap-junctions. The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that primary astroglial dysfunction leads to reduced neuronal transmission and further supports gap-junctions as mediating fluorocitrate-induced astroglial effects.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) is constitutively expressed in primary cultures of rat microglia, the main population of brain resident macrophages, and its ligand-dependent activation leads to the repression of several microglial functions. A few non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), e.g. indomethacin and ibuprofen, show PPAR-gamma agonistic properties. It has been proposed that PPAR-gamma activation contributes to the potential benefits of the long-term use of certain NSAIDs in delaying the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previous data have shown that the NSAID HCT1026 [2-fluoro-alpha-methyl(1,1'-biphenyl)4-acetic acid-4-(nitrooxy)butyl ester], a derivative of flurbiprofen which releases nitric oxide (NO), reduces the number of reactive microglial cells in a variety of models. This evidence together with the chemical analogy with ibuprofen led us to investigate whether flurbiprofen and HCT1026 interact with PPAR-gamma and interfere with microglial activation. We found that a low concentration (1 microm) of HCT1026, but not flurbiprofen, activated PPAR-gamma in primary cultures of rat microglia, with kinetics similar to those of the synthetic agonist ciglitazone. The PPAR-gamma antagonist GW9662 (2-chloro-5-nitrobenzanilide) prevented the activation of PPAR-gamma by HCT1026. Interestingly, unlike other NSAIDs that activate PPAR-gamma at concentrations higher than those required for cyclooxygenase inhibition, HCT1026 activated PPAR-gamma and inhibited prostaglandin E2 synthesis at the same low concentration (1 microm). The results suggest that HCT1026 may exert additional anti-inflammatory actions through PPAR-gamma activation, allowing a more effective control of microglial activation and brain inflammation.
Acute cocaine administration increases extraneuronal dopamine and Thr34 phosphorylation of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein (M(r) 32 kDa; DARPP-32) in striatal and cortical areas. Novel palatable food consumption increases extraneuronal dopamine in the same areas. We examined the DARPP-32 phosphorylation pattern in food non-deprived rats at different times after vanilla sugar consumption. The phosphorylation state of DARPP-32 and two cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) substrates, GluR1 and NR1, were detected by immunoblotting. Thirty to 45 min after vanilla sugar consumption, phospho-Thr34 DARPP-32, GluR1 and NR1 levels increased in the nucleus accumbens, and phospho-Thr75 DARPP-32 levels decreased. At 60 min, all parameters returned to baseline values. However, 2 and 3 h after vanilla sugar consumption, phospho-Thr34 DARPP-32 levels decreased, while phospho-Thr75 DARPP-32 levels increased. In contrast to the pattern observed in the NAcS, no delayed changes in DARPP-32 phosphorylation were observed in the mPFC. Both early and delayed DARPP-32, GluR1 and NR1 phosphorylation changes were prevented by a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist administration. The delayed modifications in nucleus accumbens DARPP-32 phosphorylation were prevented by an mGluR5 antagonist administration. The mesolimbic dopaminergic response to an unfamiliar taste is correlated to a gustatory memory trace development, and the observed changes in DARPP-32 phosphorylation may be part of this process.
Recent studies implicating the Rho family of small G proteins in the regulation of neuronal morphology have focused attention on identifying key components of Rho signaling pathways in neurons. To this end, we have conducted studies aimed at defining the localization and function of Tech, a Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) family member that is highly enriched in brain. We have found that Tech is selectively expressed in cortical and hippocampal neurons with prominent Tech immunostaining apparent in the cell bodies and dendrites of these cells. In vitro studies with prototypical members of the major Rho subfamilies, RhoA, Rac1 and Cdc42, indicate that Tech binds selectively to and activates RhoA. To assess whether Tech may be involved in the regulation of neuronal morphology, we examined the effects of Tech constructs on the morphology of cortical neurons grown in primary culture. We found that a constitutively active Tech construct, Tech 245DeltaC, decreases the number of dendritic processes present on these neurons. This reduction appears to be mediated by activation of RhoA as it is blocked by insertion of a point mutation into the DH domain of Tech which blocks its ability to activate RhoA or coexpression of a dominant negative RhoA construct. As Tech protein levels increase during post-natal development and remain at peak levels into adulthood, these results indicate that Tech regulates RhoA signaling pathways in developing and mature forebrain neurons.
Methamphetamine causes persistent damage to dopamine nerve endings of the striatum. Repeated, intermittent treatment of mice with low doses of methamphetamine leads to the development of tolerance to its neurotoxic effects. The mechanisms underlying tolerance are not understood but clearly involve more than alterations in drug bioavailability or reductions in the hyperthermia caused by methamphetamine. Microglia have been implicated recently as mediators of methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. The purpose of the present studies was to determine if a tolerance regimen of methamphetamine would attenuate the microglial response to a neurotoxic challenge. Mice treated with a low-dose methamphetamine tolerance regimen showed minor reductions in striatal dopamine content and low levels of microglial activation. When the tolerance regimen preceded a neurotoxic challenge of methamphetamine, the depletion of dopamine normally seen was significantly attenuated. The microglial activation that occurs after a toxic methamphetamine challenge was blunted likewise. Despite the induction of tolerance against drug-induced toxicity and microglial activation, a neurotoxic challenge with methamphetamine still caused hyperthermia. These results suggest that tolerance to methamphetamine neurotoxicity is associated with attenuated microglial activation and they further dissociate its neurotoxicity from drug-induced hyperthermia.
In a newly established model of unilateral, irradiation (IR)-induced injury we compared the outcome after IR to the immature and juvenile brain, using rats at postnatal days 9 or 23, respectively. We demonstrate that (i) the immature brains contained more progenitors in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and subgranular zone (SGZ) compared with the juvenile brains; (ii) cellular injury, as judged by activation of caspase 3 and p53, as well as nitrotyrosine formation, was more pronounced in the SVZ and SGZ in the immature brains 6 h after IR; (iii) the number of progenitor and immature cells in the SVZ and SGZ decreased 6 h and 7 days post-IR, corresponding to acute and subacute effects in humans, respectively, these effects were more pronounced in immature brains; (iv) myelination was impaired after IR at both ages, and much more pronounced after IR to immature brains; (v) the IR-induced changes remained significant for at least 10 weeks, corresponding to late effects in humans, and were most pronounced after IR to immature brains. It appears that IR induces both an acute loss of progenitors through apoptosis and a perturbed microenvironment incompatible with normal proliferation and differentiation, and that this is more pronounced in the immature brain.
The anti-Parkinsonian effect of glutamate metabotropic group 5 (mGluR5) and adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists is believed to result from their ability to postsynaptically control the responsiveness of the indirect pathway that is hyperfunctioning in Parkinson's disease. mGluR5 and A(2A) antagonists are also neuroprotective in brain injury models involving glutamate excitotoxicity. Thus, we hypothesized that the anti-Parkinsonian and neuroprotective effects of A(2A) and mGluR5 receptors might be related to their control of striatal glutamate release that actually triggers the indirect pathway. The A(2A) agonist, CGS21680 (1-30 nM) facilitated glutamate release from striatal nerve terminals up to 57%, an effect prevented by the A(2A) antagonist, SCH58261 (50 nM). The mGluR5 agonist, CHPG (300-600 mum) also facilitated glutamate release up to 29%, an effect prevented by the mGluR5 antagonist, MPEP (10 microm). Both mGluR5 and A(2A) receptors were located in the active zone and 57 +/- 6% of striatal glutamatergic nerve terminals possessed both A(2A) and mGluR5 receptors, suggesting a presynaptic functional interaction. Indeed, submaximal concentrations of CGS21680 (1 nM) and CHPG (100 microm) synergistically facilitated glutamate release and the facilitation of glutamate release by 10 nM CGS21680 was prevented by 10 microm MPEP, whereas facilitation by 300 microm CHPG was prevented by 10 nM SCH58261. These results provide the first direct evidence that A(2A) and mGluR5 receptors are co-located in more than half of the striatal glutamatergic terminals where they facilitate glutamate release in a synergistic manner. This emphasizes the role of the modulation of glutamate release as a likely mechanism of action of these receptors both in striatal neuroprotection and in Parkinson's disease.
Gene expression in archived frozen sural nerve biopsies of patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) was compared to that in vasculitic nerve biopsies (VAS) and to normal nerve (NN) by DNA microarray technology. Hierarchical clustering analysis demonstrated distinct gene expression patterns distinguishing these disease groups. Of particular interest were: (1) Tachykinin precursor 1, which may be involved in pain mediation; (2) Stearoyl-CoA-desaturase, which may be a marker for remyelination and (3) the Allograft Inflammatory Factor 1 (AIF-1), a modulator of immune response during macrophage activation. Differential gene expression may help distinguish between CIDP, VAS and NN in sural nerve biopsies and identify genes that may be involved in disease pathogenesis.
Neurological sequela of chronic Lyme disease include encephalopathy, myelopathy and peripheral neuropathy. These have generally been attributed to either persistent infection or pathogen-induced autoimmunity. In this study, we investigated the presence of cross-reactive human neural epitopes that share amino acid sequences with Borrelia burgdorferi OspA protein. Sequence similarity analysis was carried out by searching known cDNA sequences from brain tissue. The cDNA database search yielded three sequences that were identical to sequences in OspA. Corresponding peptides were synthesized and antibodies were generated against them in rabbits. Antibodies against two of the homologous OspA peptides were found to react with neurons in human brain, spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia by immunohistochemistry.
Pro and active-matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) was measured in sera from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Guillain-Barre syndome (GBS), and healthy subjects. Both forms of MMP-9 were elevated in sera of ALS and GBS patients, compared with healthy controls. It has been postulated that elevated MMP-9 reflects damage to peripheral nerve and muscle. This possibility was investigated in sera, and tissue extracts of sciatic nerves and muscle from mice 5 and 12 days after axotomy of the sciatic nerve. Pro-MMP-9 was elevated in sera and extracts of damaged nerve and muscle, suggesting such damage may be followed by elevated pro-MM9-9 in sera. Active MMP-9 was only elevated in the sera. However, in situ activation of MMP-9 is tightly regulated and localised, and probably difficult to demonstrate by ELISA, resulting in a short half-life active MMP-9, implying any active MMP-9 in the serum may have a more immediate origin than injured muscle or nerve, for example circulating blood cells.
Interleukin (IL)-10 is an anti-inflammatory cytokine that can down-regulate various aspects of the immune response. In this study we demonstrate that exposure to a psychophysiological stressor (swim stress) increases IL-10 production in female rats in response to an in vivo challenge with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). This increase in LPS-induced IL-10 was associated with suppression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta and TNF-alpha, indicating that overall, swim stress promotes an immunosuppressive cytokine phenotype. Despite the well-documented ability of IL-10 to suppress pro-inflammatory cytokine production, neutralisation of IL-10 failed to block the stress-induced suppression of IL-1beta and TNF-alpha. These data indicate that the suppressive effect of swim stress on these pro-inflammatory cytokines occurs independently of increased IL-10 production. To determine if swim stress-induced immunosuppression was mediated by increased sympathetic nervous system activity, and subsequent beta-adrenoceptor activation, we assessed the ability of the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist nadolol to block stressor-induced changes in cytokine production. Whilst pre-treatment with nadolol completely blocked the stress-induced increase in IL-10, it failed to alter the suppression of TNF-alpha or IL-1beta. Similarly, pre-treatment with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone also failed to attenuate the suppressive effect of swim stress on IL-1beta and TNF-alpha production. These data indicate that neither increased glucocorticoid secretion, nor catecholamine-induced beta-adrenoceptor activation, mediates the suppressive effect of swim stress on pro-inflammatory cytokine production. Taken together, these data demonstrate a role for beta-adrenoceptor activation in the ability of acute swim stress to increase LPS-induced IL-10 production, and also highlight a mechanistic dissociation between the ability of swim stress to increase IL-10 and suppress pro-inflammatory cytokine production.

Reduced cerebrovascular reactivity has been reported in patients with cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), and the measurement has been suggested as a useful surrogate marker of disease progression. Previous studies have not determined whether cerebral autoregulation is also impaired. We measured dynamic cerebral autoregulation and carbon dioxide reactivity in 24 nondemented CADASIL patients and 20 controls, using transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD). No impairment in either measure was found in the CADASIL group. We conclude that either cerebrovascular reactivity and autoregulation are not impaired in early disease, or that TCD may not be a sufficiently sensitive tool to detect haemodynamic changes in early disease. TCD is unlikely to be useful for disease monitoring in patients without advanced disease.

The aim of the present study was to assess the usefulness of positron emission tomography (PET) as a surrogate endpoint by analysing the uptake variability of 11C-methionine (MET) in follow-up scans.A total of 96 PET MET scans were re-evaluated in 32 patients with histologically confirmed supratentorial grade 2 gliomas. In untreated patients, all follow-up PET scans showed an increased tumour volume after median 68 weeks, but only 46% of cases had an increased hot spot uptake. An improved outcome was observed in patients with stable hot spot uptake per se (P = 0.07) and in combinations with minor increase in tumour volume (P = 0.02). After conventional therapy, 52% of PET scans showed a reduced hot spot uptake the first year and 43% were reduced after more than a year. Successful MET decline after therapy did not correlate with outcome. PET MET may be a promising surrogate endpoint after treatment of grade 2 gliomas. Evaluation of both hot spot activity and uptake volume on PET may strengthen the association with clinical outcome.
A myelin-associated neurite outgrowth inhibitor, Nogo-A, plays a key role in inhibition of axonal regeneration following injury and ischemia in the central nervous system (CNS). Because axonal injury is a pathologic hallmark of multiple sclerosis (MS), we have investigated the expression of Nogo-A and its receptor NgR in four MS and 12 non-MS control brains by immunohistochemistry. Nogo-A expression was markedly upregulated in surviving oligodendrocytes at the edge of chronic active demyelinating lesions of MS and ischemic lesions of acute and old cerebral infarction, whereas NgR expression was greatly enhanced in reactive astrocytes and microglia/macrophages in these lesions when compared with their expression in the brains of neurologically normal controls. Nogo-A and NgR were also identified in a subpopulation of neurons. In contrast, Nogo-A was undetectable in reactive astrocytes and microglia/macrophages and NgR was not expressed on oligodendrocytes in any cases examined. Western blot analysis and double labeling immunocytochemistry identified the constitutive expression of NgR in cultured human astrocytes. These results suggest that Nogo-A expressed on oligodendrocytes might interact with NgR presented by reactive astrocytes and microglia/macrophages in active demyelinating lesions of MS, although biologic effects caused by Nogo-A/NgR interaction among glial cells remain unknown.
