
Recent advances in neuroscience and immunology have revealed a bidirectional interaction between the nervous and immune systems. Therefore, the gastrointestinal tract may be modulated by neuro-immune interactions, but little information about this interaction is available. Intrinsic and extrinsic primary afferent neurons play an important role in this interaction because of their abilities to sense, process and transmit various information in the intestinal microenvironment. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is exclusively contained in intrinsic and extrinsic primary afferent neurons in the mouse intestine. Therefore, we investigated CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibers in the colonic mucosa of mice induced to develop food allergy. CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibers were specifically increased with the development of food allergy, and the fibers were juxtaposed to mucosal mast cells in the colonic mucosa of food allergy mice. Denervation of the extrinsic afferent neurons using neonatal capsaicin treatment did not affect the development of food allergy or the density and distribution of CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibers in the colonic mucosa of food allergy mice. Furthermore, the mRNA and plasma level of CGRP was increased in food allergy mice. These results suggest that the activation of intrinsic primary afferent neurons in the intestine contributes to the development and pathology of food allergy.
Synucleins are a family of presynaptic membrane binding proteins. -Synuclein, the principal member of this family, is mutated in familial Parkinson disease. To gain insight into the molecular functions of synucleins, we performed an unbiased proteomic screen and identified synaptic protein changes in -synuclein knock-out brains. We observed increases in the levels of select membrane curvature sensing/generating proteins. One of the most prominent changes was for the N-BAR protein endophilin A1. Here we demonstrate that the levels of synucleins and endophilin A1 are reciprocally regulated and that they are functionally related. We show that all synucleins can robustly generate membrane curvature similar to endophilins. However, only monomeric but not tetrameric -synuclein can bend membranes. Further, A30P -synuclein, a Parkinson disease mutant that disrupts protein folding, is also deficient in this activity. This suggests that synucleins generate membrane curvature through the asymmetric insertion of their N-terminal amphipathic helix. Based on our findings, we propose to include synucleins in the class of amphipathic helix-containing proteins that sense and generate membrane curvature. These results advance our understanding of the physiological function of synucleins.
Play fighting in the rat involves attack and defense of the nape of the neck, which if contacted, is gently nuzzled with the snout. Because the movements of one animal are countered by the actions of its partner, play fighting is a complex, dynamic interaction. This dynamic complexity raises methodological problems about what to score for experimental studies. We present a scoring schema that is sensitive to the correlated nature of the actions performed. The frequency of play fighting can be measured by counting the number of playful nape attacks occurring per unit time. However, playful defense, as it can only occur in response to attack, is necessarily a contingent measure that is best measured as a percentage (#attacks defended/total # attacks X 100%). How a particular attack is defended against can involve one of several tactics, and these are contingent on defense having taken place; consequently, the type of defense is also best expressed contingently as a percentage. Two experiments illustrate how these measurements can be used to detect the effect of brain damage on play fighting even when there is no effect on overall playfulness. That is, the schema presented here is designed to detect and evaluate changes in the content of play following an experimental treatment.
The six-transmembrane protein glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase 2 (GDE2) induces spinal motor neuron differentiation by inhibiting Notch signaling in adjacent motor neuron progenitors. GDE2 function requires activity of its extracellular domain that shares homology with glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterases (GDPDs). GDPDs metabolize glycerophosphodiesters into glycerol-3-phosphate and corresponding alcohols, but whether GDE2 inhibits Notch signaling by this mechanism is unclear. Here, we show that GDE2, unlike classical GDPDs, cleaves glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchors. GDE2 GDPD activity inactivates the Notch activator RECK (reversion-inducing cysteine-rich protein with kazal motifs) by releasing it from the membrane through GPI-anchor cleavage. RECK release disinhibits ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase) protease-dependent shedding of the Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1), leading to Notch inactivation. This study identifies a previously unrecognized mechanism to initiate neurogenesis that involves GDE2-mediated surface cleavage of GPI-anchored targets to inhibit Dll1-Notch signaling.


Stem and/or progenitor cells often generate distinct cell types in a stereotyped birth order and over time lose competence to specify earlier-born fates by unknown mechanisms. In Drosophila, the Hunchback transcription factor acts in neural progenitors (neuroblasts) to specify early-born neurons, in part by indirectly inducing the neuronal transcription of its target genes, including the hunchback gene. We used in vivo immuno-DNA FISH and found that the hunchback gene moves to the neuroblast nuclear periphery, a repressive subnuclear compartment, precisely when competence to specify early-born fate is lost and several hours and cell divisions after termination of its transcription. hunchback movement to the lamina correlated with downregulation of the neuroblast nuclear protein, Distal antenna (Dan). Either prolonging Dan expression or disrupting lamina interfered with hunchback repositioning and extended neuroblast competence. We propose that neuroblasts undergo a developmentally regulated subnuclear genome reorganization to permanently silence Hunchback target genes that results in loss of progenitor competence.
The structural and functional fusion of the surface of the dental implant with the surrounding bone (osseointegration) is crucial for the short and long term outcome of the device. In recent years, the enhancement of bone formation at the bone-implant interface has been achieved through the modulation of osteoblasts adhesion and spreading, induced by structural modifications of the implant surface, particularly at the nanoscale level. In this context, traditional chemical and physical processes find new applications to achieve the best dental implant technology. This review provides an overview of the most common manufacture techniques and the related cells-surface interactions and modulation. A Medline and a hand search were conducted to identify studies concerning nanostructuration of implant surface and their related biological interaction. In this paper, we stressed the importance of the modifications on dental implant surfaces at the nanometric level. Nowadays, there is still little evidence of the long-term benefits of nanofeatures, as the promising results achieved in vitro and in animals have still to be confirmed in humans. However, the increasing interest in nanotechnology is undoubted and more research is going to be published in the coming years.

The purpose of this report is to summarize the roles of alcohol and tobacco exposure in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Chronic heavy alcohol exposure is a major risk factor for HCC, which is the most frequent type of liver cancer. Alcohol ingestion may initiate and or promote the development of HCC by: 1) acetaldehyde-DNA adduct formation; 2) cytochrome P4502E1-associated reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation , lipid peroxidation, p53 mutation, and conversion of pro-carcinogens to carcinogens; 3) iron accumulation that leads to ROS generation, lipid peroxidation, p53 mutation, and initiation of inflammatory cascade via nuclear factor-KappaB (NF-kB) activation; 4) glutathione depletion leading to oxidative stress; 5) s-adenosylmethionine (SAM) depletion and associated DNA hypomethylation of oncogenes ; 6) retinoic acid depletion and resultant hepatocyte proliferation via up-regulation of activator protein-1 (AP-1); 7) initiating an inflammatory cascade through increased transfer of endotoxin from intestine to liver, Kupffer cell activation via CD14/toll-like receptor-4 (TLR-4), oxidative stress, NF-kB or early growth response-1(Egr-1) activation, and generation of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines; 8) induction of liver fibrosis; and 9) decreasing the number and/or function of natural killer cells. Tobacco exposure is also a risk factor for HCC. It may contribute to the initiation and promotion of HCC due the presence of mutagenic and carcinogenic compounds as well as by causing oxidative stress due to generation of ROS and depletion of endogenous antioxidants. Simultaneous exposure to alcohol and tobacco is expected to promote the development of HCC in an additive and/or synergistic manner.

Long-term potentiation (LTP), a well-characterized form of synaptic plasticity, has long been postulated as a cellular correlate of learning and memory. Although LTP can persist for long periods of time, the mechanisms underlying LTP maintenance, in the midst of ongoing protein turnover and synaptic activity, remain elusive. Sustained activation of the brain-specific protein kinase C (PKC) isoform protein kinase M- (PKM-) has been reported to be necessary for both LTP maintenance and long-term memory. Inhibiting PKM- activity using a synthetic zeta inhibitory peptide (ZIP) based on the PKC- pseudosubstrate sequence reverses established LTP in vitro and in vivo. More notably, infusion of ZIP eliminates memories for a growing list of experience-dependent behaviours, including active place avoidance, conditioned taste aversion, fear conditioning and spatial learning. However, most of the evidence supporting a role for PKM- in LTP and memory relies heavily on pharmacological inhibition of PKM- by ZIP. To further investigate the involvement of PKM- in the maintenance of LTP and memory, we generated transgenic mice lacking PKC- and PKM-. We find that both conventional and conditional PKC-/PKM- knockout mice show normal synaptic transmission and LTP at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses, and have no deficits in several hippocampal-dependent learning and memory tasks. Notably, ZIP still reverses LTP in PKC-/PKM- knockout mice, indicating that the effects of ZIP are independent of PKM-.

The serotonin transporter (SERT), a primary target for many antidepressants, is expressed in the brain and also in peripheral blood cells. Although platelet SERT function is well accepted, lymphocyte SERT function has not been definitively characterized. Due to their small size, platelets often are found in peripheral blood mononuclear cell preparations aimed at isolating lymphocytes, monocytes, and macrophages. The presence of different cells makes it difficult to assign SERT expression and function to specific cell types. Here, we use flow cytometry and IDT307, a monoamine transporter substrate that fluoresces after uptake into cells, to investigate SERT function in lymphocyte and platelet populations independently, as well as simultaneously without prior isolation. We find that murine lymphocytes exhibit temperature-dependent IDT307 transport but uptake is independent of SERT. Lack of measurable SERT function in lymphocytes was corroborated by chronoamperometry using serotonin as a substrate. When we examined rhesus and human mixed blood cell populations, we found that platelets, and not lymphocytes, were primary contributors to SERT function. Overall, these findings indicate that lymphocyte SERT function is minimal. Moreover, flow cytometry, in conjunction with the fluorescent transporter substrate IDT307, can be widely applied to investigate SERT in platelets from populations of clinical significance.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a model of sensorimotor gating, a sensory filtering mechanism which is disrupted in schizophrenia. Here, investigation of the role of the serotonin-1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor in the regulation of PPI in two mouse strains, C57Bl/6 and Balb/c, was used to address findings in the PPI literature on species and mouse strain differences that question the usefulness of PPI as a cross-species preclinical test. Although the full 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT, induced markedly different strain-specific responses in PPI, other selective 5-HT(1A) receptor ligands with partial agonist or antagonist activity elicited similar effects across strains. Pretreatment with the serotonin precursor, 5-HTP, to increase serotonergic activity in the brain, unmasked a decrease in PPI caused by 8-OH-DPAT in C57Bl/6 mice. Pretreatment with the serotonin synthesis inhibitor, PCPA, to decrease serotonergic activity in the brain, unmasked an 8-OH-DPAT-induced increase in PPI in this strain. These studies show that the strain-dependent involvement of 5-HT(1A) receptors in PPI can be modulated by the type of 5-HT(1A) ligand used, or increasing or decreasing serotonin levels in the brain. These results help to clarify some of the mouse strain and species differences in PPI regulation and strengthen its usefulness as a cross-species measure of sensorimotor gating.
The complexities of the involvement of the serotonin transmitter system in numerous biological processes and psychiatric disorders is, to a substantial degree, attributable to the large number of serotonin receptor families and subtypes that have been identified and characterized for over four decades. Of these, the 5-HT(1A) receptor subtype, which was the first to be cloned and characterized, has received considerable attention based on its purported role in the etiology and treatment of mood and anxiety disorders. 5-HT(1A) receptors function both at presynaptic (autoreceptor) and postsynaptic (heteroreceptor) sites. Recent research has implicated distinct roles for these two populations of receptors in mediating emotion-related behavior. New concepts as to how 5-HT(1A) receptors function to control serotonergic tone throughout life were highlights of the proceedings of the 2012 Serotonin Club Meeting in Montpellier, France. Here, we review recent findings and current perspectives on functional aspects of 5-HT(1A) auto- and heteroreceptors with particular regard to their involvement in altered anxiety and mood states.
In over 100 neuroscience genetics reports on SLC6A4 published in the first part of 2012, &gt;40% reported data from genotyping only the serotonin transporter-linked promoter region [5HTTLPR] indel, omitting genotyping of two nearby SNPs that substantially alter 5HTTLPR allele frequencies and functionality. And 25% of these papers did not report ethnicity of the subjects genotyped, another factor that alters allele frequencies. This field thus seems stultified. Improved science for the present and future will be better served by attention to more complete methods for genotyping and subject sample reporting.
Theoretical models of social learning predict that animals should copy others in variable environments where resource availability is relatively unpredictable. Although short-term exposure to unpredictable conditions in adulthood has been shown to encourage social learning, virtually nothing is known concerning whether and how developmental conditions affect social information use. Unpredictable food availability increases levels of the stress hormone corticosterone (CORT). In birds, CORT can be transferred from the mother to her eggs, and have downstream behavioural effects. We tested how pre-natal CORT elevation through egg injection, and chick post-natal development in unpredictable food conditions, affected social information use in adult Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica). Pre-natal CORT exposure encouraged quail to copy the foraging decisions of demonstrators in video playbacks, whereas post-natal food unpredictability led individuals to avoid the demonstrated food source. An individual's exposure to stress and uncertainty during development can thus affect its use of social foraging information in adulthood. However, the stressor's nature and developmental timing determine whether an adult will tend to copy conspecifics or do the opposite. Developmental effects on social information use might thus help explain individual differences in social foraging tactics and leadership.
A focal stimulus triggers neural activity that spreads to cortical regions far beyond the stimulation site, creating a so-called &quot;cortical point spread&quot; (CPS). Animal studies found that V1 neurons possess lateral connections with neighboring neurons that prefer similar orientations and to neurons representing visuotopic regions that are constrained by their preferred orientation axis. Although various roles in visual processing are proposed for this anatomical anisotropy of lateral connections, evidence for a corresponding &quot;functional&quot; anisotropy in CPS is lacking or inconsistent in animal studies and absent in humans. To explore functional anisotropy, we inspected axial constraints on CPS in human visual cortex using functional magnetic resonance imaging. We defined receptive fields (RFs) of unit gray matter volumes and delineated the spatial extents of CPS in visuotopic space. The CPS triggered by foveal stimuli exhibited coaxial anisotropy with larger spatial extents along the axis of stimulus orientation. Furthermore, the spatial extents of CPS along the coaxial direction increased with an increasing similarity of local sites to the CPS-inducing stimulus in orientation preference. From CPS driven by multifocal stimuli, the coaxially biased spread was also found in cortical regions in the periphery, albeit reduced in degree, and was invariant to a varying degree of radial relationship between stimuli and RF positions of local sites, rejecting radial bias as an origin of coaxial anisotropy. Our findings provide a bridge between the anatomical anisotropy seen in animal visual cortex and a possible network property supporting spatial contextual effects in human visual perception.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) contributes to diverse types of plasticity, including cocaine addiction. We investigated the role of BDNF in the rat nucleus accumbens (NAc) in the incubation of cocaine craving over 3 months of withdrawal from extended access cocaine self-administration. First, we confirmed by immunoblotting that BDNF levels are elevated after this cocaine regimen on withdrawal day 45 (WD45) and showed that BDNF mRNA levels are not altered. Next, we explored the time course of elevated BDNF expression using immunohistochemistry. Elevation of BDNF in the NAc core was detected on WD45 and further increased on WD90, whereas elevation in shell was not detected until WD90. Surface expression of activated tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB) was also enhanced on WD90. Next, we used viral vectors to attenuate BDNF-TrkB signaling. Virus injection into the NAc core enhanced cue-induced cocaine seeking on WD1 compared with controls, whereas no effect was observed on WD30 or WD90. Attenuating BDNF-TrkB signaling in shell did not affect cocaine seeking on WD1 or WD45 but significantly decreased cocaine seeking on WD90. These results suggest that basal levels of BDNF transmission in the NAc core exert a suppressive effect on cocaine seeking in early withdrawal (WD1), whereas the late elevation of BDNF protein in NAc shell contributes to incubation in late withdrawal (WD90). Finally, BDNF protein levels in the NAc were significantly increased after ampakine treatment, supporting the novel hypothesis that the gradual increase of BDNF levels in NAc accompanying incubation could be caused by increased AMPAR transmission during withdrawal.
Signaling at NMDA receptors (NMDARs) is known to be important for memory reconsolidation, but while most studies show that NMDAR antagonists prevent memory restabilization and produce amnesia, others have shown that GluN2B-selective NMDAR antagonists prevent memory destabilization, protecting the memory. These apparently paradoxical, conflicting data provide an opportunity to define more precisely the requirement for different NMDAR subtypes in the mechanisms underlying memory reconsolidation and to further understand the contribution of glutamatergic signaling to this process. Here, using rats with fully consolidated pavlovian auditory fear memories, we demonstrate a double dissociation in the requirement for GluN2B-containing and GluN2A-containing NMDARs within the basolateral amygdala in the memory destabilization and restabilization processes, respectively. We further show a double dissociation in the mechanisms underlying memory retrieval and memory destabilization, since AMPAR antagonism prevented memory retrieval while still allowing the destabilization process to occur. These data demonstrate that glutamatergic signaling mechanisms within the basolateral amygdala differentially and dissociably mediate the retrieval, destabilization, and restabilization of previously consolidated fear memories.
Social norms in humans constrain individual behaviors to establish shared expectations within a social group. Previous work has probed social norm violations and the feelings that such violations engender; however, a computational rendering of the underlying neural and emotional responses has been lacking. We probed norm violations using a two-party, repeated fairness game (ultimatum game) where proposers offer a split of a monetary resource to a responder who either accepts or rejects the offer. Using a norm-training paradigm where subject groups are preadapted to either high or low offers, we demonstrate that unpredictable shifts in expected offers creates a difference in rejection rates exhibited by the two responder groups for otherwise identical offers. We constructed an ideal observer model that identified neural correlates of norm prediction errors in the ventral striatum and anterior insula, regions that also showed strong responses to variance-prediction errors generated by the same model. Subjective feelings about offers correlated with these norm prediction errors, and the two signals displayed overlapping, but not identical, neural correlates in striatum, insula, and medial orbitofrontal cortex. These results provide evidence for the hypothesis that responses in anterior insula can encode information about social norm violations that correlate with changes in overt behavior (changes in rejection rates). Together, these results demonstrate that the brain regions involved in reward prediction and risk prediction are also recruited in signaling social norm violations.
Although it is well documented that heavy consumption of alcohol during pregnancy impairs brain development, it remains controversial whether moderate consumption causes significant damage. Using a limited access, voluntary consumption paradigm, we recently demonstrated that moderate prenatal alcohol exposure (MPAE) is associated with dentate gyrus-dependent learning and memory deficits that are manifested in adulthood. Here, we identified a novel mechanism that may underlie this effect of MPAE. We found that MPAE mice exhibit deficits in NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) in the dentate gyrus. Further, using semiquantitative immunoblotting techniques, we found that the levels of GluN2B subunits were decreased in the synaptic membrane, while levels of C2'-containing GluN1 and GluN3A subunits were increased, in the dentate gyrus of MPAE mice. These data suggest that MPAE alters the subunit composition of synaptic NMDARs, leading to impaired NMDAR-dependent LTP in the dentate gyrus.
Adolescence in humans represents a unique developmental time point associated with increased risk-taking behavior and experimentation with drugs of abuse. We hypothesized that exposure to drugs of abuse during adolescence may increase the risk of addiction in adulthood. To test this, rats were treated with a subchronic regimen of morphine or saline in adolescence, and their preference for morphine was examined using conditioned place preference (CPP) and drug-induced reinstatement in adulthood. The initial preference for morphine did not differ between groups; however, rats treated with morphine during adolescence showed robust reinstatement of morphine CPP after drug re-exposure in adulthood. This effect was not seen in rats pretreated with a subchronic regimen of morphine as adults, suggesting that exposure to morphine specifically during adolescence increases the risk of relapse to drug-seeking behavior in adulthood. We have previously established a role for microglia, the immune cells of the brain, and immune molecules in the risk of drug-induced reinstatement of morphine CPP. Thus, we examined the role of microglia within the nucleus accumbens of these rats and determined that rats exposed to morphine during adolescence had a significant increase in Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) mRNA and protein expression specifically on microglia. Morphine binds to TLR4 directly, and this increase in TLR4 was associated with exaggerated morphine-induced TLR4 signaling and microglial activation in rats previously exposed to morphine during adolescence. These data suggest that long-term changes in microglial function, caused by adolescent morphine exposure, alter the risk of drug-induced reinstatement in adulthood.

Slower postnatal growth is an important predictor of adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes in infants born preterm. However, the relationship between postnatal growth and cortical development remains largely unknown. Therefore, we examined the association between neonatal growth and diffusion tensor imaging measures of microstructural cortical development in infants born very preterm. Participants were 95 neonates born between 24 and 32 weeks gestational age studied twice with diffusion tensor imaging: scan 1 at a median of 32.1 weeks (interquartile range, 30.4 to 33.6) and scan 2 at a median of 40.3 weeks (interquartile range, 38.7 to 42.7). Fractional anisotropy and eigenvalues were recorded from 15 anatomically defined cortical regions. Weight, head circumference, and length were recorded at birth and at the time of each scan. Growth between scans was examined in relation to diffusion tensor imaging measures at scans 1 and 2, accounting for gestational age, birth weight, sex, postmenstrual age, known brain injury (white matter injury, intraventricular hemorrhage, and cerebellar hemorrhage), and neonatal illness (patent ductus arteriosus, days intubated, infection, and necrotizing enterocolitis). Impaired weight, length, and head growth were associated with delayed microstructural development of the cortical gray matter (fractional anisotropy: P &lt; 0.001), but not white matter (fractional anisotropy: P = 0.529), after accounting for prenatal growth, neonatal illness, and brain injury. Avoiding growth impairment during neonatal care may allow cortical development to proceed optimally and, ultimately, may provide an opportunity to reduce neurological disabilities related to preterm birth.

A major side effect of insulin treatment of diabetes is weight gain, which limits patient compliance and may pose additional health risks. Although the mechanisms responsible for this weight gain are poorly understood, it has been suggested that there may be a link to the incidence of recurrent episodes of hypoglycemia. Here we present a rodent model of marked weight gain associated with weekly insulin-induced hypoglycemic episodes in the absence of diabetes. Insulin treatment caused a significant increase in both body weight and fat mass, accompanied by reduced motor activity, lowered thermogenesis in response to a cold challenge, and reduced brown fat uncoupling protein mRNA. However, there was no effect of insulin treatment on total food intake nor on hypothalamic neuropeptide Y or proopiomelanocortin mRNA expression, and insulin-treated animals did not become insulin-resistant. Our results suggest that repeated iatrogenic hypoglycemia leads to weight gain, and that such weight gain is associated with a multifaceted deficit in metabolic regulation rather than to a chronic increase in caloric intake.
Increased plasma osmolality elevates mean arterial pressure (MAP) through activation of the sympathetic nervous system, but the neurotransmitters released in the spinal cord to regulate MAP during osmotic stress remain unresolved. Glutamatergic neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla project to sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord and are likely activated during conditions of osmotic stress; however, this has not been examined in conscious rats. This study investigated whether increased MAP during chronic osmotic stress depends on activation of spinal glutamate receptors. Rats were chronically instrumented with an indwelling intrathecal (i.t.) catheter for antagonist delivery to the spinal cord and a radiotelemetry transmitter for continuous monitoring of MAP and heart rate. Osmotic stress induced by 48 h of water deprivation (WD) increased MAP by ~15 mmHg. Intrathecal kynurenic acid, a nonspecific antagonist of ionotropic glutamate receptors, decreased MAP significantly more after 48 h of WD compared with the water-replete state. Water-deprived rats also showed a greater fall in MAP in response to i.t. 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. Finally, i.t. kynurenic acid also decreased MAP more in an osmotically driven model of neurogenic hypertension, the DOCA-salt rat, compared with normotensive controls. Our results suggest that spinally released glutamate mediates increased MAP during 48-h WD and DOCA-salt hypertension.
In humans neural control of arterial vessels supplying skin in the extremities is particularly vulnerable to the effects of diabetes. Here the streptozotocin (STZ) rat model of type 1 diabetes was used to compare effects on neurovascular function in plantar metatarsal arteries (PMAs), which supply blood to skin of hind paw digits, with those in mesenteric arteries (MAs). Twelve weeks after STZ (60 mg/kg ip), wire myography was used to assess vascular function. In PMAs, lumen dimensions were unchanged but both nerve-evoked contractions and sensitivity to (1) (phenylephrine, methoxamine)- and (2) (clonidine)-adrenoceptor agonists were reduced. The density of perivascular nerve fibers was also reduced by ~25%. These changes were not observed in PMAs from STZ-treated rats receiving either a low dose of insulin that did not greatly reduce blood glucose levels or a high dose of insulin that markedly reduced blood glucose levels. In MAs from STZ-treated rats, nerve-evoked increases in force did not differ from control but, because lumen dimensions were ~20% larger, nerve-evoked increases in effective transmural pressure were smaller. Increases in effective transmural pressure produced by phenylephrine or ,-methylene ATP in MAs from STZ-treated rats were not smaller than control, but the density of perivascular nerve fibers was reduced by ~10%. In MAs, the increase in vascular dimensions is primarily responsible for reducing effectiveness of nerve-evoked constrictions. By contrast, in PMAs decreases in both the density of perivascular nerve fibers and the reactivity of the vascular muscle appear to explain impairment of neurovascular transmission.
Microdialysis (MD) is a useful sampling tool for many applications due to its ability to permit sampling from an animal concurrent with normal activity. MD is of particular importance in the field of neuroscience, in which it is used to sample neurotransmitters (NTs) while the animal is behaving in order to correlate dynamic changes in NTs with behavior. One important class of signaling molecules, the neuropeptides (NPs), however, presented significant challenges when studied with MD, due to the low relative recovery (RR) of NPs by this technique. Affinity-enhanced microdialysis (AE-MD) has previously been used to improve recovery of NPs and similar molecules. For AE-MD, an affinity agent (AA), such as an antibody-coated particle or free antibody, is added to the liquid perfusing the MD probe. This AA provides an additional mass transport driving force for analyte to pass through the dialysis membrane and thus increases the RR. In this work, a variety of AAs have been investigated for AE-MD of NPs in vitro and in vivo, including particles with C18 surface functionality and antibody-coated particles. Antibody-coated magnetic nanoparticles (AbMnP) provided the best RR enhancement in vitro, with statistically significant (p &lt; 0.05) enhancements for 4 out of 6 NP standards tested, and RR increases up to 41-fold. These particles were then used for in vivo MD in the Jonah crab, Cancer borealis, during a feeding study, with mass spectrometric (MS) detection. 31 NPs were detected in a 30 min collection sample, compared to 17 when no AA was used. The use of AbMnP also increased the temporal resolution from 4 to 18 h in previous studies to just 30 min in this study. The levels of NPs detected were also sufficient for reliable quantitation with the MS system in use, permitting quantitative analysis of the concentration changes for 7 identified NPs on a 30 min time course during feeding.
The contingent negative variation (CNV) is a slow negative shift in the electroencephalogram (EEG), observed during response preparation. To optimalize the CNV paradigm, this study developed a task using dynamic stimuli and next combined this task with a Go/No-go test. In the first experiment, 19 healthy volunteers were subjected to the classic Traffic light (TL) task and the new dynamic Lines task. In the Lines task, response time was faster and CNV amplitude was larger compared to the TL task. In the second experiment, 20 healthy participants were tested on a Go/No-go version of the Lines task. Response times increased as the probability of response requirement decreased. CNV amplitude was larger when probability of response requirement was higher. In conclusion, the dynamic task promotes response preparation. The new tasks may be especially valuable in groups with attention difficulties (i.e. elderly or ADHD patients).
Aim of the research was to evaluate, by means of quantitative and multivariate temporal pattern analyses, the behavior of Wistar rat in elevated plus maze (EPM) test. On the basis of an ethogram encompassing 24 behavioral elements, quantitative results showed that 130.14  8.01 behavioral elements occurred in central platform and in closed arms (protected zones), whereas 88.62  6.04 occurred in open arms (unprotected zones). Percent distribution was characterized by a prevalence of sniffing, walking and vertical exploration. Analysis of minute-by-minute duration evidenced a decrease for time spent in open arms and central platform and an increase for time spent in closed arms. As to multivariate t-pattern analysis, 126 different temporal patterns were detected. Behavioral stripes, summarizing distribution of such t-patterns along time, showed that several t-patterns were not homogeneously distributed along the test observational period: t-patterns encompassing behavioral events occurring prevalently in central platform-open arms were observed during the first minutes, whereas t-patterns structured on the basis of events occurring mainly in central platform-closed arms were detected during the last minutes. Therefore, during the observation in elevated plus maze, rat's behavior undergoes significant rearrangements of its temporal features. Present research demonstrates, for the first time, the existence of complex and significantly timed behavioral sequences in the activity of Wistar rats tested in elevated plus maze. Application of t-pattern analysis can provide useful tools to characterize the behavioral dynamics of anxiety-related rodent behavior and differentiate the effect of various anxioselective substances.
The entorhinal cortex (EC) is one of the most vulnerable brain regions that is affected by beta amyloid (A) in the early phases of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Calcium dyshomeostasis is one reason of A pathology and the role of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) in this phenomenon has not fully understood. In this study, we investigated the possible neuroprotective effect of CCBs, nimodipine and isradipine against amyloid pathogenesis in EC. The A 1-42 was injected bilaterally into the EC of male rats and spatial performance was assessed between 7 and 12 days after A injection by Morris water maze test. Animals were daily treated by injection of various doses of nimodipine or isradipine (both at 3, 10, or 30 g/2 l) or their vehicles into the lateral ventricle until the start of behavioral test. Lesion in EC was assessed by measuring some proteinases involved in calcium dependent apoptotic pathway (calpain 2, caspase 12 and 3). Despite normal performance in probe test, A treated rats showed delayed acquisition in a spatial reference memory task. A treated rats revealed delayed acquisition in reversal memory and had deficit in probe test. The observed impairments were attenuated by isradipine (10 and 30 g but not 3 g) and nimodipine (30 g). Calpain 2, caspase 12 and 3 were increased in the A treated animals which was partially antagonized by isradipine and nimodipine. It is concluded that CCBs might have beneficial therapeutic effects in AD especially in the early phases of this disease.
Maternal care plays an important role as an early modeler of neurodevelopment and brain function, and its effects remain until adulthood. Such modeling or programming has shown to influence the stress response and represents a key susceptibility factor in the development of mood disorders. In order to characterize such process which is still not clear, male offspring were classified in animals with low, medium and high licking/grooming (LG) according to the maternal behavior. Juvenile animals were subjected to the open field test (OFT) and the forced swimming test (FST), and offspring of low and high LG mothers were compared. Seven days after the FST, neurochemical and gene expression analyses were carried out in order to identify possible changes on relevant targets. Maternal care did determine locomotor behaviors in the OFT, supporting an anxiogenic effect of low maternal investment. This effect seems to be associated with the serotonergic systems in both nucleus accumbens (NAc) and hippocampus (HPC), since offspring of low LG mothers showed decreased 5-HT neurotransmission in those brain regions compared with animals of high LG mothers. Furthermore, TrkB expression was higher in offspring of high LG compared to the group of low LG mothers, supporting its influence as a mechanistic intermediate of such effect, at least in the NAc. Taken together, these findings strongly support the influence of differential maternal care on the neurodevelopment and responsivity of juvenile rats.
Apolipoprotein E, which plays an important role in lipid transport and metabolism and neuronal repair, might modulate the CNS risk following (56)Fe irradiation exposure during space missions. In this study, we investigated this risk by behavioral and cognitive testing male E2, E3, and E4 mice 3 months following cranial (56)Fe irradiation. In the open field, mice irradiated with 2 Gy showed higher activity levels than sham-irradiated mice or mice irradiated with 1 Gy. In addition, E2 mice showed higher activity and lower measures of anxiety than E3 and E4 mice in the open field and elevated zero maze. During hidden platform training, sham-irradiated mice showed most robust learning, 1 Gy irradiated mice reduced learning, and 2 Gy irradiated mice no improvement over the four sessions. In the water maze probe trials, sham-irradiated E2, E3, and E4 mice and E2 and E4 mice irradiated with 1 Gy showed spatial memory retention, but E3 mice irradiated with 1 Gy, and E2, E3, and E4 mice irradiated with 2 Gy did not. Thus, cranial (56)Fe irradiation increases activity levels in the open field and impairs spatial learning and memory in the water maze. E3 mice are more susceptible than E2 or E4 mice to impairments in spatial memory retention in the water maze, indicating that apoE isoform modulates the CNS risk following space missions.
Neural processes influenced by -aminobutyric acid B (GABA(B)) receptors appear to contribute to acute ethanol sensitivity, including the difference between lines of mice bred for extreme sensitivity (FAST) or insensitivity (SLOW) to the locomotor stimulant effect of ethanol. One goal of the current study was to determine whether selection of the FAST and SLOW lines resulted in changes in GABA(B) receptor function, since the lines differ in sensitivity to the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen and baclofen attenuates the stimulant response to ethanol in FAST mice. A second goal was to determine whether the baclofen-induced reduction in ethanol stimulation in FAST mice is associated with an attenuation of the mesolimbic dopamine response to ethanol. In Experiment 1, the FAST and SLOW lines were found to not differ in GABA(B) receptor function (measured by baclofen-stimulated [(35)S]GTPS binding) in whole brain or in several regional preparations, except in the striatum in one of the two replicate sets of selected lines. In Experiment 2, baclofen-induced attenuation of the locomotor stimulant response to ethanol in FAST mice was not accompanied by a reduction in dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens, as measured by microdialysis. These data suggest that, overall, GABA(B) receptor function does not play an integral role in the genetic difference in ethanol sensitivity between the FAST and SLOW lines. Further, although GABA(B) receptors do modulate the locomotor stimulant response to ethanol in FAST mice, this effect does not appear to be due to a reduction in tonic dopamine signaling in the nucleus accumbens.

A series of substituted pyridines, ether linked to a phenylpiperidine core were optimized for dual NK(1)/SERT affinity. Optimization based on NK(1)/SERT binding affinities, and minimization of off-target ion channel activity lead to the discovery of compound 44. In vivo evaluation of 44 in the gerbil forced swim test (a depression model), and ex-vivo NK(1)/SERT receptor occupancy data support the potential of a dual acting compound for the treatment of depression.

The Islands of Calleja are aggregations of granule cells located in the basal forebrain of most vertebrate species. These cellular aggregations are typically classified as consisting of a single island, the insula magna located adjacent to the nucleus accumbens, and numerous small islands scattered among the dorsal aspect of the olfactory tubercle. While these structures have been widely described in adult, comparatively little is known about their development. Islands are first identifiable at P2-P4 with formation of the Insula Magna and several small aggregations in the caudolateral aspect of the basal forebrain. The Insula Magna fully forms at approximately P4, with continued formation of the small islands through P10 in a caudal to rostral gradient. Historically, there has been controversy as to whether neurons in the islands are GABAergic, due to limitations in resolving immunolabeling for GABA in the densely packed islands. We investigated the neurochemical identity of island cells by exploiting transgenic reporter mice expressing green fluorescent protein under the control of the GAD65 promoter. This demonstrated that the majority of neurons in the Islands of Calleja are GABAergic, primarily utilizing GAD65. Interestingly, several calcium binding protein expressing interneuron classes are present in the postnatal islands, but disappear with maturation. These findings show that the SVZ derived progenitors that migrate to the Islands of Calleja form different lineages to those destined for the olfactory bulbs, despite generation of both populations at the same age/location in the SVZ.
The paraventricular thalamic nucleus (PVT) is a component of the midline thalamic group that is interconnected with several brain regions known to play important roles in the control of food intake, including the lateral hypothalamus and nucleus accumbens shell, suggesting that the PVT itself may be involved in mediating feeding behavior. In the current study, we examined whether inhibition of cells in the PVT with the GABA(A) agonist muscimol could alter food intake in non-deprived rats. To control for possible spread of the drug, we also observed food intake after injections of muscimol into the overlying ventricle or laterally adjacent mediodorsal thalamic nuclei (MD). We found that muscimol injections into the central PVT dose-dependently increased food intake. In contrast, intra-MD injections of muscimol resulted in a potent dose-dependent suppression of food intake, while those into the overlying ventricle had no effect. These results support the proposal that the PVT is a component of the neural circuitry controlling feeding behavior.
Here we use in toto imaging together with computational segmentation and analysis methods to quantify the shape of every cell at multiple stages in the development of a simple organ: the notochord of the ascidian Ciona savignyi. We find that cell shape in the intercalated notochord depends strongly on anterior-posterior (AP) position, with cells in the middle of the notochord consistently wider than cells at the anterior or posterior. This morphological feature of having a tapered notochord is present in many chordates. We find that ascidian notochord taper involves three main mechanisms: Planar Cell Polarity (PCP) pathway-independent sibling cell volume asymmetries that precede notochord cell intercalation; the developmental timing of intercalation, which proceeds from the anterior and posterior towards the middle; and the differential rates of notochord cell narrowing after intercalation. A quantitative model shows how the morphology of an entire developing organ can be controlled by this small set of cellular mechanisms.
Neural crest cells are highly migratory cells that give rise to many derivatives including peripheral ganglia, craniofacial structures and melanocytes. Neural crest cells migrate along defined pathways to their target sites, interacting with each other and their environment as they migrate. Cell adhesion molecules are critical during this process. In this review we discuss the expression and function of cell adhesion molecules during the process of neural crest migration, in particular cadherins, integrins, members of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell adhesion molecules, and the proteolytic enzymes that cleave these cell adhesion molecules. The expression and function of these cell adhesion molecules and proteases are compared across neural crest emigrating from different axial levels, and across different species of vertebrates.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) have unexpectedly diverse activities establishing different aspects of dorsal neural circuitry in the developing spinal cord. Our recent studies have shown that, in addition to spatially orienting dorsal commissural (dI1) axons, BMPs supply 'temporal' information to commissural axons to specify their rate of growth. This information ensures that commissural axons reach subsequent signals at particular times during development. However, it remains unresolved how commissural neurons specifically decode this activity of BMPs to result in their extending axons at a specific speed through the dorsal spinal cord. We have addressed this question by examining whether either of the type I BMP receptors (Bmpr), BmprIa and BmprIb, have a role controlling the rate of commissural axon growth. BmprIa and BmprIb exhibit a common function specifying the identity of dorsal cell fate in the spinal cord, whereas BmprIb alone mediates the ability of BMPs to orient axons. Here, we show that BmprIb, and not BmprIa, is additionally required to control the rate of commissural axon extension. We have also determined the intracellular effector by which BmprIb regulates commissural axon growth. We show that BmprIb has a novel role modulating the activity of the actin-severing protein cofilin. These studies reveal the mechanistic differences used by distinct components of the canonical Bmpr complex to mediate the diverse activities of the BMPs.

Modafinil is a wakefulness-promoting agent with possible beneficial effects for the management of addiction and in psychiatric conditions, but also with abuse potential of its own. The mechanism of action of modafinil remains unclear. We studied pharmacological mechanisms in the effect of modafinil on prepulse inhibition (PPI), a model of sensorimotor gating. Mice were tested in automated startle boxes after administration of modafinil and antagonist drugs. Oral administration of 100mg/kg of modafinil, but not lower doses, caused a significant reduction of PPI in C57Bl/6 mice, but not Balb/c mice. This effect of modafinil could be blocked by co-treatment with the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist, haloperidol, and the serotonin (5-HT) 2A receptor antagonist, ketanserin, but not the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, WAY100,635. At 30mg/kg, which did not influence PPI, modafinil inhibited PPI disruption caused by the dopamine transporter inhibitor, GBR12909. There was no interaction between modafinil and the serotonin transporter inhibitor, fluoxetine. There were no consistent effects of modafinil on startle amplitude. These results show that oral modafinil treatment may cause disruption of PPI in mice. This effect was strain-dependent, involving dopamine D(2) and 5-HT(2A) receptor activation, and was likely mediated by an interaction with the dopamine transporter. These results extend our insight into the behavioral effects of modafinil and could be of importance for the clinical use of this agent as they may indicate an increased risk of side-effects in conditions where PPI is already reduced, such as in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
We asked whether key morphogenetic signaling pathways interact with 22q11 gene dosage to modulate the severity of cranial or cardiac anomalies in DiGeorge/22q1 deletion syndrome (22q11DS). Sonic hedgehog (Shh) and retinoic acid (RA) signaling is altered in the brain and heart-clinically significant 22q11DS phenotypic sites-in LgDel mouse embryos, an established 22q11DS model. LgDel embryos treated with cyclopamine, an Shh inhibitor, or carrying mutations in Gli3(Xtj), an Shh-signaling effector, have morphogenetic anomalies that are either not seen, or seen at significantly lower frequencies in control or single-mutant embryos. Similarly, RA exposure or genetic loss of RA function via heterozygous mutation of the RA synthetic enzyme Raldh2 induces novel cranial anomalies and enhances cardiovascular phenotypes in LgDel but not other genotypes. These changes are not seen in heterozygous Tbx1 mutant embryos-a 22q11 gene thought to explain much of 22q11DS pathogenesis-in which Shh or RA signaling has been similarly modified. Our results suggest that full dosage of 22q11 genes beyond Tbx1 establish an adaptive range for morphogenetic signaling via Shh and RA. When this adaptive range is constricted by diminished dosage of 22q11 genes, embryos are sensitized to otherwise benign changes in Shh and RA signaling. Such sensitization, in the face of environmental or genetic factors that modify Shh or RA signaling, may explain variability in 22q11DS morphogenetic phenotypes.
HIV-1 transcriptional activator (Tat) enables viral transcription and is also actively released by infected cells. Extracellular Tat can enter uninfected cells and affect some cellular functions. Here, we examine the effects of Tat protein on the secretory activity of neuroendocrine cells. When added to the culture medium of chromaffin and PC12 cells, Tat was actively internalized and strongly impaired exocytosis as measured by carbon fiber amperometry and growth hormone release assay. Expression of Tat mutants that do not bind to phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P2] did not affect secretion, and overexpression of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K), the major PtdIns(4,5)P2 synthesizing enzyme, significantly rescued the Tat-induced inhibition of neurosecretion. This suggests that the inhibition of exocytosis may be the consequence of PtdIns(4,5)P2 sequestration. Accordingly, expression of Tat in PC12 cells interfered with the secretagogue-dependent recruitment of annexin A2 to the plasma membrane, a PtdIns(4,5)P2-binding protein that promotes the formation of lipid microdomains that are required for exocytosis. In addition Tat significantly prevented the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton necessary for the movement of secretory vesicles towards plasma membrane fusion sites. Thus, the capacity of extracellular Tat to enter neuroendocrine cells and sequester plasma membrane PtdIns(4,5)P2 perturbs several PtdIns(4,5)P2-dependent players of the exocytotic machinery, thereby affecting neurosecretion. We propose that Tat-induced inhibition of exocytosis is involved in the neuronal disorders associated with HIV-1 infection.

Gene silencing with siRNAs is important as a therapeutic tool in autoimmune diseases. In this study, we administered siRNAs specific for cytokines that may be involved in pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). siRNA specific for IL-23p19 (siRNA-IL-23) suppressed EAE almost completely, whereas siRNA-IL-17A did not modulate the clinical course. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that siRNA-IL-23 significantly reduced the proportion of both IFN-(+)IL-17(-) Th1 and IFN-(-)IL-17(+) Th17 cells in the spinal cord. Consistent with this finding, siRNA-IL-23 treatment downregulated IL-12, IL-17 and IL-23 mRNAs. These findings indicate that IL-23, but not IL-17, play an important role in the development of EAE.
Approximately 95% of Nordic multiple sclerosis (MS) patients display oligoclonal immunoglobulin G bands (OCB) in the cerebrospinal fluid. From a cohort of 2094 MS patients we retrieved well-characterized data from 40 OCB-negative and 60 OCB-positive patients, in an effort to determine whether lesion load on brain magnetic resonance imaging is affected by OCB status and carriage of HLA-DRB1*15 or HLA-DRB1*04. Positivity for OCB did not increase the risk of belonging to higher-lesion-load groups; nor did carrying HLA-DRB1*15 or HLA-DRB1*04. A trend was seen, however, whereby OCB positivity conferred a two-fold risk of displaying higher lesion loads infratentorially.
Epidemiological and clinical studies have shown that environmental factors such as infections, smoking and vitamin D are associated with the risk of developing multiple sclerosis (MS). Some of these factors also play a role in the MS disease course. We are currently beginning to understand how environmental factors may impact immune function in MS on a cellular and molecular level. Here we review epidemiological, clinical and basic immunological studies on the environmental factors, viral and parasitic infections, smoking, and vitamin D and relate epidemiological findings with their likely pathophysiology in MS.

We present the design of a low-cost system for recording galvanic skin conductance responses (SCRs) from humans in a magnetically shielded room (MSR) simultaneously to magnetoencephalography (MEG). Such a system was so far not available to the MEG community. Its availability is of utmost importance for neuroscience, since it will allow the concurrent assessment of the autonomic and central nervous system activity. The overall system design optimizes high signal to noise ratio (SNR) of SCRs and achieves minimal distortion of the MEG signal. Its development was based on a fiber-optic transformer, with voltage to optical transduction inside the MSR and demodulation outside the MSR. The system was calibrated and tested inside the MEG environment by using a 151-channel CTF whole head system (VSM MedTech Ltd.). MEG measurements were recorded simultaneously to SCRs from five healthy participants to test whether the developed system does not generate artifacts in the MEG data. Two measurements were performed for each participant; one without the system in the MSR, and one with the system in the MSR, connected to the participant and in operation. The data were analyzed using the time and frequency domains in separate statistical analysis. No significant differences were observed between the two sessions for any statistic index. Our results show that the system allows high quality simultaneous recordings of SCRs and MEG signals in the MSR, and can therefore be used as routine addendum to neuroscience experiments.
In vitro brain slice electrophysiology is a powerful method to investigate the network and cellular bases of brain function. Ideally, slices should be able to spontaneously express the ensemble rhythms that characterize the intact brain, but this is only rarely the case in the submerged configuration required for visualization of cells. In contrast, the interface configuration often preserves in vivo-like activity but does not allow optically guided whole-cell recording. Here we present a chamber design that, when used with a heated air objective, offers the experimenter the benefits of both visualization and the interface environment. The chamber is based on the design of the traditional Oslo-style interface chamber but modified to fit an upright microscope. Spontaneous slow (0.1-1 Hz) oscillations could be recorded extracellularly from slices of the rat somatosensory cortex with similar success, duration and frequency as the traditional interface chamber. Slow oscillations could also be readily recorded in the whole-cell configuration from visually selected pyramidal neurons. In hippocampal slices spontaneous gamma oscillations (20-80 Hz) were observed both extracellularly and in whole-cell recordings. The design presented here may be useful to the in vitro study of a range of brain circuits where the combination of visualization and spontaneous patterned network activity is desired.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) results in enduring motor and cognitive dysfunction. Although gait disturbances have been documented among TBI patients, few studies have profiled gait abnormalities in animal models of TBI. We sought to obtain a comprehensive longitudinal analysis of gait function following severe penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI) in rats. Rats were subjected to either unilateral frontal PBBI, probe insertion alone, or sham surgery. Sensorimotor performance was assessed using the CatWalk automated gait analysis system. Baseline measurements were taken 3 days prior to injury and detailed analysis of gait was performed at 1, 3, 7, 14, and 28 days post-injury. Both PBBI and probe-inserted rats displayed altered static and dynamic gait parameters that were primarily evident during the early (&lt;7 days) post-injury phase and were resolved by 1 month post-injury. PBBI produced more severe deficits compared to probe-alone which were reflected in the number, magnitude, and resolution time of abnormal gait parameters. While altered parameters were detected in all four paws, they were more apparent on the contralateral side. Gait parameters including paw pressure, print area, swing speed, and stride length were significantly decreased whereas stance, swing, and step cycle duration were increased compared to sham. Overall, altered gait patterns detected using the CatWalk system in the PBBI model were injury-severity dependent, resolved at later time points, and appeared similar to those reported in severe TBI patients. These results indicate that the CatWalk may be most useful for neuroprotection studies that focus on the acute/subacute recovery period after TBI.
We have previously shown that apparatus design can affect visual-spatial cue use and memory performance of mice on the Barnes maze. The present experiment extends these findings by determining the optimal behavioral measures and test procedure for analyzing visuo-spatial learning and memory in three different Barnes maze designs. Male and female C57BL/6J mice were trained with a stable or random escape hole location and the sensitivities (statistical power) of four commonly used measures of learning and three measures of memory to detect differences between these training procedures were compared on each maze design. A maze design with a large diameter and no wall was optimal, because mice showed a reliable use of extra-maze visual cues, visuo-spatial search strategies, and spatial memory. A maze design with a small diameter, surrounding wall, and intra-maze visual cues was the least sensitive for determining visuo-spatial learning and memory, because mice showed little evidence of extra-maze cue use. Errors, distance traveled, and hole deviation scores were more sensitive measures of learning than latency to find the escape hole. Measures based on locating the escape hole (primary measures) were more sensitive than measures based on entering the escape hole (total measures). Measures of memory had similar levels of sensitivity on each maze. This experiment demonstrates that both apparatus design and the behavioral measures used as indicators of learning and memory can influence the ability of the Barnes maze to detect visuo-spatial learning and memory impairments in mice.
Understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the formation and maintenance of memories is a central goal of the neuroscience community. It is well regarded that an organism's ability to lastingly adapt its behavior in response to a transient environmental stimulus relies on the central nervous system's capability for structural and functional plasticity. This plasticity is dependent on a well-regulated program of neurotransmitter release, post-synaptic receptor activation, intracellular signaling cascades, gene transcription, and subsequent protein synthesis. In the last decade, epigenetic markers like DNA methylation and post-translational modifications of histone tails have emerged as important regulators of the memory process. Their ability to regulate gene transcription dynamically in response to neuronal activation supports the consolidation of long-term memory. Furthermore, the persistent and self-propagating nature of these mechanisms, particularly DNA methylation, suggests a molecular mechanism for memory maintenance. In this review, we will examine the evidence that supports a role of epigenetic mechanisms in learning and memory. In doing so, we hope to emphasize (1) the widespread involvement of these mechanisms across different behavioral paradigms and distinct brain regions, (2) the temporal and genetic specificity of these mechanisms in response to upstream signaling cascades, and (3) the functional outcome these mechanisms may have on structural and functional plasticity. Finally, we consider the future directions of neuroepigenetic research as it relates to neuronal storage of information.
Non-invasive assessment of white-matter functionality in the nervous system would be a valuable basic neuroscience and clinical diagnostic tool. Using standard MRI techniques, a visual-stimulus-induced 27% decrease in the apparent diffusion coefficient of water perpendicular to the axonal fibers (ADC(perpendicular)) is demonstrated for C57BL/6 mouse optic nerve in vivo. No change in ADC(||) (diffusion parallel to the optic nerve fibers) was observed during visual stimulation. The stimulus-induced changes are completely reversible. A possible vascular contribution was sought by carrying out the ADC(perpendicular) measurements in hypercapnic mice with and without visual stimulus. Similar effects were seen in room-air-breathing and hypercapnic animals. The in vivo stimulus-induced ADC(perpendicular) decreases are roughly similar to literature reports for ex vivo rat optic nerve preparations under conditions of osmotic swelling. The experimental results strongly suggest that osmotic after-effects of nerve impulses through the axonal fibers are responsible for the observed ADC decrease.
Numerous cross-sectional MRI studies have characterized age-related differences in regional brain volumes that differ with structure and tissue type. The extent to which cross-sectional assumptions about change are accurate depictions of actual longitudinal measurement remains controversial. Even longitudinal studies can be limited by the age range of participants, sex distribution of the samples, and scan intervals. To address these issues, we calculated trajectories of regional brain volume changes from T1-weighted (SPGR) MRI data, quantified with our automated, unsupervised SRI24 atlas-based registration and parcellation method. Longitudinal MRIs were acquired at 3T in 17 boys and 12 girls, age 10 to 14 years, and 41 men and 41 women, age 20 to 85 years at first scan. Application of a regression-based correction function permitted merging of data acquired at 3T field strength with data acquired at 1.5T from additional subjects, thereby expanding the sample to a total of 55 men and 67 women, age 20 to 85 years at first scan. Adjustment for individual supratentorial volume removed regional volume differences between men and women due to sex-related differences in head size. Individual trajectories were computed from data collected on 2 to 6 MRIs at a single field strength over a ~1 to 8 year interval. Using linear mixed-effects models, the pattern of trajectories over age indicated: rises in ventricular and Sylvian fissure volumes, with older individuals showing faster increases than younger ones; declines in selective cortical volumes with faster tissue shrinkage in older than younger individuals; little effect of aging on volume of the corpus callosum; more rapid expansion of CSF-filled spaces in men than women after age 60 years; and evidence for continued growth in central white matter through early adulthood with accelerated decline in senescence greater in men than women.
Motor performance recovery after a demanding finger motor task does not follow the excitability dynamics of primary motor cortex (M1), which remains depressed also when performance is restored. Thus, other neural circuits are supposed to cope with central fatigue, re-establishing adequate motor performance levels. A hint that the basal ganglia (BG) can be involved in this process is provided by studies showing an association of central fatigue with the BG. To investigate this possibility, we conducted an fMRI study with simultaneous motor performance recording in 20 healthy volunteers at different stages of a demanding finger motor task: baseline, central fatigue induced by 5-min sequence repetition, performance recovery after a short rest period. When motor performance was recovered, we observed a significant activation with respect to baseline in subcortical structures belonging to different BG circuits (putamen and globus pallidus), involving the limbic system functionally interacting with the BG (amygdala). Then, to assess whether the BG activation was exclusively related to the fatigue and recovery processes or to increasing automatism in motor performance, a control fMRI experiment based on a shorter motor task duration was carried out on 14 healthy subjects. In this case, the task repetition did not induce decreased performance, and no significant effect on the BOLD signal change was found in BG regions of interest with respect to baseline. All these findings suggest that motor and non-motor BG circuits run parallel and converge in a common motor path to successfully compensate motor performance deterioration in a central fatigue condition.
Magnetoencephalographic (MEG) recordings are a rich source of information about the neural dynamics underlying cognitive processes in the brain, with excellent temporal and good spatial resolution. In recent years there have been considerable advances in MEG hardware developments and methods. Sophisticated analysis techniques are now routinely applied and continuously improved, leading to fascinating insights into the intricate dynamics of neural processes. However, the rapidly increasing level of complexity of the different steps in a MEG study make it difficult for novices, and sometimes even for experts, to stay aware of possible limitations and caveats. Furthermore, the complexity of MEG data acquisition and data analysis requires special attention when describing MEG studies in publications, in order to facilitate interpretation and reproduction of the results. This manuscript aims at making recommendations for a number of important data acquisition and data analysis steps and suggests details that should be specified in manuscripts reporting MEG studies. These recommendations will hopefully serve as guidelines that help to strengthen the position of the MEG research community within the field of neuroscience, and may foster discussion in order to further enhance the quality and impact of MEG research.
Neuroimaging has demonstrated anatomical overlap between covert and overt attention systems, although behavioral and electrophysiological studies have suggested that the two systems do not rely on entirely identical circuits or mechanisms. In a parallel line of research, topographically-specific modulations of alpha-band power (~8-14 Hz) have been consistently correlated with anticipatory states during tasks requiring covert attention shifts. These tasks, however, typically employ cue-target-interval paradigms where attentional processes are examined across relatively protracted periods of time and not at the rapid timescales implicated during overt attention tasks. The anti-saccade task, where one must first covertly attend for a peripheral target, before executing a rapid overt attention shift (i.e. a saccade) to the opposite side of space, is particularly well-suited for examining the rapid dynamics of overt attentional deployments. Here, we asked whether alpha-band oscillatory mechanisms would also be associated with these very rapid overt shifts, potentially representing a common neural mechanism across overt and covert attention systems. High-density electroencephalography in conjunction with infra-red eye-tracking was recorded while participants engaged in both pro- and anti-saccade task blocks. Alpha power, time-locked to saccade onset, showed three distinct phases of significantly lateralized topographic shifts, all occurring within a period of less than 1s, closely reflecting the temporal dynamics of anti-saccade performance. Only two such phases were observed during the pro-saccade task. These data point to substantially more rapid temporal dynamics of alpha-band suppressive mechanisms than previously established, and implicate oscillatory alpha-band activity as a common mechanism across both overt and covert attentional deployments.
The field of non-invasive brain stimulation has developed significantly over the last two decades. Though two techniques of noninvasive brain stimulation--transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)--are becoming established tools for research in neuroscience and for some clinical applications, related techniques that also show some promising clinical results have not been developed at the same pace. One of these related techniques is cranial electrotherapy stimulation (CES), a class of transcranial pulsed current stimulation (tPCS). In order to understand further the mechanisms of CES, we aimed to model CES using a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-derived finite element head model including cortical and also subcortical structures. Cortical electric field (current density) peak intensities and distributions were analyzed. We evaluated different electrode configurations of CES including in-ear and over-ear montages. Our results confirm that significant amounts of current pass the skull and reach cortical and subcortical structures. In addition, depending on the montage, induced currents at subcortical areas, such as midbrain, pons, thalamus and hypothalamus are of similar magnitude than that of cortical areas. Incremental variations of electrode position on the head surface also influence which cortical regions are modulated. The high-resolution modeling predictions suggest that details of electrode montage influence current flow through superficial and deep structures. Finally we present laptop based methods for tPCS dose design using dominant frequency and spherical models. These modeling predictions and tools are the first step to advance rational and optimized use of tPCS and CES.
Predicting Alzheimer's disease (AD) in individuals with some symptoms of cognitive decline may have great influence on treatment choice and disease progression. Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has the potential of revealing early signs of neurodegeneration in the human brain and may thus aid in predicting and diagnosing AD. Surface-based cortical thickness measurements from T1-weighted MRI have demonstrated high sensitivity to cortical gray matter changes. In this study we investigated the possibility for using patterns of cortical thickness measurements for predicting AD in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We used a novel technique for identifying cortical regions potentially discriminative for separating individuals with MCI who progress to probable AD, from individuals with MCI who do not progress to probable AD. Specific patterns of atrophy were identified at four time periods before diagnosis of probable AD and features were selected as regions of interest within these patterns. The selected regions were used for cortical thickness measurements and applied in a classifier for testing the ability to predict AD at the four stages. In the validation, the test subjects were excluded from the feature selection to obtain unbiased results. The accuracy of the prediction improved as the time to conversion from MCI to AD decreased, from 70% at 3 years before the clinical criteria for AD was met, to 76% at 6 months before AD. By inclusion of test subjects in the feature selection process, the prediction accuracies were artificially inflated to a range of 73% to 81%. Two important results emerge from this study. First, prediction accuracies of conversion from MCI to AD can be improved by learning the atrophy patterns that are specific to the different stages of disease progression. This has the potential to guide the further development of imaging biomarkers in AD. Second, the results show that one needs to be careful when designing training, testing and validation schemes to ensure that datasets used to build the predictive models are not used in testing and validation.
Granger causality is a method for identifying directed functional connectivity based on time series analysis of precedence and predictability. The method has been applied widely in neuroscience, however its application to functional MRI data has been particularly controversial, largely because of the suspicion that Granger causal inferences might be easily confounded by inter-regional differences in the hemodynamic response function. Here, we show both theoretically and in a range of simulations, that Granger causal inferences are in fact robust to a wide variety of changes in hemodynamic response properties, including notably their time-to-peak. However, when these changes are accompanied by severe downsampling, and/or excessive measurement noise, as is typical for current fMRI data, incorrect inferences can still be drawn. Our results have important implications for the ongoing debate about lag-based analyses of functional connectivity. Our methods, which include detailed spiking neuronal models coupled to biophysically realistic hemodynamic observation models, provide an important 'analysis-agnostic' platform for evaluating functional and effective connectivity methods.

High gamma activity (HGA) has been shown to be positively correlated with blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) responses in the primary cortices with simple tasks. It is, however, an open question whether the correlation is simply applied to the association areas related to higher cognitive functions. The aim of this study is to investigate quantitative correlation between HGA and BOLD and their spatial and temporal profiles during semantic processing. Thirteen patients with intractable epilepsy underwent fMRI and electrocorticography (ECoG) with a word interpretation task to evoke language-related responses. Percent signal change of BOLD was calculated at each site of ECoG electrode, which has power amplification of high gamma band (60-120 Hz) activity. We transformed locations of individual electrodes and brains to a universal coordination using SPM8 and made the quantitative comparisons on a template brain. HGAs were increased in several language-related areas such as the inferior frontal and middle temporal gyri and were positively correlated with BOLD responses. The most striking finding was different temporal dynamics of HGAs in the different brain regions. Whereas the frontal lobe showed longer-lasting HGA, the HGA-intensity on the temporal lobe quickly declined. The different temporal dynamics of HGA might explain why routine language-fMRI hardly detected BOLD in the temporal lobe. This study clarified different neural oscillation and BOLD response in various brain regions during semantic processing and will facilitate practical utilization of fMRI for evaluating higher-order cognitive functions not only in basic neuroscience, but also in clinical practice.
Previous functional neuroimaging studies have shown that the left mid-fusiform cortex plays a critical role in reading. However, there is very limited research relating this region's anatomical structure to reading performance either in native or second language. Using structural MRI and three reading tasks (Chinese characters, English words, and alphabetic pseudowords) and a non-reading task (visual-auditory learning), this study investigated the contributions of the left mid-fusiform cortical thickness to reading in a large sample of 226 Chinese subjects. Results showed that the cortical thickness in the left mid-fusiform gyrus was positively correlated with performance on all three reading tasks but not with the performance on the non-reading task. Our findings provide structural evidence for the left mid-fusiform cortex as the &quot;gateway&quot; region for reading Chinese and English. The absence of the association between the left mid-fusiform cortical thickness and non-reading performance implied the specific role of this area in reading skills, not in general language skills.

Until 4 decades ago, the rates of stroke in low- and middle-income countries were considerably lower than those in more economically robust countries. In the intervening years, however, the rates of stroke in places such as southern India and rural South Africa have approximately doubled, whereas stroke rates in more economically developed nations have decreased. What is far more striking is that rates of disability and mortality arising from stroke are at least 10 times greater in medically underserved regions of the world compared with the most developed nations. The causes of these disparities are clear: above all, there is a lack of primary care treatment to screen patients for stroke risk and to mitigate risk factors. In addition, the lack of access to common drugs and basic medical equipment, as well as the lack of poststroke follow-up programs, rehabilitation, and secondary stroke prevention, means that individuals who would, in countries with better medical care, likely recover from stroke, instead have high rates of death and disability. Several global organizations, most notably the World Health Organization, have formulated and begun to implement public health programs to address these underserved regions. Their success depends on the support and expansion of these efforts so that short-term response to stroke, long-term stroke prevention and care, and screening and treatment of poststroke disabilities can be improved in underserved regions and the human and economic burden on these populations can be minimized.
Poststroke spasticity (PSS) is associated with significant consequences for a patient's functional status and quality of life. Nonetheless, no uniform definition of spasticity exists that can be utilized across clinical research settings, and difficulties in validating proper assessment tools--both clinical and nonclinical--complicate the ability to evaluate and appropriately treat spasticity. Consequently, the current state of defining, assessing, and treating spasticity requires improved consistency and ongoing validation as clinical research efforts advance. When selecting clinical measures for PSS assessment (e.g., the Modified Ashworth, Tone Assessment, Tardieu, Modified Rankin, and Disability Assessment scales, and the Barthel Index), it is critical to understand the levels of impairment or functional limitation each tool assesses as well as their benefits and limitations. The use of quantitative methods--such as electrophysiologic, biomechanical, and imaging techniques--adjunctive to traditional clinical measures also allows for sensitivity in quantifying the abnormal muscle activity associated with spasticity. In addition to accurate evaluation and assessment of PSS, realistic treatment goal setting for patients as well as family members and caregivers is critical, because it promotes motivation and cooperation as well as proper management of expectations and can favorably affect recovery. Goal attainment scaling has been shown to help organize, focus, and clarify the aims of treatment, thereby enhancing the PSS rehabilitative process. Furthermore, integration of therapeutic modalities and treatment strategies, including both nonpharmacologic intervention and pharmacotherapy, is also important for improved outcomes.

Synthesis of H1 histone, in the developing rat brain, is also regulated at post-transcriptional level. Regulation of RNA metabolism depends on a series of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs); therefore, we searched for H1 mRNA-interacting proteins. With this aim, we used in vitro transcribed, biotinylated H1 RNA as bait to isolate, by a chromatographic approach, proteins which interact with this mRNA, in the nuclei of brain cells. Abundant RBPs, such as heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) K and hnRNP A1, and molecular chaperones (heat shock cognate 70, Hsc70) were identified by mass spectrometry. Western blot analysis also revealed the presence of cold shock domain-containing protein 2 (CSD-C2, also known as PIPPin), a brain-enriched RBP previously described in our laboratory. Co-immunoprecipitation assays were performed to investigate the possibility that identified proteins interact with each other and with other nuclear proteins. We found that hnRNP K interacts with both hnRNP A1 and Hsc70 whereas there is no interaction between hnRNP A1 and Hsc70. Moreover, CSD-C2 interacts with hnRNP A1, Y box-binding protein 1 (YB-1), and hnRNP K. We also have indications that CSD-C2 interacts with Hsc70. Overall, we have contributed to the molecular characterization of a ribonucleoprotein particle possibly controlling H1 histone expression in the brain.
Although respiratory complications are a major cause of morbidity/mortality in many neural injuries or diseases, little is known concerning mechanisms whereby deficient myelin impairs breathing, or how patients compensate for such changes. Here, we tested the hypothesis that respiratory and forelimb motor functions are impaired in a rat model of focal dorsolateral spinal demyelination (ethidium bromide, EB). Ventilation, phrenic nerve activity and horizontal ladder walking were performed 7-14 days post-C2 injection of EB or vehicle (SHAM). EB caused dorsolateral demyelination at C2-C3 followed by significant spontaneous remyelination at 14 days post-EB. Although ventilation did not differ between groups, ipsilateral integrated phrenic nerve burst amplitude was significantly reduced versus SHAM during chemoreceptor activation at 7 days post-EB but recovered by 14 days. The ratio of ipsi- to contralateral phrenic nerve amplitude correlated with cross-sectional lesion area. This ratio was significantly reduced 7 days post-EB versus SHAM during baseline conditions, and versus SHAM and 14-day groups during chemoreceptor activation. Limb function ipsilateral to EB was impaired 7 days post-EB and partially recovered by 14 days post-EB. EB provides a reversible model of focal, spinal demyelination, and may be a useful model to study mechanisms of functional impairment and recovery via motor plasticity, or the efficacy of new therapeutic interventions to reduce severity or duration of disease.
Failure of anterograde transport to distal targets in the brain is a common feature of neurodegenerative diseases. We have demonstrated in rodent models of glaucoma, the most common optic neuropathy, early loss of anterograde transport along the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) projection to the superior colliculus (SC) is retinotopic and followed by a period of persistence of RGC axon terminals and synapses through unknown molecular pathways. Here we use the DBA/2J mouse model of hereditary glaucoma and an acute rat model to demonstrate that retinotopically focal transport deficits in the SC are accompanied by a spatially coincident increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), especially in hypertrophic astrocytes. These neurochemical changes occur prior to loss of RGC synapses in the DBA/2J SC. In contrast to BDNF protein, levels of Bdnf mRNA decreased with transport failure, even as mRNA encoding synaptic structures remained unchanged. In situ hybridization signal for Bdnf mRNA was the strongest in SC neurons, and labeling for the immature precursor pro-BDNF was very limited. Subcellular fractionation of SC indicated that membrane-bound BDNF decreased with age in the DBA/2J, while BDNF released from vesicles remained high. These results suggest that in response to diminished axonal function, activated astrocytes in the brain may sequester mature BDNF released from target neurons to counter stressors that otherwise would challenge survival of projection synapses.
Stanniocalcin 1 (STC1), originally described as an antihypercalcemic hormone in fish, is highly expressed in differentiated mammalian neurons. Mild hypoxic treatment and focal cerebral ischemia induce upregulation of STC1 in the brain. These findings prompted us to investigate whether STC1 contributes to neuroprotection after ischemia and whether STC1 is required for development of ischemic tolerance. We induced 60 minutes of temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion in wild type (WT) and STC1-deficient mice (STC1(-/-)) with or without prior hypoxic preconditioning (HPC, 8% oxygen for 6 hours followed by reoxygenation for 24 hours). Infarct sizes, neurological scores, and Stc1, Stc2, and Il-6 mRNA brain levels were measured 24 hours after ischemia. Additionally, we examined blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity (Evans Blue fluorescence) under normal conditions and 0 and 24 hours after hypoxia. STC1(-/-) and WT mice developed brain infarcts of similar size. In both strains, HPC triggered ischemic tolerance with similar reduction in infarct size. However, STC1(-/-) mice had worse neurological scores in both scenarios. HPC induced upregulation of STC1 and STC2 in WT mice and of STC2 in STC1(-/-) mice. Ischemic STC1(-/-) mice showed significantly lower Il-6 mRNA expression than ischemic WT mice. Evans Blue fluorescence levels showed no difference in between WT and STC1(-/-) mice under evaluated conditions, thus BBB integrity is preserved despite STC1 deficiency. STC1 was not crucial for the development of ischemic tolerance triggered by HPC or for preserving BBB integrity but may be involved in functional recovery after stroke.
Neuronal responses in primary visual cortex (V1) can be suppressed by a stimulus presented to the extraclassical surround, and such interactions are thought to be critical for figure ground segregation and form perception. While surround suppression likely originates from both feedforward afferents and multiple cortical circuits, it is unclear what role each circuit plays in the surround's orientation tuning. To investigate this we recorded from single units in V1 of anesthetized cat and analyzed the orientation tuning of the suppressive-surround over time. In addition, based on orientation maps derived through optical imaging prior to recording, neurons were classified as being located in domains or pinwheels. For both types of neurons, shortly after response onset (10 ms) the suppressive-surround is broadly tuned to orientation, but this is followed by a steep improvement in tuning over the next 30 ms. While the tuning of the pinwheel cells plateaus at this point, tuning is enhanced further for domain cells, especially those located superficially in the cortex, reaching a peak at 80 ms from response onset. This relatively slow evolution of the orientation tuning of the suppressive surround suggests that fast-arriving feedforward circuits (10 ms) likely only provide broadly tuned suppression, but that feedback from higher visual areas which is likely to arrive over the next 30 ms and can cover both the receptive field center and the extraclassical surround contributes to the initial steep rise in tuning for both cell types. Moreover, we speculate that the even later enhancement in tuning for domain neurons could mean the involvement of inputs from relatively long-range lateral connections, which not only propagate slowly but also link like-oriented domains corresponding to the receptive field of only the extraclassical surround.
Leptin microinjections into the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) have been shown to elicit sympathoexcitatory responses, and potentiate the cardiovascular responses to activation of the chemoreflex. In this study, experiments were done in Sprague-Dawley rats initially to provide a detailed mapping within the NTS complex of cells containing immunoreactivity to the long form of the leptin receptor (Ob-Rb). In a second series, this NTS region containing Ob-Rb immunoreactive cells was explored for single units antidromically activated by stimulation of pressor sites in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). These antidromically identified neurons were then tested for their response to intra-carotid injections of leptin (50-100 ng/0.1 ml), and to activation of peripheral chemoreceptors following an injection of potassium cyanide (KCN) (80 g/0.1 ml) into the carotid artery. Cells containing Ob-Rb-like immunoreactivity were found predominantly in the caudal NTS: within the medial, commissural and gelatinous (sub-postremal area) subnuclei of the NTS complex. Of 73 single units tested in these NTS regions, 48 were antidromically activated by stimulation of RVLM pressor sites and 25 of these single units responded with an increase in discharge rate after intra-carotid injections of leptin. In addition, 17 of these leptin responsive neurons were excited by the intra-carotid injections of KCN (80 g/0.1 ml). Furthermore, the excitatory response of these single units to KCN was potentiated (59-83%) immediately following the leptin injection. These data indicate that leptin responsive neurons in NTS mediate chemoreceptor afferent information to pressor sites in the RVLM, and suggest that leptin may act as a facilitator on neuronal circuits within the NTS that potentiates the sympathoexcitatory responses elicited during the reflex activation of arterial chemoreceptors.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR) belongs to a family of ligand-activated transcription factors, and its ligands are known to control many physiological and pathological conditions. The hypothesis of our study was that the PPAR agonist (rosiglitazone) could mediate tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) related to the regulation of human neural stem cells (hNSCs), by which TNF possibly fulfills important roles in neuronal impairment. The results show that PPAR mediates the cell viability of hNSCs via the downregulation of the activity of caspase 3, indicating that this rescue effect of PPAR could improve the reduced levels of two mitochondrial regulators, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) in the hNSCs with TNF. The stimulation of mitochondrial function by PPAR was associated with activation of the PPAR coactivator1 alpha (PGC1) pathway by up-regulation of oxidative defense and mitochondrial systems. The above protective effects appeared to be exerted by a direct activation of the rosiglitazone, because it protected hNSCs from TNF-evoked oxidative stress and mitochondrial deficiency. Here we show that the rosiglitazone protects hNSCs against A-induced apoptosis and promotes cell survival. These findings extend our understanding of the central role of PPAR in TNF-related neuronal impairment, which probably increases risks of neurodegenerative diseases. The anti-inflammatory effects of PPAR in the hNSCs with TNF, and the involved mechanisms were also characterized.
Nicotine is known to have enhancing effects on some aspects of attention and cognition. As for the pre-attentive processes of detecting sensory changes, nicotine has significant effects on the auditory and visual systems implying that its pre-attentive effect is common among sensory modalities. The purpose of the present study was to elucidate whether acute nicotine administration has enhancing effects in the somatosensory system. Change-related cortical activity in response to an abrupt increase in stimulus intensity was recorded using magnetoencephalography. The test stimulus consisted of standard electrical pulses at 100 Hz for 500 ms applied to the dorsum of the left hand followed by 0.7-mA stronger pulses for 300 ms. Nicotine was administered in a gum (4 mg of nicotine). Eleven healthy nonsmokers were tested with a double-blind and placebo-controlled design. Effects of nicotine on the cortical response in the primary (S1) and secondary (S2) somatosensory cortices were investigated. Results showed that nicotine failed to affect the S1 response while it significantly increased the amplitude of S2 activity in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the stimulation, and shortened the peak latency of S2 activity in both hemispheres. Since cortical responses in the present study represent a pre-attentive automatic process to encode new somatosensory events, the results suggest that nicotine can exert beneficial cognitive effects without a direct impact on attention and that the effect of nicotine on the automatic change-detecting system is common across sensory modalities.
Apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) is a general mediator of cell death in response to a variety of stimuli, including reactive oxygen species, tumor necrosis factor , lipopolysaccharide, endoplasmic reticulum stress, calcium influx and ischemia. Here we reported ASK1 was activated by nitric oxide (NO) through S-nitrosylation during cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. The reagents that abrogate neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) activity such as nNOS inhibitor 7NI and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK801 prevented ASK1 activation via decreasing ASK1 S-nitrosylation. In HEK293 cells, over-expressed ASK1 could be S-nitrosylated by both exogenous and endogenous NO and Cys869 was identified as the site of ASK1 S-nitrosylation. S-nitrosylation increased the level of ASK1 phosphorylation at Thr845, which represents ASK1 activation. Our results further confirmed that S-nitrosylation led to the increment of ASK1 dimerization. S-nitrosylation of ASK1 also activated the downstream JNK signaling and JNK-mediated nucleic pathway. The exogenous NO (SNP and GSNO) reversed the effect of endogenous NO by suppressing S-nitrosylation of ASK1 and exerted neuroprotection during ischemia-reperfusion. These results suggest that inhibiting ASK1 S-nitrosylation may be a novel approach for stroke therapy.
Recent data suggest that there may be distinct processing streams emanating from auditory cortical layers 5 and 6 that influence the auditory midbrain. To determine whether these projections have different physiological properties, we injected rhodamine-tagged latex tracer beads into the inferior colliculus of &gt;30-day-old mice to label these corticofugal cells. Whole-cell recordings were performed on 62 labeled cells to determine their basic electrophysiological properties and cells were filled with biocytin to determine their morphological characteristics. Layer 5 auditory corticocollicular cells have prominent I(h)-mediated sag and rebound currents, have relatively sluggish time constants, and can generate calcium-dependent rhythmic bursts. In contrast, layer 6 auditory corticocollicular cells are non-bursting, do not demonstrate sag or rebound currents and have short time constants. Quantitative analysis of morphology showed that layer 6 cells are smaller, have a horizontal orientation, and have very long dendrites (&gt;500 m) that branch profusely both near the soma distally near the pia. Layer 5 corticocollicular cells are large pyramidal cells with a long apical dendrite with most branching near the pial surface. The marked differences in physiological properties and dendritic arborization between neurons in layers 5 and 6 make it likely that each type plays a distinct role in controlling auditory information processing in the midbrain.
Neural stem cells, which reside mainly in the subventricular and subgranular zones of the hippocampus, can regenerate new neuroblasts after various brain insults. Aided by vascular remodeling, these new neuroblasts migrate long distances to injured brain regions. Studies have suggested that high-mobility group box1 (HMGB1), a nonhistone nuclear DNA-binding protein, may stimulate such remodeling in the late phase of some types of brain injury, but it is unclear whether this is true for intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Here we used a rat model of collagenase-induced ICH to determine whether HMGB1 can promote neurogenesis and angiogenesis in the late phase of injury. Daily administration of ethyl pyruvate, which inhibited HMGB1 expression, reduced the recovery of neurological function, decreased vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) levels in the ipsilateral striatum, and decreased the numbers of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU)- and doublecortin (DCX)-positive cells around the hematoma. These findings suggest that HMGB1 may promote angiogenesis and neurogenesis in the late phase of ICH.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) influence bladder afferent activity and reflex sensitivity, and have been suggested as potential targets for treating detrusor overactivity. Mechanisms may include indirect effects, e.g. involving the urothelium, and direct action on nAChR expressed by afferent neurons. Here we determined the nAChR repertoire of bladder afferent neurons by retrograde neuronal tracing and laser-assisted microdissection/reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and quantified retrogradely labelled nAChR3-subunit-expressing neurons by immunohistochemistry in nAChR 345 cluster enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) reporter mice. Bladder afferents distinctly expressed mRNAs encoding for nAChR-subunits 3, 6, 7, 2-4, and weakly 4. Based upon known combinatorial patterns of subunits, this predicts the expression of at least three basically different subunits of nAChR - 3(), 6() and 7() - and of additional combinations with -subunits and 5. Bladder afferents were of all sizes, and their majority (69%; n=1367) were eGFP-nAChR3 positive. Immunofluorescence revealed immunoreactivities to neurofilament 68 (NF68), transient receptor potential cation channel vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in eGFP-nAChR3-positive and -negative neurons. For each antigen, all possible combinations of colocalisation with eGFP-nAChR3 were observed, with eGFP-nAChR3-positive bladder neurons without additional immunoreactivity being most numerous, followed by triple-labelled neurons. In conclusion, more than one population of bladder afferent neurons expresses nAChR, indicating that peripheral nicotinic initiation and modulation of bladder reflexes might result, in addition to indirect effects, from the direct activation of sensory terminals. The expression of multiple nAChR subunits offers the potential of selectively addressing functional aspects and/or sensory neuron subpopulations.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis underlies both adaptive and maladaptive responses to stress and may be an important marker of childhood vulnerability to psychopathology, although little is known about genetic variants that influence cortisol reactivity. We therefore examined associations between corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) system gene (CRH, CRHR1 and CRHBP) variants and cortisol reactivity in preschoolers. A community sample of 409 three-year-old children completed a standardized stress task to elicit HPA axis activation. Salivary samples were obtained at the baseline and at 10-min intervals post-stress for a total of six samples. Salivary cortisol was measured using standard ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) protocols and cortisol reactivity was operationalized by calculating cortisol change scores ([baseline]-[peak cortisol post-stressor]). A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) marker panel containing 18 SNPs was used to tag the full-length CRH (4 SNPs), CRHR1 (7 SNPs) and CRHBP (7 SNPs) genes. Significant main effects on children's cortisol reactivity (all ps&lt;0.05) were found for loci on CRHR1 and CRHBP. Haplotypes of the CRHR1 linkage region were also associated with cortisol reactivity (all ps&lt;0.01). Additionally, we found multiple interactions between tag-SNPs in all three gene-coding regions predicting cortisol reactivity (all ps&lt;0.05). Individual differences in children's cortisol reactivity are related to genetic variation in CRH system gene-coding regions. Our results have important implications for future research on the role of HPA axis function in the development of disorders such as anxiety and depression.
Hyperexcitability of dorsal horn neurons has been shown to play a key role in neuropathic pain following chronic experimental spinal cord injury. With a neonatal in vitro spinal cord injury model, we show that a chemically-induced lesion leads to rapid gain-of-function of sublesional dorsal horn networks biased to hyperexcitation. The expression of the GABA synthetic enzyme GAD65 was significantly reduced at the same level of the spinal cord, suggesting a compromised inhibitory system. We propose that our model could be useful to test early approaches to contrast spinal cord injury-induced central sensitization of dorsal horn circuits.
Astrocytes become activated in degenerative neurological diseases. In order to gain a greater understanding of the inflammatory factors released upon activation, we stimulated adult human astrocytes with interferon-gamma and examined the resultant conditioned medium (CM) for toxicity against differentiated human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Cell death was measured by lactate dehydrogenase release assay. We then used various treatments of the media to determine the distribution and nature of the toxic components. Removal of interleukin-6 by a specific antibody reduced the toxicity by 22%. Blockade of proteases with an inhibitor cocktail reduced it by a further 22%. When oxygen-free radical production was blocked with NADPH oxidase inhibitors, the toxicity was reduced by 15.4%. When prostaglandin production was blocked by cyclooxygenase inhibitors, the toxicity of the CM was reduced by 14.5%. When glutamate was removed by treatment with glutamate decarboxylase, the toxicity was reduced by 10.3%. When the inhibitors were added together to the astrocyte culture, the total toxicity of the CM was reduced by 91%. This was in reasonable agreement with the 85.37% total obtained by adding the individual components. The data show that activated astrocytes release a specific combination of neurotoxic compounds. They suggest that effective anti-inflammatory treatment of such neurodegenerative diseases as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis could be improved by using an appropriate combination of anti-inflammatory agents instead of relying on any single agent.
Global-heterozygous and brain-specific homozygous knockouts (KOs) of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) cause late- and early-onset obesity, respectively, both involving hyperphagia. Little is known about the mechanism underlying this hyperphagia or whether BDNF loss from peripheral tissues could contribute to overeating. Since global-homozygous BDNF-KO is perinatal lethal, a BDNF-KO that spared sufficient brainstem BDNF to support normal health was utilized to begin to address these issues. Meal pattern and microstructure analyses suggested overeating of BDNF-KO mice was mediated by deficits in both satiation and satiety that resulted in increased meal size and frequency and implicated a reduction of vagal signaling from the gut to the brain. Meal-induced c-Fos activation in the nucleus of the solitary tract, a more direct measure of vagal afferent signaling, however, was not decreased in BDNF-KO mice, and thus was not consistent with a vagal afferent role. Interestingly though, meal-induced c-Fos activation was increased in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMV) of BDNF-KO mice. This could imply that augmentation of vago-vagal digestive reflexes occurred (e.g., accommodation), which would support increased meal size and possibly increased meal number by reducing the increase in intragastric pressure produced by a given amount of ingesta. Additionally, vagal sensory neuron number in BDNF-KO mice was altered in a manner consistent with the increased meal-induced activation of the DMV. These results suggest reduced BDNF causes satiety and satiation deficits that support hyperphagia, possibly involving augmentation of vago-vagal reflexes mediated by central pathways or vagal afferents regulated by BDNF levels.
Preproglucagon (PPG) neurons produce glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and occur primarily in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). GLP-1 affects a variety of central autonomic circuits, including those controlling the cardiovascular system, thermogenesis, and most notably energy balance. Our immunohistochemical studies in transgenic mice expressing YFP under the control of the PPG promoter showed that PPG neurons project widely to central autonomic regions, including brainstem nuclei. Functional studies have highlighted the importance of hindbrain receptors for the anorexic effects of GLP-1. In this study, we assessed YFP innervation of neurochemically identified brainstem neurons in transgenic YFP-PPG mice. Immunoreactivity for YFP plus choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and/or serotonin (5-HT) was visualised with two- or three-colour immunoperoxidase labelling using black (YFP), brown and blue-grey reaction products. In the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV), terminals from fine YFP-immunoreactive axons closely apposed a small proportion of ChAT-positive and rare TH-positive/ChAT-positive motor neurons, mostly ventral to AP. YFP-immunoreactive innervation was virtually absent from the compact and loose formations of the nucleus ambiguus. In the NTS, some TH-immunoreactive neurons were closely apposed by YFP-containing axons. In the A1/C1 column in the ventrolateral medulla, close appositions on TH-positive neurons were more common, particularly in the caudal portion of the column. A single YFP-immunoreactive axon usually provided 1-3 close appositions on individual ChAT- or TH-positive neurons. Serotonin-immunoreactive neurons were most heavily innervated, with the majority of raph pallidus, raph obscurus and parapyramidal neurons receiving several close appositions from large varicosities of YFP-immunoreactive axons. These results indicate that GLP-1 neurons innervate various populations of brainstem autonomic neurons. These include vagal efferent neurons and catecholamine neurons in areas linked with cardiovascular control. Our data also indicate a synaptic connection between GLP-1 neurons and 5-HT neurons, some of which might contribute to the regulation of appetite.
One strategy to restore vision in retinitis pigmentosa and age-related macular degeneration is cell replacement. Typically, patients lose vision when the outer retinal photoreceptor layer is lost, and so the therapeutic goal would be to restore vision at this stage of disease. It is not currently known if a degenerate retina lacking the outer nuclear layer of photoreceptor cells would allow the survival, maturation, and reconnection of replacement photoreceptors, as prior studies used hosts with a preexisting outer nuclear layer at the time of treatment. Here, using a murine model of severe human retinitis pigmentosa at a stage when no host rod cells remain, we show that transplanted rod precursors can reform an anatomically distinct and appropriately polarized outer nuclear layer. A trilaminar organization was returned to rd1 hosts that had only two retinal layers before treatment. The newly introduced precursors were able to resume their developmental program in the degenerate host niche to become mature rods with light-sensitive outer segments, reconnecting with host neurons downstream. Visual function, assayed in the same animals before and after transplantation, was restored in animals with zero rod function at baseline. These observations suggest that a cell therapy approach may reconstitute a light-sensitive cell layer de novo and hence repair a structurally damaged visual circuit. Rather than placing discrete photoreceptors among preexisting host outer retinal cells, total photoreceptor layer reconstruction may provide a clinically relevant model to investigate cell-based strategies for retinal repair.
Extinction of contextual fear in rats is enhanced by exposure to a novel environment at 1-2 h before or 1 h after extinction training. This effect is antagonized by administration of protein synthesis inhibitors anisomycin and rapamycin into the hippocampus, but not into the amygdala, immediately after either novelty or extinction training, as well as by the gene expression blocker 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole administered after novelty training, but not after extinction training. Thus, this effect can be attributed to a mechanism similar to synaptic tagging, through which long-term potentiation can be enhanced by other long-term potentiations or by exposure to a novel environment in a protein synthesis-dependent fashion. Extinction learning produces a tag at the appropriate synapses, whereas novelty learning causes the synthesis of plasticity-related proteins that are captured by the tag, strengthening the synapses that generated this tag.
NMDA receptor activation can elicit synaptic plasticity by augmenting conductance of the AMPA receptor GluA1 subsequent to phosphorylation at S831 by Ca(2+)-dependent kinases. NMDA receptor activation also regulates synaptic plasticity by causing endocytosis of AMPA receptor GluA1. We demonstrate a unique signaling cascade for these processes mediated by NMDA receptor-dependent NO formation and GluA1 S-nitrosylation. Thus, S-nitrosylation of GluA1 at C875 enhances S831 phosphorylation, facilitates the associated AMPA receptor conductance increase, and results in endocytosis by increasing receptor binding to the AP2 protein of the endocytotic machinery.
We recently introduced fluorescent false neurotransmitters (FFNs) as optical tracers that enable the visualization of neurotransmitter release at individual presynaptic terminals. Here, we describe a pH-responsive FFN probe, FFN102, which as a polar dopamine transporter substrate selectively labels dopamine cell bodies and dendrites in ventral midbrain and dopaminergic synaptic terminals in dorsal striatum. FFN102 exhibits greater fluorescence emission in neutral than acidic environments, and thus affords a means to optically measure evoked release of synaptic vesicle content into the extracellular space. Simultaneously, FFN102 allows the measurement of individual synaptic terminal activity by following fluorescence loss upon stimulation. Thus, FFN102 enables not only the identification of dopamine cells and their processes in brain tissue, but also the optical measurement of functional parameters including dopamine transporter activity and dopamine release at the level of individual synapses. As such, the development of FFN102 demonstrates that, by bringing together organic chemistry and neuroscience, molecular entities can be generated that match the endogenous transmitters in selectivity and distribution, allowing for the study of both the microanatomy and functional plasticity of the normal and diseased nervous system.
ABSTRACT: Study Design. A retrospective cohort study.Objective. To assess the ability of local vancomycin powder to prevent wound infection after posterior cervical fusionSummary of Background Data. Wound infections are a significant source of morbidity and cost associated with spine surgery. Intraoperative application of vancomycin powder to the wound edges has been shown to lower the infection risk after posterior instrumented thoracolumbar fusion. There is little data on the efficacy and safety of local vancomycin powder in cervical spine surgery.Methods. All cases of posterior cervical fusion by a single surgeon were reviewed from 2007 to 2011. Routine application of 1 gram vancomycin powder was started in August 2009. Baseline characteristics, operative details, and rates of wound infection and pseudarthrosis were compared between untreated patients and those who received vancomycin powder.Results. 171 patients underwent posterior cervical fusion between 2007 and 2011. Baseline and operative variables were similar between untreated patients (n = 92) and those who received vancomycin powder (n = 79). Patients were followed for a minimum of one year (range 1.1 to 5.7 years). The infection rate fell from 10.9% to 2.5% (p = 0.0384) following the introduction of vancomycin powder. The untreated and treated groups had similar rates of pseudarthrosis (5.4% versus 5.1%). No complications attributable to vancomycin powder were identified.Conclusion. Routine local application of vancomycin powder is a low-cost, effective strategy for preventing wound infection after posterior cervical fusion. Further studies are needed to optimize dosing, assess long-term safety, and evaluate use in other spinal operations.
Deficits in parvalbumin containing interneurons are a consistent observation in animal models and schizophrenia patients. These neurons are surrounded by chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, forming perineuronal nets, thought to support the high firing frequencies observed in these neurons. A loss of perineuronal nets has been observed post mortem in human schizophrenia patients, however, whether this contributes to the symptoms of schizophrenia is not known. Here we directly examine the effects of chondroitinase ABC degradation of ventral hippocampal (vHipp) perineuronal nets, and demonstrate that this results in an enhanced hippocampal activity and significant increase in dopamine neuron population activity. In addition, chondroitinase-treated rats display an augmented locomotor response to amphetamine, consistent with the enhanced response to psychomotor stimulants observed in schizophrenia patients. Taken together, these data demonstrate that a loss of vHipp perineuronal nets is sufficient, in and of itself, to induce aberrant hippocampal and dopamine system function consistent with that observed in rodent models and schizophrenia patients.
Major depressive disorder is a debilitating condition with a lifetime risk of ten percent. Most treatments take several weeks to achieve clinical efficacy, limiting the ability to bring instant relief needed in psychiatric emergencies. One intervention that rapidly alleviates depressive symptoms is sleep deprivation; however, its mechanism of action is unknown. Astrocytes regulate responses to sleep deprivation, raising the possibility that glial signaling mediates antidepressive-like actions of sleep deprivation. Here, we found that astrocytic signaling to adenosine (A1) receptors was required for the robust reduction of depressive-like behaviors following 12 hours of sleep deprivation. As sleep deprivation activates synaptic A1 receptors, we mimicked the effect of sleep deprivation on depression phenotypes by administration of the A1 agonist CCPA. These results provide the first mechanistic insight into how sleep deprivation impacts mood, and provide a novel pathway for rapid antidepressant development by modulation of glial signaling in the brain.
Brightness induction refers to a class of visual illusions where the perceived intensity of a region of space is influenced by the luminance of surrounding regions. These illusions are significant because they provide insight into the neural organization and processing strategies employed by the visual system. The nature of these processing strategies, however, has long been debated. Here we investigate the spatial characteristics of grating induction as a function of the distance from the inducing field edge to evaluate the viability of various competing models. In particular multiscale spatial filtering models and homogeneous filling-in models make very different predictions in regard to the magnitude of induction as a function of this distance. Filling-in explanations predict that the brightness/lightness of the filled-in region will be homogeneous, whereas multiscale filtering predicts a fall-off in induction magnitude with distance from the inducing field edge. Induction magnitude was measured using a narrow probe version of the quadrature-phase motion-cancellation paradigm (Blakeslee &amp; McCourt, 2011) and a point-by-point brightness matching paradigm (Blakeslee &amp; McCourt, 1997, 1999; McCourt, 1994). Both techniques reveal a decrease in the magnitude of induction with increasing distance from the inducing edge. A homogeneous filling-in mechanism cannot explain the induced structure in the test fields of these stimuli. The results argue strongly against filling-in mechanisms as well as against any mechanism that posits that induction is homogeneous. The structure of the induction is, however, well accounted for by the multiscale filtering (ODOG) model of Blakeslee and McCourt (1999). These results support models of brightness/lightness, such as filtering models, which preserve these gradients of induction.
Neuroimaging studies have shown that chronic consumption of cannabis may result in alterations in brain morphology. Recent work focusing on the relationship between brain structure and the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene polymorphism suggests that functional COMT variants may affect brain volume in healthy individuals and in schizophrenia patients. We measured the influence of COMT genotype on the volume of four key regions: the prefrontal cortex, neostriatum (caudate-putamen), anterior cingulate cortex and hippocampus-amygdala complex, in chronic early-onset cannabis users and healthy control subjects. We selected 29 chronic cannabis users who began using cannabis before 16 years of age and matched them to 28 healthy volunteers in terms of age, educational level and IQ. Participants were male, Caucasians aged between 18 and 30 years. All were assessed by a structured psychiatric interview (PRISM) to exclude any lifetime Axis-I disorder according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders-Fourth Edition. COMT genotyping was performed and structural magnetic resonance imaging data was analyzed by voxel-based morphometry. The results showed that the COMT polymorphism influenced the volume of the bilateral ventral caudate nucleus in both groups, but in an opposite direction: more copies of val allele led to lesser volume in chronic cannabis users and more volume in controls. The opposite pattern was found in left amygdala. There were no effects of COMT genotype on volumes of the whole brain or the other selected regions. Our findings support recent reports of neuroanatomical changes associated with cannabis use and, for the first time, reveal that these changes may be influenced by the COMT genotype.

OBJECTIVE: To review the basic principles and techniques of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and provide information and evidence regarding its applications in spinal cord injury clinical rehabilitation. METHODS: A review of the available current and historical literature regarding TMS was conducted, and a discussion of its potential use in spinal cord injury rehabilitation is presented. RESULTS: TMS provides reliable information about the functional integrity and conduction properties of the corticospinal tracts and motor control in the diagnostic and prognostic assessment of various neurological disorders. It allows one to follow the evolution of motor control and to evaluate the effects of different therapeutic procedures. Motor-evoked potentials can be useful in follow-up evaluation of motor function during treatment and rehabilitation, specifically in patients with spinal cord injury and stroke. Although studies regarding somatomotor functional recovery after spinal cord injury have shown promise, more trials are required to provide strong and substantial evidence. CONCLUSIONS: TMS is a promising noninvasive tool for the treatment of spasticity, neuropathic pain, and somatomotor deficit after spinal cord injury. Further investigation is needed to demonstrate whether different protocols and applications of stimulation, as well as alternative cortical sites of stimulation, may induce more pronounced and beneficial clinical effects.
Obtaining a homogenous population of central nervous system neurons has been a significant challenge in neuroscience research; however, a recent study established a retinoic acid-treated embryoid bodies-based differentiation protocol that permits the effective generation of highly homogeneous glutamatergic cortical pyramidal neurons from embryonic stem cells. We were able to reproduce this protocol regarding the purity of glutamatergic neurons, but these neurons were not sufficiently healthy for long-term observation under the same conditions that were originally described. Here, we achieved a substantial improvement in cell survival by applying a simple technique: We changed the medium for glutamatergic neurons from the original complete medium to commercially available SBM (the Nerve-Cell Culture Medium manufactured by Sumitomo Bakelite Co. Ltd.) and finally succeeded in maintaining healthy neurons for at least 3 weeks without decreasing their purity. Because SBM contains glial conditioned medium, we postulated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor or basic fibroblast growth factor is the key components responsible for pro-survival effect of SBM on neurons, and examined their effects by adding them to CM. As a result, neither of them had pro-survival effect on pure glutamatergic neuronal population.
Glucose metabolism is a useful marker for local neural activity, forming the basis of methods such as 2-deoxyglucose and functional magnetic resonance imaging. However, use of such methods in animal models requires anesthesia and hence both alters the brain state and prevents behavioral measures. An alternative method is the use of in vivo microdialysis to take continuous measurement of brain extracellular fluid concentrations of glucose, lactate, and related metabolites in awake, unrestrained animals. This technique is especially useful when combined with tasks designed to rely on specific brain regions and/or acute pharmacological manipulation; for example, hippocampal measurements during a spatial working memory task (spontaneous alternation) show a dip in extracellular glucose and rise in lactate that are suggestive of enhanced glycolysis, and intrahippocampal insulin administration both improves memory and increases hippocampal glycolysis. Substances such as insulin can be delivered to the hippocampus via the same microdialysis probe used to measure metabolites. The use of spontaneous alternation as a measure of hippocampal function is designed to avoid any confound from stressful motivators (e.g. footshock), restraint, or rewards (e.g. food), all of which can alter both task performance and metabolism; this task also provides a measure of motor activity that permits control for nonspecific effects of treatment. Combined, these methods permit direct measurement of the neurochemical and metabolic variables regulating behavior.


Glutamate excitotoxicity is responsible for neuronal death in acute neurological disorders including stroke, trauma and neurodegenerative disease. Loss of calcium homeostasis is a key mediator of glutamate-induced cell death. The neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) is known to modulate calcium signalling, and here we show that it can do so in response to physiological concentrations of glutamate. Furthermore, DA is able to protect neurons from glutamate-induced cell death at pathological concentrations of glutamate. We demonstrate that DA has a novel role in preventing delayed calcium deregulation in cortical, hippocampal and midbrain neurons. The effect of DA in abolishing glutamate excitotoxicity can be induced by DA receptor agonists, and is abolished by DA receptor antagonists. Our data indicate that the modulation of glutamate excitotoxicity by DA is receptor-mediated. We postulate that DA has a major physiological function as a safety catch to restrict the glutamate-induced calcium signal, and thereby prevent glutamate-induced cell death in the brain.
Research supports the validity of the dimensional approach to psychopathy in both children and adults. The occurrence of severe aggressive and antisocial behavior in combination with callous-unemotional traits (CU traits) designates a group of children that is particularly at risk to develop psychopathy. However, most studies did not investigate the role of the remaining psychopathy dimensions (i.e. narcissism and impulsivity) in comparison. The present text reviews the newest developments in the dimensional study of psychopathy in relation to cognition, behavior and affect in clinical and detained child and adolescent samples. Findings support the role of the callous-unemotional dimension (CU traits) in the development of psychopathy. Additionally, they also underscore the importance of the narcissistic and impulsive dimensions for the understanding of psychopathy in children and adolescents and for the identification of different psychopathy profiles. Understanding differential correlates of the underlying dimensions of psychopathy is an important step in formulating interventions for those most at risk.
Previous studies have shown that polyphenols might be potent neuroprotective agents in Drosophila melanogaster wild type Canton-S acutely or chronically treated with paraquat (PQ), a selective toxin for elimination of dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons by oxidative stress (OS), as model of Parkinson's disease (PD). This study reports for the first time that knock-down (K-D) parkin Drosophila melanogaster (TH-GAL4; UAS-RNAi-parkin) chronically exposed to PQ (0.1-0.25 mM), FeSO(4) (Fe, 0.1mM), deferoxamine (DFO, 0.01 mM) alone or (0.1mM) PQ in combination with polyphenols propyl gallate (PG, 0.1mM) and epigallocathecin gallate (EGCG, 0.1, 0.5mM) showed significantly higher life span and locomotor activity than untreated K-D flies or treated with (1, 5, 20mM) PQ alone. Whilst gallic acid (GA, 0.1, 0.5mM) alone or in the presence of PQ provoked no effect on K-D flies, epicathecin (EC, 0.5mM) only showed a positive effect on prolonging K-D flies' life span. It is shown that PG (and EGCG) protected protocerebral posterolateral 1 (PPL1) DAergic neurons against PQ. Interestingly, the protective effect of low PQ concentrations, DFO and iron might be explained by a phenomenon known as &quot;hormesis.&quot; However, pre-fed K-D flies with (0.1mM) PQ for 7 days and then exposed to (0.25 mM) for additional 8 days affect neither survival nor climbing of K-D Drosophila compared to flies treated with (0.25 mM) PQ alone. Remarkably, K-D flies treated with 0.1mM PQ (7 days) and then with (0.25 mM) PQ plus PG (8 days) behaved almost as flies treated with (0.25 mM) PQ. Taken these data suggest that antioxidant supplements that synergistically act with low pro-oxidant stimuli to prolong and increase locomotor activity become inefficient once a threshold of OS has been reached in K-D flies. Our present findings support the notion that genetically altered Drosophila melanogaster as suitable model to study genetic and environmental factors as causal and/or modulators in the development of autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinsonism (AR-JD)/PD. Most importantly, we have shown for the first time that low amounts of stressors induce a health-promoting extending effect in K-D parkin flies. Altogether our present results open new avenues for the screening, testing and development of novel antioxidant drugs against OS stimuli in neurodegenerative disorders.

Optogenetic strategies to control genetically distinct populations of neurons with light have been rapidly evolving and widely adopted by the neuroscience community as one of the most important tool sets to study neural circuit function. Although optogenetics have already reshaped neuroscience by allowing for more precise control of circuit function compared with traditional techniques, current limitations of these approaches should be considered. Here, we discuss several strategies that combine optogenetic and contemporary pharmacological techniques to further increase the specificity of neural circuit manipulation. We also discuss recent advances that allow for the selective modulation of cellular function and gene expression with light. In addition, we outline a novel application of optogenetic circuit analysis for causally addressing the role of pathway-specific neural activity in mediating alterations in postsynaptic transcriptional processing in genetically defined neurons. By determining how optogenetic activation of specific neural circuits causally contributes to alterations in gene expression in a high-throughput fashion, novel biologic targets for future pharmacological intervention may be uncovered. Lastly, extending this experimental pipeline to selectively target pharmacotherapies to genetically defined neuronal populations or circuits will not only provide more selective control of neural circuits, but also may lead to the development of neural circuit specific pharmacological therapeutics.
Rodent self-grooming is an important, evolutionarily conserved behavior, highly sensitive to pharmacological and genetic manipulations. Mice with aberrant grooming phenotypes are currently used to model various human disorders. Therefore, it is critical to understand the biology of grooming behavior, and to assess its translational validity to humans. The present in-silico study used publicly available gene expression and behavioral data obtained from several inbred mouse strains in the open-field, light-dark box, elevated plus- and elevated zero-maze tests. As grooming duration differed between strains, our analysis revealed several candidate genes with significant correlations between gene expression in the brain and grooming duration. The Allen Brain Atlas, STRING, GoMiner and Mouse Genome Informatics databases were used to functionally map and analyze these candidate mouse genes against their human orthologs, assessing the strain ranking of their expression and the regional distribution of expression in the mouse brain. This allowed us to identify an interconnected network of candidate genes (which have expression levels that correlate with grooming behavior), display altered patterns of expression in key brain areas related to grooming, and underlie important functions in the brain. Collectively, our results demonstrate the utility of large-scale, high-throughput data-mining and in-silico modeling for linking genomic and behavioral data, as well as their potential to identify novel neural targets for complex neurobehavioral phenotypes, including grooming.
Postpartum depression (PPD) is a devastating disease occurring in approximately 20% of women. Women who suffer from PPD appear to be more sensitive to postpartum hormonal changes than women who do not experience this form of depression. Furthermore, women who quit smoking prior to or during pregnancy, and who develop PPD, are at an increased risk of smoking relapse. Unfortunately, the mechanistic relationship between the pathophysiology of PPD and smoking relapse is unknown. Here we review the roles of both estrogen receptor beta (ER) and cholinergic nicotinic receptors (nAChRs) in the pathogenesis of depression and propose a mechanistic rationale to explain the high rate of smoking relapse exhibited by women who develop PPD.

This study examined baseline startle magnitude, using eye blink response and skin conductance response in anorexia nervosa patients. Twenty female in-patients with anorexia nervosa and an equal number of female healthy controls were tested. Baseline startle response was assessed during blank screens while four startling loud sounds (a 116 dB, 1s, 250 Hz tone) were delivered with a time interval ranging from 35 to 55 s. It was investigated if BMI and state anxiety correlated with physiological responses. The clinical sample showed a lower baseline startle reflex measured with both indices, than healthy controls. Across the whole sample, a single regression model partially explained the relationship between BMI and baseline skin conductance response.
Kisspeptins are G protein-coupled receptor ligands originally identified as human metastasis suppressor gene products that have the ability to suppress melanoma and breast cancer metastasis and which have recently been found to play an important role in initiating the secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone at puberty. In the brain, the gene is transcribed within the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Kisspeptin-13, one of the endogenous isoforms, consists of 13 amino acids. In this work, antidepressant-like effects of kisspeptin-13 were studied and the potential involvement of the adrenergic, serotonergic, cholinergic, dopaminergic and gabaergic receptors in its antidepressant-like effects was investigated in a modified forced swimming test (FST) in mice. The mice were pretreated with a nonselective -adrenergic receptor antagonist, phenoxybenzamine, an (1)/(2)-adrenergic receptor antagonist, prazosin, an (2)-adrenergic receptor antagonist, yohimbine, a -adrenergic receptor antagonist, propranolol, a mixed 5-HT(1)/5-HT(2) serotonergic receptor antagonist, methysergide, a nonselective 5-HT(2) serotonergic receptor antagonist, cyproheptadine, a nonselective muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, atropine, a D(2),D(3),D(4) dopamine receptor antagonist, haloperidol, or a -aminobutyric acid subunit A receptor antagonist, bicuculline. The FST revealed that kisspeptin-13 reversed the immobility, climbing and swimming times, suggesting antidepressant-like effects. Phenoxybenzamine, yohimbine and cyproheptadine prevented the effects of kisspeptin-13 on the immobility, climbing and swimming times, whereas prazosin, propranolol, methysergide, atropine, haloperidol and bicuculline did not modify the effects of kisspeptin-13. The results demonstrated that the antidepressant-like effects of kisspeptin-13 in a modified mouse FST are mediated, at least in part, by an interaction of the (2)-adrenergic and 5-HT(2) serotonergic receptors.

The outcome of the Notch pathway on proliferation depends on cellular context, being growth promotion in some, including several cancers, and growth inhibition in others. Such disparate outcomes are evident in Drosophila wing discs, where Notch overactivation causes hyperplasia despite having localized inhibitory effects on proliferation. To understand the underlying mechanisms, we have used genomic strategies to identify the Notch-CSL target genes directly activated during wing disc hyperplasia. Among them were genes involved in both autonomous and non-autonomous regulation of proliferation, growth and cell death, providing molecular explanations for many characteristics of Notch induced wing disc hyperplasia previously reported. The Notch targets exhibit different response patterns, which are shaped by both positive and negative feed-forward regulation between the Notch targets themselves. We propose, therefore, that both the characteristics of the direct Notch targets and their cross-regulatory relationships are important in coordinating the pattern of hyperplasia.
Tracking the dynamics of mitochondrial morphology has attracted much research interest because of its involvement in early stage apoptosis and degenerative conditions. To follow this process, highly specific and photostable fluorescent probes are in demand. Commercially available mitochondria trackers, however, suffer from poor photostability. To overcome this limitation, we have designed and synthesized a fluorescent agent, tetraphenylethene-triphenylphosphonium (TPE-TPP), for mitochondrial imaging. Inherent from the mitochondrial-targeting ability of TPP groups and the aggregation-induced emission (AIE) characteristics of the TPE core, TPE-TPP possesses high specificity to mitochondria, superior photostability, and appreciable tolerance to environmental change, allowing imaging and tracking of the mitochondrial morphological changes in a long period of time.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) consists of distinct functional compartments regulating neuroendocrine, behavioral, and autonomic activities that are involved in the homeostatic control of energy balance. These compartments receive synaptic inputs from neurons of the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARH) that contains orexigenic agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and anorexigenic pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neuropeptides. The axon outgrowth from the ARH to PVH occurs during a critical postnatal period and is influenced by the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin, which promotes its development. However, little is known about leptin's role in specifying patterns of cellular connectivity in the different compartments of the PVH. To address this question, we used retrograde and immunohistochemical labeling to evaluate neuronal inputs onto sympathetic preautonomic and neuroendocrine neurons in PVH of leptin-deficient mice (Lep(ob)/Lep(ob)) exposed to a postnatal leptin treatment. In adult Lep(ob)/Lep(ob) mice, densities of AgRP- and -melanocortin stimulating hormone (MSH)-immunoreactive fibers were significantly reduced in neuroendocrine compartments of the PVH, but only AgRP were reduced in all regions containing preautonomic neurons. Moreover, postnatal leptin treatment significantly increased the density of AgRP-containing fibers and peptidergic inputs onto identified preautonomic, but not onto neuroendocrine cells. Neonatal leptin treatment neither rescued MSH inputs onto neuroendocrine neurons, nor altered cellular ratios of inhibitory and excitatory inputs. These effects were associated with attenuated body weight gain, food intake and improved physiological response to sympathetic stimuli. Together, these results provide evidence that leptin directs cell type-specific patterns of ARH peptidergic inputs onto preautonomic neurons in the PVH, which contribute to normal energy balance regulation.
Saccadic eye movements are central to primate behavior and serve to move the eyes to visual objects of interest. Express saccades, unlike regular saccades, occur with very short reaction times, a behavior necessary for speeded reactions in goal-directed behavior. Previous studies have shown that introduction of a blank interval (gap) between the fixation point offset and the saccadic target onset leads to an increase in the number of express saccades and that the superior colliculus plays a crucial role in the generation of express saccades. A longstanding hypothesis asserted that express saccades are mediated largely by a subcortical circuit, circumventing extrastriate visual cortex. An alternative &quot;posterior pathway&quot; hypothesis proposed the involvement of posterior parietal cortex. In the present study, using a gap saccade task, we investigated the role of nonhuman primate's lateral intraparietal cortex (LIP) in generation of express saccades. We show that roughly half of recorded LIP neurons were modulated during the gap interval. Moreover, a group of neurons with persistent activity in a memory-guided saccade task enhanced their activity during express saccades relative to that during regular saccades. After reducing the target's certainty by increasing the potential target locations, neuronal activity remained in the similar level during express saccades but markedly reduced during regular saccades that correlated with the increase of saccadic reaction time in the regular saccade. Our results suggest that area LIP is directly involved in generating saccades in express mode.
Toluene is a volatile solvent that is intentionally inhaled by children, adolescents, and adults for its intoxicating effects. Although voluntary use of toluene suggests that it possesses rewarding properties and abuse potential, it is unknown whether toluene alters excitatory synaptic transmission in reward-sensitive dopamine neurons like other drugs of abuse. Here, using a combination of retrograde labeling and slice electrophysiology, we show that a brief in vivo exposure of rats to a behaviorally relevant concentration of toluene vapor enhances glutamatergic synaptic strength of dopamine (DA) neurons projecting to nucleus accumbens core and medial shell neurons. This effect persisted for up to 3 d in mesoaccumbens core DA neurons and for at least 21 d in those projecting to the medial shell. In contrast, toluene vapor exposure had no effect on synaptic strength of DA neurons that project to the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Furthermore, infusion of GABAergic modulators into the mPFC before vapor exposure to pharmacologically manipulate output, inhibited, or potentiated toluene's action on mesoaccumbens DA neurons. Together, the results of these studies indicate that toluene induces a target-selective increase in mesolimbic DA neuron synaptic transmission and strongly implicates the mPFC as an important regulator of drug-induced plasticity of mesolimbic dopamine neurons.
Identification of the neural pathways involved in retraining the spinal central pattern generators (CPGs) by afferent input in the absence of descending supraspinal control is feasible in isolated rodent spinal cords where the locomotor CPGs are potently activated by sacrocaudal afferent (SCA) input. Here we study the involvement of sacral neurons projecting rostrally through the ventral funiculi (VF) in activation of the CPGs by sensory stimulation. Fluorescent labeling and immunostaining showed that VF neurons are innervated by primary afferents immunoreactive for vesicular glutamate transporters 1 and 2 and by intraspinal neurons. Calcium imaging revealed that 55% of the VF neurons were activated by SCA stimulation. The activity of VF neurons and the sacral and lumbar CPGs was abolished when non-NMDA receptors in the sacral segments were blocked by the antagonist CNQX. When sacral NMDA receptors were blocked by APV, the sacral CPGs were suppressed, VF neurons with nonrhythmic activity were recruited and a moderate-drive locomotor rhythm developed during SCA stimulation. In contrast, when the sacral CPGs were activated by SCA stimulation, rhythmic and nonrhythmic VF neurons were recruited and the locomotor rhythm was most powerful. The activity of 73 and 27% of the rhythmic VF neurons was in-phase with the ipsilateral and contralateral motor output, respectively. Collectively, our studies indicate that sacral VF neurons serve as a major link between SCA and the hindlimb CPGs and that the ability of SCA to induce stepping can be enhanced by the sacral CPGs. The nature of the ascending drive to lumbar CPGs, the identity of subpopulations of VF neurons, and their potential role in activating the locomotor rhythm are discussed.
Recent electrophysiological studies on the primate amygdala have advanced our understanding of how individual neurons encode information relevant to emotional processes, but it remains unclear how these neurons are functionally and anatomically organized. To address this, we analyzed cross-correlograms of amygdala spike trains recorded during a task in which monkeys learned to associate novel images with rewarding and aversive outcomes. Using this task, we have recently described two populations of amygdala neurons: one that responds more strongly to images predicting reward (positive value-coding), and another that responds more strongly to images predicting an aversive stimulus (negative value-coding). Here, we report that these neural populations are organized into distinct, but anatomically intermingled, appetitive and aversive functional circuits, which are dynamically modulated as animals used the images to predict outcomes. Furthermore, we report that responses to sensory stimuli are prevalent in the lateral amygdala, and are also prevalent in the medial amygdala for sensory stimuli that are emotionally significant. The circuits identified here could potentially mediate valence-specific emotional behaviors thought to involve the amygdala.
Doublecortin (Dcx) is the causative gene for X-linked lissencephaly, which encodes a microtubule-binding protein. Axon tracts are abnormal in both affected individuals and in animal models. To determine the reason for the axon tract defect, we performed a semiquantitative proteomic analysis of the corpus callosum in mice mutant for Dcx. In axons from mice mutant for Dcx, widespread differences are found in actin-associated proteins as compared with wild-type axons. Decreases in actin-binding proteins -actinin-1 and -actinin-4 and actin-related protein 2/3 complex subunit 3 (Arp3), are correlated with dysregulation in the distribution of filamentous actin (F-actin) in the mutant neurons with increased F-actin around the cell body and decreased F-actin in the neurites and growth cones. The actin distribution defect can be rescued by full-length Dcx and further enhanced by Dcx S297A, the unphosphorylatable mutant, but not with the truncation mutant of Dcx missing the C-terminal S/P-rich domain. Thus, the C-terminal region of Dcx dynamically regulates formation of F-actin features in developing neurons, likely through interaction with spinophilin, but not through -actinin-4 or Arp3. We show with that the phenotype of Dcx/Doublecortin-like kinase 1 deficiency is consistent with actin defect, as these axons are selectively deficient in axon guidance, but not elongation.
Learning new tasks has been associated with increased growth and stabilization of new dendritic spines. We examined whether long-term potentiation (LTP), a key cellular mechanism thought to underlie learning, plays a role in selective stabilization of individual new spines during circuit plasticity. Using two-photon glutamate uncaging, we stimulated nascent spines on dendrites of rat hippocampal CA1 neurons with patterns that induce LTP and then monitored spine survival rates using time-lapse imaging. Remarkably, we found that LTP-inducing stimuli increased the long-term survivorship (&gt;14 h) of individual new spines. Activity-induced new spine stabilization required NMDA receptor activation and was specific for stimuli that induced LTP. Moreover, abrogating CaMKII binding to the NMDA receptor abolished activity-induced new spine stabilization. Our findings demonstrate for the first time that, in addition to enhancing the efficacy of preexisting synapses, LTP-inducing stimuli promote the transition of nascent spines from a short-lived, transient state to a longer-lived, persistent state.
Recent research on Parkinson's disease (PD) has emphasized that parkinsonian movement, although bradykinetic, shares many attributes with healthy behavior. This observation led to the suggestion that bradykinesia in PD could be due to a reduction in motor motivation. This hypothesis can be tested in the framework of optimal control theory, which accounts for many characteristics of healthy human movement while providing a link between the motor behavior and a cost/benefit trade-off. This approach offers the opportunity to interpret movement deficits of PD patients in the light of a computational theory of normal motor control. We studied 14 PD patients with bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation and 16 age-matched healthy controls, and tested whether reaching movements were governed by similar rules in these two groups. A single optimal control model accounted for the reaching movements of healthy subjects and PD patients, whatever the condition of STN stimulation (on or off). The choice of movement speed was explained in all subjects by the existence of a preset dynamic range for the motor signals. This range was idiosyncratic and applied to all movements regardless of their amplitude. In PD patients this dynamic range was abnormally narrow and correlated with bradykinesia. STN stimulation reduced bradykinesia and widened this range in all patients, but did not restore it to a normal value. These results, consistent with the motor motivation hypothesis, suggest that constrained optimization of motor effort is the main determinant of movement planning (choice of speed) and movement production, in both healthy and PD subjects.
The T-type Ca(2+) channels encoded by the Ca(V)3 genes are well established electrogenic drivers for burst discharge. Here, using Ca(V)3.3(-/-) mice we found that Ca(V)3.3 channels trigger synaptic plasticity in reticular thalamic neurons. Burst discharge via Ca(V)3.3 channels induced long-term potentiation at thalamoreticular inputs when coactivated with GluN2B-containing NMDA receptors, which are the dominant subtype at these synapses. Notably, oscillatory burst discharge of reticular neurons is typical for sleep-related rhythms, suggesting that sleep contributes to strengthening intrathalamic circuits.
Recent stimulus history-adaptation-alters neuronal responses and perception. Previous electrophysiological and perceptual studies suggest that prolonged adaptation strengthens and makes more persistent the effects seen after briefer exposures. However, no systematic comparison has been made between the effects of adaptation lasting hundreds of milliseconds, which might arise during a single fixation, and the more prolonged adaptation typically used in imaging and perceptual studies. Here we determine how 0.4, 4, and 40 s of adaptation alters orientation tuning in primary visual cortex of anesthetized macaque monkeys, and how quickly responses recover after adapter offset. We measured responses to small (1.3) and large (7.4) gratings because previous work has shown that adaptation effects can depend on stimulus size. Adaptation with small gratings reduced responsivity and caused tuning to shift away from the adapter. These effects strengthened with more prolonged adaptation. For responses to large gratings, brief and prolonged adaptation produced indistinguishable effects on responsivity but caused opposite shifts in tuning preference. Recovery from adaptation was notably slower after prolonged adaptation, even when this did not induce stronger effects. We show that our results can be explained by an adaptation-induced weakening of surround suppression, the dynamics of this suppression, and differential effects of brief and prolonged adaptation across response epochs. Our findings show that effects do not simply scale with adaptation duration and suggest that distinct strategies exist for adjusting to moment-to-moment fluctuations in input and to more persistent visual stimuli.
Grouping local elements into a holistic percept, also known as spatial binding, is crucial for meaningful perception. Previous studies have shown that neurons in early visual areas V1 and V2 can signal complex grouping-related information, such as illusory contours or object-border ownerships. However, relatively little is known about higher-level processes contributing to these signals and mediating global Gestalt perception. We used a novel bistable motion illusion that induced alternating and mutually exclusive vivid conscious experiences of either dynamic illusory contours forming a global Gestalt or moving ungrouped local elements while the visual stimulation remained the same. fMRI in healthy human volunteers revealed that activity fluctuations in two sites of the parietal cortex, the superior parietal lobe and the anterior intraparietal sulcus (aIPS), correlated specifically with the perception of the grouped illusory Gestalt as opposed to perception of ungrouped local elements. We then disturbed activity at these two sites in the same participants using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). TMS over aIPS led to a selective shortening of the duration of the global Gestalt percept, with no effect on that of local elements. The results suggest that aIPS activity is directly involved in the process of spatial binding during effortless viewing in the healthy brain. Conscious perception of global Gestalt is therefore associated with aIPS function, similar to attention and perceptual selection.
Anomalies in prefrontal cortex (PFC) function are posited to underpin difficulties in learning to suppress drug-seeking behavior during abstinence. Because group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) regulate drug-related learning, we assayed the consequences of extended access to intravenous cocaine (6 h/d; 0.25 mg/infusion for 10 d) on the PFC expression of group 1 mGluRs and the relevance of observed changes for cocaine seeking. After protracted withdrawal, cocaine-experienced animals exhibited a time-dependent intensification of cue-induced cocaine-seeking behavior and an impaired extinction of this behavior. These behavioral phenomena were associated with a time-dependent reduction in mGluR1/5 expression within ventromedial PFC (vmPFC) of cocaine-experienced animals exposed to extinction testing but not in untested ones. Interestingly, pharmacological manipulations of vmPFC mGluR1/5 produced no immediate effects on cue-induced cocaine-seeking behavior but produced residual effects on a subsequent test for cocaine seeking. At 3 d withdrawal, cocaine-experienced rats infused intra-vmPFC with mGluR1/5 antagonists, either before or after an initial test for cocaine seeking, persisted in their cocaine seeking akin to cocaine-experienced rats in protracted withdrawal. Conversely, cocaine-experienced rats infused with an mGluR1/5 agonist before the initial test for cocaine-seeking at 30 d withdrawal exhibited a facilitation of extinction learning. These data indicate that cue-elicited deficits in vmPFC group 1 mGluR function mediate resistance to extinction during protracted withdrawal from a history of extensive cocaine self-administration and pose pharmacological stimulation of these receptors as a potential approach to facilitate learned suppression of drug-seeking behavior that may aid drug abstinence.
Galanthamine and physostigmine are clinically used cholinomimetics that both inhibit acetylcholinesterase and also interact directly with and potentiate nAChRs. As with most nAChR-positive allosteric modulators, the location and number of their binding site(s) within nAChRs are unknown. In this study, we use the intrinsic photoreactivities of [(3)H]physostigmine and [(3)H]galanthamine upon irradiation at 312 nm to directly identify amino acids contributing to their binding sites in the Torpedo californica nAChR. Protein sequencing of fragments isolated from proteolytic digests of [(3)H]physostigmine- or [(3)H]galanthamine-photolabeled nAChR establish that, in the presence of agonist (carbamylcholine), both drugs photolabeled amino acids on the complementary (non-) surface of the transmitter binding sites (Tyr-111/Tyr-117/Tyr172). They also photolabeled Tyr-212 at the - subunit interface and Tyr-105 in the vestibule of the ion channel, with photolabeling of both residues enhanced in the presence of agonist. Furthermore, [(3)H]physostigmine photolabeling of Tyr-111, Tyr-117, Tyr-212, and Tyr-105 was inhibited in the presence of nonradioactive galanthamine. The locations of the photolabeled amino acids in the nAChR structure and the results of computational docking studies provide evidence that, in the presence of agonist, physostigmine and galanthamine bind to at least three distinct sites in the nAChR extracellular domain: at the - interface (1) in the entry to the transmitter binding site and (2) in the vestibule of the ion channel near the level of the transmitter binding site, and at the - interface (3) in a location equivalent to the benzodiazepine binding site in GABA(A) receptors.
Learning and memory require orchestrated regulation of both structural and functional synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. While a neuropeptide alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, -MSH, has been implicated in memory acquisition and retention, the functional role of its cognate receptor, melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R), in hippocampal-dependent synaptic plasticity has not been explored. In this study, we report that activation of MC4R enhances synaptic plasticity through the regulation of dendritic spine morphology and abundance of AMPA receptors. We show that activation of postsynaptic MC4R increases the number of mature dendritic spines and enhances surface expression of AMPA receptor subunit GluA1, resulting in synaptic accumulation of GluA1-containing AMPA receptors. Moreover, MC4R stimulates surface GluA1 trafficking through phosphorylation of GluA1 at Ser845 in a G(s)-cAMP/PKA-dependent manner. Blockade of protein kinase A (PKA) signaling abolishes the MC4R-mediated enhancement of neurotransmission and hippocampal long-term potentiation. Importantly, in vivo application of MC4R agonists increases LTP in the mouse hippocampal CA1 region. These findings reveal that MC4R in the hippocampus plays a critical role in the regulation of structural and functional plasticity.
Astrocytes might function as brain interoceptors capable of detecting different (chemo)sensory modalities and transmitting sensory information to the relevant neural networks controlling vital functions. For example, astrocytes that reside near the ventral surface of the brainstem (central respiratory chemosensitive area) respond to physiological decreases in pH with vigorous elevations in intracellular Ca(2+) and release of ATP. ATP transmits astroglial excitation to the brainstem respiratory network and contributes to adaptive changes in lung ventilation. Here we show that in terms of pH-sensitivity, ventral brainstem astrocytes are clearly distinct from astrocytes residing in the cerebral cortex. We monitored vesicular fusion in cultured rat brainstem astrocytes using total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy and found that 35% of them respond to acidification with an increased rate of exocytosis of ATP-containing vesicular compartments. These fusion events require intracellular Ca(2+) signaling and are independent of autocrine ATP actions. In contrast, the rate of vesicular fusion in cultured cortical astrocytes is not affected by changes in pH. Compared to cortical astrocytes, ventral brainstem astrocytes display higher levels of expression of genes encoding proteins associated with ATP vesicular transport and fusion, including vesicle-associated membrane protein-3 and vesicular nucleotide transporter. These results suggest that astrocytes residing in different parts of the rat brain are functionally specialized. In contrast to cortical astrocytes, astrocytes of the brainstem chemosensitive area(s) possess signaling properties that are functionally relevant-they are able to sense changes in pH and respond to acidification with enhanced vesicular release of ATP.
Subsecond adaptation to directional motion can induce a rapid form of motion after-effect (rMAE). Unlike the characteristics of the classic motion after-effect (MAE), produced by adaptation of several seconds or minutes, the properties of the rMAE have been less well explored. In a series of experiments, we assessed the role of stationary and dynamic test patterns (counterphase flickering gratings) in generating rMAE. In particular, we varied the duration, temporal frequency, and spatial phase of the adapting stimuli. Our results show that rMAE is only generated by dynamic test patterns, exhibiting a strong dependence on the adaptation duration and temporal frequency but not on the spatial phase. Similarly to the classic dynamic MAE, the temporal frequency tuning of the dynamic rMAE suggests the involvement of both low-pass and band-pass visual channels. Unexpectedly, our results do not show evidence for static rMAE. We speculate that a stationary test pattern presented immediately (or very soon) after the adapting pattern could interfere with the effects of adaptation by disrupting weak motion signals that arise from adapted and unadapted motion detectors (Ledgeway &amp; Smith, 1994a, 1994b).

Subtypes of GABAergic interneurons (INs) are crucial for cortical function, yet their specific roles are largely unknown. In contrast to supra- and infragranular layers, where most somatostatin-expressing (SOM) INs are layer 1-targeting Martinotti cells, the axons of SOM INs in layer 4 of somatosensory cortex largely remain within layer 4. Moreover, we found that whereas layers 2/3 SOM INs target mainly pyramidal cells (PCs), layer 4 SOM INs target mainly fast-spiking (FS) INs. Accordingly, optogenetic inhibition of SOM INs in an active cortical network increases the firing of layers 2/3 PCs whereas it decreases the firing of layer 4 principal neurons (PNs). This unexpected effect of SOM INs on layer 4 PNs occurs via their inhibition of local FS INs. These results reveal a disinhibitory microcircuit in the thalamorecipient layer through interactions among subtypes of INs and suggest that the SOM IN-mediated disinhibition represents an important circuit mechanism for cortical information processing.
Mammalian pallial (cortical and hippocampal) and striatal interneurons are both generated in the embryonic subpallium, including the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE). Herein we demonstrate that the Zfhx1b (Sip1, Zeb2) zinc finger homeobox gene is required in the MGE, directly downstream of Dlx1&amp;2, to generate cortical interneurons that express Cxcr7, MafB, and cMaf. In its absence, Nkx2-1 expression is not repressed, and cells that ordinarily would become cortical interneurons appear to transform toward a subtype of GABAergic striatal interneurons. These results show that Zfhx1b is required to generate cortical interneurons, and suggest a mechanism for the epilepsy observed in humans with Zfhx1b mutations (Mowat-Wilson syndrome).
A central tenet of most theories of synaptic modification during cortical development is that correlated activity drives plasticity in synaptically connected neurons. Unexpectedly, however, using sensory-evoked activity patterns recorded from the developing mouse cortex in vivo, the synaptic learning rule that we uncover here relies solely on the presynaptic neuron. A burst of three presynaptic spikes followed, within a restricted time window, by a single presynaptic spike induces robust long-term depression (LTD) at developing layer 4 to layer 2/3 synapses. This presynaptic spike pattern-dependent LTD (p-LTD) can be induced by individual presynaptic layer 4 cells, requires presynaptic NMDA receptors and calcineurin, and is expressed presynaptically. However, in contrast to spike timing-dependent LTD, p-LTD is independent of postsynaptic and astroglial signaling. This spike pattern-dependent learning rule complements timing-based rules and is likely to play a role in the pruning of synaptic input during cortical development.
The neural circuits of the mammalian neocortex are crucial for perception, complex thought, cognition, and consciousness. This circuitry is assembled from many different neuronal subtypes with divergent properties and functions. Here, we review recent studies that have begun to clarify the mechanisms of cell-type specification in the neocortex, focusing on the lineage relationships between neocortical progenitors and subclasses of excitatory projection neurons. These studies reveal an unanticipated diversity in the progenitor pool that requires a revised view of prevailing models of cell-type specification in the neocortex. We propose a &quot;sequential progenitor-diversification model&quot; that integrates current knowledge to explain how projection neuron diversity is achieved by mechanisms acting on proliferating progenitors and their postmitotic offspring. We discuss the implications of this model for our understanding of brain evolution and pathological states of the neocortex.
In this issue, Fitzgerald et al. (2013) show that LIP neurons in monkeys encode categorically distinct task conditions using a scalar code. Activity scales up or down to encode different categories, with neurons maintaining proportional levels of activity in relation to one another.
In 2012, intramuscular midazolam appears as effective as intravenous lorezepam for the first line treatment of convulsive status epilepticus. Perampanel, a new anti-epileptic drug, will be soon available. Two oral treatments are now available for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation setting. The methylphenidate and the Tai Chi could increase the walk capacity of patients suffering from Parkinson disease. A comprehensive cardiac work-up is essential for some congenital myopathy. A new drug against migraine seems free from vasoconstrictive effect. Antioxidants are harmful in Alzheimer disease. Some oral medication will be available for multiple sclerosis.
What's new in addiction medicine in 2012? The news are presented according three axes: first, in the field of neuroscience, the process of extinction of addiction memories. Then in the clinical field, a reflexion is reported on how to treat addiction in psychiatric hospitals. At last, in the area of teaching, an e-learning development with a virtual patient shows a great interest in addiction psychiatry.

ABSTRACT: INTRODUCTION: Although the safety of celecoxib has been investigated, limited data are available on complications affecting the entire (upper and lower) gastrointestinal (GI) tract, with no patient-level pooled analyses of upper and lower GI outcomes available. We therefore evaluated the upper and lower GI safety of celecoxib by using patient-level data from randomized controlled trials (RCTs). METHODS: This patient-level pooled analysis included 52 prospective, randomized, double-blind parallel-group studies from the Celecoxib Clinical Database. Each study had a planned duration of continuous treatment with celecoxib or a nonselective nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (nsNSAID), rofecoxib, or the placebo comparator arm for at least 4 weeks. All studies with final reports completed by 1 October 2007 were included. The primary end point was the combined incidence of clinically significant upper and lower GI events (CSULGIEs). An independent blinded committee reviewed and adjudicated all end points by using predefined criteria and all available reported adverse events, laboratory data, and case narratives. All doses of celecoxib and all doses of all nsNSAIDs were pooled for analysis. RESULTS: The pooled analysis involved 51,048 patients; 28,614 were randomized to celecoxib; 15,278 to nsNSAIDs (including 3,248 patients taking naproxen, 2,640 taking ibuprofen, 8,066 taking diclofenac, 1,234 taking loxoprofen, and 90 taking ketoprofen); 5,827 to placebo and 1,329 to rofecoxib. The mean age was 60 years, and 65% were women. Data on 1,042 patients with potential GI events were reviewed for end-points adjudication; the adjudication committee confirmed 89 patients with CSULGIEs. The majority were in the celecoxib and nsNSAID groups (with raw incidence proportions of 37 (0.1%) and 40 (0.3%), respectively). The incidence rates were 0.3, 0.9 and 0.3 per 100 patient-years in the celecoxib, nsNSAID, and placebo groups, respectively. The time to incidence of CSULGIEs was significantly longer with celecoxib than with nsNSAIDs (P = 0.0004). CONCLUSIONS: When compared with nsNSAIDs, celecoxib is associated with a significantly lower risk of all clinically significant GI events throughout the entire GI tract. This pooled analysis of 52 RCTs significantly advances the understanding of the upper and lower GI safety profile of celecoxib and its potential benefits to patients.
Presenilin 1 (PS1) comprises a catalytic subunit of -secretase, which is an intramembrane-cleaving protease responsible for generation of amyloid- peptides as well as Notch cleavage, the latter being implicated in cancer. We have shown that transmembrane domains (TMDs) 1, 6, 7, and 9 of PS1 form the &quot;catalytic pore&quot; structure within the membrane for intramembrane proteolysis. Here we report a novel monoclonal antibody 9D11, which directly recognizes the TMD1-proximal residues in the hydrophilic loop region. Intriguingly, 9D11 inhibited the -secretase activity irrespective of the binding of known -secretase inhibitors and abolished Notch signaling-dependent cancer cell viability. Our data suggest that the juxtamembrane region of TMD1 of PS1 is a novel molecular target for the mechanism-based inhibition of -secretase and the development of the anticancer drug.
Upon continued submersion in water, the glabrous skin on human hands and feet forms wrinkles. The formation of these wrinkles is known to be an active process, controlled by the autonomic nervous system. Such an active control suggests that these wrinkles may have an important function, but this function has not been clear. In this study, we show that submerged objects are handled more quickly with wrinkled fingers than with unwrinkled fingers, whereas wrinkles make no difference to manipulating dry objects. These findings support the hypothesis that water-induced finger wrinkles improve handling submerged objects and suggest that they may be an adaptation for handling objects in wet conditions.
Reduced reproduction is associated with increased fat storage and prolonged life span in multiple organisms, but the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood. Recent studies in several species provide evidence that reproduction, fat metabolism, and longevity are directly coupled. For instance, germline removal in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans promotes longevity in part by modulating lipid metabolism through effects on fatty acid desaturation, lipolysis, and autophagy. Here, we review these recent studies and discuss the mechanisms by which reproduction modulates fat metabolism and life span. Elucidating the relationship between these processes could contribute to our understanding of age-related diseases including metabolic disorders.
A method that can analyse the movements of Drosophila as they walk is a valuable addition to the tools available to neurobiologists, and has already led to insights into the interplay of central networks and sensory feedback in this model organism.


Functional brain imaging has been a standard tool in the basic and clinical neurosciences for at least 2 decades, and structural brain imaging can claim an even longer track record of successful use for diagnosis of neurodegenerative disease. It is instructive to recall the ways in which brain imaging has been used to date, and this exercise will clarify why the contribution by McMillan et al.(1) in the current issue of Neurology is exciting and novel.
Activation of type 1 cannabinoid receptors (CB1R) decreases GABA and glutamate release in cortical and subcortical regions, with complex outcomes on cortical network activity. To date there have been few attempts to disentangle the region- and cell-specific mechanisms underlying the effects of cannabinoids on cortical network activity in vivo. Here we addressed this issue by combining in vivo electrophysiological recordings with local and systemic pharmacological manipulations in conditional mutant mice lacking CB1R expression in different neuronal populations. First we report that cannabinoids induce hypersynchronous thalamocortical oscillations while decreasing the amplitude of faster cortical oscillations. Then we demonstrate that CB1R at striatonigral synapses (basal ganglia direct pathway) mediate the thalamocortical hypersynchrony, whereas activation of CB1R expressed in cortical glutamatergic neurons decreases cortical synchrony. Finally we show that activation of CB1 expressed in cortical glutamatergic neurons limits the cannabinoid-induced thalamocortical hypersynchrony. By reporting that CB1R activations in cortical and subcortical regions have contrasting effects on cortical synchrony, our study bridges the gap between cellular and in vivo network effects of cannabinoids. Incidentally, the thalamocortical hypersynchrony we report suggests a potential mechanism to explain the sensory &quot;high&quot; experienced during recreational consumption of marijuana.

The nucleus accumbens (NAc) regulates motivated behavior by, in part, processing excitatory synaptic projections from several brain regions. Among these regions, the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and basolateral amygdala, convey executive control and affective states, respectively. Whereas glutamatergic synaptic transmission within the NAc has been recognized as a primary cellular target for cocaine and other drugs of abuse to induce addiction-related pathophysiological motivational states, the understanding has been thus far limited to drug-induced postsynaptic alterations. It remains elusive whether exposure to cocaine or other drugs of abuse influences presynaptic functions of these excitatory projections, and if so, in which projection pathways. Using optogenetic methods combined with biophysical assays, we demonstrate that the presynaptic release probability (Pr) of the PFC-to-NAc synapses was enhanced after short-term withdrawal (1 d) and long-term (45 d) withdrawal from either noncontingent (i.p. injection) or contingent (self-administration) exposure to cocaine. After long-term withdrawal of contingent drug exposure, the Pr was higher compared with i.p. injected rats. In contrast, within the basolateral amygdala afferents, presynaptic Pr was not significantly altered in any of these experimental conditions. Thus, cocaine-induced procedure- and pathway-specific presynaptic enhancement of excitatory synaptic transmission in the NAc. These results, together with previous findings of cocaine-induced postsynaptic enhancement, suggest an increased PFC-to-NAc shell glutamatergic synaptic transmission after withdrawal from exposure to cocaine. This presynaptic alteration may interact with other cocaine-induced cellular adaptations to shift the functional output of NAc neurons, contributing to the addictive emotional and motivational state.
In this issue of Structure, Nyirenda and colleagues use a combination of X-ray and NMR to demonstrate thatms timescale conformational dynamics of oligosaccharyltransferases are critical for N-linked protein glycosylation.
Modifications and loss of bases are frequent types of DNA lesions, often handled by the base excision repair (BER) pathway. BER is initiated by DNA glycosylases, generating abasic (AP) sites that are subsequently cleaved by AP endonucleases, which further pass on nicked DNA to downstream DNA polymerases and ligases. The coordinated handover of cytotoxic intermediates between different BER enzymes is most likely facilitated by the DNA conformation. Here, we present the atomic structure of Schizosaccharomyces pombe Mag2 in complex with DNA to reveal an unexpected structural basis for nonenzymatic AP site recognition with an unflipped AP site. Two surface-exposed loops intercalate and widen the DNA minor groove to generate a DNA conformation previously only found in the mismatch repair MutS-DNA complex. Consequently, the molecular role of Mag2 appears to be AP site recognition and protection, while possibly facilitating damage signaling by structurally sculpting the DNA substrate.


This study demonstrates a new electrochemical method for continuous neurochemical sensing with a biofuel cell-based self-powered biogenerator as the detector for the analysis of microdialysate continuously sampled from rat brain, with glucose as an example analyte. To assemble a glucose/O(2) biofuel cell that can be used as a self-powered biogenerator for glucose sensing, glucose dehydrogenase (GDH) was used as the bioanodic catalyst for the oxidation of glucose with methylene green (MG) adsorbed onto single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) as the electrocatalyst for the oxidation of dihydronicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH). Laccase crosslinked onto SWNTs was used as the biocathodic catalyst for the O(2) reduction. To enable the bioanode and biocathode to work efficiently in their individually favorable solutions and to eliminate the interference between the glucose bioanode and O(2) biocathode, the biofuel cell-based biogenerator was built in a co-laminar microfluidic chip so that the bioanodic and biocathodic streams could be independently optimized to provide conditions favorable for each of the bioelectrodes. By using a home-made portable voltmeter to output the voltage generated on an external resistor, the biogenerator was used for glucose sensing based on a galvanic cell mechanism. In vitro experiments demonstrate that, under the optimized conditions, the voltage generated on an external resistor shows a linear relationship with the logarithmic glucose concentration within a concentration range of 0.2 mM to 1.0 mM. Moreover, the biogenerator exhibits a high stability and a good selectivity for glucose sensing. The validity of the biofuel cell-based self-powered biogenerator for continuous neurochemical sensing was illustrated by online continuous monitoring of striatum glucose in rat brain through the combination of in vivo microdialysis. This study offers a new and technically simple platform for continuously monitoring physiologically important species in cerebral systems.
The evolutionary origin of the six-layered mammalian neocortex has been controversial. New data on genes with layer-specific expression in mammalian cortex have found an expression pattern in avian forebrain neurons consistent with the view that 'cortical' cells and circuits are present in all amniotes, but with different macroarchitectures in birds versus mammals.
In the mammalian retina, 10-12 different cone bipolar cell (BC) types decompose the photoreceptor signal into parallel channels, providing the basis for the functional diversity of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). BCs differing in their temporal properties appear to project to different strata of the retina's inner synaptic layer, based on somatic recordings of BCs and excitatory synaptic currents measured in RGCs. However, postsynaptic currents in RGCs are influenced by dendritic morphology and receptor types, and the BC signal can be transformed at the axon terminals both through interactions with amacrine cells and through the generation of all-or-nothing spikes. Therefore, the temporal properties of the BC output have not been analyzed systematically across different types of mammalian BCs. We recorded calcium signals directly within axon terminals using two-photon imaging and show that BCs can be divided into eight functional clusters. The temporal properties of the BC output were directly reflected in their anatomical organization within the retina's inner synaptic layer: faster cells stratified closer to the border between ON and OFF sublamina. Moreover, three fastest groups generated clear all-or-nothing spikes. Therefore, the systematic projection pattern of BCs provides distinct temporal &quot;building blocks&quot; for the feature extracting circuits of the inner retina.
In demyelinating disorders such as Multiple Sclerosis (MS), targets of injury are myelin and oligodendrocytes, leading to severe neurological dysfunction. Regenerative therapies aimed at promoting oligodendrocyte maturation and remyelination are promising strategies for treatment in demyelinating disorders. Endogenous precursor cells or exogenous transplanted cells are potential sources for remyelinating oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS). Several signalling pathways have been implicated in regulating the capacity of these cell populations for myelin repair. Here, we review neural precursor cells and oligodendrocyte progenitor cells as potential sources for remyelinating oligodendrocytes and evidence for the functional role of key signalling pathways in inhibiting regeneration from these precursor cell populations.
RNA trafficking to dendrites and local translation are crucial processes for superior neuronal functions. To date, several -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor (AMPAR) mRNAs have been detected in dendrites and are subject to local protein synthesis. Here, we report the presence of all AMPAR GluA1-4 mRNAs in hippocampal and cortical rat synaptic spines by synaptoneurosomes analysis. In particular, we showed that dendritic AMPAR mRNAs are present in the Flip versions in the cortex and hippocampus. To further confirm these data, we demonstrate, using in situ hybridization, the dendritic localization of the GluA2 Flip isoform in vitro and in vivo, whereas the Flop variant is restricted mainly to the soma. In addition, we report that dendritic AMPA mRNAs are edited at low levels at their R/G sites; this result was also supported with transfection experiments using chimeric GluA2 DNA vectors, showing that transcripts carrying an unedited nucleotide at the R/G site, in combination with the Flip exon, are more efficiently targeted to dendrites when compared with the edited-Flip versions. Our data show that post-transcriptional regulations such as RNA splicing, editing and trafficking might be mutually coordinated and that the localization of different AMPAR isoforms in dendrites might play a functional role in the regulation of neuronal transmission.
This work explores the feasibility and impact of including both the motion correction and the image registration transformation parameters from positron emission tomography (PET) image space to magnetic resonance (MR), or stereotaxic, image space within the system matrix of PET image reconstruction. This approach is motivated by the fields of neuroscience and psychiatry, where PET is used to investigate differences in activation patterns between different groups of participants, requiring all images to be registered to a common spatial atlas. Currently, image registration is performed after image reconstruction which introduces interpolation effects into the final image. Furthermore, motion correction (also requiring registration) introduces a further level of interpolation, and the overall result of these operations can lead to resolution degradation and possibly artifacts. It is important to note that performing such operations on a post-reconstruction basis means, strictly speaking, that the final images are not ones which maximize the desired objective function (e.g. maximum likelihood (ML), or maximum a posteriori reconstruction (MAP)). To correctly seek parameter estimates in the desired spatial atlas which are in accordance with the chosen reconstruction objective function, it is necessary to include the transformation parameters for both motion correction and registration within the system modeling stage of image reconstruction. Such an approach not only respects the statistically chosen objective function (e.g. ML or MAP), but furthermore should serve to reduce the interpolation effects. To evaluate the proposed method, this work investigates registration (including motion correction) using 2D and 3D simulations based on the high resolution research tomograph (HRRT) PET scanner geometry, with and without resolution modeling, using the ML expectation maximization (MLEM) reconstruction algorithm. The quality of reconstruction was assessed using bias-variance and root mean squared error analyses, comparing the proposed method to conventional post-reconstruction registration methods. An overall reduction in bias (for a cold region: from 41% down to 31% (2D) and 97% down to 65% (3D), and for a hot region: from 11% down to 8% (2D) and from 16% down to 14% (3D)) and in root mean squared error analyses (for a cold region: from 43% to 37% (2D) and from 97% to 65% (3D), and for a hot region: from 11% to 9% (2D) and from 16% down to 14% (3D)) in reconstructed regional mean activities (full regions of interest; all with statistical significance: p &lt; 510(-10)) is found when including the motion correction and registration in the system matrix of the MLEM reconstruction, with resolution modeling. However, this improvement in performance comes with an extra computational cost of about 40min. In this context, this work constitutes an important step toward the goal of estimating parameters of interest directly from the raw Poisson-distributed PET data, and hence toward the complete elimination of post-processing steps.
Dynamical criticality has been shown to enhance information processing in dynamical systems, and there is evidence for self-organized criticality in neural networks. A plausible mechanism for such self-organization is activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. Here, we model neurons as discrete-state nodes on an adaptive network following stochastic dynamics. At a threshold connectivity, this system undergoes a dynamical phase transition at which persistent activity sets in. In a low-dimensional representation of the macroscopic dynamics, this corresponds to a transcritical bifurcation. We show analytically that adding activity-dependent rewiring rules, inspired by homeostatic plasticity, leads to the emergence of an attractive steady state at criticality and present numerical evidence for the system's evolution to such a state.
The chemical neuroanatomy and the effects of central administration of opioid antagonists on the innate fear-induced responses elicited by electrical (at escape behaviour threshold) stimulation of the midbrain tectum were determined. The aim of the present work was to investigate the interaction between the tecto-nigral endogenous opioid peptide-mediated disinhibitory pathways and nigro-tectal inhibitory links in the control of panic-like behaviour and their organisation in the continuum comprised by the deep layers of the superior colliculus (dlSC) and the dorsolateral columns of the periaqueductal grey matter (dlPAG). Beta-endorphin-labelled neurons and fibres were found in the dorsal midbrain and also in the substantia nigra. Opioid varicose fibres and terminal buttons were widely distributed in PAG columns and in all substantia nigra subdivisions. Microinjections of naltrexone (a non-selective opioid receptor antagonist; 5.0 g/0.2 l) or nor-binaltorphimine (a selective -opioid receptor antagonist; 5.0 g/0.2 l) in the dlSC/dlPAG continuum, in independent groups of animals, induced significant increases in the escape thresholds for midbrain tectum electrical stimulation. The microinjection of naltrexone or nor-binaltorphimine into the SNpr also increased the escape behaviour threshold for electrical stimulation of dlSC/dlPAG. These morphological and neuropharmacological findings support previous evidence from our team for the role played by the interaction between opioidergic and GABAergic mechanisms in the modulation of innate fear-induced responses. The present data offer a neuroanatomical basis for both intratectal axo-axonic/pre-synaptic and tecto-nigral axo-somatic opioid inhibition of GABAergic nigro-tectal neurons that modulate the dorsal midbrain neurons related to the organisation of fear-related emotional responses.
Reactive oxygen species contribute to regulating the excitability of vascular smooth muscle. This study investigated the actions of the relatively stable reactive oxygen species, H(2)O(2), on nerve-evoked contractions of mouse distal tail artery. H(2)O(2) (10-100 M) increased nerve-evoked contractions of isometrically mounted segments of tail artery. Endothelium denudation increased nerve-evoked contractions and abolished the facilitatory effect of H(2)O(2). Inhibition of nitric oxide synthase with L-nitroarginine methyl ester (0.1mM) also increased nerve-evoked contractions and reduced the late phase of H(2)O(2)-induced facilitation. H(2)O(2)-induced facilitation of nerve-evoked contractions depended, in part, on synthesis of prostanoids and was reduced by the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (1 M) and the thromboxane A(2) receptor antagonist SQ 29548 (1 M). H(2)O(2) increased sensitivity of nerve-evoked contractions to the (2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (0.1 M) but not to the (1)-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin (10nM). Idazoxan and the (2C)-adrenoceptor antagonist JP 1302 (0.5-1 M) reduced H(2)O(2)-induced facilitation. H(2)O(2) induced facilitation of nerve-evoked contractions was abolished by the non-selective cation channel blocker SKF-96365 (10 M), suggesting it depends on Ca(2+) influx. In conclusion, H(2)O(2)-induced increases in nerve-evoked contractions depended on an intact endothelium and were mediated by activating thromboxane A(2) receptors and by increasing the contribution of (2)-adrenoceptors to these responses.
Perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) has been shown to produce vasoactive substances and regulate vascular tone. This function of PVAT has been reported to be altered in hypertension. However, the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. In this study we used age-matched normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) as well as Sprague-Dawley rats and tested effects of PVAT on mesenteric small arteries. Vessels were mounted in a Mulvany-Halpern myograph and cumulative concentration-response relations to noradrenaline were determined in the presence or absence of PVAT. We found that PVAT has an anti-contractile effect on mesenteric small vessels, irrespective of strains. A reduced effect of PVAT was observed in SHR compared to WKY rats; the difference between strains was eliminated by 10 M XE991, a blocker of Kv7 (KCNQ) voltage-dependent potassium channels. The anti-contractile effect of PVAT was not affected by depolarizing smooth muscle cells with high K(+) solution. Sensitivities to exogenous vasodilators acetylcholine or sodium nitroprusside were not potentiated but reduced in vessels with PVAT. Our results suggest that the reduced anti-contractile effect of PVAT in SHR correlates with a deficiency in Kv7 channels. Diffusion hindrance of PVAT is also a factor that should be considered in investigations on rat mesenteric small arteries.

Phosphorylation of NF-B plays an important role in modulating transcriptional activity of NF-B independently of inhibitor of B (IB) proteins. For the p65 subunit, multiple phosphorylation sites have been mapped in and adjacent to both the N-terminal Rel homology domain and the C-terminal transactivation domain. Their impact on NF-B-dependent transcription, however, has never been assessed at a broader level. In this study, we evaluate the importance of differential p65 phosphorylation on four serine acceptor sites in the Rel homology domain for the expression of an array of NF-B-dependent genes in endothelial cells. We find that inhibition of p65 phosphorylation on these serine residues targets NF-B activity to distinctive gene subsets in a B enhancer element-specific context. We show that the phosphorylation-dependent alterations in gene and protein expression are reflective of the amount of p65 and phosphorylated RNA polymerase II (p-RNAP II) bound to respective gene promoter regions. Depending on the gene subset, impaired gene expression was either a result of decreased p65 promoter recruitment or of a failure of bound p65 to recruit p-RNAP II. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that site-specific p65 phosphorylation targets NF-B activity to particular gene subsets on a global level by influencing p65 and p-RNAP II promoter recruitment.

Painful small-fiber peripheral neuropathy is a debilitating complication of chronic alcohol abuse. Evidence from previous studies suggests that neuroendocrine mechanisms, in combination with other, as yet unidentified actions of alcohol, are required to produce this neuropathic pain syndrome. In addition to neurotoxic effects of alcohol, in the setting of alcohol abuse neuroendocrine stress axes release glucocorticoids and catecholamines. Since receptors for these stress hormones are located on nociceptors, at which they can act to cause neuronal dysfunction, we tested the hypothesis that alcohol and stress hormones act on the nociceptor, independently, to produce neuropathic pain. We used a rat model, which allows the distinction of the effects of alcohol from those produced by neuroendocrine stress axis mediators. We now demonstrate that topical application of alcohol and exposure to unpredictable sound stress, each alone, has no effect on the nociceptive threshold. However, when animals that had previous exposure to alcohol were subsequently exposed to stress, they rapidly developed mechanical hyperalgesia. Conversely, sound stress followed by topical alcohol exposure also produced mechanical hyperalgesia. The contribution of stress hormones was prevented by spinal intrathecal administration of oligodeoxynucleotides antisense to (2)-adrenergic or glucocorticoid receptor mRNA, which attenuates receptor level in nociceptors, as well as by adrenal medullectomy. These experiments establish an independent role of alcohol and stress hormones on the primary afferent nociceptor in the induction of painful peripheral neuropathy.
Hyperpolarization-activated currents (I(h)) affect multiple neuronal functions including membrane potential, intrinsic firing properties, synaptic integration and frequency-dependent resonance behavior. Consistently, I(h) plays a key role for oscillations at the cellular and network level, including theta and gamma oscillations in rodent hippocampal circuits. Little is known, however, about the contribution of I(h) to a prominent memory-related pattern of network activity called sharp-wave-ripple complexes (SPW-R). Here we report that pharmacological suppression of I(h) induces specific changes in SPW-R in mouse hippocampal slices depending on the specific drug used and the region analyzed. Spontaneous generation of the events was reduced by blocking I(h) whereas the amplitude was unaffected or increased. Interestingly, the superimposed ripple oscillations at 200 Hz persisted with unchanged frequency, indicating that I(h) is not critical for generating this rhythmic pattern. Likewise, coupling between field oscillations and units was unchanged, showing unaltered recruitment of neurons into oscillating assemblies. Control experiments exclude a contribution of T-type calcium channels to the observed effects. Together, we report a specific contribution of hyperpolarization-activated cation currents to the generation of sharp waves in the hippocampus.
Previous anatomical and physiological studies suggest that the superior colliculus sends integrated sensory information to the multimodal cortical areas via the thalamic suprageniculate nucleus (SG). However, the detailed distribution of rat tecto-SG axon terminals and SG neurons projecting to the multimodal cortex, as well as synaptic connections between these tectal axons and SG neurons, remains unclear. In this study, the organization of the tecto-thalamo-cortical pathway was investigated via combined injections of anterograde and retrograde tracers followed by light and electron microscopic observations. Injections of a retrograde tracer, cholera toxin B subunit (CTB), into the temporal cortex, area 2, dorsal part (Te2D), and injections of an anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextran amine (BDA), into the deep layers of the superior colliculus produced the following results: (1) Retrogradely CTB-labeled neurons were found throughout SG, predominantly in its rostral part. CTB-labeled neurons were also found in other cortical areas such as the visual cortex, the auditory cortex, the parietal association cortex, and the perirhinal cortex. (2) Anterogradely BDA-labeled axons and their terminals were also observed throughout SG. Dual visualization of BDA and CTB showed that retrogradely labeled SG neurons and anterogradely labeled tectal axon terminal boutons overlapped considerably in the rostral part of SG, and their direct synaptic contacts were also confirmed via electron microscopy. These findings suggest that multimodal information from the superior colliculus can be processed directly in SG neurons projecting to Te2D.
Handedness is most often measured by questionnaires that assess an individual's preference for using a particular hand to perform a variety of tasks. While such assessments have proved reliable, they do not address the underlying neurobehavioral processes that give rise to the choice of which hand to use. Recent research has indicated that handedness is associated with hemispheric specializations for different aspects of sensorimotor performance. We now hypothesize that an individual's choice of which hand to use for a given task should result from an interaction between these underlying neurobehavioral asymmetries with task conditions. We test this hypothesis by manipulating two factors in targeted reaching movements: (1) region of workspace and (2) visual feedback conditions. The first manipulation modified the geometric and dynamic requirements of the task for each arm, whereas the second modified the sensorimotor performance asymmetries, an effect predicted by previous literature. We expected that arm choice would be reflected by an interaction between these factors. Our results indicated that removing visual feedback both improved the relative performance of the non-dominant arm and increased the choice to use this arm for targets near midline, an effect that was enhanced for targets requiring larger movement amplitudes. We explain these findings in the context of the dynamic dominance hypothesis of handedness and discuss their implications for the link between hemispheric asymmetries in neural control and hand preference.
To maximize reward, we are faced with the dilemma of having to balance the exploration of new response options and the exploitation of previous choices. Here, we sought to determine if the event-related brain potential (ERP) in the P300 time range is sensitive to decisions to explore or exploit within the context of a sequential risk-taking task. Specifically, the task we used required participants to continually explore their options-whether they should &quot;push their luck&quot; and keep gambling or &quot;take the money and run&quot; and collect their winnings. Our behavioral analysis yielded two distinct distributions of response times: a larger group of short-decision times and a smaller group of long-decision times. Interestingly, these data suggest that participants adopted one of two modes of control on any given trial: a mode where they quickly decided to keep gambling (i.e. exploit), and a mode where they deliberated whether to the take the money they had already won or continue gambling (i.e. explore). Importantly, we found that the amplitude of the ERP in the P300 time range was larger for explorative decisions than for exploitative decisions and, further, was correlated with decision time. Our results are consistent with a recent theoretical account that links changes in ERP amplitude in the P300 time range with phasic activity of the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine system and decisions to engage in exploratory behavior.
Like other marsupials, the opossum Monodelphis domestica is born very immature and crawls, unaided by the mother, from the urogenital opening to a nipple where it attaches and pursues its development. If the alternate, rhythmic movements of the forelimbs which allow this locomotion are generated by the developing spinal motor networks, sensory information is nonetheless needed to guide the newborn to a nipple. Behavioral, anatomical and physiological studies suggest that the auditory and the visual systems are insufficiently developed in newborn opossums to influence spinal motor centers, while the vestibular, trigeminal, and olfactory systems are likelier candidates. The trigeminal, vestibular and olfactory regions of the brain were electrically stimulated to test their relative effectiveness at eliciting forelimb movement in newborn opossums, using in vitro preparations of brain-spinal cord with the limbs attached. The minimal stimulation of the cervical spinal cord needed to induce forelimb movement was considered as threshold (T). Stimulations of the trigeminal ganglion (5G) at 2T and of the vestibular complex at 20T could induce the same movement, and were not statistically different, in contrast to the 600T necessary for the olfactory bulb (OB). Neurofilament-200 immunohistochemistry and retrograde tracing with Texas-Red conjugated Dextran Amines were used to study trigeminal innervation of the facial skin and pathways by which trigeminal inputs may be relayed to the spinal cord. Numerous nerve fibers were observed in the snout dermis, especially in the maxillary region, but also elsewhere in the head skin. Some 5G cells project to the upper spinal cord, but more project to the caudal medulla where they could contact secondary trigeminal neurons or reticular cells projecting to the spinal cord. These results support a significant influence of the trigeminal and the vestibular systems, but not of olfaction, on forelimb movement of neonatal opossums.
Four-vessel occlusion (4VO), a frequently used model of global cerebral ischemia in rats, results in a dysfunction in wide brain areas, including the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. However, there are pronounced differences in response to global ischemia between the laboratory rat strains used in these studies. In the present work, the immediate acute effects of 4VO-induced global ischemia on the spontaneous electrocorticogram (ECoG) signals were analyzed in Wistar and Sprague-Dawley rats. The ECoG was isoelectric during the 10 min of global cerebral ischemia in Wistar rats and the first burst (FB) was seen 10-13 min after the start of reperfusion. In Sprague-Dawley rats, the FB was detected immediately after the start of 4VO or a few seconds later. The burst suppression ratio (BSR) in Wistar rats decreased to 45% in 5 min after FB, and after 25 min it was approximately 40%. In Sprague-Dawley rats, the BSR was 55% immediately after the FB and it decreased steeply to reach 0% by 10 min. There was also a significant difference between the two strains in the frequency composition of the ECoG pattern. The power spectral densities of the two strains differed virtually throughout the post-ischemic state. The histological results (Evans Blue, Cresyl Violet and Fluoro Jade C stainings) supplemented the electrophysiological data: the neuronal damage in the CA1 pyramids in Wistar rats was severe, whereas in the Sprague-Dawley animals it was only partial. These observations clearly demonstrate that the use of different rat strains (e.g. Wistar vs. Sprague-Dawley) can be a source of considerable variability in the results of acute experiments on global ischemia and it is important that the laboratory rats used in such experiments should be carefully chosen.
Although trigeminal neuropathic pain is one of the most common chronic pain syndromes, the etiology is still unknown. Here, a rat model was generated using chronic constrictive injury (CCI) with ligation of the infraorbital nerve to test the hypothesis that collapse of chloride homeostasis in trigeminal neurons causes impairment of -aminobutyric acid-ergic (GABAergic) inhibition and induces trigeminal allodynia. Rats showed a reduction and increase in pain threshold and pain response scores, respectively, to mechanical stimulation, 1 and 3weeks after CCI. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analysis showed that inward-directed Na(+), K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter (NKCC1) mRNA and protein were upregulated in the small-sized and large-sized primary neurons in the injured side of the trigeminal ganglion and in the peripherin-positive terminal, respectively, for the first 2weeks, while outward-directed K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter (KCC2) mRNA and protein were downregulated in secondary relay neurons on the injured side of the spinal trigeminal nucleus caudalis (Sp5C). Optical imaging of evoked synaptic responses using a voltage-sensitive dye revealed that pre- and post-synaptic GABA actions were disinhibited and excitatory in the injured side, respectively, but inhibited in the sham-operated side of the Sp5C. This downregulation of KCC2 in the Sp5C may result in an excitatory switch by impairing postsynaptic GABA inhibition. GABA-mediated presynaptic disinhibition was attenuated by bumetanide, suggesting that NKCC1 upregulation in primary neurons may facilitate pain transmission by presynaptic GABAergic depolarization. Such Cl(-) homeostatic disruption resulting in perturbation of the inhibitory system possibly increases pain transmission, which may underlie the pathophysiology of trigeminal neuropathic pain.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus has been identified as a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Insulin is a neuroprotective growth factor, and an impairment of insulin signalling has been found in AD brains. Glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), an incretin hormone, normalises insulin signalling and also acts as a neuroprotective growth factor. GIP plays an important role in memory formation, synaptic plasticity and cell proliferation. We have shown previously that the long-lasting incretin hormone analogue D-Ala(2)GIP protects memory formation and synaptic plasticity, reduces plaques, normalises the proliferation of stem cells, reduces the activation of microglia, and prevents the loss of synapses in the cortex of the APPswe/PS1deltaE9 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. D-Ala(2)GIP was injected for 35 days at 25 nmol/kg i.p. once daily in APP/PS1 male mice and wild-type (WT) littermates aged 6, 12 and 19 months. In a follow-up study, we analysed plaque load, the activation of astrocytes as a means of chronic inflammation in the brain, and oxidative stress in the brains of these mice (8-oxoguanine levels). D-Ala(2)GIP reduced the amyloid plaque load in 12- and 19-month-old mice, and the inflammation response as shown in the reduction of activated astrocytes in 12- and 19-month old APP/PS1 mice. Chronic oxidative stress in the brain was reduced in 12- and 19-month-old mice as shown in the reduction of 8-oxoguanine levels in the cortex of D-Ala(2)GIP-injected APP/PS1 mice. The results demonstrate that D-Ala(2)GIP has neuroprotective properties on key markers found in Alzheimer's disease. This finding shows that novel GIP analogues have the potential to be developed as novel therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease.
The intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) of the lateral geniculate body in the rat is a population of GABAergic neurons that can be divided into two, anatomically and neurochemically distinct populations. One population comprises neuropeptide-Y (NPY)-positive neurons that form the geniculohypothalamic tract innervating the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) and the other population comprises enkephalin-positive (ENK) neurons giving rise to the geniculo-geniculate tract innervating the contralateral IGL (cIGL). Previous electrophysiological studies have observed various patterns of firing and different responses to changes in lighting conditions of IGL neurons in vitro and in vivo. The aim of the present study was to determine if these distinct properties could be ascribed to differentially projecting IGL neurons. Neuron activity was recorded extracellularly in the IGL of anaesthetised rats under different lighting conditions (i.e. light/dark). Antidromic activation was used to identify recorded cells as projecting to the SCN or the contralateral IGL. All IGL neurons identified as projecting to the contralateral IGL displayed infra-slow oscillatory activity (ISO; i.e. slow rhythmic bursts of action potentials). ISO of these neurons was sustained in the light and was diminished in the darkness. In contrast, all IGL neurons identified as projecting to the SCN displayed a low level of firing in the light and a majority of these cells increased firing in the darkness. All IGL neurons projecting to the SCN were characterised by an irregular pattern of firing in the light and dark. These data are the first to demonstrate that differentially projecting rat intergeniculate leaflet neurons are characterised by distinct firing patterns and opposite responses to light and dark conditions.
The basolateral nuclear complex of the amygdala (BLC) receives dense noradrenergic/norepinephrine (NE) inputs from the locus coeruleus that play a key role in modulating emotional memory consolidation. Knowledge of the extent of synapse formation by NE inputs to the BLC, as well as the cell types innervated, would contribute to an understanding of how NE modulates the activity of the BLC. To gain a better understanding of NE circuits in the BLC, dual-label immunohistochemistry was used at the light and electron microscopic levels in the present study to analyze NE axons and their innervation of pyramidal cells in the anterior subdivision of the basolateral amygdalar nucleus (BLa). NE axons and BLa pyramidal cells were labeled using antibodies to the norepinephrine transporter (NET) and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMK), respectively. Dual localization studies using antibodies to NET and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) revealed that virtually all NE axons and varicosities expressed both proteins. The BLa exhibited a medium density of NET+ fibers. Ultrastructural analysis of serial section reconstructions of NET+ axons revealed that only about half of NET+ terminals formed synapses. The main postsynaptic targets were small-caliber CAMK+ dendritic shafts and spines of pyramidal cells. A smaller number of NET+ terminals formed synapses with unlabeled cell bodies and dendrites. These findings indicate that the distal dendritic domain of BLa pyramidal cells is the major target of NE terminals in the BLa, and the relatively low synaptic incidence suggests that diffusion from non-synaptic terminals may be important for noradrenergic modulation of the BLa.
Tissue and nerve damage can result in chronic pain. Yet, chronic pain after cesarean delivery is remarkably rare in women and hypersensitivity from peripheral nerve injury in rats resolves rapidly if the injury occurs in the puerperium. Little is known regarding the mechanisms of this protection except for a reliance on central nervous system oxytocin signaling. Here we show that the density of inhibitory noradrenergic fibers in the spinal cord is greater when nerve injury is performed in rats during the puerperium, whereas the expression of the excitatory regulators dynorphin A and neuregulin-1 in the spinal cord is reduced. The puerperium did not alter spinal cord microgial and astrocyte activation. Astrocyte activation, as measured by glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression, was not evident in female rats with injury, regardless of delivery status suggesting sex differences in spinal astrocyte activation after injury. These results suggest a change in the descending inhibitory/facilitating balance on spinal nociception neurotransmission during the puerperium, as mechanisms for its protective effect against injury-induced hypersensitivity.
Despite modern imaging techniques, assessing and localizing changes in brain activity during whole-body exercise is still challenging. Using an active electroencephalography (EEG) system in combination with source localization algorithms, this study aimed to localize brain cortical oscillations patterns in the motor cortex and to correlate these with surface electromyography (EMG)-detected muscular activity during pedaling exercise. Eight subjects performed 2-min isokinetic (90 rpm) cycling bouts at intensities ranging from 1 to 5 Wkg(-1) body mass on a cycle ergometer. These bouts were interspersed by a minimum of 2 min of passive rest to limit to development of peripheral muscle fatigue. Brain cortical activity within the motor cortex was analyzed using a 32-channel active EEG system combined with source localization algorithms. EMG activity was recorded from seven muscles on each lower limb. EEG and EMG activity revealed comparatively stable oscillations across the different exercise intensities. More importantly, the oscillations in cortical activity within the motor cortex were significantly correlated with EMG activity during the high-intensity cycling bouts. This study demonstrates that it is possible to localize oscillations in brain cortical activity during moderate- to high-intensity cycling exercise using EEG in combination with source localization algorithms, and that these oscillations match the activity of the active muscles in time and amplitude. Results of this study might help to further evaluate the effects of central vs. peripheral fatigue during exercise.

We have very little information about the metabolomic changes that mediate neurobehavioral responses, including addiction. It was possible that opioid-induced metabolomic changes in brain could mediate some of the pharmacodynamic effects of opioids. To investigate this, opiate-induced brain metabolomic responses were profiled using a semi-targeted method in C57BL/6 and 129Sv1 mice, which exhibit extreme differences in their tendency to become opiate dependent. Escalating morphine doses (10-40 mg/kg) administered over a 4-day period selectively induced a twofold decrease (p&lt;0.00005) in adenosine abundance in the brainstem of C57BL/6 mice, which exhibited symptoms of narcotic drug dependence; but did not decrease adenosine abundance in 129Sv1 mice, which do not exhibit symptoms of dependence. Based on this finding, the effect of adenosine on dependence was investigated in genetically engineered mice with alterations in adenosine tone in the brain and in pharmacologic experiments. Morphine withdrawal behaviors were significantly diminished (p&lt;0.0004) in genetically engineered mice with reduced adenosine tone in the brainstem, and by treatment with an adenosine receptor(1) (A(1)) agonist (2-chloro-N6-cyclopentyladenosine, 0.5mg/kg) or an A(2a) receptor (A(2a)) antagonist (SCH 58261, 1mg/kg). These results indicate that adenosine homeostasis plays a crucial role in narcotic drug responses. Opiate-induced changes in brain adenosine levels may explain many important neurobehavioral features associated with opiate addiction and withdrawal.
Interactions between the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex (PFC) are of major interest in the neurobiology of psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders and are central to many experimental rodent models. Non-invasive imaging techniques offer a translatable approach to probing this system if homologous features can be identified across species. The objective of the present study was to systematically characterize the rat brain connectivity signature derived from low-frequency resting blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) oscillations associated with and within the hippocampal-prefrontal network, using an array of small seed locations within the relatively large anatomical structures comprising this system. A heterogeneous structure of functional connectivity, both between and within the hippocampal-prefrontal brain structures, was observed. In the hippocampal formation, the posterior (subiculum) region correlated more strongly than the anterior dorsal hippocampus with the PFC. A homologous relationship was found in the human hippocampus, with differential functional connectivity between hippocampal locations proximal to the fornix body relative to locations more distal being localized to the medial prefrontal regions in both species. The orbitofrontal cortex correlated more strongly with sensory cortices and a heterogeneous dependence of functional coupling on seed location was observed along the midline cingulate and retrosplenial cortices. These findings are all convergent with known anatomical connectivity, with stronger BOLD correlations corresponding to known monosynaptic connections. These functional connectivity relationships may provide a useful translatable probe of the hippocampal-prefrontal system for the further study of rodent models of disease and potential treatments, and inform electrode placement in electrophysiology to yield more precise descriptors of the circuits at risk in psychiatric disease.
Schizophrenia is a complex constellation of positive, negative and cognitive symptoms. Acute administration of the non-competitive antagonist of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) dizocilpine (MK801) in rats is one of few preclinical animal models of this disorder that has both face and/or construct validity for these multiple at-risk behavioral domains and predictive power for the efficacy of therapeutic drugs in treating them. This study asked whether and to what extent the rat NMDAR hypofunction model also embodies the sex differences that distinguish the symptoms of schizophrenia and their treatment. Thus, we compared the effects of acute MK801, with and without pretreatment with haloperidol or clozapine, on seven discrete spontaneous open-field activities in adult male and female rats. These analyses revealed that MK801 was more effective in stimulating ataxia and locomotion and inhibiting stationary behavior in females while more potently stimulating stereotypy and thigmotaxis and inhibiting rearing and grooming in males. Haloperidol and clozapine pretreatments had markedly different efficacies in terms of behaviors but strong similarities in their effectiveness in male and female subjects. These results bear intriguing relationships with the complex male/female differences that characterize the symptoms of schizophrenia and suggest possible applications for acute NMDAR hypofunction as a preclinical model for investigating the neurobiology that underlies them.
This study investigated the modular control of complex locomotor tasks that require fast changes in direction, i.e., cutting manoeuvres. It was hypothesized that such tasks are accomplished by an impulsive (burst-like) activation of a few motor modules, as observed during walking and running. It was further hypothesized that the performance in cutting manoeuvres would be associated to the relative timing of the activation impulses. Twenty-two healthy men performed 90 side-step cutting manoeuvres while electromyography (EMG) activity from 16 muscles of the supporting limb and trunk, kinematics, and ground reaction forces were recorded. Motor modules and their respective temporal activations were extracted from the EMG signals by non-negative matrix factorization. The kinematic analysis provided the velocity of the centre of mass and the external work absorbed during the load acceptance (negative work, external work during absorption (W-Abs)) and propulsion phases (positive work, external work during propulsion (W-Prp)) of the cutting manoeuvres. Five motor modules explained the EMG activity of all muscles and were driven in an impulsive way, with timing related to the initial contact (M2), load acceptance (M3), and propulsion (M4). The variability in timing between impulses across subjects was greater for cutting manoeuvres than for running. The timing difference between M2 and M3 in the cutting manoeuvres was significantly associated to W-Abs (r(2)=0.45) whereas the timing between M3 and M4 was associated to W-Prp (r(2)=0.43). These results suggest that complex locomotor tasks can be achieved by impulsive activation of muscle groups, and that performance is associated to the specific timing of the activation impulses.
High-mobility group box1 (HMGB1) protein is massively released into the cytoplasm and induces inflammation following various insults such as sepsis, acute cerebral ischemia, and pancreatitis. However, whether HMGB1 can act as an early proinflammatory cytokine to promote inflammation after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is unclear. We explored this question using a rat model of collagenase-induced ICH. We found that HMGB1 was released into the cytoplasm soon after ICH. Administration of ethyl pyruvate decreased the level of HMGB1 and microglia around the hematoma. Ethyl pyruvate also ameliorated ICH-induced neuronal apoptosis, cerebral edema, and neurological impairment. These findings suggest that HMGB1 may act as an early proinflammatory cytokine within the neurovascular unit to mediate inflammation during the acute phase of ICH.
The neuropeptide arginine vasopressin (AVP) exerts a modulatory role on hippocampal excitability through vasopressin V(1A) and V(1B) receptors. However, the origin and mode of termination of the AVP innervation of the hippocampus remain unknown. We have used light and electron microscopy to trace the origin, distribution and synaptic relationships of AVP-immuno-positive fibres and nerve terminals in the rat hippocampus. Immuno-positive fibres were present in all areas (CA1-3, dentate gyrus) of the whole septo-temporal extent of the hippocampus; they had the highest density in the CA2 region, strongly increasing in density towards the ventral hippocampus. Two types of fibres were identified, both establishing synaptic junctions. Type A had large varicosities packed with immuno-positive large-granulated peptidergic vesicles and few small clear vesicles forming type I synaptic junctions with pyramidal neuron dendrites, dendritic spines and with axonal spines. Type B had smaller varicosities containing mostly small clear vesicles and only a few large-granulated vesicles and established type II synaptic junctions mainly with interneuron dendrites. The AVP-positive axons in stratum oriens appeared to follow and contact metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1)-immuno-positive interneuron dendrites. Fluoro-Gold injection into the hippocampus revealed retrogradely labelled AVP-positive somata in hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei. Hypothalamo-hippocampal AVP-positive axons entered the hippocampus mostly through a ventral route, also innervating the amygdala and to a lesser extent through the dorsal fimbria fornix, in continuation of the septal AVP innervation. Thus, it appears the AVP-containing neurons of the magnocellular hypothalamic nuclei serve as important sources for hippocampal AVP innervation, although the AVP-expressing neurons located in amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis reported previously may also contribute.
The 5- and 12/15-lipoxygenase (LOX) isozymes have been implicated to contribute to disease development in CNS disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. These LOX isozymes are distinct in function, with differential effects on neuroinflammation, and the impact of the distinct isozymes in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease has not as yet been evaluated. To determine whether the isozymes contribute differently to nigrostriatal vulnerability, the effects of 5- and 12/15-LOX deficiency on dopaminergic tone under nave and toxicant-challenged conditions were tested. In nave mice deficient in 5-LOX expression, a modest but significant reduction (18.0% reduction vs. wildtype (WT)) in striatal dopamine (DA) was detected (n=6-8 per genotype). A concomitant decline in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) enzyme was also revealed in null 5-LOX vs. WT mice (26.2%); however, no changes in levels of DA or TH immunoreactivity were observed in null 12/15-LOX vs. WT mice. When challenged with the selective dopaminergic toxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), WT mice showed a marked reduction in DA (31.9%) and robust astrocytic and microglial activation as compared to saline-treated animals. In contrast, null 5-LOX littermates demonstrated no significant striatal DA depletion or astrogliosis (as noted by Western blot analyses for glial acidic fibrillary protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity). In nave null 12/15-LOX mice, no significant change in striatal DA values was observed compared to WT, and following MPTP treatment, the transgenics revealed striatal DA reduction similar to the challenged WT mice. Taken together, these data provide the first evidence that: (i) LOX isozymes are involved in the maintenance of normal dopaminergic function in the striatum and (ii) the 5- and 12/15-LOX isozymes contribute differentially to striatal vulnerability in response to neurotoxicant challenge.
Brain development is sensitive to an individual's interaction with its environment. Deprivation of natural environmental stimulation especially in the phase after weaning has long-lasting consequences on neuroplasticity. However, previous findings concerning the effects of rearing environment on adult hippocampal cell proliferation and neurogenesis in rodents remain contradictory. To address the question, whether the variability of hippocampal plasticity in response to environmental conditions is a unique feature at least in mice, the present study examined the effects of social and physical deprivation during brain development on hippocampal cell production and survival in adults of three mouse strains (Mus musculus) with different domestication background: outbred CD1, inbred C57Bl/6 and the F2-descendants of wild-caught house mice. Wheel running increased cell proliferation rates in the dentate gyrus of CD1 and C57Bl/6 mice reared under socially and physically deprived conditions, but not from enriched conditions. In wild house mice, neither the rearing conditions nor the wheel-running challenge did affect proliferative activity. This indicates, on the one hand, that wild house mice are more robust in their regulation of hippocampal cell proliferation against environmental influences and, on the other hand, that domestication and rearing background of laboratory animals impact neuroplastic potentials and responsiveness to external stimuli in adulthood.
The goal of the present study was to examine how social subordination stress and 5HTT polymorphisms affect the development of brain serotonin (5HT) systems during the pubertal transition in female rhesus monkeys. We also examined associations with developmental changes in emotional reactivity in response to a standardized behavioral test, the Human Intruder (HI). Our findings provide the first longitudinal evidence of developmental increases in 5HT1A receptor and 5HTT binding in the brain of female primates from pre- to peripuberty. The increase in 5HT1A BP(ND) in these socially housed female rhesus monkeys is a robust finding, occurring across all groups, regardless of social status or 5HTT genotype, and occurring in the left and right hemispheres of all prefrontal regions studied, as well as the amygdala, hippocampus, hypothalamus, and raphe nuclei. 5HTT BP(ND) also showed an increase with age in raphe, anterior cingulate cortex, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. These changes in brain 5HT systems take place as females establish more adult-like patterns of social behavior, as well as during the HI paradigm. Indeed, the main developmental changes in behavior during the HI (increase in freezing and decrease in submission/appeasement) were related to neurodevelopmental increases in 5HT1A receptors and 5HTT, because the associations between these behaviors and 5HT endpoints emerge at peripuberty. We detected an effect of social status on 5HT1A BP(ND) in the hypothalamus and on 5HTT BP(ND) in the orbitofrontal cortex, with subordinates showing higher BP(ND) than dominants in both cases during the pubertal transition. No main effects of 5HTT genotype were observed for 5HT1A or 5HTT BP(ND). Our findings indicate that adolescence in female rhesus monkeys is a period of central 5HT reorganization, partly influenced by exposure to the social stress of subordination, that likely functions to integrate adrenal and gonadal systems and shape the behavioral response to emotionally challenging social situations.
Spumiform basement membrane degeneration (sbmd) is a specific kind of aberration present in the capillaries of the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) region of the senescent hamster. These capillaries, separated by the ependymal cell layer, are bordering the Sylvian cerebral aqueduct. The aqueduct, connecting the 3rd and 4th ventricle, may be crucial for local homeostatic as well as general autonomic functions of the PAG. Local pressure effects of the flowing and pulsating cerebrospinal fluid on the PAG-vasculature are probably different for the rostral 'entrance' and the caudal 'exit' of the aqueduct. In view of the different functions of the various divisions of the PAG, the frequency and extent of the aberrations in the rostral, intermediate and caudal dl/vlPAG-microvasculature could shed some light on the causal factors involved in the regional distribution of the particular microvascular aberrations found in the PAG during aging. In the present study we investigated the ultrastructure of capillaries in dorsal and ventral subdivisions of anterior and posterior regions of the PAG of young and old female Syrian hamsters. Sbmds were classified into four stages of spumiform severity and for each stage the frequency was determined in the rostral PAG, at two levels in the intermediate PAG and in a dorsal and a ventral part of the caudal PAG. Results of our quantitative studies showed that in aged hamster PAG various stages of sbmd were present in 91.6  0.6% of all capillaries. No clear evidence was found for regional differentiation between rostral, intermediate and caudal parts of the PAG. Next to sbmd, capillary split basement membrane (sbm) and vacuolization were common features at all five PAG locations. 84.3  2.3% of all screened PAG capillaries displayed sbm. In agreement with our previous findings, several other types of microvascular aberrations were observed in addition to general aspects of aging and some ependymal structural peculiarities. We conclude that the presence of various forms of sbmds in the PAG of senescent hamsters is a phenomenon that appears to be specific to the PAG region, but causal factors for this type of capillary degeneration remain unclear. Sbmds in the PAG may have serious consequences not only for blood-brain barrier functioning, but also for vascular perfusion and blood supply with eventually serious consequences for adequate regulation of the autonomic and motor control functions of the PAG region.
Gelsolin is an actin filament-severing and capping protein, affecting cellular motility, adhesiveness and apoptosis. Whether it is expressed in the brain of burned mice has not yet been characterized. Mice were subjected to a 15% total body surface area scald injury. Neuropathology was examined by hematoxylin and eosin staining. Cerebral gelsolin mRNA, distribution and cleavage were demonstrated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR), immunohistochemistry and Western blot, respectively. Cysteinyl aspartate-specific protease (caspase)-3-positive cells and activity were also measured. Burn injury could induce pathological alterations in the brain including leukocyte infiltration, necrosis, microabscess and gliosis. Compared with sham-injured mice, gelsolin mRNA was up-regulated at 8h post-burn (pb) in a transient manner in the cortex and striatum of burned mice, while it remained at higher levels in the hippocampus up to 72 hpb. Of interest, gelsolin was further cleaved into 42 and 48 kDa (kilo Dalton) fragments as illustrated in the hippocampus at 24 hpb, and was widely expressed in the brain by activated monocyte/macrophages, astrocytes and damaged neurons. In the meantime, caspase-3-positive cells were noted in the striatum of burned mice and its activity peaked at 24 hpb. To clarify inflammation-induced gelsolin expression and cleavage in the brain, rat pheochromocytoma cells were exposed to lipopolysaccharide to show increased gelsolin expression and caspase-3-dependent cleavage. The results suggest that burn-induced cerebral gelsolin expression would be involved in the activation of both the monocytes and astroglial cells, thereby playing a crucial role in the subsequent inflammation-induced neural apoptosis following burn injury.
Evidence is emerging for a role of rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) in the form of stress granules, the unfolded protein response and protein bodies in the response of neurons to injury and in neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we have studied the role of the peripheral target in regulating the RER and polyribosomes of Nissl bodies in axotomised adult cat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons where axonal regeneration and peripheral target reinnervation was either allowed or denied. Retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidise was used as an independent marker to enable selection of only those DRG neuronal cell bodies with axons in the injured intercostal nerves. Indications of polyribosomal dispersal were seen by 6h following axotomy, and by 24h the normal orderly arrangement of lamellae of RER in Nissl bodies had become disorganised. These ultrastructural changes preceded light microscopical chromatolysis by 1-3d. The retrograde response was maximal 8-32 d after axotomy. Clusters of debris-laden satellite cells/macrophages were present at this time but no ultrastructural evidence of neuronal apoptosis or necrosis was seen and there were no differences in the initial retrograde response according to the type of injury. By 64 d following axotomy with reinnervation, approximately half the labelled DRG neurons showed restoration of the orderly arrangement of RER and polyribosomes in their Nissl bodies. This was not seen after axotomy with reinnervation denied. We propose that the target-dependent changes in Nissl body ultrastructure described here are part of a continuum that can modify neuronal protein synthesis directed towards growth, maintenance or death of the neuron. This represents a possible structural basis for mediating the varied effects of neurotrophic interactions.
To investigate neurofilament (NF) dynamics during the cytoskeleton reorganization in regenerating axons, and their electrophysiological and histological consequences, we used two transgenic lines of mice: neurofilament high (NFH)-LacZ and NFH-green fluorescent protein (GFP). In NFH-LacZ mice, NFs are retained in cell bodies and deficient in axons (Eyer and Peterson, 1994), while in NFH-GFP mice the fluorescent fusion protein is normally transported along axons (Letournel et al., 2006). Following a crush of the sciatic nerve, conduction recovery in NFH-GFP mice is similar to wild-type (wt) mice, but it is reduced in NFH-LacZ mice. Moreover, changes of axonal calibres following regeneration are similar between NFH-GFP and wt mice, but they are systematically reduced in NFH-LacZ mice. Finally, the axonal transport of NFH-GFP fusion protein and NFs is re-initiated after the crush as evidenced by the fluorescent and immunolabelling of axons distal from the crushed point, but NFs and the fusion protein are not transported along axons during regeneration in NFH-LacZ mice. Together, these results argue that the absence of axonal NFs in NFH-LacZ mice compromises the axonal regeneration, and that the NFH-GFP reporter fusion protein represents an efficient model to evaluate the NF dynamics during axonal regeneration.
To investigate the involvement of N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in local neocortical synaptic transmission, dual whole-cell recordings - combined with biocytin labelling - were obtained from bitufted adapting, multipolar adapting or multipolar non-adapting interneurons and pyramidal cells in layers II-V of rat (postnatal days 17-22) sensorimotor cortex. The voltage dependency of the amplitude of Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) received by the three types of interneuron appeared to coincide with the interneuron subclass; upon depolarisation, EPSPs received by multipolar non-adapting interneurons either decreased in amplitude or appeared insensitive, multipolar adapting interneuron EPSP amplitudes increased or appeared insensitive, whereas bitufted interneuron EPSP amplitudes increased or decreased. Connections were challenged with the NMDA receptor antagonist d-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (d-AP5) (50M) revealing NMDA receptors to contribute to EPSPs received by all cell types, this also abolished the non-conventional voltage dependency. Reciprocal connections were frequent between pyramidal cells and multipolar interneurons, and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) elicited in pyramidal cells by both multipolar adapting and multipolar non-adapting interneurons were sensitive to a significant reduction in amplitude by d-AP5. The involvement of presynaptic NMDA receptors was indicated by coefficient of variation analysis and an increase in the failures of transmission. Furthermore, by loading MK-801 into the pre- or postsynaptic neurons, we observed that a reduction in inhibition requires presynaptic and not postsynaptic NMDA receptors. These results suggest that NMDA receptors possess pre- and postsynaptic roles at selective neocortical synapses that are probably important in governing spike-timing and information flow.
The neuroprotective role of 17-estradiol is well known; however, its mechanism of action remains unclear. In the present study, we applied light-induced apoptosis on the Sprague-Dawley rat retina to determine the neuroprotective effect of intravitreal administration of 17-estradiol on retinal neurons and to demonstrate its underlying mechanism of action. Fourteen days after ovariectomy, adult female Sprague-Dawley rats received light damage. The functional and morphological changes of the retina were monitored by electroretinogram and hematoxylin and eosin staining, respectively. Retinal apoptosis was characterized by the presence of DNA laddering and positive terminal deoxyuridine triphosphate (dUTP) nick-end labeling. The phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-specific inhibitor LY294002 was used to elucidate whether the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway was activated by 17-estradiol. Western blotting was used to detect the activation of caspase 3 and Akt. Immunofluorescence was performed to determine the translocation of NF-B. Our data showed that exposure to 8000lux white light for 12h resulted in functional damage to the rat retina, histological changes and retinal neuronal apoptosis. 17-Estradiol significantly rescued retinal function by preventing neuronal apoptosis. Moreover, the inhibition of Akt activation by LY294002 increased retinal neuronal apoptosis, demonstrating that the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway is involved. Levels of cleaved caspase-3 were suppressed in the presence of 17-estradiol, while LY294002 reversed the effects. It is noteworthy that NF-B p65 also translocated from the cytoplasm to the nucleus after 17-estradiol administration. This translocation was inhibited by pre-injection of LY294002. Taken together, these results indicate that 17-estradiol intravitreal administration protects the function of the rat retina by preventing retinal neuronal apoptosis from light damage. In addition, the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway is activated, which inhibits caspase-3 activation and induces NF-B p65 nuclear translocation.
Difficulties in realizing persistent neurogenesis, inabilities in modeling pathogenesis of most cases, and a shortage of disease material for screening therapeutic agents restrict our progress to overcome challenges presented by neurodegenerative diseases. We propose that reprogramming primary somatic cells of patients into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) provides a new avenue to overcome these impediments. Their abilities in self-renewal and differentiation into various cell types will enable disease investigation and drug development. In this review, we introduce efficient approaches to generate iPSCs and distinct iPSCs differentiation stages, and critically discuss paradigms of iPSCs technology application to investigate neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's disease (HD). Although iPSCs technology is in its infancy and faces many obstacles, it has great potential in helping to identify therapeutic targets for treating neurodegenerative diseases.
Dopamine (DA) plays fundamental roles as a neurotransmitter and neuromodulator in the central nervous system. How DA modulates the electrical excitability of individual neurons to elicit various behaviors is of great interest in many systems. The buccal ganglion of the freshwater pond snail Helisoma trivolvis contains the neuronal circuitry for feeding and DA is known to modulate the feeding motor program in Helisoma. The buccal neuron B5 participates in the control of gut contractile activity and is surrounded by dopaminergic processes, which are expected to release DA. In order to study whether DA modulates the electrical activity of individual B5 neurons, we performed experiments on physically isolated B5 neurons in culture and on B5 neurons within the buccal ganglion in situ. We report that DA application elicited a strong hyperpolarization in both conditions and turned the electrical activity from a spontaneously firing state to an electrically silent state. Using the cell culture system, we demonstrated that the strong hyperpolarization was inhibited by the D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride and the phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor U73122, indicating that DA affected the membrane potential of B5 neurons through the activation of a D2-like receptor and PLC. Further studies revealed that the DA-induced hyperpolarization was inhibited by the K channel blockers 4-aminopyridine and tetraethylammonium, suggesting that K channels might serve as the ultimate target of DA signaling. Through its modulatory effect on the electrical activity of B5 neurons, the release of DA in vivo may contribute to a neuronal output that results in a variable feeding motor program.
The medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) is a vital structure of sound localization circuits in the auditory brainstem. Each principal cell of MNTB is contacted by a very large presynaptic glutamatergic terminal, the calyx of Held. The MNTB principal cells themselves are surrounded by extracellular matrix components forming prominent perineuronal nets (PNs). Throughout the CNS, PNs, which form lattice-like structures around the somata and proximal dendrites, are associated with distinct types of neurons. PNs are highly enriched in hyaluronan and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans therefore providing a charged surface structure surrounding the cell body and proximal neurites of these neurons. The localization and composition of PNs have lead investigators to a number of hypotheses about their functions including: creating a specific extracellular ionic milieu around these neurons, stabilizing synapses, and influencing the outgrowth of axons. However, presently the precise functions of PNs are still quite unclear primarily due to the lack of an ideal experimental model system that is highly enriched in PNs and in which the synaptic transmission properties can be precisely measured. The MNTB principal cells could offer such a model, since they have been extensively characterized electrophysiologically. However, extracellular matrix (ECM) in these neurons has not yet been precisely detailed. The present study gives a detailed examination of the ECM organization and structural differences in PNs of the mouse MNTB. The different PN components and their distribution pattern are scrutinized throughout the MNTB. The data are complemented by electron microscopic investigations of the unique ultrastructural localization of PN-components and their interrelation with distinct pre- and postsynaptic MNTB cell structures. Therefore, we believe this work identifies the MNTB as an ideal system for studying PN function.
Approximately 50% of patients with a major depressive episode fail to achieve remission with first-line antidepressant treatments. Second-line treatment strategies for such patients include lithium augmentation of antidepressants, particularly with tricyclic antidepressants. The neurobiological mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of lithium augmentation are not yet fully understood. Unravelling these mechanisms could aid the development of more effective antidepressant drugs. In the present study, we investigated whether chronic treatment with a combination of lithium and the tricyclic antidepressant, desipramine, could produce antidepressant-like behaviour in a mouse strain (BALB/cOLaHsd) that exhibited reduced sensitivity to the behavioural effects of chronic desipramine treatment in the novelty-induced hypophagia test. Since chronic treatment with antidepressant drugs increases the proliferation of newly-born cells in the hippocampus, and hippocampal cell proliferation is required for the behavioural effects of at least some antidepressants in neohypophagia tests, the present study also investigated whether lithium plus desipramine increased cell proliferation in the hippocampus. Chronic treatment with lithium plus desipramine but neither drug alone, induced antidepressant-like behaviour and increased hippocampal cell proliferation, thus suggesting that increased hippocampal cell proliferation may be a mechanism underlying lithium augmentation of antidepressants. Moreover, since BALB/cOLaHsd mice respond to lithium plus desipramine but not to either drug alone, they may become useful in the development of a mouse model of treatment-refractory depression for which there is an unmet need.
Few studies have investigated whether neuronal function in the amygdaloid complex is necessary for the occurrence of the cardiovascular response to natural (unconditioned) environmental threats. In the present investigation in conscious unrestrained Sprague-Dawley rats we inactivated neuronal function in the amygdaloid complex acutely (bilateral muscimol injections) or chronically (unilateral or bilateral ibotenic acid injections) and measured the effect on sudden falls in tail artery blood flow elicited by non-noxious salient stimuli (sympathetic cutaneous vasomotor alerting responses, SCVARs). After acute bilateral injection of vehicle (200nl Ringer's solution) the SCVAR index was 81  2%, indicating that tail blood flow was reduced by 81% in response to the salient stimuli. After acute bilateral injection of muscimol (1 nmol in 200 nl of Ringer's solution) into the amygdaloid complex the SCVAR index was 49  5%, indicating that tail blood flow was reduced by 49% in response to the salient stimuli (p&lt;0.01 versus vehicle, n=7 rats for vehicle and 6 for muscimol). One week after unilateral ibotenic acid lesions, the SCVAR index was 68  3%, significantly less than 90  1%, the corresponding value after unilateral injection of vehicle (p&lt;0.01, n=6 rats in each group). After bilateral ibotenic acid lesions the SCVAR index was 52  4%, significantly less than 93  1%, the corresponding value after bilateral injection of vehicle (p&lt;0.001, n=6 rats in each group). Ibotenic acid caused extensive neuronal destruction of the whole amygdaloid complex, as well as lateral temporal lobe structures including the piriform cortex. Our results demonstrate that the amygdaloid complex plays an important role in mediating the tail artery vasoconstriction that occurs in rats in response to the animal's perception of a salient stimulus, redirecting blood to areas of the body with more immediate metabolic requirements.
Brimonidine, an alpha2-adrenergic receptor ((2)-AR) agonist, is thought to be neuroprotective in some types of neurons via the activation of (2)-AR. However, it is still unknown whether the (2)-ARs exist in cochlear spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs). The authors aimed to demonstrate the presence and localization of (2)-ARs in rat-cultured SGNs and to investigate the effect of brimonidine on glutamate- and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2))-induced damage in the primary-cultured rat SGNs. The expression of (2)-ARs was determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence. Then SGNs were exposed to glutamate or H(2)O(2) respectively with or without brimonidine. Cell viability was measured by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay. Apoptosis was determined by acridine orange and Hoechst 33342/propidium iodide double staining. The protein expressions of (2)-ARs, Bax, Bcl-2, Caspase-9, Caspase-3, p-ERK1/2, iNOS, and artemin were determined by Western blot respectively. The cell viability was markedly reduced after exposure of glutamate (1mM) or H(2)O(2) (300 M) to SGNs. Treatment with brimonidine protected SGNs against glutamate- or H(2)O(2)-induced cell damage, enhanced SGNs survival, decreased the elevation of Bax, Caspase-9, Caspase-3, p-ERK1/2, and artemin triggered by glutamate or H(2)O(2), and altered the expressions of Bcl-2 and iNOS. These protective effects of brimonidine can be reversed by yohimbine. Overall, the study describes the localization of (2)-ARs in rat-cultured SGNs and indicates that brimonidine, which may work directly via interaction with (2)-ARs, attenuates glutamate- and H(2)O(2)-induced damage in SGNs by Caspase-dependent modes as well as Caspase-independent modes.
Down syndrome (DS) patients exhibit abnormalities of hippocampal-dependent explicit memory, a feature that is replicated in relevant mouse models of the disease. Adult hippocampal neurogenesis, which is impaired in DS and other neuropsychiatric diseases, plays a key role in hippocampal circuit plasticity and has been implicated in learning and memory. However, it remains unknown whether increasing adult neurogenesis improves hippocampal plasticity and behavioral performance in the multifactorial context of DS. We report that, in the Ts65Dn mouse model of DS, chronic administration of lithium, a clinically used mood stabilizer, promoted the proliferation of neuronal precursor cells through the pharmacological activation of the Wnt/-catenin pathway and restored adult neurogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) to physiological levels. The restoration of adult neurogenesis completely rescued the synaptic plasticity of newborn neurons in the DG and led to the full recovery of behavioral performance in fear conditioning, object location, and novel object recognition tests. These findings indicate that reestablishing a functional population of hippocampal newborn neurons in adult DS mice rescues hippocampal plasticity and memory and implicate adult neurogenesis as a promising therapeutic target to alleviate cognitive deficits in DS patients.
Deposition of amyloid  protein (A) to form neuritic plaques in the brain is the pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A is generated from sequential cleavages of the -amyloid precursor protein (APP) by the - and -secretases, and -site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is the -secretase essential for A generation. Previous studies have indicated that glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) may play a role in APP processing by modulating -secretase activity, thereby facilitating A production. There are two highly conserved isoforms of GSK3: GSK3 and GSK3. We now report that specific inhibition of GSK3, but not GSK3, reduced BACE1-mediated cleavage of APP and A production by decreasing BACE1 gene transcription and expression. The regulation of BACE1 gene expression by GSK3 was dependent on NF-B signaling. Inhibition of GSK3 signaling markedly reduced A deposition and neuritic plaque formation, and rescued memory deficits in the double transgenic AD model mice. These data provide evidence for regulation of BACE1 expression and AD pathogenesis by GSK3 and that inhibition of GSK3 signaling can reduce A neuropathology and alleviate memory deficits in AD model mice. Our study suggests that interventions that specifically target the -isoform of GSK3 may be a safe and effective approach for treating AD.
The neuropeptide apelin is expressed in hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei and mediates its effects via activation of the apelin receptor (APJ). Evidence suggests a role for apelin and APJ in mediating the neuroendocrine response to stress. To understand the physiological role of APJ in regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, we measured ACTH and corticosterone (CORT) plasma levels in male and female mice lacking APJ (APJ knockout, APJ KO) and in wild-type controls, in response to a variety of acute stressors. Exposure to mild restraint, systemic injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), insulin-induced hypoglycaemia and forced swim (FS) stressors, elevated plasma ACTH and CORT levels in wild-type mice. Acute mild restraint significantly increased plasma ACTH and CORT to a similar level in APJ KO mice as in wild-type mice. However, an intact APJ was required for a conventional ACTH, but not CORT, response to LPS administration in male mice and to insulin-induced hypoglycaemia in male and female mice. In contrast, APJ KO mice displayed an impaired CORT response to acute FS stress, regardless of gender. These data indicate that APJ has a role in regulation of the HPA axis response to some acute stressors and has a gender-specific function in peripheral immune activation of the HPA axis.
Pyramidal neurons have a highly polarized dendritic morphology, characterized by one long apical dendrite and multiple short basal dendrites. They function as the primary excitatory cells of the mammalian prefrontal cortex and the corticospinal tract. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of polarized dendrite morphology in pyramidal neurons remain poorly understood. Here, we report that the Angelman syndrome (AS) protein ubiquitin-protein ligase E3A (Ube3a) plays an important role in specifying the polarization of pyramidal neuron dendritic arbors in mice. shRNA-mediated downregulation of Ube3a selectively inhibited apical dendrite outgrowth and resulted in impaired dendrite polarity, which could be rescued by coexpressing mouse Ube3a isoform 2, but not isoform 1 or 3. Ube3a knockdown also disrupted the polarized distribution of the Golgi apparatus, a well established cellular mechanism for asymmetric dendritic growth in pyramidal neurons. Furthermore, downregulation of Ube3a completely blocked Reelin-induced rapid deployment of Golgi into dendrite. Consistently, we also observed selective inhibition of apical dendrite outgrowth in pyramidal neurons in a mouse model of AS. Overall, these results show that Ube3a is required for the specification of the apical dendrites and dendrite polarization in pyramidal neurons, and suggest a novel pathological mechanism for AS.
The phylogenetically conserved Netrin family of chemoattractants signal outgrowth and attractive turning of commissural axons through the Deleted in Colorectal Carcinoma (DCC) family of receptors. Src family kinases are thought to be major signaling effectors of Netrin/DCC. In vertebrates, Src and the closely related Fyn kinases phosphorylate DCC and form a receptor-bound signaling complex leading to activation of downstream effectors. Here we show that, in the Drosophila embryonic CNS, Src kinases are dispensable for midline attraction of commissural axons. Consistent with this observation, tyrosine phosphorylation of the Netrin receptor DCC or its Drosophila ortholog, Frazzled, is not necessary for attraction to Netrin. Moreover, we uncover an unexpected function of Src kinases: inhibition of midline axon crossing through a novel mechanism. We propose that distinct signaling outputs must exist for midline axon crossing independent of Src kinases in commissural neurons.
To test the hypothesis that neural oscillations synchronize to mediate memory encoding, we analyzed electrocorticographic recordings taken as 68 human neurosurgical patients studied and subsequently recalled lists of common words. To the extent that changes in spectral power reflect synchronous oscillations, we would expect those power changes to be accompanied by increases in phase synchrony between the region of interest and neighboring brain areas. Contrary to the hypothesized role of synchronous gamma oscillations in memory formation, we found that many key regions that showed power increases during successful memory encoding also exhibited decreases in global synchrony. Similarly, cortical theta activity that decreases during memory encoding exhibits both increased and decreased global synchrony depending on region and stage of encoding. We suggest that network synchrony analyses, as used here, can help to distinguish between two major types of spectral modulations: (1) those that reflect synchronous engagement of regional neurons with neighboring brain areas, and (2) those that reflect either asynchronous modulations of neural activity or local synchrony accompanied by global disengagement from neighboring regions. We show that these two kinds of spectral modulations have distinct spatiotemporal profiles during memory encoding.
Intracellular Ca(2+) signals control the development and regeneration of spinal axons downstream of chemical guidance cues, but little is known about the roles of mechanical cues in axon guidance. Here we show that transient receptor potential canonical 1 (TRPC1) subunits assemble mechanosensitive (MS) channels on Xenopus neuronal growth cones that regulate the extension and direction of axon outgrowth on rigid, but not compliant, substrata. Reducing expression of TRPC1 by antisense morpholinos inhibits the effects of MS channel blockers on axon outgrowth and local Ca(2+) transients. Ca(2+) influx through MS TRPC1 activates the protease calpain, which cleaves the integrin adaptor protein talin to reduce Src-dependent axon outgrowth, likely through altered adhesion turnover. We found that talin accumulates at the tips of dynamic filopodia, which is lost upon cleavage of talin by active calpain. This pathway may also be important in axon guidance decisions since asymmetric inhibition of MS TRPC1 is sufficient to induce growth cone turning. Together our results suggest that Ca(2+) influx through MS TRPC1 on filopodia activates calpain to control growth cone turning during development.
The characteristic oscillations of the sleeping brain, spindles and slow waves, show trait-like, within-subject stability and a remarkable interindividual variability that correlates with functionally relevant measures such as memory performance and intelligence. Yet, the mechanisms underlying these interindividual differences are largely unknown. Spindles and slow waves are affected by the recent history of learning and neuronal activation, indicating sensitivity to changes in synaptic strength and thus to the connectivity of the neuronal network. Because the structural backbone of this network is formed by white matter tracts, we hypothesized that individual differences in spindles and slow waves depend on the white matter microstructure across a distributed network. We recorded both diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance images and whole-night, high-density electroencephalography and investigated whether individual differences in sleep spindle and slow wave parameters were associated with diffusion tensor imaging metrics; white matter fractional anisotropy and axial diffusivity were quantified using tract-based spatial statistics. Individuals with higher spindle power had higher axial diffusivity in the forceps minor, the anterior corpus callosum, fascicles in the temporal lobe, and the tracts within and surrounding the thalamus. Individuals with a steeper rising slope of the slow wave had higher axial diffusivity in the temporal fascicle and frontally located white matter tracts (forceps minor, anterior corpus callosum). These results indicate that the profiles of sleep oscillations reflect not only the dynamics of the neuronal network at the synaptic level, but also the localized microstructural properties of its structural backbone, the white matter tracts.
Myelin is a biologically active membrane receiving and processing signals from axons. Although much is known about its structure and molecular composition, the intracellular signal transduction pathways, active during specific phases of myelinogenesis for regulating myelin formation, remain poorly understood. Recent genetic loss-of-function studies have suggested a key role of extracelluar signal-regulated kinases-1 and -2 (ERK1/2), downstream mediators of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), in promoting CNS and PNS myelination. In contrast, other studies, largely in vitro, have suggested that activation of ERK1/2 pathway can be detrimental for glial cell function and myelination. Given these conflicting reports, we investigated the effects of cell-autonomous activation of ERK1/2 in glial cells during developmental myelination in the intact CNS and PNS. Two lines of transgenic mice with sustained activation of ERK1/2 in oligodendrocyte progenitors (OPCs), oligodendrocytes, and Schwann cells were generated. Consistent with our loss-of-function studies, gain of ERK1/2 function in oligodendrocyte-lineage cells significantly increased myelin thickness, independent of oligodendrocyte differentiation or initiation of myelination. Additionally, increased activation of ERK1/2 in OPCs during early development resulted in transient hyperproliferation and overproduction of OPCs but generation of normal numbers of myelinating oligodendrocytes. Thus, these in vivo studies suggest a beneficial biphasic requirement of ERK1/2 during developmental myelination in the CNS, deployed first during early stages of the oligodendrocyte lineage for promoting OPC expansion and then redeployed later in myelinating oligodendrocytes for promoting myelin growth. Furthermore, Schwann cells with activated ERK1/2 hypermyelinate PNS axons, suggesting that ERK1/2 signaling is a conserved mechanism that promotes both CNS and PNS developmental myelination.
Persistent activity in cortex is the neural correlate of working memory (WM). In persistent activity, spike trains are highly irregular, even more than in baseline. This seemingly innocuous feature challenges our current understanding of the synaptic mechanisms underlying WM. Here we argue that in WM the prefrontal cortex (PFC) operates in a regime of balanced excitation and inhibition and that the observed temporal irregularity reflects this regime. We show that this requires that nonlinearities underlying the persistent activity are primarily in the neuronal interactions between PFC neurons. We also show that short-term synaptic facilitation can be the physiological substrate of these nonlinearities and that the resulting mechanism of balanced persistent activity is robust, in particular with respect to changes in the connectivity. As an example, we put forward a computational model of the PFC circuit involved in oculomotor delayed response task. The novelty of this model is that recurrent excitatory synapses are facilitating. We demonstrate that this model displays direction-selective persistent activity. We find that, even though the memory eventually degrades because of the heterogeneities, it can be stored for several seconds for plausible network size and connectivity. This model accounts for a large number of experimental findings, such as the findings that have shown that firing is more irregular during the persistent state than during baseline, that the neuronal responses are very diverse, and that the preferred directions during cue and delay periods are strongly correlated but tuning widths are not.
In primary visual cortex (V1), neuronal responses to stimuli inside the receptive field (RF) are usually suppressed by stimuli in the RF surround. This suppression is orientation specific. Similarly, in human vision surround stimuli can suppress perceived contrast of a central stimulus in an orientation-dependent manner. The surround consists of two regions likely generated by different circuits: a near-surround generated predominantly by geniculocortical and intra-V1 horizontal connections, and a far-surround generated exclusively by interareal feedback. Using stimuli confined to the near- or far-surround of V1 neurons, and similar stimuli in human psychophysics, we find that near-surround suppression is more sharply orientation tuned than far-surround suppression in both macaque V1 and human perception. These results point to a similarity between surround suppression in macaque V1 and human vision, and suggest that feedback circuits are less orientation biased than horizontal circuits. We find the sharpest tuning of near-surround suppression in V1 layers (3, 4B, 4C) with patterned and orientation-specific horizontal connections. Sharpest tuning of far-surround suppression occurs in layer 4B, suggesting greater orientation specificity of feedback to this layer. Different orientation tuning of near- and far-surround suppression may reflect a statistical bias in natural images, whereby nearby edges have higher probability than distant edges of being co-oriented and belonging to the same contour. Surround suppression would, thus, increase the coding efficiency of frequently co-occurring contours and the saliency of less frequent ones. Such saliency increase can help detect small orientation differences in nearby edges (for contour completion), but large orientation differences in distant edges (for directing saccades/attention).
Although electrical coupling is present in many microcircuits, the extent to which it will determine neuronal firing patterns and network activity remains poorly understood. This is particularly true when the coupling is present in a population of heterogeneous, or intrinsically distinct, circuit elements. We examine this question in the Aplysia californica feeding motor network in five electrically coupled identified cells, B64, B4/5, B70, B51, and a newly identified interneuron B71. These neurons exhibit distinct activity patterns during the radula retraction phase of motor programs. In a subset of motor programs, retraction can be flexibly extended by adding a phase of network activity (hyper-retraction). This is manifested most prominently as an additional burst in the radula closure motoneuron B8. Two neurons that excite B8 (B51 and B71) and one that inhibits it (B70) are active during hyper-retraction. Consistent with their near synchronous firing, B51 and B71 showed one of the strongest coupling ratios in this group of neurons. Nonetheless, by manipulating their activity, we found that B51 preferentially acted as a driver of B64/B71 activity, whereas B71 played a larger role in driving B8 activity. In contrast, B70 was weakly coupled to other neurons and its inhibition of B8 counteracted the excitatory drive to B8. Finally, the distinct firing patterns of the electrically coupled neurons were fine-tuned by their intrinsic properties and the largely chemical cross-inhibition between some of them. Thus, the small microcircuit of the Aplysia feeding network is advantageous in understanding how a population of electrically coupled heterogeneous neurons may fulfill specific network functions.
The cortico-basal ganglia network has been proposed to consist of parallel loops serving distinct functions. However, it is still uncertain how the content of processed information varies across different loops and how it is related to the functions of each loop. We investigated this issue by comparing neuronal activity in the dorsolateral (sensorimotor) and dorsomedial (associative) striatum, which have been linked to habitual and goal-directed action selection, respectively, in rats performing a dynamic foraging task. Both regions conveyed significant neural signals for the animal's goal choice and its outcome. Moreover, both regions conveyed similar levels of neural signals for action value before the animal's goal choice and chosen value after the outcome of the animal's choice was revealed. However, a striking difference was found in the persistence of neural signals for the animal's chosen action. Signals for the animal's goal choice persisted in the dorsomedial striatum until the outcome of the animal's next goal choice was revealed, whereas they dissipated rapidly in the dorsolateral striatum. These persistent choice signals might be used for causally linking temporally discontiguous responses and their outcomes in the dorsomedial striatum, thereby contributing to its role in goal-directed action selection.
Neural activity in the gamma frequency range (&quot;gamma&quot;) is elevated during active cognitive states. Gamma has been proposed to play an important role in cortical function, although this is debated. Understanding what function gamma might fulfill requires a better understanding of its properties and the mechanisms that generate it. Gamma is characterized by its spectral power and peak frequency, and variations in both parameters have been associated with changes in behavioral performance. Modeling studies suggest these properties are co-modulated, but this has not been established. To test the relationship between these properties, we measured local field potentials (LFPs) and neuronal spiking responses in primary visual cortex of anesthetized monkeys, for drifting sinusoidal gratings of different sizes, contrasts, orientations and masked with different levels of noise. We find that there is no fixed relationship between LFP gamma power and peak frequency, and neither is related to the strength of spiking activity. We propose a simple model that can account for the complex stimulus dependence we observe, and suggest that separate mechanisms determine gamma power and peak frequency.

Extracellular acidification occurs in the brain with elevated neural activity, increased metabolism, and neuronal injury. This reduction in pH can have profound effects on brain function because pH regulates essentially every single biochemical reaction. Therefore, it is not surprising to see that Nature evolves a family of proteins, the acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), to sense extracellular pH reduction. ASICs are proton-gated cation channels that are mainly expressed in the nervous system. In recent years, a growing body of literature has shown that acidosis, through activating ASICs, contributes to multiple diseases, including ischemia, multiple sclerosis, and seizures. In addition, ASICs play a key role in fear and anxiety related psychiatric disorders. Several recent reviews have summarized the importance and therapeutic potential of ASICs in neurological diseases, as well as the structure-function relationship of ASICs. However, there is little focused coverage on either the basic biology of ASICs or their contribution to neural plasticity. This review will center on these topics, with an emphasis on the synaptic role of ASICs and molecular mechanisms regulating the spatial distribution and function of these ion channels.
In healthy adults, activation of -aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) and glycine receptors inhibits neurons as a result of low intracellular chloride concentration ([Cl(-)](i)), which is maintained by the potassium-chloride cotransporter KCC2. A reduction of KCC2 expression or function is implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurological disorders, including spasticity and chronic pain following spinal cord injury (SCI). Given the critical role of KCC2 in regulating the strength and robustness of inhibition, identifying tools that may increase KCC2 function and, hence, restore endogenous inhibition in pathological conditions is of particular importance. We show that activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) type 2A receptors to serotonin hyperpolarizes the reversal potential of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), E(IPSP), in spinal motoneurons, increases the cell membrane expression of KCC2 and both restores endogenous inhibition and reduces spasticity after SCI in rats. Up-regulation of KCC2 function by targeting 5-HT(2A) receptors, therefore, has therapeutic potential in the treatment of neurological disorders involving altered chloride homeostasis. However, these receptors have been implicated in several psychiatric disorders, and their effects on pain processing are controversial, highlighting the need to further investigate the potential systemic effects of specific 5-HT(2A)R agonists, such as (4-bromo-3,6-dimethoxybenzocyclobuten-1-yl)methylamine hydrobromide (TCB-2).

Nervous system diseases and disorders are highly prevalent and substantially contribute to the overall disease burden. Despite significant information provided by the use of animal models in the understanding of the biology of nervous system disorders and the development of therapeutics; limitations have also been identified. Treatment options that are high in efficacy and low in side effects are still lacking for many diseases and, in some cases are nonexistent. A particular problem in drug development is the high rate of attrition in Phase II and III clinical trials. Why do many therapeutics show promise in preclinical animal models but then fail to elicit predicted effects when tested in humans? On March 28 and 29, 2012, the Institute of Medicine Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders convened the workshop Improving Translation of Animal Models for Nervous System Disorders to discuss potential opportunities for maximizing the translation of new therapies from animal models to clinical practice. The primary focus of the workshop was to examine mechanisms for increasing the efficiency of translational neuroscience research through discussions about how and when to use animal models most effectively and then best approaches for the interpretation of the data collected.

Two studies examined the effects of different socio-affective factors on risk driving behaviour. In Experiment 1, 87 adult drivers we asked to play a computer-based driving game after being exposed to a series of images that depicted infants, police or neutral information (control condition). In Experiment 2 we tested a further 60 adult drivers. We found a significant effect of our manipulation on driving behaviour, with performance being significantly less risky in the infant condition than in the police and control conditions. In addition, this advantage was not simply due to variations in emotions typically associated with infant pictures. The results of this study highlight the importance of studying the role of socio-affective context when investigating factors that influence driving behaviour.
This study examines whether there is evidence that converging theories from the domains of risk and decision making, neuroscience, and psychology can improve our understanding of how drivers learn to appraise on-the-road hazards. Within the domain of decision making it is suggested that there are two distinct ways in which humans appraise risk: risk as feelings and risk as analysis. Meanwhile, current neurological theory, in the form of the Somatic Marker Hypothesis, supports the role of feelings and emotion as an evolved automated system of human risk appraisal that biases judgment and decision making. This study used skin conductance responses (SCRs) to measure learner, novice and experienced drivers' psycho-physiological responses to the development of driving hazards. Experienced drivers were twice as likely to produce an SCR to developing hazards as novice drivers and three times as likely when compared with learner drivers. These differences maintained significance when age, gender and exposure were controlled for. Further analysis revealed that novice drivers who had less than 1000 miles driving experience had anticipatory physiological responses similar to learner drivers, whereas novices who had driven more than 1000 miles had scores approaching those of experienced drivers. This demonstrated a learning curve mediated by driving experience supporting experiential learning as proposed within the Somatic Marker Hypothesis. A differentiation between cognitive and psycho-physiological responses was also found supporting theory that distinguishes between conscious and non-conscious risk appraisal.
Recent scientific studies of consciousness reveal the challenges involved in striking the proper balance between concrete fact and abstract theory. Christof Koch believes he is on the road to a scientific understanding of consciousness because he has a research paradigm which appears to create solvable puzzles. Unfortunately, work in other areas of neuroscience reveal that these puzzles rely too heavily on Aristotelian common sense to account for the unique nature of connectionist processing. William Ramsey claims that biological versions of traditional theories of representation, of the sort embraced by Koch, Fodor, and others, are so inadequate that we should give up all attempts to create high level abstract theories about human cognition. I argue, however, that what is needed is more abstract theorizing, not less. The intelligible entities described by Dynamic Systems Theory should be seen as embodiments of mental representations. These embodiments are physical in the sense that they are comprehensible in terms of modern physics, even if they are not material items that can be directly perceived.
Post-resuscitation care has changed in the last decade, and outcome after cardiac arrest has improved, thanks to several combined measures. Induced hypothermia has shown a treatment benefit in two randomized trials, but some doubts remain. General care has improved, including the use of emergency coronary intervention. Assessment of neurological function and prognosis in comatose cardiac arrest patient is challenging, especially when treated with hypothermia. In this review, we evaluate the recent literature and discuss the available evidence for prognostication after cardiac arrest in the era of temperature management. Relevant literature was identified searching PubMed and reading published papers in the field, but no standardized search strategy was used. The complexity of predicting outcome after cardiac arrest and induced hypothermia is recognized in the literature, and no single test can predict a poor prognosis with absolute certainty. A clinical neurological examination is still the gold standard, but the results need careful interpretation because many patients are affected by sedatives and by hypothermia. Common adjuncts include neurophysiology, brain imaging and biomarkers, and a multimodal strategy is generally recommended. Current guidelines for prediction of outcome after cardiac arrest and induced hypothermia are not sufficient. Based on our expert opinion, we suggest a multimodal approach with a continuous evaluation of prognosis based on repeated neurological examinations and electroencephalography. Somatosensory-evoked potential is an established method to help determine a poor outcome and is recommended, whereas biomarkers and magnetic resonance imaging are promising adjuncts. We recommend that a decisive evaluation of prognosis is performed at 72h after normothermia or later in a patient free of sedative and analgetic drugs.
An endogenous circadian (24 h) clock regulates rhythmic processes of physiology, metabolism and behavior in most living organisms. While able to free-run under constant conditions, the circadian clock is coupled to day : night cycles to increase its amplitude and align the phase of circadian rhythms to the right time of the day. Disruptions of the circadian clock are correlated with brain dysfunctions, cardiovascular diseases and metabolic disorders. In this review, we focus on the interactions between the circadian clock and metabolism. We discuss recent findings on circadian clock regulation of feeding behavior and rhythmic expression of metabolic genes, and present evidence of metabolic input to the circadian clock. We emphasize how misalignment of circadian clocks within the body and with environmental cycles or daily schedules leads to the increasing prevalence of metabolic syndromes in modern society.
In this short review, I revise the notion of gnostic cells posited by Konorski, together with similar arguments by James, Lettvin and Barlow--namely, the idea of pontifical, grandmother and cardinal cells, respectively. I then discuss whether the characteristics of the recently discovered concept cells, i.e. neurons in the human medial temporal lobe with a very high degree of specificity and invariance, fit the conjecture of gnostic or grandmother cells and then discuss the key role of concept cells in memory formation.
The manuscript printed below has been written by Professor Jerzy Konorski around 1970, a few years before his death in 1973. The manuscript has not been published before. It was recently discovered in Konorski's papers deposed in the Library of the Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology. In his critical review Konorski debates advantages and shortcomings of the physiological approach of Pavlov and purely behavioristic approaches advocated by Hull and Skinner. He supports close cooperation o behaviorists with neurophysiologists and neuroanatomists, with focus on the investigation of the neural mechanisms underlying behavior. Konorski's ideas concerning the integration of the study of behavior and neurophysiology anticipated contemporary path of neuroscience. Indeed, his approach, which at that time appeared somewhat controversial, is universally accepted by contemporary neuroscientists. By contrast, physiological theories of higher mental functions formulated by Pavlov as well as deliberately anti-physiological approaches of Skinner and Hull have all but disappeared from serious scientific discourse. However, the same problems such as strongly promoted self-importance of some branches of neuroscience, the lack of inter-communication between different branches and resulting lack of integrating ideas appear to emerge anew in each new generation of scientists. (Editors of Acta Neurobiologiae Experimentalis).
Depression is a disorder characterized not only by persistent negative mood, lack of motivation and a &quot;ruminative&quot; style of thinking, but also by specific deficits in cognitive functioning. These deficits are especially pronounced when integration of information is required. Previous research on linear syllogisms points to a clear pattern of cognitive disturbances present in people suffering from depressive disorders, as well as in people with elevated negative mood. Such disturbances are characterized by deficits in the integration of piecemeal information into coherent mental representations. In this review, I present evidence which suggests that the dysfunction of specific brain areas plays a crucial role in creating reasoning and information integration problems among people with depression and with heightened negative mood. As the increasingly prevalent systems neuroscience approach is spreading into the study of mental disorders, it is important to understand how and which brain networks are involved in creating certain symptoms of depression. Two large brain networks are of particular interest when considering depression: the default mode network (DMN) and the fronto-parietal (executive) network (FNP). The DMN network shows abnormally high activity in the depressed population, whereas FNP circuit activity is diminished. Disturbances within the FNP network seem to be strongly associated with cognitive problems in depression, especially those concerning executive functions. The dysfunctions within the fronto-parietal network are most probably connected to ineffective transmission of information between prefrontal and parietal regions, and also to an imbalance between FNP and DMN circuits. Inefficiency of this crucial circuits functioning may be a more general mechanism leading to problems with flexible cognition and executive functions, and could be the cause of more typical symptoms of depression like persistent rumination.
We report a rare case of anterior cerebral artery (ACA) thrombosis following transsphenoidal surgery in a case of growth hormone secreting pituitary macroadenoma. During the surgery, there was arachnoid breach with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak. Post operatively, she became blind in both eyes for which re-exploration was done. A computed tomographic (CT) scan 16hours after surgery showed a large tumor bed haematoma which was explored transcranially. During surgery, the right A1 was thrombosed while the ICA and middle cerebral artery (MCA) were patent as confirmed by post-operative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, she died on the second post-operative day. ACA thrombosis following transsphenoidal surgery has not been reported before. A review of literature and possible mechanism of this complication has been discussed.
Objective: We have improved a transducer holder for transcranial color duplex sonography (TCDS) monitoring via both the temporal and foraminal windows (TW/FW). The objective is to clarify the clinical usefulness of and identify problems with TCDS monitoring in the evaluation of brain tissue perfusion. Methods: Brain tissue perfusion was monitored in 11 patients (ages 31-94, mean 66). After an intravenous bolus, power modulation imaging (PMI) in all cases and second harmonic imaging (SHI) in two cases were evaluated at the diencephalic horizontal plain via bilateral (6 cases) and unilateral (5 cases) TWs. After a transducer was installed into the holder, acetazolamide (ACZ) cerebral vasoreactivity utilizing PMI was evaluated in ten cases. Results: PMI proved superior to SHI in the quantitative evaluation of the bilateral hemispheres via the unilateral TWs. Brain tissue perfusion could be precisely quantified before/after ACZ in the same regions of interest (ROI). All patients could be monitored continuously by one examiner. Fixed-probe shifts during monitoring were easily readjustable. Owing to re-fixation for contra-lateral TW monitoring, it was not possible to evaluate precisely in the same ROIs. Conclusion: TCDS monitoring succeeds in continuously and quantitatively evaluating precise and reproducible intracranial hemodynamics in the brain tissue.
Cranial cavernous malformations (CCMs) constitute a heterogeneous group of lesions that tend to change dynamically over time with related periods of repeated exacerbation and alternating periods of remission. The decision on their management is based on estimating the inherent risk of further morbidity and the risk/benefit related to the particular treatment mode. Incidentally detected CCMs or lesions in asymptomatic patients presenting without major hemorrhage are best followed up. Complete resection of a CCM is the only healing option and is indicated for symptomatic or hemorrhagic lesions. In the large published series 83-92 % of the patients improved or remained unchanged after surgery, with only 8-11 % showing significant deterioration. For most patients, quality of life is improved. Analysis of the risk/benefit ratio for radiosurgery shows that it should not be regarded as an alternative option: It confers limited protection against bleeding and is related to a certain morbidity risk. In the subgroup of patients with symptomatic or hemorrhagic CCMs in locations that preclude surgical resection with acceptable risks, we recommend follow-up. The senior author is following a group of more than 80 such patients, and the vast majority remain free of hemorrhage and symptoms.
Most subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) patients exhibit clinical signs of cerebral ischemia at admission but no angiographic vasospasm. Consequently, the source of early cerebral ischemia is not understood. Parenchymal microvessels may contribute to early cerebral ischemia, but the low resolution of current imaging has prevented their analysis in SAH patients. Animal studies demonstrated that early after SAH structure and function of parenchymal vessels are compromised to the level that may very well contribute to early ischemia. We review these studies.
Cortical spreading depolarizations (CSDs) are a pathologic mechanism occurring in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and may contribute to delayed cerebral ischemia. We conducted a pilot study to determine the durations of depolarizations as measured by the negative direct current shifts in electrocorticography. Cortical electrode strips were placed in six patients (aged 35-63 years, Fisher grade 4, World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies [WFNS] 3-4) with ruptured aneurysms treated by clip ligation. Full-band electrocorticography was performed by direct current amplification (g.USBamp, Guger Tec, Graz, Austria) with 250-mV range, 24-bit digitization, and recording/display with a customized BCI2000 platform. We recorded 191 CSDs in 4 patients, and direct current shifts of CSD (n = 403) were measured at 20 electrodes. Amplitudes were 7.2 mV (median; quartiles 6.2, 7.9), and durations were 2 min 14 s (1:53, 2:45). Ten direct current shifts in two patients with delayed infarcts were longer than 10 min, ranging up to 28 min. Taken together with previous studies, results suggest a threshold of 3-3.5 min to distinguish a normally distributed class of short CSDs with spreading hyperemia from prolonged CSDs with initial spreading ischemia. Results further demonstrate the clinical feasibility of direct current electrocorticography to monitor CSDs and assess their role in the pathology and management of subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Neuromonitoring in patients with severe brain trauma and stroke is often limited to intracranial pressure (ICP); advanced neuroscience intensive care units may also monitor brain oxygenation (partial pressure of brain tissue oxygen, P(bt)O(2)), electroencephalogram (EEG), cerebral blood flow (CBF), or neurochemistry. For example, cortical spreading depolarizations (CSDs) recorded by electrocorticography (ECoG) are associated with delayed cerebral ischemia after subarachnoid hemorrhage and are an attractive target for novel therapeutic approaches. However, to better understand pathophysiologic relations and realize the potential of multimodal monitoring, a common platform for data collection and integration is needed. We have developed a multimodal system that integrates clinical, research, and imaging data into a single research and development (R&amp;D) platform. Our system is adapted from the widely used BCI2000, a brain-computer interface tool which is written in the C++ language and supports over 20 data acquisition systems. It is optimized for real-time analysis of multimodal data using advanced time and frequency domain analyses and is extensible for research development using a combination of C++, MATLAB, and Python languages. Continuous streams of raw and processed data, including BP (blood pressure), ICP, PtiO2, CBF, ECoG, EEG, and patient video are stored in an open binary data format. Selected events identified in raw (e.g., ICP) or processed (e.g., CSD) measures are displayed graphically, can trigger alarms, or can be sent to researchers or clinicians via text message. For instance, algorithms for automated detection of CSD have been incorporated, and processed ECoG signals are projected onto three-dimensional (3D) brain models based on patient magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomographic (CT) scans, allowing real-time correlation of pathoanatomy and cortical function. This platform will provide clinicians and researchers with an advanced tool to investigate pathophysiologic relationships and novel measures of cerebral status, as well as implement treatment algorithms based on such multimodal measures.
Perampanel [2-(2-oxo-1-phenyl-5-pyridin-2-yl-1,2-dihydropyridin-3-yl)benzonitrile; E2007] is a potent, selective, orally active non-competitive AMPA receptor antagonist developed for the treatment of epilepsy. Perampanel has a 2,3'-bipyridin-6'-one core structure, distinguishing it chemically from other AMPA receptor antagonist classes. Studies in various physiological systems indicate that perampanel selectively inhibits AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic excitation without affecting NMDA receptor responses. Blocking of AMPA receptors occurs at an allosteric site that is distinct from the glutamate recognition site. Radioligand-binding studies suggest that the blocking site coincides with that of the non-competitive antagonist GYKI 52466, believed to be on linker peptide segments of AMPA receptor subunits that transduce agonist binding into channel opening. As is typical for AMPA receptor antagonists, perampanel exhibits broad-spectrum antiseizure activity in diverse animal seizure models. Perampanel has high oral bioavailability, dose-proportional kinetics, and undergoes oxidative metabolism, primarily via CYP3A4, followed by glucuronidation. The terminal half-life (t ) in humans is 105 h; however, in the presence of a strong CYP3A4 inducer (such as carbamazepine), the t can be reduced. In sum, perampanel is a selective, centrally acting, negative allosteric modulator of AMPA receptors with good oral bioavailability and favorable pharmacokinetic properties.
Epileptic seizures occur as a result of episodic abnormal synchronous discharges in cerebral neuronal networks. Although a variety of non-conventional mechanisms may play a role in epileptic synchronization, cascading excitation within networks of synaptically connected excitatory glutamatergic neurons is a classical mechanism. As is the case throughout the central nervous system, fast synaptic excitation within and between brain regions relevant to epilepsy is mediated predominantly by AMPA receptors. By inhibiting glutamate-mediated excitation, AMPA receptor antagonists markedly reduce or abolish epileptiform activity in in vitro preparations and confer seizure protection in a broad range of animal seizure models. NMDA receptors may also contribute to epileptiform activity, but NMDA receptor blockade is not sufficient to eliminate epileptiform discharges. AMPA receptors move into and out of the synapse in a dynamic fashion in forms of synaptic plasticity, underlying learning and memory. Often, the trigger for these dynamic movements is the activation of NMDA receptors. While NMDA receptor antagonists inhibit these forms of synaptic plasticity, AMPA receptor antagonists do not impair synaptic plasticity and do not inhibit memory formation or retrieval. The demonstrated clinical efficacy of perampanel, a high-potency, orally active non-competitive AMPA receptor antagonist, supports the concept that AMPA receptors are critical to epileptic synchronization and the generation and spread of epileptic discharges in human epilepsy.
Alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors play a key role in mediating glutamatergic transmission in the cortex. Perampanel (2-[2-oxo-1-phenyl-5-pyridin-2-yl-1,2-dihydropyridin-3-yl] benzonitrile) is a potent, orally active, highly selective, non-competitive AMPA-type glutamate receptor antagonist, identified via a focused discovery program at Eisai Research Laboratories. Development of perampanel as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures was planned in keeping with regulatory guidance and guidelines on antiepileptic drug (AED) development. This is the first AED with a specific action on glutamate-mediated excitatory neurotransmission to show evidence of efficacy and tolerability in reducing treatment-refractory partial-onset seizures in Phase III clinical trials. Perampanel (Fycompa()) has been approved in the EU and the United States for adjunctive treatment of partial-onset seizures.
Many episodic phenomena involving motor, sensory, autonomic, and behavioral functions may imitate epilepsy. The aim of this article is to focus on the various manifestations and the diagnostic and therapeutic challenges of the most common of these disorders, as well as their relationship to emotional aspects. Syncope is caused by reduced global cerebral perfusion. Convulsive movements are sometimes released from subcortical structures, but do not follow the characteristic sequence of tonic-clonic seizures, and postictal symptoms are minimal. Hyperventilation attacks are caused by the metabolic consequences of hypocapnia. Altered blood pH and cerebral vasoconstriction may cause a range of peripheral and central nervous system symptoms. Psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES) are attacks of reduced self-control associated with various behavioral phenomena, usually beyond voluntary control. A detailed clinical history is the most important tool in the differential diagnosis. Various emotional factors may act as immediate triggers in reflex syncope and hyperventilation attacks, whereas in PNES, emotional traumas may be remote and suppressed. Patient education with appropriate explanation of the underlying mechanisms is a fundamental part of the management of these disorders.
There is a strong tradition of neuroscience in Norway, and Norwegian neurologists have been actively involved in developing partnerships between all those who recognize the importance of the brain and of brain diseases. It was therefore unsurprising that Norwegian neurologists took the initiative in establishing the Norwegian Brain Council (NBC). NBC was founded in 2007 and now comprises 27 organizations and institutions. It includes all those who work with brain research and brain diseases in Norway, as well as all relevant user organizations. Industries and businesses that are related to brain disease may be partners, but do not have full membership. The main mission of NBC is to provide information about the brain and brain diseases for both lay people and public authorities, including politicians, and to promote better treatment for patients with brain diseases and more research in neuroscience. The council has firm ties to the European Brain Council (EBC). NBC plans to follow the initiative taken by EBC in organizing a 'Month of the Brain' in 2013 and a 'Year of the Brain' in 2014. These initiatives could provide an impetus for greater focus on brain diseases, which is essential in order to meet the considerable challenges that are posed by brain diseases in the years to come.
A consistent clinical feature of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the sparing of eye movements and the function of external sphincters, with corresponding preservation of motor neurons in the brainstem oculomotor nuclei, and of Onuf's nucleus in the sacral spinal cord. Studying the differences in properties of neurons that are vulnerable and resistant to the disease process in ALS may provide insights into the mechanisms of neuronal degeneration, and identify targets for therapeutic manipulation. We used microarray analysis to determine the differences in gene expression between oculomotor and spinal motor neurons, isolated by laser capture microdissection from the midbrain and spinal cord of neurologically normal human controls. We compared these to transcriptional profiles of oculomotor nuclei and spinal cord from rat and mouse, obtained from the GEO omnibus database. We show that oculomotor neurons have a distinct transcriptional profile, with significant differential expression of 1,757 named genes (q &lt; 0.001). Differentially expressed genes are enriched for the functional categories of synaptic transmission, ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis, mitochondrial function, transcriptional regulation, immune system functions, and the extracellular matrix. Marked differences are seen, across the three species, in genes with a function in synaptic transmission, including several glutamate and GABA receptor subunits. Using patch clamp recording in acute spinal and brainstem slices, we show that resistant oculomotor neurons show a reduced AMPA-mediated inward calcium current, and a higher GABA-mediated chloride current, than vulnerable spinal motor neurons. The findings suggest that reduced susceptibility to excitotoxicity, mediated in part through enhanced GABAergic transmission, is an important determinant of the relative resistance of oculomotor neurons to degeneration in ALS.

In the nervous system, a decrease in extracellular pH is a common feature of various physiological and pathological processes, including synaptic transmission, cerebral ischemia, epilepsy, brain trauma, and tissue inflammation. Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are proton-gated cation channels that are distributed throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems. Following the recent identification of ASICs as critical acid-sensing extracellular proton receptors, growing evidence has suggested that the activation of ASICs plays important roles in physiological processes such as nociception, mechanosensation, synaptic plasticity, learning and memory. However, the over-activation of ASICs is also linked to adverse outcomes for certain pathological processes, such as brain ischemia and multiple sclerosis. Based on the well-demonstrated role of ASIC1a activation in acidosis-mediated brain injury, small molecule inhibitors of ASIC1a may represent novel therapeutic agents for the treatment of neurological disorders, such as stroke.
The aim of this review is to describe the conceptual steps contributing to our current knowledge of purinergic signalling and to consider its involvement in the physiology and pathophysiology of the lower urinary tract. The voiding reflex involves ATP released as a cotransmitter with acetylcholine from parasympathetic nerves supplying the bladder and ATP released from urothelial cells during bladder distension to initiate the voiding reflex via P2X3 receptors on suburothelial low threshold sensory nerve fibres. This mechanosensory transduction pathway also participates, via high threshold sensory nerve fibres, in the initiation of pain in bladder and ureter. Treatment of prostate and bladder cancer with ATP is effective against the primary tumours in animal models and human cell lines, via P2X5 and P2X7 receptors, and also improves the systemic symptoms associated with advanced malignancy. Acupuncture is widely used for the treatment of urinary disorders, and a purinergic hypothesis is discussed for the underlying mechanism.

Inhibitory optogenetics was used to examine the roles of the prelimbic cortex (PL), the nucleus accumbens core (NAcore) and the PL projections to the NAcore in the reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Rats were microinjected into the PL or NAcore with an adeno-associated virus containing halorhodopsin or archaerhodopsin. After 12 days of cocaine self-administration, followed by extinction training, animals underwent reinstatement testing along with the presence/absence of optically induced inhibition via laser light. Bilateral optical inhibition of the PL, NAcore or the PL fibers in the NAcore inhibited the reinstatement of cocaine seeking.
In animal models of addiction, reducing glutamate stimulation of the metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) inhibits drug-seeking. The present study used the reinstatement model of cocaine-seeking to show that blockade of mGluR5 directly in the core subcompartment of the nucleus accumbens (NAcore) prevented both conditioned cue- and cocaine-reinstated drug-seeking. Consistent with this finding, microinjection of the mGluR5 agonist (RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine into the NAcore produced modest reinstatement of lever pressing when given alone and significantly potentiated cue-induced reinstatement. Homer proteins are contained in the post-synaptic density and regulate mGluR5 intracellular signaling and trafficking to the membrane. Microinjecting a membrane permeable peptide antagonist of Homer binding to mGluR5 into the NAcore also inhibited cue- and cocaine-reinstated lever pressing. However, this peptide did not change the surface expression of mGluR5, indicating that the peptide inhibitor did not alter the surface trafficking of mGluR5. Taken together, these data show that mGluR5 inhibition and stimulation in the NAcore can regulate cocaine-seeking, and demonstrate that one mechanism for this effect is via interactions with Homer proteins.
Although substantial research effort has focused on developing pharmacological treatments for cocaine abuse, no effective medications have been developed. Recent studies show that enzymes that metabolize cocaine in the periphery, forestalling its entry into the brain, can prevent cocaine toxicity and its behavioral effects in rodents. Here we report on effects of one such enzyme (Albu-CocH) on the pharmacokinetic and behavioral effects of cocaine in squirrel monkeys. Albu-CocH was developed from successive mutations of human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) and has 1000-fold greater catalytic activity against cocaine than naturally occurring BChE. Pharmacokinetic studies showed that Albu-CocH (5 mg/kg) had a half-life of 56.6 hours in squirrel monkeys. In these studies, plasma levels of cocaine following i.v. 1 mg/kg cocaine were reduced 2 hours after administration of Albu-CocH, whereas plasma levels of the cocaine metabolite ecgonine methyl ester were increased. These effects were still evident 72 hours following Albu-CocH administration. In behavioral experiments in monkeys, pre-treatment with 5 mg/kg Albu-CocH dramatically decreased self-administration of a reinforcing dose of i.v. cocaine (30 g/kg/injection) for over 24 hours. Pre-treatment with 5 mg/kg Albu-CocH also attenuated the reinstatement of extinguished cocaine self-administration by an i.v. priming injection of cocaine (0.1 or 0.3 mg/kg) and, in separate studies, attenuated the discriminative-stimulus effects of cocaine. The ability of Albu-CocH to attenuate the abuse-related effects of cocaine in squirrel monkeys indicates that further investigation of BChE mutants as potential treatment for cocaine abuse and toxicity is warranted.




Pulmonary arteriovenous fistula (PAVF) is a venous malformation that permits right to left shunting of blood, bypassing the pulmonary capillary bed. Often PAVFs are seen in association with hereditary conditions. On the other hand, isolated PAVFs are rare and asymptomatic. There have been few reports of isolated PAVF related complications. A patient was referred to us with dysarthria and diplopia and history of surgically-treated PAVF. Further evaluations revealed a stroke in thalamic region. We found an open PAVF in a case of thalamic stroke.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) and celiac disease (CD) are considered to be T-cell-mediated autoimmune disease. We discuss about a known case of CD-showed relapsing - remitting neurological symptoms compatible with MS. In this rare co-occurrence subject, MS-CD patient, the interaction between MS - and CD-related inflammatory processes is open to discussion.
Astrocyte-elevated gene-1 (AEG-1/MTDH/LYRIC) is a potent oncogene that regulates key cellular processes underlying disease of the central nervous system (CNS). From its involvement in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 infection to its role in neurodegenerative disease and malignant brain tumors, AEG-1/MTDH/LYRIC facilitates cellular survival and proliferation through the control of a multitude of molecular signaling cascades. AEG-1/MTDH/LYRIC induction by HIV-1 and TNF highlights its importance in viral infection, and its incorporation into viral vesicles supports its potential role in active viral replication. Overexpression of AEG-1/MTDH/LYRIC in the brains of Huntington's disease patients suggests its function in neurodegenerative disease, and its association with genetic polymorphisms in large genome-wide association studies of migraine patients suggests a possible role in the pathogenesis of migraine headaches. In the field of cancer, AEG-1/MTDH/LYRIC promotes angiogenesis, migration, invasion, and enhanced tumor metabolism through key oncogenic signaling cascades. In response to external stress cues and cellular mechanisms to inhibit further growth, AEG-1/MTDH/LYRIC activates pathways that bypass cell checkpoints and potentiates signals to enhance survival and tumorigenesis. As an oncogene that promotes aberrant cellular processes within the CNS, AEG-1/MTDH/LYRIC represents an important therapeutic target for the treatment of neurological disease.
The challenge of integrating biology and culture is addressed in this chapter by emphasizing human development as involving mutually constitutive, embodied, and epigenetic processes. Heuristically rich constructs extrapolated from cultural psychology and developmental science, such as embodiment, action, and activity, are presented as promising approaches to the integration of cultural and biology in human development. These theoretical notions are applied to frame the nascent field of cultural neuroscience as representing this integration of culture and biology. Current empirical research in cultural neuroscience is then synthesized to illustrate emerging trends in this body of literature that examine the integration of biology and culture.
According to recent claims from behavior genetics, executive function (EF) is almost entirely heritable. The implications of this claim are significant, given the importance of EF in academic, social, and psychological domains. This paper critically examines the behavior genetics approach to explaining individual differences in EF and proposes a relational developmental systems model that integrates both biological and social factors in the development of EF and the emergence of individual differences in EF. Problems inherent to behavioral genetics research are discussed, as is neuroscience research that emphasizes the plasticity of the prefrontal cortex. Empirical evidence from research on stress, social interaction, and intervention and training demonstrates that individual differences in EF are experience-dependent. Taken together, these findings challenge the claim that EF is almost entirely genetic but are consistent with an approach that considers biological differences in the context of social interaction.
In recent years, vibrant research has developed on &quot;consolidation&quot; during sleep: To what extent are newly experienced impressions reprocessed or even restructured during sleep? We used the number reduction task (NRT) to study if and how sleep does not only reiterate new experiences but may even lead to new insights. In the NRT, covert regularities may speed responses. This implicit acquisition of regularities may become explicitly conscious at some point, leading to a qualitative change in behavior which reflects this insight. By applying the NRT at two consecutive sessions separated by an interval, we investigated the role of sleep in this interval for attaining insight at the second session. In the first study, a night of sleep was shown to triple the number of participants attaining insight above the base rate of about 20%. In the second study, this hard core of 20% discoverers differed from other participants in their task-related EEG potentials from the very beginning already. In the third study, the additional role of sleep was specified as an effect of the deep-sleep phase of slow-wave sleep on participants who had implicitly acquired the covert regularity before sleep. It was in these participants that a specific increase of EEG during slow-wave sleep in the 10-12 Hz band was obtained. These results support the view that neuronal memory reprocessing during slow-wave sleep restructures task-related representations in the brain, and that such restructuring promotes the gain of explicit knowledge.
Did you visit the Neuronus conferences in the years 2012 and 2013 in Krakw? If not, then you certainly should have a close examination of this special issue including this introduction to at least have a glimpse of an idea of the highly interesting topics in the field of cognitive neuroscience that were presented at these conferences. If you were there, it is for sure a good choice to focus on this special issue as well, first to refresh your minds (we know our memories are far from perfect), but especially to see what happened with research of the presenters at these conferences.
The understanding the functional expression of exhaled volatile organic compounds (VOCs) has gradually expanded from the initial identification of breath pathological markers to direct expression of physiological activity. In the present study we investigated the potential application of breath analysis in real-time monitoring of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients versus control subjects while performing a cognitive task. T2DM is associated with cognitive impairment and neural deficits, because of insulin resistance and high expression of insulin receptors in the hippocampus. We set out to seek the evidence for mutual associations among breath exhale, on the one side, and T2DM and cognitive effort, on the other side. The recording system consisted of a metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) which is able to detect a broad range of volatile organic compounds. The sensor provides a measure of VOCs as ppm CO2 equivalents. The MOS is suitable for a non-invasive real-time monitoring of the breath exhale in humans. The study demonstrates that, apart from the T2DM metabolic derangement, performing a cognitive task, taken as an index of central neural effort, evoked distinct alterations in exhaled breath content. We conclude that exhaled breath content measurement might offer a novel diagnostic and therapeutic non-invasive approach in metabolic and neurodegenerative derangements.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the presence of Neuroglobin (Ngb) and Cytoglobin (Cygb) in the solitary tract nucleus (STN) and in the carotid body of human subjects. Transverse serial sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded brainstems, taken from six subjects, were investigated. Ngb and Cygb are expressed in both the structures. Differences in expression of Ngb and Cygb among dorsal and ventral area of the STN may be related to their different functions and different metabolic demands. Because the STN plays an important role in the processing of cardiovascular and respiratory reflex inputs, Ngb and Cygb may play an integrative central modulatory action for the two systems.
We recently showed that listeners with normal hearing thresholds vary in their ability to direct spatial attention and that ability is related to the fidelity of temporal coding in the brainstem. Here, we recruited additional middle-aged listeners and extended our analysis of the brainstem response, measured using the frequency-following response (FFR). We found that even though age does not predict overall selective attention ability, middle-aged listeners are more susceptible to the detrimental effects of reverberant energy than young adults. We separated the overall FFR into orthogonal envelope and carrier components and used an existing model to predict which auditory channels drive each component. We find that responses in mid- to high-frequency auditory channels dominate envelope FFR, while lower-frequency channels dominate the carrier FFR. Importantly, we find that which component of the FFR predicts selective attention performance changes with age. We suggest that early aging degrades peripheral temporal coding in mid-to-high frequencies, interfering with the coding of envelope interaural time differences. We argue that, compared to young adults, middle-aged listeners, who do not have strong temporal envelope coding, have more trouble following a conversation in a reverberant room because they are forced to rely on fragile carrier ITDs that are susceptible to the degrading effects of reverberation.
Many previous studies have shown that a tone that is momentarily -interrupted can be perceived as continuous if the interruption is completely masked by noise. It has been suggested this &quot;continuity illusion&quot; occurs only when peripheral neural responses contain no evidence that the signal was interrupted. In this study, we used a combination of psychophysical measures and computational simulations of peripheral auditory responses to examine whether the continuity illusion can be experienced under conditions where peripheral neural responses contain evidence that the signal did not continue through the masker. Our results provide an example of a salient continuity illusion despite evidence of an interruption in the peripheral representation, indicating that the illusion may depend more on global features of the interrupting sound, such as its long-term specific loudness, than on its fine-grained temporal structure.
Musicians often say that they not only hear but also &quot;feel&quot; music. To explore the contribution of tactile information to &quot;feeling&quot; music, we investigated the degree that auditory and tactile inputs are integrated in humans performing a musical meter-recognition task. Subjects discriminated between two types of sequences, &quot;duple&quot; (march-like rhythms) and &quot;triple&quot; (waltz-like rhythms), presented in three conditions: (1) unimodal inputs (auditory or tactile alone); (2) various combinations of bimodal inputs, where sequences were distributed between the auditory and tactile channels such that a single channel did not produce coherent meter percepts; and (3) bimodal inputs where the two channels contained congruent or incongruent meter cues. We first show that meter is perceived similarly well (70-85 %) when tactile or auditory cues are presented alone. We next show in the bimodal experiments that auditory and tactile cues are integrated to produce coherent meter percepts. Performance is high (70-90 %) when all of the metrically important notes are assigned to one channel and is reduced to 60 % when half of these notes are assigned to one channel. When the important notes are presented simultaneously to both channels, congruent cues enhance meter recognition (90 %). Performance dropped dramatically when subjects were presented with incongruent auditory cues (10 %), as opposed to incongruent tactile cues (60 %), demonstrating that auditory input dominates meter perception. These observations support the notion that meter perception is a cross-modal percept with tactile inputs underlying the perception of &quot;feeling&quot; music.
Compared to humans, Mongolian gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus) are much more sensitive at detecting mistuning of frequency components of a harmonic complex (Klinge and Klump. J Acoust Soc Am 128:280-290, 2010). One processing mechanism suggested to result in the high sensitivity involves evaluating the phase shift that gradually develops between the mistuned and the remaining components in the same or separate auditory filters. To investigate if this processing mechanism may explain the observed sensitivity, we determined the gerbils' thresholds to detect a constant phase shift in a component of a harmonic complex that is introduced without a frequency shift. The gerbils' detection thresholds for constant phase shifts were considerably lower for a high-frequency component (6,400 Hz) than for a low-frequency component (400 Hz) of a 200-Hz harmonic complex and increased with decreasing stimulus duration. Compared to the phase shifts calculated from the mistuning detection thresholds, the detection thresholds for constant phase shifts were similar to those for gradual phase shifts for the low-frequency harmonic but considerably lower for the high-frequency harmonic. A simulation of the processing of harmonic complexes by the gerbil's peripheral auditory filters when components are phase shifted shows waveform changes comparable to those assessed for mistuning detection Klinge and Klump (J Acoust Soc Am 128:280-290, 2010) and provides evidence that detection of the gradual phase shifts may underlie mistuning detection.
The purpose of this chapter is to bring together historical and current findings that reveal the presence, influence, and operation of a type of envelope rate-limitation. The rate-limitation has been revealed in both monaural and binaural experiments. Specifically, there appears to be a low-pass envelope-filtering process that (1) functionally attenuates fluctuations of the envelope above about 150 Hz and (2) is not attributable to peripheral band-pass filtering. We show a variety of empirical outcomes and theoretical analyses that converge to demonstrate and to describe how this type of filtering constrains the processing of interaural temporal disparities (ITDs) conveyed by the envelopes of high-frequency stimuli in experiments concerning binaural detection. Included are recent behavioral and neurophysiological findings regarding how such filtering may vary with the center frequency of the stimulus.
Lyon (J Acoust Soc Am 130:3893-3904, 2011) has described how a cascade of simple asymmetric resonators (CAR) can be used to simulate the filtering of the basilar membrane and how the gain of the resonators can be manipulated by a feedback network to simulate the fast-acting compression (FAC) characteristic of cochlear processing. When the compression is applied to complex tones, each pair of primary components produces both quadratic and cubic distortion tones (DTs), and the cascade architecture of the CAR-FAC system propagates them down to their appropriate place along the basilar membrane, where they combine additively with each other and any primary components at that frequency. This suggests that CAR-FAC systems might be used to study the role of compressive distortion in the perception of complex sounds and that behavioural measurements of cochlear distortion data might be useful when tuning the parameters of CAR-FAC systems.
The classical mammalian auditory periphery, i.e., the type of middle ear and coiled cochlea seen in modern therian mammals, did not arise as one unit and did not arise in all mammals. It is also not the only kind of auditory periphery seen in modern mammals. This short review discusses the fact that the constituents of modern mammalian auditory peripheries arose at different times over an extremely long period of evolution (230 million years; Ma). It also attempts to answer questions as to the selective pressures that led to three-ossicle middle ears and the coiled cochlea. Mammalian middle ears arose de novo, without an intermediate, single-ossicle stage. This event was the result of changes in eating habits of ancestral animals, habits that were unrelated to hearing. The coiled cochlea arose only after 60 Ma of mammalian evolution, driven at least partly by a change in cochlear bone structure that improved impedance matching with the middle ear of that time. This change only occurred in the ancestors of therian mammals and not in other mammalian lineages. There is no single constellation of structural features of the auditory periphery that characterizes all mammals and not even all modern mammals.
The Myc family proteins are key regulators of animal growth and development, which have critical roles in modulating stem cell behaviour. Since the identification of the oncogenic potential of c-Myc in the early 1980s the mammalian Myc family, which is comprised of c-Myc, N-Myc, and L-Myc, has been studied extensively. dMyc, the only Drosophila member of the Myc gene family, is orthologous to the mammalian c-Myc oncoprotein. Here we discuss key studies addressing the function of the Myc family in stem cell behaviour in both Drosophila Models and mammalian systems.
With the discovery two decades ago that the adult brain contains neural stem cells (NSCs) capable of producing new neurons, a great deal of research has been undertaken to manipulate these cells to repair the damaged nervous system. Much progress has been made in understanding what regulates adult neural stem cell specification, proliferation and differentiation but much remains to be determined. Lessons can be learned from understanding how embryonic neural stem cells produce the exquisitely complicated organ that is the adult mammalian nervous system. This review will highlight the role of transcriptional regulation of mammalian neural stem cells during embryonic development and compare these to the adult neural stem cell/neural precursor cell (NPC) niches of the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Normal physiological NSC/NPC regulation will be explored, as well as their regulation and responses following neural injury and disease. Finally, transcriptional regulation of the endogenous NSC/NPCs will be compared and contrasted with embryonic stem/induced pluripotent stem (ES/iPS) cell-derived NSC/NPCs. Recapitulation of the embryonic sequence of transcriptional events in neural stem cell development into specific neuronal or glial lineages improves directed differentiation of ES/iPS cells and may be useful for activation and specification of endogenous adult neural stem cells for therapeutic purposes.
This volume describes the latest findings on transcriptional and translational regulation of stem cells. Both transcriptional activators and repressors have been shown to be crucial for the maintenance of the stem cell state. A key element of stem cell maintenance is repression of differentiation factors or developmental genes - achieved transcriptionally, epigenetically by the Polycomb complex, and post-transcriptionally by RNA-binding proteins and microRNAs. This volume takes two approaches to this topic - (1) illustrating the general principles outlined above through a series of different stem cell examples - embryonic, iPS and adult stem cells, and (2) describing several molecular families that have been shown to have roles in regulation of multiple stem cell populations.
Alcohol misuse and addiction is a worldwide problem causing enormous individual suffering as well as financial costs for the society. To develop pharmacological means to reduce suffering, we need to understand the mechanisms underlying the effects of ethanol in the brain. Ethanol is known to increase extracellular levels of both dopamine and taurine in the nucleus accumbens (nAc), a part of the brain reward system, but the two events have not been connected. In previous studies we have demonstrated that glycine receptors in the nAc are involved in modulating both basal- and ethanol-induced dopamine output in the same brain region. By means of in vivo microdialysis in freely moving rats we here demonstrate that the endogenous glycine receptor ligand taurine mimics ethanol in activating the brain reward system. Furthermore, administration of systemic ethanol diluted in an isotonic (0.9% NaCl) or hypertonic (3.6% NaCl) saline solution was investigated with respect to extracellular levels of taurine and dopamine in the nAc. We found that ethanol given in a hypertonic solution, contrary to an isotonic solution, failed to increase concentrations of both taurine and dopamine in the nAc. However, a modest, non-dopamine elevating concentration of taurine in the nAc disclosed a dopamine elevating effect of systemic ethanol also when given in a hypertonic solution. We conclude that the elevations of taurine and dopamine in the nAc are closely related and that in order for ethanol to induce dopamine release, a simultaneous increase of extracellular taurine levels in the nAc is required. These data also -provide support for the notion that the nAc is the primary target for ethanol in its dopamine-activating effect after systemic administration and that taurine is a prominent participant in activating the brain reward system.
Previously we have shown FVB/NJ mice given taurine acutely (i.e. 43 mg/kg/s.c. [aTau]) is anxiolytic, whereas chronically (0.05% w/v for &gt;4 weeks [cTau]) produces anxiogenic phenotypes under select aversive behavioral experiments, but negated emotional contributions to acquisition learning and retention. Hyperexcitability induced in c-Tau mice is further exacerbated under stressful conditions compromising discrimination between cognitive vs. emotional learning. In the present study, we investigated differences between a-Tau and c-Tau mice using the auditory cued tone (ACTC) and context conditioning (CC) tests. Consistent with previous results, a-Tau mice exhibit less fear and increased inhibition, whereas c-Tau mice exhibit increased fear and decreased inhibition to ACTC and CC. Once fear conditioned, taurine mice become hypersensitive to novel environments and ACTC. Taurine brain levels are noted to increase in response to stressors as a neuroprotective mechanism against hyperexcitability. We suggest that c-Tau mice have increased accumulation of cysteamine (Cyst) and depleted somatostatin (SS) expression resulting in fear disregulation through GABAergic projection neurons in the limbic system, which are not seen in a-Tau mice. Our findings suggest that taurine causes not only varied phenotypic profiles of emotional fear learning, but are further complicated by the inability to associate cues with aversive stimuli due to potential auditory sensory overloading.
Taurine, an endogenous amino sulfonic acid, exhibits numerous neuropsychopharmacological activities. Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that it is an effective anti-cataleptic and neuro-protective agent. Current investigations show that acute or chronic administration of psychotropic drug cocaine may increase extracellular release of endogenous taurine which may protect against deleterious effects of the substances of abuse. Taurine administration was found to prevent cocaine-induced addiction by suppressing spontaneous locomotor activity and conditioned place preference. Taurine markedly delayed tail-flick response in rats which was significantly different from that in the group of animal receiving the same volume of saline, thereby indicating that taurine is a potentially valuable analgesic agent. Both taurine and endomorphin-1 were found to suppress the delayed broad negative evoked field potentials in anterior insular cortex (upper layer 5) by partially inhibiting NMDA receptor system. Thus, taurine is a unique psychopharmacological compound with potential for a variety of therapeutic uses including as a neuro-protective, anti-cataleptic, anti-addicting, and analgesic agent.

The initiation of microglial responses to the ischemic injury involves modifications of calcium homeostasis. Changes in [Ca(2+)](i) levels have also been shown to influence the developmental processes that accompany the transition of human oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) into mature myelinating oligodendrocytes and are required for the initiation of myelination and remyelination processes.We investigated the regional and temporal changes of NCX1 protein in microglial cells of the peri-infarct and core regions after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). Interestingly, 3 and 7 days after pMCAO, NCX1 signal strongly increased in the round-shaped microglia invading the infarct core. Cultured microglial cells from the core displayed increased NCX1 expression as compared with contralateral cells and showed enhanced NCX activity in the reverse mode of operation. Similarly, NCX activity and NCX1 protein expression were significantly enhanced in BV2 microglia exposed to oxygen and glucose deprivation, whereas NCX2 and NCX3 were downregulated. Interestingly, in NCX1-silenced cells, [Ca(2+)](i) increase induced by hypoxia was completely prevented. The upregulation of NCX1 expression and activity observed in microglia after pMCAO suggests a relevant role of NCX1 in modulating microglia functions in the postischemic brain.Next, we explored whether calcium signals mediated by NCX1, NCX2, or NCX3 play a role in oligodendrocyte maturation. Functional studies, as well as mRNA and protein expression analyses, revealed that NCX1 and NCX3, but not NCX2, were divergently modulated during OPC differentiation into oligodendrocyte. In fact, while NCX1 was downregulated, NCX3 was strongly upregulated during the oligodendrocyte development. Whereas the knocking down of the NCX3 isoform in OPCs prevented the upregulation of the myelin protein markers CNPase and MBP, its overexpression induced their upregulation. Furthermore, NCX3 knockout mice exhibited not only a reduced size of spinal cord but also a marked hypomyelination, as revealed by the decrease in MBP expression and by the accompanying increase in OPCs number. Our findings indicate that calcium signaling mediated by NCX3 plays a crucial role in oligodendrocyte maturation and myelin formation.
Mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange (NCXmito) is critical for neuronal Ca(2+) homeostasis and prevention of cell death from excessive mitochondrial Ca(2+) (m[Ca(2+)]) accumulation. The mitochondrial kinase PINK1 appears to regulate the mCa(2+) efflux from dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons, possibly by directly regulating NCXmito. However, the precise molecular identity of NCXmito is unknown and has been the subject of great controversy. Here we propose that the previously characterised plasmalemmal NCX isoforms (NCX2, NCX3) contribute to mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange in human DAergic neurons and may act downstream of PINK1 in the prevention of neurodegeneration by m[Ca(2+)] accumulation. Firstly, we definitively show the existence of a mitochondrial pool of endogenous plasmalemmal NCX isoforms in human DAergic neurons and cell lines using immunolocalisation and fluorescence-assisted organelle sorting (FAOS). Secondly, we demonstrate reduced mitochondrial Ca(2+) efflux occurs following inhibition of NCX2 or NCX3 (but not NCX1) using siRNA or antibody blocking. This study has potentially revealed a new molecular target in Parkinson's disease pathology which ultimately may open up new avenues for future therapeutic intervention.
Ischemic preconditioning is a neuroprotective mechanism in which a brief non-injurious episode of ischemia protects the brain from a subsequent lethal insult. Recently, it has been reported that modified reperfusion subsequent to a prolonged ischemic episode may also confer neuroprotection, a phenomenon termed postconditioning. Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) play a key role in these two neuroprotective mechanisms. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers (NCXs), a family of ionic transporters that contribute to the maintenance of intracellular ionic homeostasis, contribute to the neuroprotection elicited by ischemic preconditioning and postconditioning.Results of this study indicated that (1) NCX1 and NCX3 are upregulated in those brain regions protected by preconditioning, while (2) postconditioning treatment induces an upregulation only in NCX3 expression. (3) NCX1 upregulation and NCX3 upregulation are mediated by p-AKT since its inhibition reverted the neuroprotective effect of preconditioning and postconditioning and prevented NCXs overexpression. (4) The involvement of NCX in preconditioning and postconditioning neuroprotection is further supported by the results of experiments showing that a partial reversion of the protective effect induced by preconditioning was obtained by silencing NCX1 or NCX3, while the silencing of NCX3 was able to mitigate the protection induced by ischemic postconditioning.Altogether, the data presented here suggest that NCX1 and NCX3 -represent two promising druggable targets for setting on new strategies in stroke therapy.
Because no isoform-specific blocker of NCX has ever been synthesized, a more selective strategy to identify the role of each antiporter isoform in the brain was represented by the generation of knockout and knockin mice for the different isoforms of the antiporter.Experiments performed in NCX2 and NCX3 knockout mice provided evidence that these two isoforms participate in spatial learning and memory consolidation, although in an opposite manner. These new data from ncx2-/- and ncx3-/- mice may open new experimental avenues for the development of effective therapeutic compounds that, by selectively inhibiting or activating these molecular targets, could treat patients affected by cognitive impairment including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's diseases, and infarct dementia.More importantly, knockout and knockin mice also provided new relevant information on the role played by NCX in maintaining the intracellular Na(+) and Ca(2+) homeostasis and in protecting neurons during brain ischemia. In particular, both ncx2-/- and ncx3-/- mice showed an increased neuronal vulnerability after the ischemic insult induced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion.As the ubiquitous deletion of NCX1 brings about to an early death of embryos because of a lack of heartbeat, this strategy could not be successfully pursued. However, information on the role of NCX1 in normal and ischemic brain could be obtained by developing conditional knockout mice lacking NCX1 in the brain. Preliminarily results obtained in these conditional mice suggest that also NCX1 protects neurons from ischemic cell death.Overall, the use of genetic-modified mice for NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3 represents a fruitful strategy to characterize the physiological role exerted by NCX in CNS and to identify the isoforms of the antiporter as potential molecular targets for therapeutic intervention in cerebral ischemia.
Mitochondria are now recognized as one of the main intracellular calcium-storing organelles which play a key role in the intracellular calcium signalling. Indeed, besides performing oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondria are able to sense and shape calcium (Ca(2+)) transients, thus controlling cytosolic Ca(2+) signals and Ca(2+)-dependent protein activity. It has been well established for many years that mitochondria have a huge capacity to accumulate calcium. While the physiological significance of this pathway was hotly debated until relatively recently, it is now clear that the ability of mitochondria in calcium handling is a ubiquitous phenomenon described in every cell system in which the issue has been addressed.In this chapter, we will review the molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of mitochondrial calcium cycling in physiological conditions with particular regard to the role played by the mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger.
The ubiquitous sodium-calcium exchanger isoform 1 (NCX1) is a -bidirectional transporter that plays a relevant role under physiological and pathophysiological conditions including brain ischemia by regulating intraneuronal Ca(2+) and Na(+) homeostasis. Although changes in ncx1 protein and transcript expression have been detected during stroke, its transcriptional regulation is still largely unexplored. Here, we reviewed our recent findings on several transcription factors including cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B), and hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) in the control of the ncx1 gene expression in neuronal cells.
Protein tyrosine kinases are enzymes that are capable of adding a phosphate group to specific tyrosines on target proteins. A receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) is a tyrosine kinase located at the cellular membrane and is activated by binding of a ligand via its extracellular domain. Protein phosphorylation by kinases is an important mechanism for communicating signals within a cell and regulating cellular activity; furthermore, this mechanism functions as an &quot;on&quot; or &quot;off&quot; switch in many cellular functions. Ninety unique tyrosine kinase genes, including 58 RTKs, were identified in the human genome; the products of these genes regulate cellular proliferation, survival, differentiation, function, and motility. Tyrosine kinases play a critical role in the development and progression of many types of cancer, in addition to their roles as key regulators of normal cellular processes. Recent studies have revealed that RTKs such as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR), c-Met, Tie, Axl, discoidin domain receptor 1 (DDR1), and erythropoietin-producing human hepatocellular carcinoma (Eph) play a major role in glioma invasion. Herein, we summarize recent advances in understanding the role of RTKs in glioma pathobiology, especially the invasive phenotype, and present the perspective that RTKs are a potential target of glioma therapy.
ATP is a cotransmitter with glutamate, noradrenaline, GABA, acetylcholine and dopamine in the brain. There is a widespread presence of both adenosine (P1) and P2 nucleotide receptors in the brain on both neurons and glial cells. Adenosine receptors play a major role in presynaptic neuromodulation, while P2X ionotropic receptors are involved in fast synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity. P2Y G protein-coupled receptors are largely involved in presynaptic activities, as well as mediating long-term (trophic) signalling in cell proliferation, differentiation and death during development and regeneration. Both P1 and P2 receptors participate in neuron-glial interactions. Purinergic signalling is involved in control of cerebral vascular tone and remodelling and has been implicated in learning and memory, locomotor and feeding behaviour and sleep. There is increasing interest in the involvement of purinergic signalling in the pathophysiology of the CNS, including trauma, ischaemia, epilepsy, neurodegenerative diseases, neuropsychiatric and mood disorders, and cancer, including gliomas.
We present a proteomic analysis of the rat carotid body (CB) preparation by comparison between normoxia and hypoxia. Proteomic investigation would be helpful to identify the stress-induced protein during hypoxia and to know what O(2) species are being sensed by CB cells. Adult Wistar rats were used, one group was kept in room air (21% O(2)) as control, and the other was kept in a Plexiglas chamber for 12 days in chronic hypoxia (10-11% inspired oxygen). A total protein extract for each lysated tissue was separated using a broad pH range no-linear IPG strip (3-10) and the second dimension was performed on a 9-16% polyacrylamide gel. Exposure to hypoxia for 12 days produced significant changes in protein expression, providing an initial insight into the mechanism underlying differences in susceptibility to hypoxia. Further investigation is needed to have an overview of the specific set of proteins present in the CB and the functions of such proteins in signal transduction and adaptation during hypoxia.
Multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) is a complex disorder initiated by chemical exposure, particularly through the airways. MCS patients report sensitivity or intolerance to low levels of a wide spectrum of chemicals. Symptoms could include asthma-like signs, rhinitis, fatigue, cognitive dysfunction, psycho-physiological alteration, and other specific tissue reactions resembling hypoxic and oxidative stress effects. To recognize physiological signs that would allow the diagnosis of MCS in a non-invasive way we investigated the potential application of a new sensor system. In healthy volunteers, we measured exhaled breath content in the control condition and under exposure to olfactory stressors that mimic hypoxic or pollutant stressors playing a potential role in the generation of the MCS disorder. The recording system used is based on metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) sensor having a sensing range of 450-2,000 ppm CO(2) equivalents, which is able to detect a broad range of compounds playing a potential role in the generation of the MCS disorder, while correlating directly with the CO(2) levels. The results indicate that the recording system employed was suitable for the analysis of exhaled breath content in humans. Interestingly, the system was able to detect and discriminate between the exhaled breath content taken from the control condition and those from conditions under stress that mimicked exposures to pollutant or hypoxia. The results suggest that chronic hypoxia could be involved in the MCS disorder.
During long-term treatment with Levodopa, majority of patients with Parkinson's disease experience some abnormal motor problems including of Levodopa induced dyskinesia (LID) and wearing off. Incredible evidences suggest that serotonergic neurons compensate some functions of lost dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease especially in advanced disease stages. Therefore, it has been postulated that serotonergic neurons are the major source for development of these unwanted effects. 5HT1A receptors are located on the serotonergic neurons and are involved in regulation of normal motor functions. With respect to the role of serotonergic projection in Parkinson's disease and importance of 5HT1A receptors in motor activity it seems that inactivation of these neurons by stimulation of 5HT1A receptors could provide benefits in treatment of Levodopa induced motor impairments.
Purpose: Ghrelin has been shown to have antiepileptic function. However, the underlying mechanisms by which, ghrelin exerts its antiepileptic effects are still unclear. In the present study; we investigated antiepileptic mechanism of ghrelin through GABAB receptors using CGP35348 (selective GABAB receptor antagonist). Methods: Male Wistar rats' hippocampi were bilaterally microinjected with the single dose or 10-day ghrelin (0.3 nmol/l/side). CGP35348, GABAB receptor antagonist, (12.5 g/l/side) or saline injected into the dorsal hippocampus 20 minutes before ghrelin administration. Thirty min after ghrelin microinjection, a single convulsive dose of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) (50 mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally (i.p). Afterwards, seizure duration and total seizure score (TSS) were assessed for 30 minutes in all animals. Results: Our results demonstrated that acute and chronic intrahippocampal (i.h.) injection of ghrelin could significantly (p&lt;0.001) attenuate the severity of seizures. Ghrelin 0.3 nmol/l/side decreased duration of seizure significantly both in acute (p&lt;0.001) and chronic (p&lt;0.01) injections. The ghrelin antiepileptic effect was completely antagonized by GABAB blockade. The suppression of both duration and TSS induced by ghrelin in hippocampus was significantly (p&lt;0.001) blocked by CGP35348 in PTZ-induced seizures. Conclusion: In summary, our findings suggest that GABAB receptors may mediate the antiepileptic action of ghrelin in the hippocampus. Therefore, it is possible to speculate that ghrelin acts in the hippocampus to modulate seizures via GABA.
Purpose: Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) refers to a cluster of signs and symptoms that stems from compression of the median nerve traveling through carpal tunnel. Surgery is a definite treatment for CTS; however, many conservative therapies have been proposed. The present study set out to assess the effect of vitamin B6 in patients with CTS. Methods: Forty patients (67 hands) with mild-moderate CTS were initially selected and randomly assigned into two groups as follows: 1) Case group with 20 subjects (32 affected hands) receiving vitamin B6 (120 mg/day for 3 months) and splinting. 2) Control group with 19 subjects (35 affected hands) only received splinting. One subject from the control group dispensed with continuing participation in the research. Daily symptoms and electrodiagnostic (NCV-EMG) results were assessed at baseline and after 3 months. Results: Nocturnal awakening frequency due to pain, daily pain, daily pain frequency, daily pain persistence, hand numbness, hand weakness, hand tingling, severity of nocturnal numbness and tingling, nocturnal awakening frequency owing to hand numbness and tingling, and clumsiness in handling objects improved significantly in the vitamin B6-treated patients; even so, only problem with opening a jam bottle and handling phone significantly reduced in the control group. The median nerve sensory latency mean decreased following the treatment; and the median nerve sensory amplitude mean and sensory conduction velocity mean increased. Conclusion: The present study suggests that vitamin B6 treatment improves clinical symptoms and sensory electrodiagnostic results in CTS patients, and thus is recommended for CTS treatment.
Purpose: Ghrelin has been shown to have antiepileptic function. However, the underlying mechanisms by which, ghrelin exerts its antiepileptic effects are still unclear. In the present study, we investigated whether neuropeptide Y (NPY) mediates ghrelin anticonvulsant effect in the brain through its Y1, Y2 or Y5 receptors. Methods: Male Wistar rats were bilaterally microinjected with ghrelin 0.3 nmol/l/side and NPY antagonists; GR231118 (Y1 receptor antagonist), BIIE0246 (Y2 receptor antagonist), CGP71683 (Y5 receptor antagonist) or solvents (Saline, DMSO) into the dorsal hippocampus 20 minutes before ghrelin administration. Thirty minutes after ghrelin microinjection, a single convulsive dose of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) (50 mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally (ip). Afterwards, duration of seizure and total seizure score (TSS) were assessed for 30 minutes in all animals. Results: Intrahippocampal injection of 0.3 nmol/l/side ghrelin decreased duration of seizure and TSS induced by PTZ. The suppression of both duration (p&lt;0.001) and TSS (p&lt;0.001) induced by ghrelin in hippocampus were significantly blocked by GR231118 (10 g/l/side), BIIE0246 (400 pmol/l/side) and CGP 71683A (5 nmol/l/side). Conclusion: Our findings suggest that NPY Y1, Y2 and Y5 receptors in the hippocampus may somehow mediate the anticonvulsive action of ghrelin. Therefore, it is possible to speculate that ghrelin acts in the hippocampus to modulate seizures via NPY.
Purpose: Diabetes is associated with memory and learning disorder. The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of acute oral administration of loganin on memory in diabetic male rats. Methods: 42 male Wistar rats (250-300 g) were divided into six groups: Control, Diabetic (1 week), Diabetic (12 weeks), Loganin, Diabetic (1 week) + Loganin, Diabetic (12 weeks) + Loganin. Diabetes was induced by IP injection of Streptozotocin (60 mg/kg). Loganin (40 mg/kg, po) was administrated 1 hour before test. Then, spatial memory was compared between groups with Morris Water Maze tests. Results: Administration of loganin during acquisition, significantly (p&lt;0.05) decreased both escape latency and traveled distance to find hidden platform in 1 and 12 weeks diabetic rats. In evaluation of recall phase of memory, loganin significantly (p&lt;0.05) increased time and distance spent in the target quadrant in 1 and 12 weeks diabetic rats. Conclusion: Acute administration of loganin could improve spatial memory in diabetic rats.
The neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a master regulator of central and peripheral stress responses required to restore and maintain homeostasis. PACAP modulates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in response to acute psychogenic but not systemic stressors, through activation of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) release to drive adrenal corticosterone (CORT) output. During direct high-frequency stimulation of the splanchnic nerve that is designed to mimic stress, PACAP regulates adrenomedullary catecholamine secretion. In addition to transmission, PACAP simultaneously facilitates the biosynthesis of adrenomedullary catecholamines through stimulus-secretion-synthesis coupling. During periods of chronic psychogenic stress, PACAP-mediated CORT elevation fails to desensitize and contributes to the development of maladaptive behaviors such as anxiety and depression. Based on these findings, PACAP regulates not only adaptive responses to stress but also maladaptive responses to sustained psychological stress. PACAP receptor antagonists could have therapeutic relevance in preventing hyperactivity of the HPA axis and offering protection against chronic stress-associated anxiety and depression.
Stress has been implicated as a risk factor in vulnerability to the initiation and maintenance of opiate abuse and is thought to play an important role in relapse in subjects with a history of abuse. Conversely, chronic opiate use and withdrawal are stressors and can potentially predispose individuals to stress-related psychiatric disorders. Because the interaction of opiates with stress response systems has potentially widespread clinical consequences, it is important to delineate how specific substrates of the stress response and endogenous opioid systems interact and the specific points at which stress circuits and endogenous opioid systems intersect. The purpose of this review is to present and discuss the results of studies that have unveiled the complex circuitry by which stress-related neuropeptides and endogenous opioids coregulate activity of the locus coeruleus (LC)-norepinephrine (NE) system and how chronic morphine, or stress, disturbs this regulation.
Neuropeptides and catecholamines act as neurotransmitters within circuits of the central and peripheral nervous systems that mediate both systemic and psychological stress responses, as well as long-term adaptation and maladaptation to stress recognizable clinically as survival with resilience, or survival with cost, as manifested in anxiety, depression, PTSD, and other human behavioral disorders. The interactions between catecholamines and neuropeptides within some of these circuits are summarized in this chapter and described in detail in the three chapters following.
Drugs acting at G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute ~40% of those in current clinical use. GPCR-based drug discovery remains at the forefront of drug development, especially for new treatments for psychiatric illness and neurological disease. Here, the basic framework of GPCR signaling learned through the elucidation of catecholamine receptor signaling through G proteins and -arrestins, and X-ray crystallographic structure determination is reviewed. In silico docking studies developed in tandem with confirmatory empirical data gathering from binding and signaling experiments have allowed this basic framework to be expanded to drug hunting through predictive in silico searching as well as high-throughput and high-content screening approaches. For efforts moving forward for the deployment of new GPCR-acting drugs, collaborative efforts between industry and government/academic research in target validation at the molecular and cellular levels have become progressively more common. Polypharmacological approaches have become increasingly available for learning more about the mechanisms of GPCR-targeted drugs, based on interaction not with a single, but with a wide range of GPCR targets. These approaches are likely to aid in drug repurposing efforts, yield valuable insight on the side effects of currently employed drugs, and allow for a clearer picture of the actual targets of &quot;atypical&quot; drugs used in a variety of therapeutic contexts.
This chapter is on biomarkers, mechanisms, and potential treatment of catecholamine neuron loss in Parkinson disease (PD). PD is characterized by a movement disorder from loss of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. An intense search is going on for biomarkers of the disease process. Theoretically, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of the deaminated DA metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), should be superior to other neurochemical indices of loss of central dopamine. CSF DOPAC is low in PD-even in patients with recent onset of Parkinsonism. Cardiac norepinephrine depletion is as severe as the loss of putamen dopamine. PD importantly involves nonmotor manifestations, including anosmia, dementia, REM behavior disorder, and orthostatic hypotension, and all of these nonmotor features are associated with neuroimaging evidence for cardiac sympathetic denervation, which seems to occur independently of the movement disorder and striatal dopaminergic lesion. Analogy to a bank robber's getaway car conveys the catecholaldehyde hypothesis, according to which buildup of the dopamine metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL), the immediate product of the action of monoamine oxidase on cytosolic dopamine, causes or contributes to the death of dopamine neurons. Decreased vesicular uptake of dopamine and decreased DOPAL detoxification by aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) determine this buildup. Vesicular uptake is also markedly decreased in the heart in PD. Multiple factors influence vesicular uptake and ALDH activity. Evidence is accruing for aging-related induction of positive feedback loops and an autotoxic final common pathway in the death of catecholamine neurons, mediated by metabolites produced continuously in neuronal life. The catecholaldehyde hypothesis also leads to testable experimental therapeutic ideas.
This chapter reviews some key aspects of current research in cultural psychiatry and explores future prospects. The first section discusses the multiple meanings of culture in the contemporary world and their relevance for understanding mental health and illness. The next section considers methodological strategies for unpacking the concept of culture and studying the impact of cultural variables, processes and contexts. Multiple methods are needed to address the many different components or dimensions of cultural identity and experience that constitute local worlds, ways of life or systems of knowledge. Quantitative and observational methods of clinical epidemiology and experimental science as well as qualitative ethnographic methods are needed to capture crucial aspects of culture as systems of meaning and practice. Emerging issues in cultural psychiatric research include: cultural variations in illness experience and expression; the situated nature of cognition and emotion; cultural configurations of self and personhood; concepts of mental disorder and mental health literacy; and the prospect of ecosocial models of health and culturally based interventions. The conclusion considers the implications of the emerging perspectives from cultural neuroscience for psychiatric theory and practice.
Significant differences in response to psychotropic drugs are observed in various ethnic and cultural groups. Ethnopsychiatry is the study of how culture and genetic differences in human groups determine and influence the response to psychotropic agents. Meanwhile, pharmacogenomics studies the influence of genetic variations in the response of patients to different drugs. Pharmacogenetic tests are used to predict drug response and the potential for adverse effects. There are important genetic variations that influence the metabolism and action of psychotropic drugs in different ethnic groups. As examples, the frequencies of CYP2D6 polymorphisms and of the long and short alleles of the promoter region of the serotonin transporter are analyzed. Studies found significant differences in the frequency of polymorphisms of both genes in different countries and ethnic groups. On the basis of this review, the importance of considering ethnic and cultural factors in the prescription of drugs and in the need of further pharmacogenetic studies in different countries and geographical regions is reaffirmed.
The current scene in the field of cultural psychiatry shows a vigorous growth, multifaceted conceptual and research developments and more relevant clinical presence. After a pertinent definition of the discipline, this chapter examines the contribution of cultural psychiatry to the etiopathogenesis of mental disorders, to the variations of clinical presentations in numerous entities, to psychiatric diagnosis and treatment and to the relatively unexplored rubric of preventive psychiatry. Advanced concepts of neurosciences and technology-based research can find a place in the realm of biocultural correlates. The role of culture in the definition of mental illness, the renewed notions of the old 'culture-bound syndromes', hope, cognition and culture in psychiatric treatments (including the so-called 'cultural therapies'), and resiliency are areas duly examined and discussed. Cultural psychiatry has re-emerged as a reliable body of knowledge aimed at a comprehensive assessment of human beings as patients.
HIV-associated neurologic disease continues to be a significant complication in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy. A substantial subset of the HIV-infected population shows impaired neuropsychological performance as a result of HIV-mediated neuroinflammation and eventual central nervous system (CNS) injury. CNS compartmentalization of HIV, coupled with the evolution of genetically isolated populations in the CNS, is responsible for poor prognosis in patients with AIDS, warranting further investigation and possible additions to the current therapeutic strategy. This chapter reviews key advances in the field of neuropathogenesis and studies that have highlighted how molecular diversity within the HIV genome may impact HIV-associated neurologic disease. We also discuss the possible functional implications of genetic variation within the viral promoter and possibly other regions of the viral genome, especially in the cells of monocyte-macrophage lineage, which are arguably key cellular players in HIV-associated CNS disease.
The risk of developing multiple sclerosis (MS) is associated with increased dietary intake of saturated fatty acids. For many years it has been suspected that this disease might be associated with an imbalance between unsaturated and saturated fatty acids. We determined erythrocyte membrane fatty acids levels in Hot nature dietary intervention with co-supplemented hemp seed and evening primrose oils in multiple sclerosis patients. To determine the erythrocyte membrane fatty acids levels and correlate it with expanded disability status scale (EDSS) at baseline after 6 months intervention in MS patients by gas chromatography, in this double blind, randomized trial, 100 RRMS patients with EDSS&lt;6 were allocated into three groups: &quot;Group A&quot; that received co-supplemented hemp seed and evening primrose oils with advised Hot nature diet. &quot;Group B&quot; received olive oil and &quot;Group C&quot; received the co-supplemented oils. The results showed that the mean follow-up was 180  2.9SD days (N=65, 23 M and 42 F aged 34.25  8.07 years with disease duration of 6.80  4.33 years). There was no significant difference in the study parameters at baseline. After 6 months, EDSS, Immunological parameters and the erythrocyte cell membrane with regard to specific fatty acids showed improvement in the group A and C, whereas there was worsening condition for the group B after the intervention. We concluded that Hot-nature dietary intervention with co-supplemented hemp seed and evening primrose oils caused an increase PUFAs in MS patients and improvement in the erythrocyte membrane fatty acids composition. This could be an indication of restored plasma stores, and a reflection of disease severity reduction.

Given that the research area of cognitive intervention studies in the aging population is growing rapidly, it is important to review and gauge more recent intervention studies, in order to determine the evidence for the effectiveness of cognitive interventions. The purpose of the present review was to update the recent systematic reviews of Papp et al. (2009) and Martin et al. (2011), to evaluate the effectiveness of cognitive interventions in healthy older adults and people with MCI, by taking into account the methodological quality of the interventions studies. A systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCT) and clinical studies published between August 2007 and February 2012 in Pubmed and PsychINFO was performed. The quality of the included RCTs was assessed according to the CONSORT criteria for RCTs. A total of thirty-five studies were included; twenty-seven RTCs and eight clinical studies. The content of the intervention studies differed widely, as did the methodological quality of the included RCTs, but was considerably low with an average of 44% of the Consort items included. The results show evidence that cognitive training can be effective in improving various aspects of objective cognitive functioning; memory performance, executive functioning, processing speed, attention, fluid intelligence, and subjective cognitive performance. However, the issue whether the effects of cognitive interventions generalize to improvement in everyday life activities is still unresolved and needs to be addressed more explicitly in future research.
Normal aging and mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) are associated with declines in navigational skills, including allocentric and egocentric representations, cognitive mapping, landmark processing, and spatial memory. These changes, however, are associated with different patterns of structural and functional alterations in the neural network of navigation. In AD, these changes occur in the hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus, parietal lobe, retrosplenial cortex, prefrontal cortex, and caudate nucleus, whereas in aging, modifications occur mainly in the prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus. The navigation abilities of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have been found to show different performance patterns, depending on their cognitive profiles. Since patients with MCI do not uniformly develop dementia of the Alzheimer type, it is important to identify reliable early cognitive markers of conversion to AD dementia. In this review, we propose that navigation deficits may help distinguish patients at higher risk of developing AD dementia from individuals with normal cognitive aging and those with other neurodegenerative diseases.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with widespread structural and functional brain alterations. The current study examined the gray matter (GM) voxel based morphometric (VBM) correlates of cognitive and clinical severity scores in patients with AD. The study included 34 patients with AD according to NINCDS/ADRDA AD criteria and 28 matched elderly controls. All subjects were clinically evaluated using Hindi Mental Status Examination (HMSE), Everyday Abilities Scale for India (EASI) and the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) scale. The structural Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) data were acquired using a 3 Tesla MRI scanner and VBM analysis was performed using VBM5.1 toolbox. The patients with AD had significantly lower GM volume, white matter volume and total brain volume as compared to controls. The HMSE scores were positively correlated (p=0.009) and EASI (p=0.04) &amp; CDR (p=0.0004) were negatively correlated with the total GM volumes in patients with AD. The VBM analysis revealed diffuse GM atrophy in patients with AD. Frontal&amp; temporal GM volumes were positively correlated with the HMSE scores. Thus the results of the study replicate the previous observations of generalized GM atrophy, in an Indian sample with AD. The cognitive decline, clinical dementia severity and impairment in activities of daily living were correlated whole brain GM and WM volumes as well as with specific brain regional atrophy in AD. However further studies with larger samples &amp; with more detailed cognitive evaluation are required for confirmation &amp; validation of the relationship between regional morphometric abnormalities and cognitive deficits in AD.
Personality traits have been shown to influence suicidal behaviour but the literature on 'older' elderly is sparse. The aim was to compare neuroticism and extroversion in hospitalized suicide attempters aged 75 and above and a general population comparison group. Seventy-two hospitalized suicide attempters (mean age 81 years) were interviewed. Comparison subjects were drawn from participants in population studies on health and ageing. Participants completed the Eysenck Personality Inventory (EPI) and symptoms of depression were rated with the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Depression diagnoses were made in accordance with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition. Attempters scored higher on the neuroticism scale than comparison subjects (mean = 9.9 vs. 7.6, t = 3.74, df = 358, p &lt; 0.001) and lower on the extroversion scale (mean = 10.8 vs. 12.0; t = -2.76, df = 358, p = 0.006). While these differences did not remain after adjustment for major depression, attempters with minor depression were less neurotic than comparison subjects with this diagnosis (mean = 6.6 vs. 11.1, t =-3.35, df = 63, p = 0.001) and a negative association with neuroticism remained in a multivariate model. In conclusion cases scored higher on neuroticism and lower on extroversion compared to comparison subjects. The finding that attempters with minor depression were less neurotic than comparison subjects with this diagnosis was unexpected and needs to be examined in larger samples.
This randomized controlled trial examined the psychological, physical, and neurophysiological effects of a qigong exercise program on depressed elders with chronic medical illness. The experimental group (n = 21, 80  7 years) was given a 12-week qigong exercise program, while the comparison group (n = 17, 81  8 years) participated in a newspaper reading program with the same duration and frequency. Measurement of depression symptoms, psychosocial functioning, muscle strengths, salivary cortisol, and serum serotonin was conducted. At 12 weeks, the qigong group had significant reduction in depressive symptoms (F = 11.68; p &lt; 0.025). Improvement in self-efficacy (F = 4.30; p &lt; 0.050), self-concept of physical well-being (F = 6.82; p &lt; 0.025), and right-hand grip strength (F = 5.25; p = 0.034) was also found when compared with the comparison group. A change in salivary cortisol level was found marginally insignificant between groups (F = 3.16; p = 0.087). However, a decreasing trend of cortisol level was observed. The results provided preliminary evidence for the hypotheses that the antidepressive effect of qigong exercise could be explained by improvement in psychosocial functioning and possibly down-regulation of hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.






MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are members of a large class of non-protein-coding RNA (ncRNA) molecules that represent a significant, but until recently unappreciated, layer of cellular regulation. Assessment of the generation and function of miRNAs suggests that these ncRNAs are vulnerable to interference from genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors. A small but rapidly expanding body of studies using a variety of animal- and cell culture-based experimental models also has shown that miRNAs are important targets of alcohol during fetal development and that their dysregulation likely plays a significant role in the etiology of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). Accordingly, an analysis of the regulation and function of these miRNAs may yield important clues to the management of FASD.
Florbetapir F18 has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for in vivo assessment of amyloid pathology in patients undergoing evaluation for Alzheimer disease (AD). The aim of this study was to determine the impact of amyloid imaging on the diagnoses and management of patients undergoing evaluation for cognitive decline. Patients were recruited to participate at 19 clinical sites. The site physician provided a provisional diagnosis, an estimate of their diagnostic confidence, and their plan for diagnostic evaluation and management both before and after receiving the results from amyloid imaging with florbetapir F18. Analyses compared the frequency of AD and non-AD diagnoses, plans for ancillary testing, and intended patient management before and after florbetapir imaging. A total of 229 patients participated in the trial (113 amyloid positive, 116 amyloid negative). After receiving the results of the florbetapir scan, diagnosis changed in 125/229, or 54.6% [95% confidence intervals (CI), 48.1%-60.9%], of cases, and diagnostic confidence increased by an average of 21.6% (95% CI, 18.3%-24.8%). A total of 199/229 or 86.9% (95% CI, 81.9%-90.7%) of cases had at least 1 change in their management plan. Intended cholinesterase inhibitor or memantine treatment increased by 17.7% (95% CI, 11.8%-25.8%) of all cases with positive scans and decreased by 23.3% (95% CI, 16.5%-31.8%) of all those with negative scans. Among subjects who had not yet undergone a completed work up, planned brain structural imaging (computed tomographic/magnetic resonance imaging) decreased by 24.4% (95% CI, 17.5%-32.8%) and planned neuropsychological testing decreased by 32.8% (95% CI, 25.0%-41.6%). In summary, amyloid imaging results altered physician's diagnostic thinking, intended testing, and management of patients undergoing evaluation for cognitive decline.

Caregiver burden is greater in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) than in Alzheimer disease (AD). However, little is known of the impact of the 3 main clinical variants of FTD- behavioral-variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD), semantic dementia (SemDem), and progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA)-or the role of disease severity in caregiver burden. The Zarit Burden Inventory was used to measure caregiver burden of bvFTD (n=17), SemDem (n=20), PNFA (n=20), and AD (n=19) patients. Symptom duration, caregiver age, and relationship type were matched across groups. Moreover, a number of caregiver (mood, social network) and patient variables (functional disability, behavioral changes, relationship with caregiver, and dementia stage) were addressed to investigate their impact on caregiver burden. Caregivers of bvFTD patients reported the highest burden, whereas SemDem and PNFA caregivers reported burden similar to AD. A regression analysis revealed that caregiver burden in FTD, regardless of subtype, was explained by a model combining disease staging, relationship changes, and caregiver depression. Burden increased with disease severity in FTD. This study is the first to show that caregivers of SemDem, PNFA, and AD patients show similar burden, while confirming that bvFTD caregivers show higher burden than AD caregivers. More importantly, this study demonstrates that burden worsens with disease progression in FTD.

Over the past 30 years, many drugs have been studied as possible treatments for Alzheimer's disease, but only four have demonstrated sufficient efficacy to be approved as treatments, of which three are in the same class. This lack of success has raised questions both in the pharmaceutical industry and academia about the future of Alzheimer's disease therapy. The high cost and low success rate of drug development across many disease areas can be attributed, in large part, to late-stage clinical failures (Schachter and Ramoni, Nat Rev Drug Discov 2007;6:107-8). Thus, identifying in phase II, or preferably phase I, drugs that are likely to fail would have a dramatic impact on the costs associated with developing new drugs. With this in mind, the Alzheimer's Association convened a Research Roundtable on June 23 and 24, 2011, in Washington, DC, bringing together scientists from academia, industry, and government regulatory agencies to discuss strategies for improving the probability of phase II trial results predicting success when considering the go/no-go decision-making process leading to the initiation of phase III.


With 27 million people affected by Alzheimer's disease (AD), any proposal of a novel avenue for drug development is hot news. When Cramer and colleagues proposed last year that they could tackle AD pathology in an AD mouse model with bexarotene, a drug already in use in the clinic for other diseases, the news was covered worldwide by the popular press. Apolipoprotein E4 is the strongest genetic risk factor for AD and bexarotene appeared to exert spectacular effects on AD pathology when tested in APP/PS1 transgenic mice. One year later the slumbering discussion on the use of bexarotene in AD exploded in a flurry of papers. Four papers question the initial optimistic claims, while two others can only partially support the original work. We summarize here the available data and try to make sense out of the controversy. The major question is what we can learn from the experiments and what these studies imply for the further development of bexarotene in the clinic.














This study examined the usefulness of a survey on underage drinking in a rural American Indian community health clinic. One hundred ninety-seven youth (90 male, 107 female; age range 8-20 years) were recruited from clinic waiting rooms and through community outreach. The study revealed that the usefulness of the survey was twofold: Survey results could be used by clinic staff to screen for underage drinking and associated problems in youth served by the clinic, and the process of organizing, evaluating, and implementing the survey results accomplished several important goals of community-based participatory research.

&quot;Love hurts&quot;-as the saying goes-and a certain amount of pain and difficulty in intimate relationships is unavoidable. Sometimes it may even be beneficial, since adversity can lead to personal growth, self-discovery, and a range of other components of a life well-lived. But other times, love can be downright dangerous. It may bind a spouse to her domestic abuser, draw an unscrupulous adult toward sexual involvement with a child, put someone under the insidious spell of a cult leader, and even inspire jealousy-fueled homicide. How might these perilous devotions be diminished? The ancients thought that treatments such as phlebotomy, exercise, or bloodletting could &quot;cure&quot; an individual of love. But modern neuroscience and emerging developments in psychopharmacology open up a range of possible interventions that might actually work. These developments raise profound moral questions about the potential uses-and misuses-of such anti-love biotechnology. In this article, we describe a number of prospective love-diminishing interventions, and offer a preliminary ethical framework for dealing with them responsibly should they arise.

Cerebral hypoperfusion or aging often results in the disturbances of cholesterol and lipoprotein, which have been well depicted as a common pathological status contributing to neurodegenerative diseases such as vascular dementia (VaD) and Alzheimer's dementia (AD). The pathway of the liver X receptor- (LXR-)/retinoic X receptor- (RXR-)/ABCA1 plays a vital role in lipoprotein metabolism. Curcumin, a kind of phenolic compound, has been widely used. It has been reported that curcumin can reduce the levels of cholesterol in serum, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. In this study, we evaluated the effects of curcumin on the cholesterol level in brain, vascular cognitive impairment and explored whether the mechanisms for those effects are through activating LXR-/RXR- and ABCA1 expression and apoA-I. With a Morris water test, we found that curcumin treatment could attenuate cognitive impairment. With HE and Nissl staining, we found that curcumin could significantly ameliorate the abnormal changes of pyramidal neurons. Meanwhile, the expression of LXR-, RXR-, ABCA1 and apoA-I mRNA and protein were increased in a dose-dependent manner after curcumin treatment. Interestingly, both serum HDL cholesterol and total cholesterol levels were statistically higher in the curcumin treatment group than those other groups. We conclude that curcumin has the ability to activate permissive LXR-/RXR- signaling and thereby modulate ABCA1 and apoA-I-mediated cholesterol transmembrane transportation, which is a new preventive and therapeutic strategy for cerevascular diseases.
Toki-shakuyaku-san (TSS), an herbal formula based on traditional Chinese medicine, is commonly used in obstetrics. To examine the effects of TSS on the normal mouse fetus and placenta, TSS was administered to normal pregnant mice and their placentas and fetuses were studied. First, the effects of maternal TSS treatment on implantation were investigated. Administration of TSS from gestation day 0.5 (G0.5) to G6.5 showed that litter size was not altered at embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5), but the number of resorbed fetuses was slightly decreased. Then, to investigate effects on fetal and placental growths after implantation, TSS was administered from G5.5. At E14.5, the body weight of fetuses from TSS-treated dams was significantly increased. Gene expression of insulin-like growth factor 2 (Igf2), one of the most important modulators of fetal growth, was significantly increased in the placentas and fetuses of TSS-treated dams. In addition, the expression of particular placental developmental genes and nutrient transporter genes was significantly increased in TSS-treated placentas. At E18.5, after longer-term administration of TSS, fetal and placental weights were not altered, but the expression of the placental developmental and nutrient transporter genes remained elevated compared with controls. These results suggest that maternal TSS treatment in normal mice enhances the expression of Igf2, placental developmental genes and nutrient transporter genes, resulting in increased fetal weight. No obvious changes were observed in the expression of these genes after longer-term maternal TSS treatment.
IIH is a condition of raised intracranial pressure of unknown pathogenesis, which is most commonly seen in young overweight women. This study was designed to confirm and extend previous reports by our and other groups showing increased inflammatory cytokine expression in patients with IIH. We analyzed the concentrations of 14 cytokines (IL-1, IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12p70, IL-17, IL-22, IL-23, IFN, TNF, TGF, and osteopontin) in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 17 patients with IIH and 53 patients with other neurological conditions. Patients with IIH had highly elevated IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17 and IFN in the CSF compared to patients with multiple sclerosis or non-organic/non-inflammatory neurological conditions. No significant differences were seen between serum cytokine levels in four patient groups (IIH - multiple sclerosis - inflammatory neurological conditions - non-organic/non-inflammatory neurological conditions) and there were no correlations between serum and CSF cytokine levels. In IIH, levels of IL-2, IL-8 and IL-17 were significantly higher in CSF than serum; levels of IL-1, IL-4, IL-22, IFN and TNF were significantly higher in serum than CSF. For most cytokines, the CSF/serum cytokine ratio was significantly higher than the CSF/serum albumin ratio, indicating intrathecal synthesis of these cytokines in IIH. We conclude that IIH is associated with elevated levels of IL-17 and IL-2 in the CSF, suggesting the involvement of these cytokines in disease pathogenesis.
Pregnancy establishment and maintenance represents a challenge for the maternal immune system because it has to be alert against pathogens while tolerating paternal alloantigens expressed in fetal structures. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are important for successful implantation and involved in allotolerance towards paternal antigens. The origin and mechanisms leading to Treg generation during pregnancy at different stages remain under discussion. We report an accumulation of Helios(+) Tregs in thymus and in the lymph nodes draining the uterus at early pregnancy. At later pregnancy stages an expanded population of Foxp3(+) Tregs was generated in the periphery as we showed in a Rag-1(-/-) model of cell transfer. Our data suggest that Tregs, predominantly of thymic origin, are needed for pregnancy establishment. At later pregnancy stages an extra thymic Treg population contributes to the Treg pool in the periphery. Our data provides new insights in the origin of Tregs during pregnancy that are essential to understand natural mechanisms of tolerance acquisition.
Placebo effects are widely recognized as having a potent impact upon treatment outcomes in both medical and psychological interventions, including hypnosis. In research utilizing randomized clinical trials, there is usually an effort to minimize or control placebo effects. However, in clinical practice there may be significant benefits in enhancing placebo effects. Prior research from the field of social psychology has identified three factors that may enhance placebo effects, namely: priming, client perceptions, and the theory of planned behavior. These factors are reviewed and illustrated via a case example. The consideration of social-psychological factors to enhance positive expectancies and beliefs has implications for clinical practice as well as future research into hypnotic interventions.
The similarity between aspects of the clinical presentation of schizophrenia and autism spectrum disorders (ASD) suggests that elements of the biological etiology may also be shared between these two disorders. Recently, an increasing number of rare, mostly structural genetic variants are reported to increase the risk of both schizophrenia and ASD. We hypothesized that given this evidence for a shared genetic background based on rare genetic variants, common risk alleles may also be shared between ASD and schizophrenia. To test this hypothesis, the polygenic score, which summarizes the collective effect of a large number of common risk alleles, was used. We examined whether the polygenic score derived from a schizophrenia case-control dataset, previously reported by Purcell et al., was able to differentiate ASD cases from controls. The results demonstrate that the schizophrenia-derived polygenic score is not different between ASD cases and controls, indicating that there is no important sharing of common risk alleles between the two neuropsychiatric disorders. Possibly, common risk alleles are less important in ASD in comparison to their more prominent role in schizophrenia and bipolar disorders. These findings provide important novel insights into shared and distinct elements of the genetic architecture of autism and schizophrenia.
KBG syndrome is a rare disease characterized by typical facial dysmorphism, macrodontia of upper central incisors, skeletal abnormalities, and developmental delay. Recently, mutations in ANKRD11 gene have been identified in a subset of patients with KBG syndrome, while a contiguous gene deletion syndrome involving 16q24.3 region (including ANKRD11) was delineated in patients with facial dysmorphism, autism, intellectual disability, and brain abnormalities. Although numerous evidences point to a central causative role of ANKRD11 in the neurologic features of these patients, their neurocognitive and behavior phenotypes are still poorly characterized. Herein, we report the complete neurological and psychiatric features observed in two patients with KBG syndrome due to ANKRD11 mutations. Both patients show intellectual disabilities, severe impairment in communication skills, deficits in several aspects of executive functions and working memory and anxious traits. Their features are compared with those of previously reported patients with KBG syndrome aiding in the delineation of neurocognitive phenotype associated to ANKRD11 mutations.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multifactorial movement disorder characterized by progressive neurodegeneration. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have nominated over fifteen distinct loci associated with risk of PD, however the biological mechanisms by which these loci influence disease risk are mostly unknown. GWAS are only the first step in the identification of disease genes: the specific causal variants responsible for the risk within the associated loci and the interactions between them must be identified to fully comprehend their impact on the development of PD. In the present study, we first attempted to replicate the association signals of 17 PD GWAS loci in our series of 1381 patients with PD and 1328 controls. BST1, SNCA, HLA-DRA, CCDC62/HIP1R and MAPT all showed a significant association with PD under different models of inheritance and LRRK2 showed a suggestive association. We then examined the role of coding LRRK2 variants in the GWAS association signal for that gene. The previously identified LRRK2 risk mutant p.M1646T and protective haplotype p.N551K-R1398H-K1423K did not explain the association signal of LRRK2 in our series. Finally, we investigated the gene-gene interaction between PARK16 and LRRK2 that has previously been proposed. We observed no interaction between PARK16 and LRRK2 GWAS variants, but did observe a non-significant trend toward interaction between PARK16 and LRRK2 variants within the protective haplotype. Identification of causal variants and the interactions between them is the crucial next step in making biological sense of the massive amount of data generated by GWAS studies. Future studies combining larger sample sizes will undoubtedly shed light on the complex molecular interplay leading to the development of PD.
The clinical features of the genetically determined forms of familial Parkinson's disease (PD) have been described in multiple reports, but there have been few comparative neuropathologic studies. Five familial PD cases, with mutations in SNCA, were matched for age, sex, and Alzheimer type pathology with sporadic PD cases. Immunohistochemistry for phospho-tau and -synuclein was performed in 8 brain regions. The frequency of tau pathology and the morphologic features of -synuclein pathology in familial PD were compared with sporadic PD using semi-quantitative methods. In familial PD, there were significantly more tau positive extra-perikaryal spheroid-like and thread-like lesions than in the sporadic PD. There was no significant difference in the amount of -synuclein positive neuronal perikaryal pathology between familial PD and sporadic PD, but -synuclein positive oligodendroglial and neuritic lesions were significantly greater in familial PD compared to sporadic PD. In the substantia nigra, familial PD had more marked neuronal loss and fewer residential neurons with Lewy bodies than the sporadic PD, suggesting a close relationship between the severity of neuronal loss and Lewy body formation. The results show a diversity of pathological features of genetically determined familial PD, and they draw attention to the possible role of tau protein in neurodegeneration. Moreover, the presence of oligodendroglial inclusions at the light and electron microscopic levels in familial PD suggests that PD and multiple system atrophy form a continuum of -synuclein pathology.
The subventricular zone retains its neurogenic capacity throughout life and, as such, is often considered a potential source for endogenous repair in neurodegenerative disorders. Because dopamine is believed to stimulate adult neurogenesis, we looked for possible variations in the dopaminergic innervation of the subventricular zone between cases of Huntington's chorea and Parkinson's diseases. Antibodies against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were used as specific markers of dopaminergic axons and cell proliferating activity, respectively. The immunohistochemical approach was applied to postmortem tissue from 2 Parkinson's disease cases, 4 Huntington's disease cases, along with age-matched controls. The immunostaining was revealed with either diaminobenzidine or fluorescent-conjugated secondary antibodies. Optical density measurements were made along the entire dorso-ventral extent of the caudate nucleus. An intense TH+ zone was detected along the ventricular border of the caudate nucleus in Huntington's disease cases, but not in patients with Parkinson's disease or age-matched controls. This thin (28738 m) paraventricular zone was composed of numerous small and densely packed dopamine axon varicosities and overlapped the deep layers of the subventricular zone. Its immunoreactivity was 478% more intense than that of adjacent striatal areas. The dopamine innervation of the subventricular zone is strikingly massive in Huntington's chorea compared to Parkinson's disease, a finding that concurs with the marked increase in neurogenesis noted in the subventricular zone of Huntington's disease patients. This finding suggests that dopamine plays a crucial role in mechanisms designed to compensate for the massive striatal neuronal losses that occur in Huntington's disease.
One of the current challenge in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the identification of reliable biomarkers that might improve diagnostic accuracy, possibly correlating with the disease progression and patient's response to therapy. As the clinically validated AD biomarkers evaluate cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) parameters, the need for less invasive diagnostic markers is well evident. To this respect, blood circulating cytokines or growth factors have provided some encouraging results, even though no clinically validated to date. In 2007 Ray et al suggested a panel of 18 circulating molecules that might increase AD diagnostic accuracy. In an attempt of replicating their data, we designed a multiplex fluorimetric assay comprising 16 independent analytes and covering 15 out of the 18 described proteins. We collected serum samples from three diagnostic groups: probable AD (n=33), matched healthy controls (CNT, n=23) and non AD demented (NAD, n=14). After correction for age, we found an increased level of EGF-1 in AD in comparison to CNT and NAD, while an increase of TRAIL-R4 was found in NAD. However, evaluation of specificity/sensitivity by ROC curve analysis gave weak evidence of diagnostic accuracy (area under the curve = 0.63 and 0.66 for EGF and TRAIL-R4, respectively). Finally, we tried to find a diagnostic classifier by a multivariate algorithm. We found indication of diagnostic evidence for AD only, while NAD samples did not show a diagnostic pattern.

Zona occludens-2 (ZO-2) is a protein present at the tight junction and nucleus of epithelial cells. ZO-2 represses the transcription of genes regulated by the Wnt/-catenin pathway. This pathway plays a critical role in podocyte injury and proteinuria. Here, we analyze whether the overexpression of ZO-2 in the glomerulus, by hydrodynamics transfection, prevents podocyte injury mediated by the Wnt/-catenin pathway in the mouse model of adriamycin (ADR) nephrosis. By immunofluorescence and immunogold electron microscopy, we show that ZO-2 is present in mice glomerulus, not at the slit diaphragms where nephrin concentrates, but in the cytoplasm and at processes of podocytes. Our results indicate that in the glomeruli of mice treated with ADR, ZO-2 overexpression increases the amount of phosphorylated -catenin, inhibits the expression of the transcription factor snail, prevents nephrin and podocalyxin loss, reduces podocyte effacement and massive fusions, restrains proteinuria, and supports urea and creatinine clearance. These results suggest that ZO-2 could be a new target for the regulation of hyperactive Wnt/-catenin signaling in proteinuric kidney diseases.
Four sets of cognitive psychology experiments are aimed to identify and empirically support principles of training intended to increase training effectiveness. Each set supports a different training principle: strategic use of knowledge (learning and memory are facilitated whenever preexisting knowledge can be used as a mediator in the process of acquisition), training difficulty (conditions that cause desirable difficulties during learning might facilitate later retention and transfer), mental practice (mental practice can retard forgetting and promote transfer of training, sometimes to a larger extent than can physical practice), and cognitive antidote (adverse effects of prolonged work on routine tasks can be mitigated by adding cognitive complications). The first 2 principles are focused on knowledge acquisition and the last 2 on skill acquisition. Nevertheless, the principles converge on similar prescriptions: Contrary to intuition and common practice, the trainer is recommended to increase the complexity of the training situation rather than use the simplest methods available.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) presents with a range of clinical complications including hyperandrogenism, polycystic ovaries, chronic oligo/anovulation, infertility, and metabolic alterations related to insulin resistance. Because the mechanism by which this disorder develops is poorly understood, information from experimental models of human disease phenotypes may help to define the mechanisms for the initiation and development of PCOS-related pathological events. The establishment of animal models compatible with human PCOS is challenging, and applying the lessons learned from these models to human PCOS is often complicated. In this mini-review we provide examples of currently available genetic mouse models, their ovarian phenotypes, and their possible relationship to different aspects of human PCOS. Because of the practical and ethical limitations of studying PCOS-related events in humans, our understanding of the mechanisms that contribute to the etiology of human PCOS may be enhanced through further study of these transgenic and knockout mouse models.
In many species, embryos are exposed to maternal hormones in utero, in the egg, or in the seed. In birds, mothers deposit substantial testosterone into their eggs, which enhances competitive ability of offspring. These maternal testosterone concentrations vary systematically within clutches in different patterns and may enable mothers to adaptively fine-tune competitive hierarchies within broods. We performed a comparative analysis to investigate this hypothesis using a broad set of avian species. We expected species with small size differences among siblings (arising from small hatching asynchrony or slow growth rates) to aim for survival of the whole brood in good years and therefore compensate last-hatching eggs with relatively more testosterone. We expected species with large size differences among siblings (large hatching asynchrony or fast growth rates) to produce surplus young as insurance against failed offspring and to facilitate elimination of redundant surplus young by bestowing last-hatching eggs with relatively less testosterone. As predicted, we found that maternal testosterone compensation to last-hatching eggs is stronger when size differences among siblings become smaller. Maternal testosterone compensation to last-hatching eggs also correlated negatively with hatching asynchrony and growth rates. These findings provide evidence for correlated evolution of several maternal effects that together support different maternal reproductive strategies.
Transglutaminases catalyze the formation of -glutamylamines utilizing glutamyl residues and amine-bearing compounds such as lysyl residues and polyamines. These -glutamylamines can be released from proteins by proteases in an intact form. The free -glutamylamines can be catabolized to 5-oxo-L-proline and the free amine by -glutamylamine cyclotransferase. Free -glutamylamines, however, accumulate in the CSF and affected areas of Huntington Disease brain. This observation suggests transglutaminase-derived -glutamylamines may play a more significant role in neurodegeneration than previously thought. The following monograph reviews the metabolism of -glutamylamines and examines the possibility that these species contribute to neurodegeneration.
Our objective was to assess the incidence and trends of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in Liguria, a north-west region of Italy, utilizing a prospective design. Liguria (1,615,064 residents in 2010) is the site of a multicentre-multisource prospective population based registry called LIGALS (Liguria Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Registry). All incident ALS cases during the period 2009-2010 were enrolled and followed up. Cases were identified using several concurrent sources. ALS diagnosis was based on the revised El Escorial criteria. One hundred and four cases were enrolled, generating an annual crude incidence of 3.22/100,000 (95% CI 2.66-3.90), with a male/female ratio of 1.34. The annual standardized incidence, age and gender adjusted to the 2001 Italian population, was 2.51. At last observation on 1 March 2012, 45% of patients registered in the LIGALS had died, with a median survival of 45 months from symptoms onset. According to capture-recapture estimation, three patients were unobserved. For both genders, demographic and clinical features were collected. In conclusion, comparing these data to those of epidemiological studies with a similar prospective design, the occurrence of ALS is similar. The observed crude incidence was higher compared to other Italian studies, due in part to a very careful case ascertainment and in part to a high percentage of the elderly in Liguria.
An intronic GGGGCC-hexanucleotide repeat expansion in C9ORF72 was recently identified as a major cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia. Some amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients have signs of parkinsonism, and many parkinsonism patients develop dementia. In this study we examined if the hexanucleotide repeat expansion was present in parkinsonism patients, to clarify if there could be a relationship between the repeat expansion and disease. We studied the size of the hexanucleotide repeat expansion in a well defined population-based cohort of 135 Parkinson's disease patients and 39 patients with atypical parkinsonism and compared with 645 Swedish control subjects. We found no correlation between Parkinson's disease or atypical parkinsonism and the size of the GGGGCC repeat expansion in C9ORF72. In conclusion, this GGGGCC-repeat expansion in C9ORF72 is not a cause of parkinsonism in the Swedish population.
Many centres in the UK care for patients with motor neuron disease (MND) in a multidisciplinary clinic (MDC). It has been demonstrated that such care results in better prognosis for survival than care from a general neurology clinic (GNC). Whether this is due to higher use of disease-modifying interventions or an independent factor of attendance at a specialist clinic has not been established. Hence, we performed a retrospective review of hospital notes of patients with MND who were diagnosed and followed up in a GNC between 1998 and 2002 and in an MDC between 2006 and 2010. Overall, 162 patients attended a GNC, and 255 attended the MDC. The median survival from diagnosis was 19 months for patients who attended the MDC, compared to 11 months for those attending the GNC (hazard ratio 0.51, 95% CI 0.41-0.64). The Cox hazards model identified attendance at an MDC as an independently positive prognostic factor (HR 1.93, 95% CI 1.37-2.72, p &lt; 0.001). We concluded that care at an MDC improves survival. While this effect is augmented by the increased use of riluzole, NIV and PEG, the data suggest that coordinated care independently improves the prognosis of MND patients.
The large volume of material to be learned in biomedical disciplines requires optimizing the efficiency of instruction. In prior work with computer-based instruction of neuroanatomy, it was relatively efficient for learners to master whole anatomy and then transfer to learning sectional anatomy. It may, however, be more efficient to continuously integrate learning of whole and sectional anatomy. A study of computer-based learning of neuroanatomy was conducted to compare a basic transfer paradigm for learning whole and sectional neuroanatomy with a method in which the two forms of representation were interleaved (alternated). For all experimental groups, interactive computer programs supported an approach to instruction called adaptive exploration. Each learning trial consisted of time-limited exploration of neuroanatomy, self-timed testing, and graphical feedback. The primary result of this study was that interleaved learning of whole and sectional neuroanatomy was more efficient than the basic transfer method, without cost to long-term retention or generalization of knowledge to recognizing new images (Visible Human and MRI).
Extracellular purine nucleotides and nucleosides play important roles in the nervous system, e.g., neurotransmission, neuromodulation, chemoattraction and acute inflammation. Extracellular nucleotides act through ATP receptors (P2 receptors). P2 receptors are classified into two families: the P2X receptors are ionotropic ligand-gated ion channels and the P2Y receptors are metabotropic G-protein-coupled receptors. Currently, seven P2X receptors (P2X1-7) and eight P2Y receptors (P2Y1, P2Y2, P2Y4, P2Y6, P2Y11, P2Y12, P2Y13 and P2Y14) are recognized. In the sensory nervous system, ATP is suggested to be one of first mediators of tissue damage, which activates primary afferents. Nerve injury often leads to neuropathic pain, such as mechanical allodynia and painful responses to normally innocuous stimuli. Peripheral nerve injury induces the upregulation of molecules in activated microglia in the spinal cord. Microglia in the spinal cord may play an important role in the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain. A prominent signaling pathway in the development of neuropathic pain involves ATP acting on microglial purinergic receptors. This review focuses on the expression of P2X and P2Y receptors mRNAs in the pain transmission pathway, i.e., in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord. Furthermore, we suggest that the multiple microglial P2Y receptors activated by peripheral nerve injury may play a key role in the development of neuropathic pain.
Habenula is a relay nucleus connecting the forebrain with the brain stem and plays a pivotal role in cognitive behaviors by regulating serotonergic and dopaminergic activities. The mammalian habenula is divided into the medial and lateral habenulae, each of which consists of a heterogeneous population of neurons. Recent comparative analyses of zebrafish and rodent habenulae have provided molecular insights into the developmental mechanism of the habenula. Hodological and gene expression analyses revealed that these two habenular pathways are conserved phylogenetically between fish and mammals. The anatomical information make the zebrafish and rodent model animals amenable to the genetic analysis of the development and physiological role of the vertebrate habenula. Intriguingly, habenula has also attracted interest as a model for brain asymmetry, since many vertebrates show left-right differences in habenular size and neural circuitry. Left-right asymmetry is a common feature of the central nervous system in vertebrates. Despite its prevalence and functional importance, few studies have addressed the molecular mechanism for generation of the asymmetric brain structure, probably due to the absence of genetically accessible model animals showing obvious asymmetry. The results from recent studies on zebrafish habenula suggest that development of habenular asymmetry is mediated by differential regulation of the neurogenetic period for generating specific neuronal subtypes. Since the orientation and size ratio of the medial and lateral habenulae differs across species, evolution of those subregions within the habenula may also reflect changes in neurogenesis duration for each habenular subdivision according to the evolutionary process.
Study of avian and piscine species has shown that animals with stronger lateralization of the brain are able to perform two tasks presented simultaneously better than can animals with weaker lateralization. We investigated whether this might apply also to primates by testing common marmosets to see whether there is a relationship between the strength of hand preference, as an indicator of strength of brain lateralization, and the ability to carry out two tasks simultaneously. A model predator was introduced into the testing room while the marmoset was foraging. Marmosets with stronger hand preferences detected the 'predator' after shorter latency than those with weaker hand preferences. Furthermore, the marmosets with stronger hand preferences produced more mobbing (tsik) vocalizations when they reacted to the predators than did those with weaker hand preferences. There was no such association between hand preference and either latency to respond to the predator or mobbing reaction when the marmosets were not foraging at the time the predator was introduced. Hence, strength of lateralization is associated with the ability to perform foraging and predator detection simultaneously. These results are discussed with reference to the evolution of brain lateralization.
Previous studies have demonstrated that animals use multiple strategies to solve spatial tasks. We used a T-maze to examine spatial behavior in crayfish, using visual and tactile stimuli as place cues and a food-scented escape tank as reinforcement to leave the maze. In trials on a single day and across multiple days, crayfish learned to exit the maze with significantly reduced latency and with fewer turns. In addition, we examined place memory in 40-min periods with the maze closed and found that crayfish spent longer in the vicinity of a previously open exit compared to a closed exit. Probe tests were conducted using a forced-choice procedure to determine whether crayfish remembered the route out of the maze using primarily place cues or response learning. We found that approximately equal numbers of animals used each strategy, and individuals were able to switch from one strategy to the other on different test days. Males and females did not differ significantly in their performance in the place memory test, maze exit task, or probe tests. Both sexes displayed place memory for the exit location and reduced latency to exit during trials 24 h, 48 h, 72 h, and 1 week after initial training trials, suggesting that spatial memories in crayfish are relatively enduring.
During the last decade there has been a striking growth in interest in ethical issues arising from the development of neurosciences. It was as late as 2002 that the new discipline, called neuroethics, started. It was intended to be a new area of interdisciplinary discourse on moral dilemmas connected with recent advances in, broadly understood, neurosciences. Ten years after its launch neuroethics possesses a distinct body of knowledge and an institutional basis for its further development. As a very young discipline, however, neuroethics is still in a state offlux. Two essential theoretical concepts of how this discipline is to be built on are emerging. Both are discussed in this article. According to the first of them (i.e. ethics of neurosciences), neuroethics is basically understood as a sub--discipline of bioethics. Although there are some reasons for distinguishing several branches or sub-disciplines of bioethics (genethics, neuroethics, nanoethics, etc.), there are sound arguments against such a tendency for the proliferation of biomedical ethics. The second approach to neuroethics (neuroscience of ethics), which aims at studying neuronal correlates of the well-known ethical concepts (e.g. free-will, moral responsibility, etc.), seems to be much more promising. Neuroethics understood in this way (and only in this way) can be considered as a truly new opportunity for collaboration between neuroscientists and ethicists.
The aim of this study is to report a case of spontaneous intracranial hypotension complicated by bilateral subdural hemorrhage that resolved with conservative management. A young male presented with severe orthostatic headache associated with dizziness, neck pain and diplopia. Brain imaging revealed characteristic pachymeningeal enhancement and bilateral subdural hemorrhage. Radionuclide cisternography confirmed the Cerebrospinal fluid leak at the cervical 5 and cervical 6 vertebral level. He had clinical and radiological resolution with bed rest, hydration and analgesics and has remained symptom free since then. Spontaneous intracranial hypotension may be complicated by bilateral subdural hemorrhage. A conservative treatment approach is a viable option, as it may help improve the clinical and radiological outcome, especially when interventional facilities are not available.




In this review, we summarize how the new concept of digital optics applied to the field of holographic microscopy has allowed the development of a reliable and flexible digital holographic quantitative phase microscopy (DH-QPM) technique at the nanoscale particularly suitable for cell imaging. Particular emphasis is placed on the original biological information provided by the quantitative phase signal. We present the most relevant DH-QPM applications in the field of cell biology, including automated cell counts, recognition, classification, three-dimensional tracking, discrimination between physiological and pathophysiological states, and the study of cell membrane fluctuations at the nanoscale. In the last part, original results show how DH-QPM can address two important issues in the field of neurobiology, namely, multiple-site optical recording of neuronal activity and noninvasive visualization of dendritic spine dynamics resulting from a full digital holographic microscopy tomographic approach.
Biological cells are well known to respond to a multitude of chemical signals. In the nervous system, chemical signaling has been shown to be crucially involved in development, normal functioning, and disorders of neurons and glial cells. However, there are an increasing number of studies showing that these cells also respond to mechanical cues. Here, we summarize current knowledge about the mechanical properties of nervous tissue and its building blocks, review recent progress in methodology and understanding of cellular mechanosensitivity in the nervous system, and provide an outlook on the implications of neuromechanics for future developments in biomedical engineering to aid overcoming some of the most devastating and currently incurable CNS pathologies such as spinal cord injuries and multiple sclerosis.
The emergence of functional neuronal connectivity in the developing cerebral cortex depends on neuronal migration. This process enables appropriate positioning of neurons and the emergence of neuronal identity so that the correct patterns of functional synaptic connectivity between the right types and numbers of neurons can emerge. Delineating the complexities of neuronal migration is critical to our understanding of normal cerebral cortical formation and neurodevelopmental disorders resulting from neuronal migration defects. For the most part, the integrated cell biological basis of the complex behavior of oriented neuronal migration within the developing mammalian cerebral cortex remains an enigma. This review aims to analyze the integrative mechanisms that enable neurons to sense environmental guidance cues and translate them into oriented patterns of migration toward defined areas of the cerebral cortex. We discuss how signals emanating from different domains of neurons get integrated to control distinct aspects of migratory behavior and how different types of cortical neurons coordinate their migratory activities within the developing cerebral cortex to produce functionally critical laminar organization.
Recovery (also known as the &quot;recovery orientation,&quot; &quot;recovery vision,&quot; or &quot;recovery philosophy&quot;) has been the dominant paradigm shaping current mental health policy for the past decade. It is claimed to be a revolutionary departure from the past and a guide to policy that will transform outcomes of severe mental illness. This review looks critically at the history of recovery and examines the ways in which this history has shaped the values, beliefs, and practices of current recovery-based policies. Recovery is a treatment philosophy that emerged from the ruins of deinstitutionalization and the psychopharmaceutical revolution. Yet paradoxically, recovery reflects many of the same ideas that made deinstitutionalization and the era of psychopharmacology possible. Further, history reveals how the recovery movement is deeply indebted to and embedded within the sociocultural values of neoliberalism that have shaped public policy since the presidential election of Ronald Reagan in 1980.
Endophenotypes for psychopathology have been conceived as latent, unobserved, but measureable manifestations of phenomena that causally connect genetic liability to clinical disorder. Several decades of research have led to refinement of the construct and identification of some candidate endophenotypes, but rather limited progress on finding the genes involved or the mechanisms by which endophenotypes are driven by genetic and environmental factors and in turn drive psychopathology. Currently promising avenues for research involve development of transdiagnostic concepts not limited to traditional diagnostic categories, measures of endophenotypic and manifest psychopathology that have higher validity than those categories, and methods for modeling complex relationships among diverse contributors to etiology. With more grounding in animal neuroscience and other aspects of basic biological and psychological science, exemplified in the Research Domain Criteria initiative, there is every reason to anticipate that the endophenotype concept will grow more central in the psychopathology literature.
Paul Greengard was born in New York City in 1925. After completing high school, he served three years in the US Navy during World War II and then completed his bachelor's degree at Hamilton College where he majored in physics and mathematics. He obtained a PhD in biophysics from Johns Hopkins University in 1953 and pursued postdoctoral training with Wilhelm Feldberg at the National Institute for Medical Research in England. After eight years as head of biochemistry at Geigy, and sabbaticals at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Vanderbilt University, he joined the Yale University faculty as a full professor of pharmacology in 1968. While he was at Yale, Greengard's laboratory performed groundbreaking research, which demonstrated a role for cyclic nucleotides, protein kinases and protein phosphatases, and their protein substrates in the regulation of synaptic transmission. In 1983, Greengard moved to The Rockefeller University, where he has since served as the Vincent Astor Professor and Head of the Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience. Greengard's paradigm-shifting research has continued at Rockefeller and has informed our understanding and possible treatment of a host of brain disorders, including schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and depression. He is the author of more than 950 research articles and reviews. Greengard has received numerous awards and honors, including the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2000, the Metropolitan Life Foundation Award for Medical Research, The National Academy of Sciences Award in Neuroscience, the Ralph W. Gerard Prize in Neuroscience for the Society for Neuroscience, and the Karolinska Institutet's Bicentennial Gold Medal. He is a member of the US National Academy of Sciences and the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies. The following interview was conducted on May 29, 2012.
Epigenetic mechanisms, which control chromatin structure and function, mediate changes in gene expression that occur in response to diverse stimuli. Recent research has established that environmental events and behavioral experience induce epigenetic changes at particular gene loci and that these changes help shape neuronal plasticity and function and hence behavior. Some of these changes can be stable and can even persist for a lifetime. Increasing evidence supports the hypothesis that aberrations in chromatin remodeling and subsequent effects on gene expression within limbic brain regions contribute to the pathogenesis of depression and other stress-related disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder and other anxiety syndromes. Likewise, the gradually developing but persistent therapeutic effects of antidepressant medications may be achieved in part via epigenetic mechanisms. This review discusses recent advances in our understanding of the epigenetic regulation of stress-related disorders and focuses on three distinct aspects of stress-induced epigenetic pathology: the effects of stress and antidepressant treatment during adulthood, the lifelong effects of early-life stress on subsequent stress vulnerability, and the possible transgenerational transmission of stress-induced abnormalities.
Regulated exocytosis and endocytosis are critical to the function of many intercellular networks, particularly the complex neural circuits underlying mammalian behavior. Kiss-and-run (KR) is an unconventional fusion between secretory vesicles and a target membrane that releases intravesicular content through a transient, nanometer-sized fusion pore. The fusing vesicle retains its gross shape, precluding full integration into the planar membrane, and enough molecular components for rapid retrieval, reacidification, and reuse. KR makes judicious use of finite presynaptic resources, and mounting evidence suggests that it influences synaptic information transfer. Here we detail emerging perspectives on KR and its role in neurotransmission. We additionally formulate a restraining force hypothesis as a plausible mechanistic basis for KR and its physiological modulation in small nerve terminals. Clarification of the mechanism and function of KR has bearing on understanding the kinetic transitions underlying SNARE-mediated fusion, interactions between vesicles and their local environment, and the influence of release dynamics on neural information processing.
Modern neuroscience has demonstrated how the adult brain has the ability to profoundly remodel its neurons in response to changes in external stimuli or internal states. However, adult brain plasticity, although possible throughout life, remains restricted mostly to subcellular levels rather than affecting the entire cell. New neurons are continuously generated in only a few areas of the adult brain-the olfactory bulb and the dentate gyrus-where they integrate into already functioning circuitry. In these regions, adult neurogenesis adds another dimension of plasticity that either complements or is redundant to the classical molecular and cellular mechanisms of plasticity. This review extracts clues regarding the contribution of adult-born neurons to the different circuits of the olfactory bulb and specifically how new neurons participate in existing computations and enable new computational functions.
X-ray crystal structures for the soluble amino-terminal and ligand-binding domains of glutamate receptor ion channels, combined with a 3.6--resolution structure of the full-length AMPA receptor GluA2 homotetramer, provide unique insights into the mechanisms of the assembly and function of glutamate receptor ion channels. Increasingly sophisticated biochemical, computational, and electrophysiological experiments are beginning to reveal the mechanism of action of partial agonists and suggest new models for the mechanism of action of allosteric modulators. Newly identified NMDA receptor ligands acting at novel sites offer hope for the development of subtype-selective modulators. The many unresolved issues include the role of the amino-terminal domain in AMPA receptor signaling and the mechanisms by which auxiliary proteins regulate receptor activity. The structural basis for ion permeation and ion channel block also remain areas of uncertainty, and despite substantial progress, molecular dynamics simulations have yet to reveal how glutamate binding opens the ion channel pore.
Cultural neuroscience (CN) is an interdisciplinary field that investigates the relationship between culture (e.g., value and belief systems and practices shared by groups) and human brain functions. In this review we describe the origin, aims, and methods of CN as well as its conceptual framework and major findings. We also clarify several misunderstandings of CN research. Finally, we discuss the implications of CN findings for understanding human brain function in sociocultural contexts and novel questions that future CN research should address. By doing so, we hope to provide a clear picture of the CN approach to the human brain and culture and to elucidate the intrinsically biosocial nature of the functional organization of the human brain.
From the traditional perspective of associative learning theory, the hypothesis linking modifications of synaptic transmission to learning and memory is plausible. It is less so from an information-processing perspective, in which learning is mediated by computations that make implicit commitments to physical and mathematical principles governing the domains where domain-specific cognitive mechanisms operate. We compare the properties of associative learning and memory to the properties of long-term potentiation, concluding that the properties of the latter do not explain the fundamental properties of the former. We briefly review the neuroscience of reinforcement learning, emphasizing the representational implications of the neuroscientific findings. We then review more extensively findings that confirm the existence of complex computations in three information-processing domains: probabilistic inference, the representation of uncertainty, and the representation of space. We argue for a change in the conceptual framework within which neuroscientists approach the study of learning mechanisms in the brain.
As the focus of neuroscience shifts from studying individual brain regions to entire networks of regions, methods for statistical inference have also become geared toward network analysis. The purpose of the present review is to survey the multivariate statistical techniques that have been used to study neural interactions. We have selected the most common techniques and developed a taxonomy that instructively reflects their assumptions and practical use. For each family of analyses, we describe their application and the types of experimental questions they can address, as well as how they relate to other analyses both conceptually and mathematically. We intend to show that despite their diversity, all of these techniques offer complementary information about the functional architecture of the brain.
Exposure to toxic stress accelerates the wear and tear on children's developing bodies and leaves a lasting mark on adult health. Prior research has focused mainly on children exposed to extreme forms of adversity, such as maltreatment and extreme neglect. However, repeated exposure to less severe, but often chronic stressors is likely to play as large, if not larger, of a role in forecasting children's future mental and physical health. New tools from neuroscience, biology, epigenetics, and the social sciences are helping to isolate when and how the foundations for adult health are shaped by childhood experiences. We are now in the position to understand how adversity, in both extreme and more mundane forms, contributes to the adult health burden and to identify features in children's families and environments that can be strengthened to buffer the effects of toxic stressors. We are also positioned to develop and implement innovative approaches to child policy and practice that are rooted in an understanding of how exposure to toxic stressors can become biologically embedded. The stage is set for the creation of new interventions--on both grand and micro scales--to reduce previously intractable health disparities.
Neurofibromatosis type 2 protein (NF2) is an underappreciated tumor suppressor involved in a broad range of nervous system tumors. Inactivation of the NF2 gene leads to neurofibromatosis type-2, which is characterized by multiple benign nervous system tumors and mutations in the gene have been demonstrated in many other tumor types as well. All tumors, regardless of location or grade, lack a fundamental control over cell cycle progression. Historically, NF2 is an unconventional tumor suppressor protein in that it does not directly influence the cell cycle. NF2 links receptors at the plasma membrane to their cytoplasmic kinases to facilitate contact inhibition. However, NF2 can also interact with an array of cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins that affect cell cycle progression. Furthermore, through some of these pathways, NF2 may reverse the functional inhibition of conventional tumor suppressor pathways. Here we review mechanisms utilized by NF2 to regain control of the cell cycle.
There is now widespread agreement that individual variation in the neural circuits representing the reinforcing properties of foods may be associated with risk for overeating and obesity. What is currently unknown is how and whether brain response to a food is related to immediate subsequent intake of that food. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to test whether response to a palatable milkshake is associated with subsequent ad libitum milkshake consumption. We predicted that enhanced responses in key reward regions (insula, striatum, midbrain, medial orbitofrontal cortex) and decreased responses in regions implicated in self-control (lateral prefrontal and lateral orbitofrontal cortex) would be associated with greater intake. We found a significant positive association between response to milkshake in the periaqueductal gray region of the midbrain and ad libitum milkshake intake. Although strong bilateral insular responses were observed during consumption of the milkshake this response did not correlate with subsequent intake. The associations observed in the midbrain and orbitofrontal cortex were uninfluenced by ratings of hunger, which were near neutral. We conclude that midbrain response to a palatable food is related to eating in the absence of hunger.
The Mattis Dementia Rating Scale (DRS) is widely used to assess cognition and screen for dementia in Parkinson's disease (PD). In 2008, Llebaria and colleagues reported excellent sensitivity and specificity detecting dementia in PD using a DRS total score cutoff of 123. However, this study used a sample with rather low mean educational achievement (8.9 years). The 123 cutoff score was cross-validated in a sample of 51 PD patients with a rather high mean educational achievement (14.84 years). A total score cutoff of 123 correctly classified 60.7% of the sample, with 20% sensitivity and 100% specificity. Use of age- and education-corrected scaled scores improved classification accuracy, but these cutoffs corresponded to the 25th percentile. Optimal classification of 82.4% accuracy was achieved using a raw total score cutoff of 133, corresponding roughly to the 16th percentile. Neither age nor education evinced a strong correlation to DRS total score in our sample. Results suggest caution in applying the DRS-2 total score cutoff of 123 and highlight the importance of comprehensive neuropsychological evaluations for clinical diagnosis of dementia in PD.
The purpose of this study was to assess the convergent and discriminative validity of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) as a screening tool for cognitive dysfunction in Huntington's disease (HD). Twenty HD patients with cognitive deficit and 23 normal controls (NC) without cognitive deficit were matched for age, sex, and education. The mean MoCA score was 20.5 (SD = 5.5) in HD and 27.5 (SD = 2.2) in NC. The MoCA correlated in both samples with the brief cognitive battery composite score (r = .81, p &lt; .001). With the screening and diagnostic cutoff scores determined at &lt;26 points, the MoCA showed a sensitivity of 94% and a specificity of 84% in the detection of cognitive dysfunction in HD. The area under the receiver-operating characteristics curve (95% confidence interval) for the MoCA was 0.90 (0.809-0.997), p &lt; .001. Our results show that the MoCA is a suitable tool for assessing cognitive dysfunction in patients with HD.
It is important to consider the prevalence of low scores when administering a battery of psychological tests. Understanding the prevalence of low scores is important for minimizing false-positive diagnoses of cognitive deficits in clinical practice. The purpose of this study was to expand the literature on base rates for use in children and adolescents. Participants were 408 healthy children and adolescents (M(age) = 13.1 years, SD = 3.7) and 139 children and adolescents (M(age) = 12.4 years, SD = 3.1) diagnosed with a medical, neurological, or learning condition. All participants were administered the Test of Verbal Conceptualization and Fluency (TVCF; Reynolds &amp; Horton, 2006 ). The clinical sample performed significantly lower compared with the healthy control participants on three of the five TVCF scores. When all scores were considered simultaneously, 38% of healthy children obtained one or more scores below the 16th percentile and 15% had one or more scores in the 5th percentile or lower. By comparison, significantly higher proportions of children in the clinical sample had low scores below each of the five cutoffs (i.e., 63% had one or more test scores below the 16th percentile and 37% had one or more scores in the 5th percentile or lower). Our findings illustrate the importance of considering the prevalence of low TVCF scores in everyday clinical practice with children and adolescents.
Sports medicine practitioners often consider athletes' self-reports of recovery for the management of concussion, and it is not clear which factors (i.e., neurocognitive performance and symptoms) athletes consider when forming perceptions of recovery from concussion. The current study assessed the relationship of perceptions of recovery to neurocognitive performance on the Immediate Post-Concussion Assessment and Cognitive Testing (ImPACT) battery and to symptoms using the Post-Concussion Symptom Scale (PCSS). A total of 101 concussed athletes (62 males, 39 females) aged 12 to 18 years old were included in the study (M(age) = 14.75, SD = 1.76). Athletes were asked to rate their &quot;percent back to normal&quot; (i.e., perception of recovery) at the time of evaluation. A multiple regression for neurocognitive performance and symptoms revealed a significant model that accounted for 58% of the variance in perceptions of recovery. Adolescent athletes base their perceptions primarily on somatic symptoms (e.g., headache, nausea, vomiting, etc.), and these perceptions may be incongruent with objective neurocognitive measures. Athletes' tendency to overlook several factors when forming their perceptions of recovery should caution the sports medicine practitioner from relying on self-reported symptoms as their primary criterion for return-to-play decisions. These data further support the need for valid and reliable measures for concussion management.
A group of 47 patients diagnosed with neurodevelopmental disorders were compared to 47 age-, gender-, and racially matched typically developing children to examine the frequency of impairment across domains of the Mullen Scales of Early Learning (MSEL). The MSEL is a comprehensive measure of cognitive functioning designed to assess infants and preschool children between the ages of birth to 68 months. In the neurodevelopmental group, the sample was composed of children 2 to 4 years of age who were diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders (ASD; n = 19), cerebral palsy (CP; n = 14), and epilepsy (EPI; n = 14). A sample of 47 matched controls, taken from the normative sample of the MSEL, was used as a comparison group. Each one of the clinical groups comprising the neurodevelopmental sample demonstrated statistically significant delays across domains relative to the respective matched control group (p &lt; .001). Children failed to demonstrate a &quot;signature&quot; profile for a diagnosis of ASD, CP, or EPI. The clinical sensitivity of the MSEL and the need for obtaining specific intervention services for children diagnosed with these conditions are presented. Finally, these results are discussed within the context of the clinical sensitivity of the MSEL in working with these clinical populations.
The Rey Complex Figure Task (RCFT) is currently utilized with both adult and child clinical populations. In addition to the measurement of visual-constructional ability and memory, the RCFT has also been suggested as a measure of executive function (EF), specifically requiring planning and organizing skills. The purpose of the current study was to determine the extent to which the RCFT Copy task, using the scoring system developed by Meyers and Meyers (1995), tapped components of EF. The participants in this study were 108 children (M(age) = 12.61 years; SD = 2.27) who were administered a battery of neuropsychological measures including the RCFT Copy, NEPSY Tower and Arrows subtests, Clock Face Drawing, and a measure of verbal fluency, in addition to other measures of visual-motor integration and cognitive ability. Overall, in this clinically mixed population, scores on the RCFT Copy correlated significantly only with overall cognitive ability, Block Design, and visual-motor integration scores. Implications of these results are discussed.
The FES-I is an instrument developed to assess concern about falls. The aim of this study was to develop a Chinese version of the 16-item Falls Efficacy Scale International (FES-I(Ch)) and evaluate its structure, measurement properties and convergent and predictive validity. The FES-I(Ch) was developed following the recommended 10-step protocol. The FES-I(Ch) was then administered to 399 community-dwelling Chinese older people (61-93 years) in conjunction with a range of other socio-demographic, physical, medical and functional measures. Falls were prospectively monitored over 12 months. Sub-samples were reassessed for determination of the FES-I(Ch)'s test-retest and inter-rater reliability. The overall structure and measurement properties of the FES-I(Ch), as evaluated with factor analysis and item-total correlations, was good. Internal consistency was excellent (Cronbach's =0.94), as was test-retest and inter-rater reliability (ICC(3,1)=0.89 and ICC(2,1)=0.95 respectively). FES-I(Ch) scores were significantly higher in participants with poor physical performance, depression, medical conditions associated with falls and disability indicating acceptable congruent validity. FES-I(Ch) scores did not differ between those who did and did not fall in the 12-month follow-up period. We found that the FES-I(Ch) is a valid and reliable measure of concern about falls in Chinese older people. The relatively high level on concern (high FES-I(Ch) scores) as well as relatively few prospective falls may explain the lack of association between FES-I(Ch) scores and falls in this population. Future studies should explore the FES-I(Ch)'s responsiveness to change over time and during intervention studies.

In previous studies we have demonstrated that the -aminobutryic acid-A (GABA-A) receptor antagonist oroxylin A has an awakening effect and it also represses ADHD-like behaviors (hyperactivity, impulsivity and inattention) in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). We hypothesized that the effects of oroxylin A were exerted via the GABA-A receptor given the important role of the GABAergic system in ADHD. However, it is possible that aside from the GABAergic system, oroxylin A may influence other systems especially those implicated in ADHD (e.g. DAergic, etc.). To test this hypothesis, we evaluated the effects of GABA agonist, or dopamine (DA) antagonist in oroxylin A-induced alleviation of ADHD-like behaviors in SHR. SHR showed inattention and impulsivity as measured by the Y-maze and the electro-foot shock aversive water drinking tests, respectively. Oroxylin A significantly improved these behaviors, furthermore, its effect on SHR impulsivity was attenuated by haloperidol, a DA antagonist, but not by baicalein, an agonist of the GABA-A receptor. In vitro studies showed that oroxylin A inhibited DA uptake similar to methylphenidate, a dopamine transporter blocker, but did not influence norepinephrine uptake unlike atomoxetine, a selective NE reuptake inhibitor. Collectively, the present findings suggest that oroxylin A improves ADHD-like behaviors in SHR via enhancement of DA neurotransmission and not modulation of GABA pathway as previously reported. Importantly, the present study indicates the potential therapeutic value of oroxylin A in the treatment of ADHD.

Alexithymia is a construct which denotes thought characterized by pragmatic content, an inability to recognize and verbally express emotion, a difficulty in distinguishing between feelings and bodily sensations, and a limitation in fantasy life. Research has revealed a role for alexithymia in different kinds of sexual dysfunctions; it was also associated with reduced frequency of penile-vaginal intercourse but not with sexual behaviors-like masturbation-which do not include an emotional interaction in normal individuals. The aim of this research was to further investigate the association between alexithymia scores and sexual behavior in a sample of normal individuals, taking into account the role of gender differences and the possible effect of negative emotions (depression, anxiety, and anger). Participants were 300 university students (142 men and 158 women); sexual behavior was measured by the Sex and the Average Woman (or Man) Scale while alexithymia was measured with the Toronto Alexithymia Scale. The findings of the study showed that higher alexithymia scores were associated with lower levels of sexual satisfaction and higher levels of sexual detachment for females, and with sexual shyness and sexual nervousness for both genders. Results also suggested that the correlations between alexithymia scores and sexual behavior are partially influenced by the effect of negative emotions. Overall, it seems that the same detachment which denotes the alexithymic interpersonal style also characterizes sexual behavior.
A population-based sample of 1673 (valid phenotypic and genotypic data were available from 1412 individuals) Finnish male twins and siblings of twins aged 18-45years provided questionnaire data regarding ejaculatory function as well as saliva samples for genotype analyses. Genotypic analyses were conducted controlling for between-subjects dependence. No significant association was found between the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism and a composite variable measuring premature ejaculation or between this polymorphism and a self-report measure of ejaculation latency time. Previously conducted studies have found contradicting results regarding the possible role of 5-HTTLPR in premature ejaculation. Methodological inconsistencies have been pointed out in these studies, which have all been conducted on rather small samples. While differences in terms of measurement of ejaculatory function could partly explain why positive findings from some earlier studies could not be replicated, the present study, given the large sample size and multifactorial measures used, indicated that the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism has a limited, if any, impact on ejaculatory function.
Air pollution induces systemic inflammation, as well as respiratory, myocardial and brain inflammation in children. Peak bone mass is influenced by environmental factors. We tested the hypothesis that six-year-olds with lifetime exposures to urban air pollution will have alterations in inflammatory markers and bone mineral density (BMD) as opposed to low-polluted city residents when matched for BMI, breast feeding history, skin phototype, age, sex and socioeconomic status. This pilot study included 20 children from Mexico City (MC) (6.17 years  0.63 years) and 15 controls (6.27 years  0.76 years). We performed full paediatric examinations, a history of outdoor exposures, seven-day dietary recalls, serum inflammatory markers and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). Children in MC had significantly higher concentrations of IL-6 (p=0.001), marked reductions in total blood neutrophils (p= 0.0002) and an increase in monocytes (p=0.005). MC children also had an insufficient Vitamin D intake and spent less time outdoors than controls (p&lt;0.001) in an environment characterized by decreased UV light, with ozone and fine particulates concentrations above standard values. There were no significant differences between the cohorts in DXA Z scores. The impact of systemic inflammation, vitamin D insufficiency, air pollution, urban violence and poverty may have long-term bone detrimental outcomes in exposed paediatric populations as they grow older, increasing the risk of low bone mass and osteoporosis. The selection of reference populations for DXA must take into account air pollution exposures.
Schizophrenia is a psychiatric illness in which disorders of thought content are a prominent feature. The disruption of normal flow of thought, or &quot;Formal Thought Disorder&quot; (FTD), has been traditionally assessed through the content and form of patients' speech, and speech abnormalities in schizophrenia were considered as a by-product of the disruption in conceptual structures and associative processes related to psychosis. This view has been changed due to increasing evidence that language per se is impaired in schizophrenia, especially its semantic, discursive, and pragmatic aspects. Schizophrenia is currently considered by some authors as a &quot;language related human specific disease&quot; or &quot;logopathy&quot;, and the neuroanatomical and genetic correlates of the language impairment in these patients are under investigation. Such efforts may lead to a better understanding about the pathophysiology of this devastating mental disease. We present some current concepts related to FTD as opposed to primary neurolinguistic abnormalities in schizophrenia.
In this paper we show that a corpus of a few thousand Wikipedia articles about concrete or visualizable concepts can be used to produce a low-dimensional semantic feature representation of those concepts. The purpose of such a representation is to serve as a model of the mental context of a subject during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments. A recent study [19] showed that it was possible to predict fMRI data acquired while subjects thought about a concrete concept, given a representation of those concepts in terms of semantic features obtained with human supervision. We use topic models on our corpus to learn semantic features from text in an unsupervised manner, and show that those features can outperform those in [19] in demanding 12-way and 60-way classification tasks. We also show that these features can be used to uncover similarity relations in brain activation for different concepts which parallel those relations in behavioral data from human subjects.
Anthropomimetic robotics differs from conventional approaches by capitalizing on the replication of the inner structures of the human body, such as muscles, tendons, bones, and joints. Here we present our results of more than three years of research in constructing, simulating, and, most importantly, controlling anthropomimetic robots. We manufactured four physical torsos, each more complex than its predecessor, and developed the tools required to simulate their behavior. Furthermore, six different control approaches, inspired by classical control theory, machine learning, and neuroscience, were developed and evaluated via these simulations or in small-scale setups. While the obtained results are encouraging, we are aware that we have barely exploited the potential of the anthropomimetic design so far. But, with the tools developed, we are confident that this novel approach will contribute to our understanding of morphological computation and human motor control in the future.

The aim of the present study was to assess criterion validity and external reliability of a questionnaire on risk factors for breast cancer. Materials and Methods. Women with breast cancer diagnosis (the cases) (N=40) and matched individuals without cancer (the controls) (N=40) were asked to fill in a questionnaire twice: on a day of admission to hospital (Q1) and on a day before discharge (Q2), with a time interval of 4-6 days. The questionnaire included questions (N=150) on demographic and socioeconomic factors, diseases in the past, family history of cancer, woman's health, smoking, alcohol use, diet, physical activity, and work environment. Criterion validity of the questionnaire Q2 relative to reference questionnaire Q1 was assessed with the Spearman correlation coefficient (SCC); external reliability of the questionnaire was measured in terms of the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS 16. Results. The responses to most of the questions on socioeconomic factors, family history on cancer, female health, lifestyle risk factors (smoking, alcohol use, physical activity) correlated substantially in both the cases and the controls with SCC and ICC&gt;0.7 (p&lt;0.01). Statistically non significant relationships defined only between the responses on amount of beer the cases drank at the ages up to 25 years and 26-35 years as well as time of use of estrogen and estrogens-progestin during menopause by the cases. Moderate and substantial SCC and ICC were determined for different food items. Only the response of the cases on veal consumption did not correlate significantly. Conclusions. The questionnaire on breast cancer risk factors is valid and reliable for most of the questions included.


CD8(+) T cells have long been suggested to play a role in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The current paradigm on the pathogenesis and maintenance of the disease would endorse these cells with predominantly protective and minor influences. However, several animal studies suggest that these cells may have a predominantly proinflammatory (cytotoxic) effect in the disease. Other studies claim otherwise, that they have a mainly regulatory role in inflammatory joints. The evidence in human disease is remarkably scarce. Studies in human samples indicate that CD8(+) T cells play an important role in the establishment of germinal centers observed in nearly 50% of RA patients, which may have a decisive role in the initiation and maintenance of the disease process. The conflicting results of experimental studies, the scarcity of data and the complexity of research needed to unravel these complex interactions may explain the relative oblivion of CD8 cells in the field of arthritis over recent decades. Is this a wise decision or may we run the risk of not finding the key to RA because we search for it where there is light as opposed to its probable location? The present review brings together available data on the potential role of CD8(+) T cells in inflammation, with emphasis on rheumatoid arthritis, hoping to foster interest and fresh research in this area.
Autonomic function can be impaired in many disorders in which sympathetic, parasympathetic, and enteric arms of the autonomic nervous system are affected. Signs and symptoms of autonomic involvement are related to impairment of cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, urogenital, thermoregulatory, sudomotor, and pupillomotor autonomic functions. Availability of noninvasive, sensitive, and reproducible tests can help to recognize these disorders and to better understand specific mechanisms of some, potentially treatable, immune-mediated autonomic neuropathies. This paper describes autonomic involvement in immune-mediated neuropathies with a subacute or chronic course.


Neurons are exquisitely dependent on quality control systems to maintain a healthy intracellular environment. A permanent assessment of protein and organelle &quot;quality&quot; allows a coordinated action between repair and clearance of damage proteins and dysfunctional organelles. Impairments in the intracellular clearance mechanisms in long-lived postmitotic cells, like neurons, result in the progressive accumulation of damaged organelles and aggregates of aberrant proteins. Using cells bearing Parkinson disease (PD) patients' mitochondria, we demonstrated that aberrant accumulation of autophagosomes in PD, commonly interpreted as an abnormal induction of autophagy, is instead due to defective autophagic clearance. This defect is a consequence of alterations in the microtubule network driven by mitochondrial dysfunction that hinder mitochondria and autophagosome trafficking. We uncover mitochondria and microtubule-directed traffic as main players in the regulation of autophagy in PD.

This state-of-the-art report describes the rationale and evidence for family-centred early intervention after newborn hearing screening (NHS). More specifically, we document the organisation and practice of early home-based guidance (EHBG) in Flanders, as well as the new challenges and paradigm shifts induced by NHS. Since the introduction of NHS, the number of participants with bilateral hearing loss entering one of the five EHBG centres in Flanders (one in each of the region's provinces) before the age of twelve months has doubled. About half of the screened population receive EHBG and about 80% of them do so before the age of six months. However, there is enormous variation between the different provinces and this has still to be clarified.
Cervical masses are a common clinical finding, but differential diagnosis is often challenging. Acute neck swellings are often due to deep cervical space infections that have originated at oral or oropharyngeal sites. Deep neck infections originating elsewhere are not rare; however, they are difficult to diagnose, and their origins remain obscure in 20% of cases. Neck swellings that originate in the middle ear are very rare, with only a few reported in the scientific literature. Here we report an atypical case of Bezold's abscess caused by the recurrence of a middle ear cholesteatoma. In patients with neck swelling and a history of primary cholesteatoma of the middle ear, otolaryngologists should consider regional recurrence of disease a possibility even several years after the primary surgery.

Heart failure may lead to hypoperfusion and hypooxygenation of tissues and this is often exacerbated by central and obstructive sleep apnoeas associated with recurrent episodes of systemic hypoxia which triggers release of ATP within the CNS circuits controlling sympathetic outflow. Using in vitro and in vivo models we tested two hypotheses: (1) activated brainstem astroglia release ATP and via release of ATP activate sympathoexcitatory neurones of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM); and (2) ATP actions in the RVLM contribute to sympathoexcitation, progression of left ventricular (LV) remodelling and development heart failure secondary to myocardial infarction. In vitro, optogenetic activation of RVLM astrocytes transduced to express light-sensitive channelrhodopsin-2 activated sympathoexcitatory RVLM neurones in ATP-dependent manner. In anaesthetised rats in vivo, similar optogenetic activation of RVLM astrocytes increased sympathetic renal nerve activity, arterial blood pressure and heart rate. To interfere with ATP-mediated signalling by promoting its extracellular breakdown, we developed a lentiviral vector to express an ectonucleotidase--transmembrane prostatic acid phosphatase (TMPAP) on the cellular membranes. In rats with myocardial infarction-induced heart failure, expression of TMPAP bilaterally in the RVLM led to lower plasma noradrenaline concentration, maintained left ventricular end diastolic pressure, attenuated decline in dP/dT (max) and shifted the LV pressure-volume relationship curve to the left. These results show that activated RVLM astrocytes are capable of increasing sympathetic activity via release of ATP while facilitated breakdown of ATP in the RVLM attenuates the progression of LV remodelling and heart failure secondary to myocardial infarction.
Rodent behavioural tasks are indispensable to advance the understanding of gene  environment interactions in neuropsychiatric disorders and the discovery of new therapeutic strategies. Yet, the actual translation of rodent data to humans, and thereby the understanding of the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders is limited. The main reason for the translational flaw is that many behavioural tasks for rodents are based on face or predictive validity, whereas these types of validity often lack a pathophysiological basis. Furthermore, many behavioural tasks for rodents do not implement human task parameters or use task parameters in a controlled manner, whereas they are parameters that provide the environmental challenges to test gene function. The aim of this perspective is to address the status quo of behavioural tasks for rodents, their limitations and their strengths, and the reasons why they could lead to suboptimal translational research. I also suggest an approach to come closer to neuropsychiatric behavioural tasks for rodents, namely a more careful implementation of human task parameters and subdivision of behaviour into perceptional, motivational, activational and switching domains. Finally, I will touch upon behavioural tasks for rodents that are currently lacking and needed to catch up neuropsychiatric research.
Studies across and within species suggest that hippocampus size is sexually dimorphic in polygamous species, but not in monogamous species. Although hippocampal volume varies with sex, season and mating system, few studies have simultaneously tested for sex and seasonal differences. Here, we test for sex and seasonal differences in the hippocampal volume of wild Richardson's ground squirrels (Urocitellus richardsonii), a polygamous species that lives in matrilineal, kin-based social groups and has profound sex differences in behavior. Based on the behavior and ecology of this species, we predicted that males would have a significantly larger hippocampus than females and that the hippocampus would be largest in males during the breeding season. Analyses of both absolute and relative volumes of the hippocampus yielded a significant difference between the sexes and seasons as well as an interaction between the two such that non-breeding males have significantly larger hippocampal volumes than breeding males or females from either season. Dentate gyrus, CA1 and CA3 subfield volumes were generally larger in the non-breeding season and in males, but no significant interaction effects were detected. This sex and seasonal variation in hippocampal volume is likely the result of their social organization and male-only food caching behavior during the non-breeding season. The demonstration of a sex and seasonal variation in hippocampal volume suggests that Richardson's ground squirrel may be a useful model for understanding hippocampal plasticity within a natural context.
An indole alkaloid, ibogaine is the principal psychoactive component of the iboga plant, used by indigenous peoples in West Africa for centuries. Modulating multiple neurotransmitter systems, the drug is a potent hallucinogen in humans, although its psychotropic effects remain poorly understood. Expanding the range of model species is an important strategy for translational neuroscience research. Here we exposed adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) to 10 and 20mg/L of ibogaine, testing them in the novel tank, light-dark box, open field, mirror stimulation, social preference and shoaling tests. In the novel tank test, the zebrafish natural diving response (geotaxis) was reversed by ibogaine, inducing initial top swimming followed by bottom dwelling. Ibogaine also attenuated the innate preference for dark environments (scototaxis) in the light-dark box test. While it did not exert overt locomotor or thigmotaxic responses in the open field test, the drug altered spatiotemporal exploration of novel environment, inducing clear preference of some areas over others. Ibogaine also promoted 'mirror' exploration in the mirror stimulation test, disrupted group cohesion in the shoaling test, and evoked strong coloration responses due to melanophore aggregation, but did not alter brain c-fos expression or whole-body cortisol levels. Overall, our results support the complex pharmacological profile of ibogaine and its high sensitivity in zebrafish models, dose-dependently affecting multiple behavioral domains. While future investigations in zebrafish may help elucidate the mechanisms underlying these unique behavioral effects, our study strongly supports the developing utility of aquatic models in hallucinogenic drug research. High sensitivity of three-dimensional phenotyping approaches applied here to behavioral effects of ibogaine in zebrafish provides further evidence of how 3D reconstructions of zebrafish swimming paths may be useful for high-throughput pharmacological screening.
The objective of this study was to assess the effects of phosphodiesterase type 2 (PDE2) and type 10 (PDE10) inhibition on memory function in the object recognition task using the scopolamine- and MK-801-induced memory deficit model. The effects of the PDE2 inhibitor BAY 60-7550 and the PDE10 inhibitor PQ-10 on object recognition performance were investigated in the scopolamine (0.1mg/kg, i.p.) or MK-801 (0.125 mg/kg, i.p.) model. BAY 60-7550 was tested at a dose of 0.3-3mg/kg (p.o.) in both models; PQ-10 was tested at doses of 0.1-1mg/kg (p.o.) in the scopolamine model and 0.3-3mg/kg in the MK-801 model. All compounds were injected 30 min before the learning trial. Both BAY 60-7550 (1mg/kg) and PQ-10 (0.3mg/kg) attenuated the scopolamine-induced memory deficit. The MK-801-induced memory deficit was reversed after treatment with each PDE inhibitor at a dose of 1mg/kg or higher. PQ10 was highly brain penetrant, whereas 60-7550 levels in the brain were very low after oral treatment. We concluded that since BAY 60-7550 and PQ10 reversed both scopolamine- and MK-801-induced memory deficits, this supports the notion that dual substrate PDE inhibitors might be suitable candidates for cognition enhancement.
Intra-session habituation to novelty reflects spatial working memory (related to exploration and cognition), and is observed in various species, including zebrafish (Danio rerio). With the growing understanding of complex zebrafish behaviors, the extent to which they habituate remains unclear. Here we perform a large-scale characterization of zebrafish novelty-evoked (novel tank and open field) behaviors, to establish their grouping based on intra-session habituation and sensitivity to anxiolytic or anxiogenic manipulations. We also assess multiple behaviors in high- and low-anxiety sub-cohorts of a large heterogeneous zebrafish population, comparing their habituation profiles. Overall, our analyses demonstrate that anxiety responsivity and the ability to habituate show little correlation for multiple zebrafish behaviors, suggesting that they most likely represent distinct behavioral phenomena in novel environments. Using these data, we also present the habituome--a new conceptual approach to study affective and cognitive responses in zebrafish by examining a big set of their habituation phenotypes. Given marked similarity in animal novelty exploration, this approach may also be used to construct habituomes in other model organisms, including rodents and humans.
With respect to the plans of national and internationals space agencies to send people to Mars or Moon, long-term isolation studies are performed to learn about the psycho-physiological and psycho-social limitations of such missions. From June 3rd 2010 to November 4th 2011 six participants lived under totally isolated and confined conditions in the MARS500 habitat located in Moscow. Despite the possibility to mimic the condition of space travel, this study allowed for experimental conditions under very reliable and traceable conditions. As exercise is widely discussed to have a positive impact on neuro-cognitive performance, this study aimed to test the effect of different exercise protocol (endurance/strength orientated) on brain cortical activity and cognitive performance. Brain cortical activity was recorded using a 16 channel EEG before and after exercise across the 520 days of confinement. Cognitive performance was assessed using three commercially available brain games. Following the theory of transient hypofrontality, results show a significant decrease of frontal brain cortical activity after exercise (p&lt;.05) which was most expressed after endurance orientated protocols. Cognitive performance was improved following running sessions on an active treadmill (p&lt;.05). Results let us assume that not exercise per se acts as a neuro-enhancer. It is more likely that a general defocusing caused by an immersion into exercise is necessary to improve cognitive performance.
Within a biopsychosocial model of pain, pain is seen as a conscious experience modulated by mental, emotional and sensory mechanisms. Recently, using a rodent visceral pain assay that combines the colorectal distension (CRD) model with the conditioned place avoidance (CPA) paradigms, we measured a learned behavior that directly reflects the affective component of visceral pain, and showed that perigenual anterior cingulate cortex (pACC) activation is critical for memory processing involved in long-term visceral affective state and prediction of aversive stimuli by contextual cue. Electrical vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) has become an established therapy for treatment-resistant epilepsy. VNS has also been shown to enhance memory performance in rats and humans. High-intensity VNS (400 A) immediately following conditional training significantly increases the CRD-induced CPA scores, and enhanced the pain affective memory retention. In contrast, VNS (400 A) had no effect on CPA induced by non-nociceptive aversive stimulus (U69,593). Low-intensity VNS (40 A) had no effect on CRD-induced CPA. Electrophysiological recording showed that VNS (400 A) had no effect on basal and CRD-induced ACC neuronal firing. Further, VNS did not alter CRD-induced visceral pain responses suggesting high intensity VNS facilitates visceral pain aversive memory independent of sensory discriminative aspects of visceral pain processing. The findings that vagus nerve stimulation facilities visceral pain-related affective memory underscore the importance of memory in visceral pain perception, and support the theory that postprandial factors may act on vagal afferents to modulate ongoing nature of visceral pain-induced affective disorder observed in the clinic, such as irritable bowel syndrome.
Rats emit ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) in a variety of contexts, and it is increasingly clear that USVs reflect more complex information than mere positive and negative affect states. We sought to examine USVs in a common model of addiction and relapse, the self-administration/reinstatement paradigm, in order to gain insight into subjective states experienced by rats during various types of methamphetamine seeking. We measured three subtypes of &quot;50kHz&quot; USVs [flats, trills, and non-trill frequency modulated (FM) USVs], as well as long and short duration &quot;22kHz&quot; USVs, during self-administration and extinction training, and during reinstatement elicited by cues, a methamphetamine prime, cues+prime, or the pharmacological stressor yohimbine. During self-administration and extinction, rats emitted many flats and FMs, (and short duration &quot;22kHz&quot; USVs on day 1 of self-administration), but few trills. In contrast, methamphetamine priming injections potently enhanced FMs and trills, and trill production was correlated with the degree of methamphetamine+cue-elicited reinstatement. Cues alone yielded increases only in flat USVs during reinstatement, though a subset of rats displaying strong cue-induced reinstatement also emitted long duration, aversion-related &quot;22kHz&quot; USVs. Although yohimbine administration caused reinstatement, it did not induce &quot;22kHz&quot; USVs in methamphetamine-experienced or methamphetamine-nave rats (unlike footshock stress, which did induce long duration &quot;22kHz&quot; USVs). These findings demonstrate heterogeneity of rat USVs emitted during different types of methamphetamine seeking, and highlight their potential usefulness for gaining insight into the subjective states of rats in rodent models of drug addiction and relapse.
Memory for perceptual events includes the neural representation of the sensory information at short or longer time scales. Recent transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies of human visual cortex provided evidence that sensory cortex contributes to memory functions. In this review, we provide an exhaustive overview of these studies and ascertain how well the available evidence supports the idea of a causal role of sensory cortex in memory retention and retrieval. We discuss the validity and implications of the studies using a number of methodological and theoretical criteria that are relevant for brain stimulation of visual cortex. While most studies applied TMS to visual cortex to interfere with memory functions, a handful of pioneering studies used TMS to 'reactivate' memories in visual cortex. Interestingly, similar effects of TMS on memory were found in different memory tasks, which suggests that different memory systems share a neural mechanism of memory in visual cortex. At the same time, this neural mechanism likely interacts with higher order brain areas. Based on this overview and evaluation, we provide a first attempt to an integrative framework that describes how sensory processes contribute to memory in visual cortex, and how higher order areas contribute to this mechanism.
We examined measures of locomotor and anxiety-like behavior in male and female mice of 15 inbred strains on the elevated-plus maze, light/dark transition box and open field. Strain differences were found on all measures of locomotor activity and anxiety. Strain means for measures of locomotor activity on the three apparatus were significantly correlated, but strain means for commonly used measures of anxiety were not correlated. Principal component analysis revealed a common locomotor activity factor, which accounted for 28.6 % of the variance, but no common anxiety factor. Species-typical behaviors (defecations, stretch-attend postures, grooming) accounted for smaller proportions (&lt;11 %) of the variance. These results plus comparisons with previously published data suggest that the elevated-plus maze, light/dark box and open field measure different facets of anxiety, and that the reliability of genetic differences on anxiety is highly dependent on apparatus, procedural variables and laboratory factors. Locomotor activity, however, is a stable trait that differs across strains and is reliably measured in different apparatus and laboratories. We conclude that anxiety traits of inbred mouse strains are best reflected by species-typical behaviors in each apparatus. These results suggest that new ways of measuring trait anxiety are required in order to determine the neural and genetic correlates of anxiety-like behaviour in mice.

The differential diagnosis across different variants of degenerative diseases is sometimes controversial. This study aimed to validate a qualitative scoring method for the pentagons copy test (QSPT) of Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) based on the assessment of different parameters of the pentagons drawing, such as number of angles, distance/intersection, closure/opening, rotation, closing-in, and to verify its efficacy to differentiate dementia with Lewy Body (DLB) from Alzheimer's disease (AD). We established the reliability of the qualitative scoring method through the inter-raters and intra-subjects analysis. QSPT was then applied to forty-six AD and forty-six DLB patients, using two phases statistical approach, standard and artificial neural network respectively. DLB patients had significant lower total score in the copy of pentagons and number of angles, distance/intersection, closure/opening, rotation compared to AD. However the logistic regression did not allow to establish any suitable modeling, whereas using Auto-Contractive Map (Auto-CM) the DLB was more strongly associated with low scores in some qualitative parameters of pentagon copying, i.e. number of angles and opening/closure and, for the remaining subitems of the MMSE, in naming, repetition and written comprehension, and for demographic variables of gender (male) and education (6-13 years). Twist system modeling showed that the QSPT had a good sensitivity (70.29%) and specificity (78.67%) (ROC-AUC 0.74). The proposed qualitative method of assessment of pentagons copying used in combination with non-linear analysis, showed to be consistent and effective in the differential diagnosis between Lewy Body and Alzheimer's dementia.
Visual Hallucinations (VH) are a common non-motor symptom of Parkinson's Disease (PD) and the Lewy body dementias (LBD) of Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) and Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB). The origin of VH in PD and LBD is debated: earlier studies considered a number of different possible mechanisms underlying VH including visual disorders, Rapid Eye Movement (REM) Sleep Intrusions, dysfunctions of top down or bottom up visual pathways, and neurotransmitter imbalance. More recently newer hypotheses introduce, among the possible mechanisms of VH, the role of attention networks (ventral and dorsal) and of the Default Mode Network (DMN) a network that is inhibited during attentional tasks and becomes active during rest and self referential imagery. Persistent DMN activity during active tasks with dysfunctional imbalance of dorsal and ventral attentional networks represents a new hypothesis on the mechanism of VH. We review the different methods used to classify VH and discuss reports supporting or challenging the different hypothetical mechanisms of VH.
Non-motor symptoms contribute significantly to Parkinson's disease (PD) related disability. Impulse control disorders (ICDs) have been recently added to the behavioural spectrum of PD-related non-motor symptoms. Such behaviours are characterized by an inappropriate drive to conduct repetitive behaviours that are usually socially inadequate or result in harmful consequences. Parkinson disease impulse control disorders (PD-ICDs) have raised significant interest in the scientific and medical community, not only because of their incapacitating nature, but also because they may represent a valid model of ICDs beyond PD and a means to study the physiology of drive, impulse control and compulsive actions in the normal brain. In this review, we discuss some unresolved issues regarding PD-ICDs, including the association with psychiatric co-morbidities such as obsessive-compulsive disorder and with dopamine related side effects, such as hallucinations and dyskinesias; the relationship with executive cognitive dysfunction; and the neural underpinnings of ICDs in PD. We also discuss the contribution of neuroscience studies based on animal-models towards a mechanistic explanation of the development of PD-ICDs, specifically regarding corticostriatal control of goal directed and habitual actions.
The mechanisms subsuming the brain organization of categories and the corresponding gender related asymmetries are controversial. Some authors believe that the brain organization of categories is innate, whereas other authors maintain that it is shaped by experience. According to these interpretations, gender-related asymmetries should respectively be inborn or result from the influence of social roles. In a previous study, assessing the familiarity of young students with different 'biological' and 'artefact' categories, we had observed no gender-related difference on any of these categories. Since these data could be due to the fact that our students belonged to a generation in which the traditional social roles have almost completely disappeared, we predicted that gender-related asymmetries should be found in older men and women. The familiarity of young and elderly men and women with various semantic categories was, therefore, studied presenting in the verbal and pictorial modality different kinds of living and artefact categories. Results confirmed the hypothesis, because elderly women showed a greater familiarity for flowers and elderly men for animals. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis assuming that gender-related asymmetries for different semantic categories is due to the influence of gender-related social roles.
Complex higher-order cognitive functions and their possible changes with aging are mandatory objectives of cognitive neuroscience. Event-related potentials (ERPs) allow investigators to probe the earliest stages of information processing. N100, Mismatch negativity (MMN) and P3a are auditory ERP components that reflect automatic sensory discrimination. The aim of the present study was to determine if N100, MMN and P3a parameters are stable in healthy aged subjects, compared to those of normal young adults. Normal young adults and older participants were assessed using standardized cognitive functional instruments and their ERPs were obtained with an auditory stimulation at two different interstimulus intervals, during a passive paradigm. All individuals were within the normal range on cognitive tests. No significant differences were found for any ERP parameters obtained from the two age groups. This study shows that aging is characterized by a stability of the auditory discrimination and novelty processing. This is important for the arrangement of normative for the detection of subtle preclinical changes due to abnormal brain aging.
The association between immunity and neurodevelopmental disorders has been extensively investigated in autism, suggesting a potential involvement of both cellular and humoral immunity in the establishment of synaptic connectivity modulation during development. A similar link has been proposed also for Tourette syndrome (TS), a complex, multifactorial disorder, in which the interplay between genetic, environmental, hormonal and immunological factors might be relevant. Lymphocyte subpopulation analysis in TS suggests a possible systemic activation of several T- and B-cell subtypes, whereas the observed decreased numbers of T regulatory lymphocytes might predispose to autoimmunity. Genes related to both cell- and antibody-mediated immune responses may be over-expressed at specific ages in youngsters with TS. Data from cytokine measurements and transcriptomics profiles in TS patients are coherent with the systemic immune activation detected by studies on lymphocyte subpopulations. Moreover, TS patients have exhibited IgG3 and IgA dysgammaglobulinemia, which might predispose to recurrent infections and autoimmunity. To date, the association between TS and autoantibodies has not been demonstrated. Interestingly, however, there is a higher degree of maternal family history of autoimmune diseases among TS patients. Finally, TS patients could be prone to allergic illnesses (asthma, atopic dermatitis, rhinitis, conjunctivitis), but more work is needed in this area.

Functional brain networks are known to be affected by focal brain lesions. However, the clinical relevance of these changes remains unclear. This study assesses resting-state functional connectivity (FC) with electroencephalography (EEG) and relates observed topography of FC to cognitive and motor deficits in patients three months after ischemic stroke. Twenty patients (mean age 61.3 years, range 37-80, 9 females) and nineteen age-matched healthy participants (mean age 66.7 years, range 36-88, 13 females) underwent a ten-minute EEG-resting state examination. The neural oscillations at each grey matter voxel were reconstructed using an adaptive spatial filter and imaginary component of coherence (IC) was calculated as an index of FC. Maps representing mean connectivity value at each voxel were correlated with the clinical data. Compared to healthy controls, alpha band IC of stroke patients was locally reduced in brain regions critical to observed behavioral deficits. A voxel-wise Pearson correlation of clinical performances with FC yielded maps of the neural structures implicated in motor, language, and executive function. This correlation was again specific to alpha band coherence. Ischemic lesions decrease the synchrony of alpha band oscillations between affected brain regions and the rest of the brain. This decrease is linearly related to cognitive and motor deficits observed in the patients.

Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) corresponds to the gradual degeneration of language which can occur as nonfluent/agrammatic PPA, semantic variant PPA or logopenic variant PPA. We describe the clinical evolution of a patient with PPA presenting jargon aphasia as a late feature. At the onset of the disease (ten years ago) the patient showed anomia and executive deficits, followed later on by phonemic paraphasias and neologisms, deficits in verbal short-term memory, naming, verbal and semantic fluency. At recent follow-up the patient developed an unintelligible jargon with both semantic and neologistic errors, as well as with severe deficit of comprehension which precluded any further neuropsychological assessment. Compared to healthy controls, FDG-PET showed a hypometabolism in the left angular and middle temporal gyri, precuneus, caudate, posterior cingulate, middle frontal gyrus, and bilaterally in the superior temporal and inferior frontal gyri. The clinical and neuroimaging profile seems to support the hypothesis that the patient developed a late feature of logopenic variant PPA characterized by jargonaphasia and associated with superior temporal and parietal dysfunction.
Many animals fight to win resources, repel competitors or establish dominance in a social group. Mutual-assessment of fighting ability, where competitors gather and compare information about their opponent's as well as their own fighting ability has been the dominant theoretical framework for understanding decision-making during fights. However, self-assessment, where each individual has a cost threshold and fights up until that point, may be more common than previously appreciated. In this study, we attempted to discriminate between these two potential assessment mechanisms in a group-living cichlid fish, Neolamprologus pulcher by probing aggressive motivation during a territorial contest. We measured aggressive motivation, and used this metric to investigate assessment rules during an ongoing contest. We predicted that if these social fish use self-assessment, we would observe a positive correlation between the fighting ability of the probed animal and its aggressive motivation. Alternatively, if mutual-assessment is used then we predicted we would find a negative effect of the opponent's fighting ability on the aggressive motivation of the probed fish because fish should be less motivated to fight against formidable opponents. Our results did not support either of these predictions. In contrast we found that small individuals were more aggressively motivated regardless of their opponent's size. We discuss this result in the context of theoretical models of aggression in individuals of small body size.

Caged compounds are small organic molecules that can be photoactivated with brief pulses of light. They are widely used to study a great variety of biological processes by physiologists, cell biologists and neuroscientists. Initially made and invented by biologists in the late 1970s, they are now made mostly by chemists, often without any dialogue with the end users, the biologists. The idea for this review is to stimulate interaction between the two communities to further the creative development and application of these powerful optical probes.
Phosphorylation and nitration of protein tyrosine residues are thought to play a role in signaling pathways at the nerve terminal and to affect functional properties of proteins involved in the synaptic vesicle (SV) exo-endocytotic cycle. We previously demonstrated that the tyrosine residues in the C-terminal domain of the SV protein Synaptophysin (SYP) are targets of peroxynitrite (PN). Here, we have characterized the association between SYP and c-src tyrosine kinase demonstrating that phosphorylation of Tyr(273) in the C-terminal domain of SYP is crucial in mediating SYP binding to and activation of c-src. SYP forms a complex with Dynamin I (DynI), a GTPase required for SV endocytosis, which may be regulated by tyrosine phosphorylation of SYP. We here report that, in rat brain synaptosomes treated with PN, the formation of SYP/DynI complex was impaired. Noteworthy, we found that DynI was also modified by PN. DynI tyrosine phosphorylation was down-regulated in a dose-dependent manner, while DynI tyrosine nitration increased. Using mass spectrometry analysis, we identified Tyr(354) as one nitration site in DynI. In addition, we tested DynI self-assembly and GTPase activity, which are enhanced by c-src-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of DynI, and found that both were inhibited by PN. Our results suggest that the site-specific tyrosine residue modifications may modulate the association properties of SV proteins and serve as a regulator of DynI function via control of self-assembly, thus influencing the physiology of the exo-endocytotic cycle.
Acute inflammatory pain signal originates from transient hypersensitivity in afferent fibers when depolarized via injured tissues or proinflammatory cells-derived pronociceptive ligand binding. This pain is sensitive to opioids and NSAIDs. In neuropathic pain, however, damage to the nerve along the pain pathway results in spontaneous generation of action potential and lowered nociceptive threshold, as seen in allodynia and hyperalgesia. This abnormal pain transmission had been linked to LPA production in the spinal cord, through activation of NMDA and NK1 activation by glutamate and SP in iPLA(2)/cPLA(2)/ATX-dependent pathway. In a bifurcated response involving G(q/11) and G(12/13) coupling, Schwann cell LPA(1) mediates degradation and transcriptional suppression of myelin proteins, respectively. The loss of contact inhibition on axonal growth creates cytoskeletal framework for axonal sprouting. LPA causes an amplification of LPA production through activation of LPA(3) signaling in microglia immediately after nerve injury. LPA(1) deficient mice (LPA(1)(-/-)) show no neuropathic-pain behavior or demyelination in response to intrathecal LPA injection or nerve injury. Given these bodies of research evidence, LPA therefore presents as the chemical signature for the initiation of neuropathic pain. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Advances in Lysophospholipid Research.
The term synapse applies to cellular specializations that articulate the processing of information within neural circuits by providing a mechanism for the transfer of information between two different neurons. There are two main modalities of synaptic transmission: chemical and electrical. While most efforts have been dedicated to the understanding of the properties and modifiability of chemical transmission, less is still known regarding the plastic properties of electrical synapses, whose structural correlate is the gap junction. A wealth of data indicates that, rather than passive intercellular channels, electrical synapses are more dynamic and modifiable than was generally perceived. This article will discuss the factors determining the strength of electrical transmission and review current evidence demonstrating its dynamic properties. Like their chemical counterparts, electrical synapses can also be plastic and modifiable. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: The Communicating junctions, roles and dysfunctions.
Low socioeconomic position (SEP) has previously been linked to a number of negative health indicators, including poor mental health. The biologic mechanisms linking SEP and mental health remain poorly understood. Recent work suggests that social exposures influence DNA methylation in a manner salient to mental health. We conducted a pilot investigation to assess whether SEP, measured as educational attainment, modifies the association between genomic methylation profiles and traumatic stress in a trauma-exposed sample. Results show that methylationSEP interactions occur preferentially in genes pertaining to nervous system function, suggesting a plausible biological pathway by which SEP may enhance sensitivity to stress and, in turn, risk of posttraumatic stress disorder.[Supplementary materials are available for this article. Go to the publisher's online edition of Biodemography and Social Biology for the following free supplemental resource: Supplementary tables of full model and functional annotation clustering results.].
Newborn neurons are generated in the adult hippocampus from a pool of self-renewing stem cells located in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus. Their activation, proliferation, and maturation depend on a host of environmental and cellular factors but, until recently, the contribution of local neuronal circuitry to this process was relatively unknown. In their recent publication, Song and colleagues have uncovered a novel circuit-based mechanism by which release of the neurotransmitter, -aminobutyric acid (GABA), from parvalbumin-expressing (PV) interneurons, can hold radial glia-like (RGL) stem cells of the adult SGZ in a quiescent state. This tonic GABAergic signal, dependent upon the activation of (2) subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors of RGL stem cells, can thus prevent their proliferation and subsequent maturation or return them to quiescence if previously activated. PV interneurons are thus capable of suppressing neurogenesis during periods of high network activity and facilitating neurogenesis when network activity is low.
Introduction: There is a pressing need for research leading to the development of new effective drugs with lower side effects and more efficacy for treating inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties of 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-3 receptor antagonists have been shown in in vivo and in vitro studies. The present study was designed to investigate the effects of tropisetron, a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, on an immune-based animal model of IBD. Methods: In the present study, the trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) model of colitis in the rat was used. Two hours after induction of colitis in rats, tropisetron (2 mg/kg), dexamethasone (1 mg/kg), meta-chlorophenylbiguanide (mCPBG, 5 mg/kg), a 5-HT3 receptor agonist, or tropisetron + mCPBG were intraperitoneally (i.p.) administrated for 6 days. Animals were then sacrificed; macroscopic, histological, biochemical (myeloperoxidase [MPO]) assessments and ELISA test (tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6 and interleukin-1 beta) were performed on distal colon samples. Results: Tropisetron or dexamethasone treatment significantly reduced macroscopic and microscopic colonic damages. In addition, a significant reduction in MPO activity and colonic levels of inflammatory cytokines was seen. The beneficial effects of tropisetron were antagonized by concurrent administration of mCPBG. Conclusion: The present study indicates that the protective effects of tropisetron on TNBS-induced colitis can be mediated by 5-HT3 receptors.

Central nervous system pathologies are often characterized by the loss of cell populations. A promising therapy now being developed consists in using bioactive materials, associating grafted cells to biopolymers which provide a scaffold for the in vitro building of new tissues, to be implanted in vivo. In the present article, the state of the art of this field, at crossroads between microtechnology and neuroscience, is described in detail; thereafter our own approach and results about interactions between adult human neural stem cells and microstructured polymers are summarized and discussed. In a second part, some central nervous system repair strategies, based on cerebral tissue engineering, are presented. We will report the main results of our studies to work out and characterize in vivo a cerebral bioprosthesis.


The long-term sequelae of adverse early-life experiences have long been a focus in psychiatry, with a historic neurobiological emphasis on physiological systems that are demonstrably stress-responsive, such as the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and neuroimmune function. However, there has been increasing recognition in the general medical literature that such sequelae might encompass more pervasive alterations in health status and physiology. Recent findings in telomere biology have suggested a new avenue for exploring the adverse health effects of childhood maltreatment. Telomere length in proliferative tissues declines with cell replication and the effect can be accelerated by such factors as inflammation, oxidative stress, radiation, and toxins. Reduced telomere length, as a proxy for cellular aging, has been associated with numerous chronic somatic diseases that are generally considered to be diseases of aging, such as diabetes, cancer, and heart disease. More recently, shorter telomeres have been demonstrated in several psychiatric conditions, particularly depression. Sustained psychosocial stress of a variety of types in adulthood appears to be associated with shorter telomeres. Now, emerging work suggests a robust, and perhaps dose-dependent, relationship with early-life stress. These findings present new opportunities to reconceptualize the complex relationships between experience, physical and psychiatric disease, and aging.

Fear conditioning is one of the prime paradigms of behavioural neuroscience and a source of tremendous insight in the fundamentals of learning and memory and the psychology and neurobiology of emotion. It is also widely regarded as a model for the pathogenesis of anxiety disorders in a diathesis-stress model of psychopathology. Starting from the apparent paradox between the adaptive nature of fear conditioning and the dysfunctional nature of pathological anxiety, we present a critique of the human fear conditioning paradigm as an experimental model for psychopathology. We discuss the potential benefits of expanding the human fear conditioning paradigm by (1) including action tendencies as an important index of fear and (2) paying more attention to &quot;weak&quot; (i.e., ambiguous) rather than &quot;strong&quot; fear learning situations (Lissek et al., 2006), such as contained in selective learning procedures. We present preliminary data that illustrate these ideas and discuss the importance of response systems divergence in understanding individual differences in vulnerability for the development of pathological anxiety.
Aminopeptidases (APs) are enzymes involved in a wide variety of biological processes and present in a variety of different cell populations. The authors studied these enzymes in primary cultured human osteoblasts in order to establish an activity profile and thereby contribute to knowledge of bone tissue. The authors used 13 different substrates (N-terminal amino acids) and a fluorimetric assay to examine AP activity associated with the membranes of cultured osteoblasts. The authors demonstrated activity &gt; 10 pmol/min/10(4) cells when glycine, alanine, leucine, arginine, phenylalanine, methionine, and lysine were used as substrates. The activity was markedly lower (&lt;1.6 pmol/min/10(4) cells) when the other N-terminal amino acids were used. Puromycin and bestatin inhibited AP activity, though not completely, when we used AlaNA or LeuNA as substrates. Further studies are warranted to determine the role of these enzymes in bone tissue physiology.
The effects of traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) on the changes in the central nervous system (CNS) over time may depend on the dynamic interaction between the structural integrity of the spinal cord and the capacity of the brain plasticity. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used in a longitudinal study on five rhesus monkeys to observe cerebral activation during upper limb somatosensory tasks in healthy animals and after unilateral thoracic SCI. The changes in the spinal cord diameters were measured, and the correlations among time after the lesion, structural changes in the spinal cord, and primary somatosensory cortex (S1) reorganization were also determined. After SCI, activation of the upper limb in S1 shifted to the region which generally dominates the lower limb, and the rostral spinal cord transverse diameter adjacent to the lesion exhibited obvious atrophy, which reflects the SCI-induced changes in the CNS. A significant correlation was found among the time after the lesion, the spinal cord atrophy, and the degree of contralateral S1 reorganization. The results indicate the structural changes in the spinal cord and the dynamic reorganization of the cerebral activation following early SCI stage, which may help to further understand the neural plasticity in the CNS.

Abnormalities in glutamate signaling and glutamate toxicity are thought to be important in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder (BD). Whilst previous studies have found brain white matter changes in BD, there is paucity of data about how glutamatergic genes affect brain white matter integrity in BD. Based on extant neuroimaging data, we hypothesized that GRIN2B risk allele is associated with reductions of brain white matter integrity in the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital regions and cingulate gyrus in BD. Fourteen patients with BD and 22 healthy controls matched in terms of age, gender and handedness were genotyped using blood samples and underwent diffusion tensor imaging. Compared to G allele, brain FA values were significantly lower in BD patients with risk T allele in left frontal region (P = 0.001), right frontal region (P = 0.002), left parietal region (P = 0.001), left occipital region (P = 0.001), right occipital region (P &lt; 0.001), and left cingulate gyrus (P = 0.001). Further elucidation of the interactions between different glutamate genes and their relationships with such structural, functional brain substrates will enhance our understanding of the link between dysregulated glutamatergic neurotransmission and neuroimaging endophenotypes in BD.
Peripheral nerve injury is a common and devastating complication after trauma and can cause irreversible impairment or even complete functional loss of the affected limb. While peripheral nerve repair results in some axonal regeneration and functional recovery, the clinical outcome is not optimal and research continues to optimize functional recovery after nerve repair. Cell transplantation approaches are being used experimentally to enhance regeneration. Intravenous infusion of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) into spinal cord injury and stroke was shown to improve functional outcome. However, the repair potential of intravenously transplanted MSCs in peripheral nerve injury has not been addressed yet. Here we describe the impact of intravenously infused MSCs on functional outcome in a peripheral nerve injury model. Rat sciatic nerves were transected followed, by intravenous MSCs transplantation. Footprint analysis was carried out and 21 days after transplantation, the nerves were removed for histology. Labelled MSCs were found in the sciatic nerve lesion site after intravenous injection and regeneration was improved. Intravenously infused MSCs after acute peripheral nerve target the lesion site and survive within the nerve and the MSC treated group showed greater functional improvement. The results of study suggest that nerve repair with cell transplantation could lead to greater functional outcome.
Capuchin monkeys are known to exhibit sporadic bipedalism while performing specific tasks, such as cracking nuts. The bipedal posture and locomotion cause an increase in the metabolic cost and therefore increased blood supply to lower limbs is necessary. Here, we present a detailed anatomical description of the capuchin arteries and veins of the pelvic limb of Sapajus libidinosus in comparison with other primates. The arterial pattern of the bearded capuchin hind limb is more similar to other quadrupedal Cebus species. Similarities were also found to the pattern observed in the quadruped Papio, which is probably due to a comparable pelvis and the presence of the tail. Sapajus' traits show fewer similarities when compared to great apes and modern humans. Moreover, the bearded capuchin showed unique patterns for the femoral and the short saphenous veins. Although this species switches easily from quadrupedal to bipedal postures, our results indicate that the bearded capuchin has no specific or differential features that support extended bipedal posture and locomotion. Thus, the explanation for the behavioral differences found among capuchin genera probably includes other aspects of their physiology.
Central thyroid hormone signaling is important in brain function/dysfunction, including affective disorders and depression. In contrast to 3,3',5-triiodo-L-thyronine (T3), the role of 3,5-diiodo-L-thyronine (T2), which until recently was considered an inactive metabolite of T3, has not been studied in these pathologies. However, both T3 and T2 stimulate mitochondrial respiration, a factor counteracting the pathogenesis of depressive disorder, but the cellular origins in the CNS, mechanisms, and kinetics of the cellular action for these two hormones are distinct and independent of each other. Here, Illumina and RT PCR assays showed that hippocampal gene expression of deiodinases 2 and 3, enzymes involved in thyroid hormone regulation, is increased in resilience to stress-induced depressive syndrome and after antidepressant treatment in mice that might suggest elevated T2 and T3 turnover in these phenotypes. In a separate experiment, bolus administration of T2 at the doses 750 and 1,500 mcg/kg but not 250 mcg/kg in naive mice reduced immobility in a two-day tail suspension test in various settings without changing locomotion or anxiety. This demonstrates an antidepressant-like effect of T2 that could be exploited clinically. In a wider context, the current study suggests important central functions of T2, whose biological role only lately is becoming to be elucidated.
The management of mycotic aneurysm has always been subject to controversy. The aim of this paper is to review the literature on the intracranial infected aneurysm from pathogenesis till management while focusing mainly on the endovascular interventions. This novel solution seems to provide additional benefits and long-term favorable outcomes.
Head-of-bed (HOB) elevation is usually restricted in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The goal of this study is to correlate HOB changes (0 and 90) with cerebral blood flow using transcranial Doppler (TCD) and thermal diffusion probe in SAH patients. Thirteen patients with SAH were prospectively enrolled in the study. Eight patients underwent placement of a thermal diffusion probe for regional CBF measurement. CBF values were measured with the patients in flat (0) and upright sitting positions (90) at days 3, 7, and 10. The average increase in blood flow velocity when changing HOB from 0 to 90 was 7.8% on day 3, 0.1% on day 7, and 13.1% on day 10. The middle cerebral artery had the least changes in velocity. The average regional CBF measurement was 22.7  0.3 mL/100 g/min in the supine position and 23.6  9.1 mg/100 g/min in the sitting position. The changes were not statistically significant. None of the patients developed clinical cerebral vasospasm. Changing HOB position in the setting of SAH did not significantly affect cerebral or regional blood flow. These data suggest that early mobilization should be considered given the detrimental effects of prolonged bed rest.



Psychomotor retardation is a central feature of depression which includes motor and cognitive impairments. Effective management may be useful to improve the classification of depressive subtypes and treatment selection, as well as prediction of outcome in patients with depression. The aim of this paper was to review the current status of knowledge regarding psychomotor retardation in depression, in order to clarify its role in the diagnostic management of mood disorders. Retardation modifies all the actions of the individual, including motility, mental activity, and speech. Objective assessments can highlight the diagnostic importance of psychomotor retardation, especially in melancholic and bipolar depression. Psychomotor retardation is also related to depression severity and therapeutic change and could be considered a good criterion for the prediction of therapeutic effect. The neurobiological process underlying the inhibition of activity includes functional deficits in the prefrontal cortex and abnormalities in dopamine neurotransmission. Future investigations of psychomotor retardation should help improve the understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying mood disorders and contribute to improving their therapeutic management.

It is known that retinal input is necessary for the normal development of striate cortex and its corticocortical connections, but there is little information on the role that retinal input plays in the development of retinotopically organized connections between V1 and surrounding visual areas. In nearly all lateral extrastriate areas, the anatomical and physiological representation of the nasotemporal axis of the visual field mirrors the representation of this axis in V1. To determine whether the mediolateral topography of striate-extrastriate projections is preserved in neonatally enucleated rats, we analyzed the patterns of projections resulting from tracer injections placed at different sites along the mediolateral axis of V1. We found that the correlation between the distance from injection sites to the lateral border of V1 and the distance of the labeling patterns in area 18a was strong in controls and much weaker in enucleates. Data from pairs of injections in the same animal revealed that the separation of area 18a projection fields for a given separation of injection sites was more variable in enucleated than in control rats. Our analysis of single and double tracer injections suggests that neonatal bilateral enucleation weakens, but not completely abolishes, the mediolateral topography in area 18a.
After traumatic injuries to the nervous system, regrowing axons encounter a complex microenvironment where mechanisms that promote regeneration compete with inhibitory processes. Sprouting and axonal regrowth are key components of functional recovery but are often counteracted by inhibitory molecules. This review covers extracellular matrix molecules that support neuron axonal outgrowth.
This study aimed to (i) examine the contextual influences of urban slum residency on infant mortality and child stunting over and above individual and household characteristics and (ii) identify factors that might modify any adverse effects. We obtained data from Demographic and Health Surveys conducted in 45 countries between 2000 and 2009. The respondents were women (15-49 years) and their children (0-59 months). Results showed that living in a slum neighborhood was associated with infant mortality (OR = 1.34, 95% CI = 1.15-1.57) irrespective of individual and household characteristics and this risk was attenuated among children born to women who had received antenatal care from a health professional (OR = 0.79, 95% CI = 0.63-0.99). Results also indicated that increasing child age exacerbated the risk for stunting associated with slum residency (OR = 1.19, 95% CI = 1.16-1.23). The findings suggest that improving material circumstances in urban slums at the neighborhood level as well as increasing antenatal care coverage among women living in these neighborhoods could help reduce infant mortality and stunted child growth. The cumulative impact of long-term exposure to slum neighborhoods on child stunting should be corroborated by future studies.
The main objective of this paper is to examine the impact of familiar music on self-consciousness (SC) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). For this purpose, two AD groups of 20 patients matched by age, educational level, gender, illness duration, and cognitive state were assessed using an SC questionnaire before and after music intervention. The SC questionnaire measured several aspects: personal identity, anosognosia, affective state, body representation, prospective memory, introspection and moral judgments. One AD group received familiar music stimulation and another AD group unfamiliar music stimulation over three months. The AD patients who received a familiar music intervention showed a stabilization or improvement in aspects of SC. By contrast, control AD group showed a deterioration of most of the SC aspects after unfamiliar music stimulation, except the SC aspects of body representation and affective state. Familiar music stimulation could be considered as an enhancer of SC in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
APP/PS1 double-transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), which overexpress mutated forms of the gene for human amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin 1 (PS1), have provided robust neuropathological hallmarks of AD-like pattern at early ages. This study characterizes immunocytochemical patterns of AD mouse brain as a model for human AD treated with the EB101 vaccine. In this novel vaccine, a new approach has been taken to circumvent past failures by judiciously selecting an adjuvant consisting of a physiological matrix embedded in liposomes, composed of naturally occurring phospholipids (phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylglycerol, and cholesterol). Our findings showed that administration of amyloid- (A) and sphingosine-1-phosphate emulsified in liposome complex (EB101) to APP/PS1 mice before onset of A deposition (7 weeks of age) and/or at an older age (35 weeks of age) is effective in halting the progression and clearing the AD-like neuropathological hallmarks. Passive immunization with EB101 did not activate inflammatory responses from the immune system and astrocytes. Consistent with a decreased inflammatory background, the basal immunological interaction between the T cells and the affected areas (hippocampus) in the brain of treated mice was notably reduced. These results demonstrate that immunization with EB101 vaccine prevents and attenuates AD neuropathology in this type of double-transgenic mice.
Progress in neuroscience research often involves animals, as no adequate alternatives exist to animal models of living systems. However, both the physiological characteristics of the species used and the effects of anesthesia raise questions of common concern. Here, we demonstrate the confounding influences of these effects on tracer binding in positron emission tomography (PET). We determined the effects of two routinely used anesthetics (isoflurane and propofol) on the binding of two tracers of monoamine function, [(11)C]SCH23390, a tracer of the dopamine D1 and D5 receptors, and the alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, [(11)C]yohimbine, in Gttingen minipigs. The kinetics of SCH23390 in the pigs differed from those of our earlier studies in primates. With two different graphical analyses of uptake of SCH23390, the initial clearance values of this tracer were higher with isoflurane than with propofol anesthesia, indicative of differences in blood flow, whereas no significant differences were observed for the volumes of distribution of yohimbine. The study underscores the importance of differences of anesthesia and species when the properties of radioligands are evaluated under different circumstances that may affect blood flow and tracer uptake. These differences must be considered in the choice of a particular animal species and mode of anesthesia for a particular application.

Consistent evidence indicates the involvement of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). In the present study, we compared serum BDNF in 624 subjects: 266 patients affected by AD, 28 by frontotemporal dementia (FTD), 40 by Lewy body dementia (LBD), 91 by vascular dementia (VAD), 30 by PD, and 169 controls. Our results evidenced lower BDNF serum levels in AD, FTD, LBD, and VAD patients (P &lt; 0.001) and a higher BDNF concentration in patients affected by PD (P = 0.045). Analyses of effects of pharmacological treatments suggested significantly higher BDNF serum levels in patients taking mood stabilizers/antiepileptics (P = 0.009) and L-DOPA (P &lt; 0.001) and significant reductions in patients taking benzodiazepines (P = 0.020). In conclusion, our results support the role of BDNF alterations in neurodegenerative mechanisms common to different forms of neurological disorders and underline the importance of including drug treatment in the analyses to avoid confounding effects.
Diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) are characterized by an unsatisfactory inflammatory and migratory response. Skin inflammation involves the participation of many cells and particularly macrophages. Macrophage function can be modulated by neuropeptides; however, little is known regarding the role of neurotensin (NT) as a modulator of macrophages under inflammatory and hyperglycemic conditions. RAW 264.7 cells were maintained at 10/30 mM glucose, stimulated with/without LPS (1 g/mL), and treated with/without NT(10 nM). The results show that NT did not affect macrophage viability. However, NT reverted the hyperglycemia-induced impair in the migration of macrophages. The expression of IL-6 and IL-1 was significantly increased under 10 mM glucose in the presence of NT, while IL-1 and IL-12 expression significantly decreased under inflammatory and hyperglycemic conditions. More importantly, high glucose modulates NT and NT receptor expression under normal and inflammatory conditions. These results highlight the effect of NT on cell migration, which is strongly impaired under hyperglycemic conditions, as well as its effect in decreasing the proinflammatory status of macrophages under hyperglycemic and inflammatory conditions. These findings provide new insights into the potential therapeutic role of NT in chronic wounds, such as in DFU, characterized by a deficit in the migratory properties of cells and a chronic proinflammatory status.
There is a growing evidence that neuropeptides may be involved in the pathophysiology of suicidal behavior. A critical review of the literature was conducted to investigate the association between neuropeptides and suicidal behavior. Only articles from peer-reviewed journals were selected for the inclusion in the present review. Twenty-six articles were assessed for eligibility but only 22 studies were included. Most studies have documented an association between suicidality and some neuropeptides such as corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), VGF, cholecystokinin, substance P, and neuropeptide Y (NPY), which have been demonstrated to act as key neuromodulators of emotional processing. Significant differences in neuropeptides levels have been found in those who have attempted or completed suicide compared with healthy controls or those dying from other causes. Despite cross-sectional associations between neuropeptides levels and suicidal behavior, causality may not be inferred. The implications of the mentioned studies were discussed in this review paper.
The ability to microdissect individual cells from the nervous system has enormous potential, as it can allow for the study of gene expression in phenotypically identified cells. However, if the resultant gene expression profiles are to be accurately ascribed, it is necessary to determine the extent of contamination by nontarget cells in the microdissected sample. Here, we show that midbrain dopamine neurons can be laser-microdissected to a high degree of enrichment and purity. The average enrichment for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene expression in the microdissected sample relative to midbrain sections was approximately 200-fold. For the dopamine transporter (DAT) and the vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 (Vmat2), average enrichments were approximately 100- and 60-fold, respectively. Glutamic acid decarboxylase (Gad65) expression, a marker for GABAergic neurons, was several hundredfold lower than dopamine neuron-specific genes. Glial cell and glutamatergic neuron gene expression were not detected in microdissected samples. Additionally, SN and VTA dopamine neurons had significantly different expression levels of dopamine neuron-specific genes, which likely reflects functional differences between the two cell groups. This study demonstrates that it is possible to laser-microdissect dopamine neurons to a high degree of cell purity. Therefore gene expression profiles can be precisely attributed to the targeted microdissected cells.
Structural corpus callosum (CC) changes in patients with leukoaraiosis (LA) are significantly associated with cognitive and motor impairment. The aim of this study is to investigate the transcallosal fibers functioning by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in elderly patients with LA. The resting motor threshold (rMT), the motor-evoked potentials (MEPs), and the controlateral (cSP) and ipsilateral silent periods (iSP) were determined using single-pulse TMS in 15 patients and 15 age-matched controls. The neuropsychological profile and the vascular burden at brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were concomitantly explored. Patients reported abnormal scores at tests evaluating executive control functions. No significant difference was found in TMS measures of intra- and intercortical excitability. No CC lesion was evident at MRI. Transcallosal inhibitory mechanisms to TMS seem to be spared in LA patients, a finding which is in line with neuroimaging features and suggests a functional integrity of the CC despite the ischemic interruption of corticosubcortical loops implicated in cognition and behavior. The observed neurophysiological finding differs from that reported in degenerative dementia, even in the preclinical or early stage. In our group of patients, the pure extent of LA is more related to impairment of frontal lobe abilities rather than functional callosal changes.
We investigated the reproducibility of a semiautomated method (computerized with manual intervention) for nerve morphometry (counting and measuring myelinated fibers) between three observers with different levels of expertise and experience with the method. Comparisons between automatic (fully computerized) and semiautomated morphometric methods performed by the same computer software using the same nerve images were also performed. Sural nerves of normal adult rats were used. Automatic and semiautomated morphometry of the myelinated fibers were made through the computer software KS-400. Semiautomated morphometry was conducted by three independent observers on the same images, using the semiautomated method. Automatic morphometry overestimated the myelin sheath area, thus overestimating the myelinated fiber size and underestimating the axon size. Fiber distributions overestimation was of 0.5  m. For the semiautomated morphometry, no differences were found between observers for myelinated fiber and axon size distributions. Overestimation of the myelin sheath size of normal fibers by the fully automatic method might have an impact when morphometry is used for diagnostic purposes. We suggest that not only semiautomated morphometry results can be compared between different centers in clinical trials but it can also be performed by more than one investigator in one single experiment, being a reliable and reproducible method.
The (13)C-isotopomer enrichment of hepatic cytosolic acetyl-CoA of overnight-fed mice whose drinking water was supplemented with [U-(13)C]fructose, and [1-(13)C]glucose and p-amino benzoic acid (PABA) was quantified by (13)C NMR analysis of urinary N-acetyl-PABA. Four mice were given normal chow plus drinking water supplemented with 5% [1-(13)C]glucose, 2.5% [U-(13)C]fructose, and 2.5% fructose (Solution 1) overnight. Four were given chow and water containing 17.5% [1-(13)C]glucose, 8.75% [U-(13)C]fructose and 8.75% fructose (Solution 2). PABA (0.25%) was present in both studies. Urinary N-acetyl-PABA was analyzed by (13)C NMR. In addition to [2-(13)C]- and [1,2-(13)C]acetyl isotopomers from catabolism of [U-(13)C]fructose and [1-(13)C]glucose to acetyl-CoA, [1-(13)C]acetyl was also found indicating pyruvate recycling activity. This precluded precise estimates of [1-(13)C]glucose contribution to acetyl-CoA while that of [U-(13)C]fructose was unaffected. The fructose contribution to acetyl-CoA from Solutions 1 and 2 was 4.0  0.4% and 10.6  0.6%, respectively, indicating that it contributed to a minor fraction of lipogenic acetyl-CoA under these conditions.
Recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors are powerful tools for both basic neuroscience experiments and clinical gene therapies for neurological diseases. Intravascularly administered self-complementary AAV9 vectors can cross the blood-brain barrier. However, AAV9 vectors are of limited usefulness because they mainly transduce astrocytes in adult animal brains and have restrictions on foreign DNA package sizes. In this study, we show that intracardiac injections of tyrosine-mutant pseudotype AAV9/3 vectors resulted in extensive and widespread transgene expression in the brains and spinal cords of adult mice. Furthermore, the usage of neuron-specific promoters achieved selective transduction of neurons. These results suggest that tyrosine-mutant AAV9/3 vectors may be effective vehicles for delivery of therapeutic genes, including miRNAs, into the brain and for treating diseases that affect broad areas of the central nervous system.
Kidney is a target organ for heavy metals. They accumulate in several segments of the nephron and cause profound alterations in morphology and function. Acute intoxication frequently causes acute renal failure. The effects of chronic exposure have not been fully disclosed. In recent years increasing awareness of the consequences of their presence in the kidney has evolved. In this review we focus on the alterations induced by heavy metals on the intercellular junctions of the kidney. We describe that in addition to the proximal tubule, which has been recognized as the main site of accumulation and injury, other segments of the nephron, such as glomeruli, vessels, and distal nephron, show also deleterious effects. We also emphasize the participation of oxidative stress as a relevant component of the renal damage induced by heavy metals and the beneficial effect that some antioxidant drugs, such as vitamin A (all-trans-retinoic acid) and vitamin E (  -tocopherol), depict on the morphological and functional alterations induced by heavy metals.
Oncolytic viruses have been extensively evaluated for anticancer therapy because this virus preferentially infects cancer cells without interfering with normal cells. Newcastle Disease Virus (NDV) is an avian virus and one of the intensively studied oncolytic viruses affecting many types of cancer including glioma. Nevertheless, the capability of NDV infection on heterogeneous glioma tissue in a cerebrospinal fluid atmosphere has never been reported. Recently, Rac1 is reported to be required for efficient NDV replication in human cancer cells and established a link between tumourigenesis and sensitivity to NDV. Rac1 is a member of the Rho GTPases involved in the regulation of the cell migration and cell-cycle progression. Rac1 knockdown leads to significant inhibition of viral replication. In this work, we demonstrated that NDV treatment led to significant reduction of tumour tissue viability of freshly isolated heterogeneous human brain tumour slice, known as an ex vivo glioma acute slice (EGAS). Analysis of gene expression indicated that reduced tissue viability was associated with downregulation of Rac1. However, the viability reduction was not persistent. We conclude that NDV treatment induced EGAS viability suppression, but subsequent downregulation of Rac1 gene may reduce the NDV replication and lead to regrowth of EGAS tissue.
Chronic exposure to particulate matter air pollution is known to cause inflammation leading to respiratory- and cardiovascular-related sickness and death. Mexico City Metropolitan Area children exhibit an early brain imbalance in genes involved in oxidative stress, inflammation, and innate and adaptive immune responses. Early dysregulated neuroinflammation, brain microvascular damage, production of potent vasoconstrictors, and perturbations in the integrity of the neurovascular unit likely contribute to progressive neurodegenerative processes. The accumulation of misfolded proteins coincides with the anatomical distribution observed in the early stages of both Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. We contend misfolding of hyperphosphorylated tau (HP), alpha-synuclein, and beta-amyloid could represent a compensatory early protective response to the sustained systemic and brain inflammation. However, we favor the view that the chronic systemic and brain dysregulated inflammation and the diffuse vascular damage contribute to the establishment of neurodegenerative processes with childhood clinical manifestations. Friend turns Foe early; therefore, implementation of neuroprotective measures to ameliorate or stop the inflammatory and neurodegenerative processes is warranted in exposed children. Epidemiological, cognitive, structural, and functional neuroimaging and mechanistic studies into the association between air pollution exposures and the development of neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration in children are of pressing importance for public health.
Similar to HIV infection in humans, SIV infection in macaques induces progressive loss of immune cell components and function, resulting in immune deficiency in nearly all untreated infected subjects. In SIV-infected macaques, 25% of animals develop terminal AIDS within 6 months of infection. The factors responsible for the development of such rapid progression are unknown. We have previously found that defects in CD8+ T cells detectable from early infection correlate to rapid progression to simian AIDS. The transcriptional screening of molecular fingerprints on different steps along the activation/effector process of splenic CD8+ cells at termination revealed a distinction in rapid compared to regular progressors, which was characterized by a decrease in classic T cell receptor (TCR) components, and an increase in Toll-like receptor (TLR) and apoptotic pathways. A TLR pathway screening in lymphoid and myeloid cells from both the spleen and from the central nervous system of infected macaques revealed that the upregulation of TLR is not in the innate immune compartment, but rather in lymphoid cells that contain adaptive immune cells. Our findings suggest that opposing effects of TCR specific signaling and TLR engagement may drive the CD8 phenotypic failure that determines a rapid disease course in HIV infection.
Allapinine (lappaconitine hydrobromide) is a drug for the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, it shows IC class antiarrhythmics properties. Its action mechanism is associated with blockade of Na(+)-channels with subsequent inhibition of the depolarization rate and, consequently, of the slowing and reducing the excitability of the cardiac conduction system. At the moment, it is not established, what factors are associated with side effects of Allapinine, and therefore it seems important to study the molecular mechanisms of its action. The target genes were identified in a rat model of aconitine-induced arrhythmia using a commercial kit &quot;Rat Neuroscience Ion Channels &amp; Transporters RT2 Profiler PCR Array&quot; (SABioscienses). Comparison of the expression of 84 genes in the experimental (aconitine arrhythmias/Allapinine) and control (aconitine arrhythmias/saline) animals revealed changes in the mRNA level of 18 genes. It has been shown an increase in mRNA levels of genes encoding various types of K(+)-channels (kcna6, kcnj1, kcnj4, kcnq2, kcnq4), Ca(2+)-channel (cacna 1g), vesicular acetylcholine transporter (slc 18a3). Decrease in the mRNA level was observed for genes encoding the Na(+)-channel (scn8a), K(+)-channels (kcne 1, kcns 1), membrane transporters (atp4a, slc6a9). Taken together, it appears that the effect of Allapinine on aconitine--induced arrhythmias is due to modulation of genes encoding Na(+)-, K(+)-, Ca(2+)-channels, conducting ionic currents (I(Na), I(to), I(Ks), I(K1), I(CaT)), which are involved in the formation of different phases of the action potential. The effect of the drug on the mRNA levels of genes encoding the acetylcholine and glycine transporters, suggesting the participation of these neurotransmitters in the mechanisms of anti-arrhythmic properties of the Allapinine.
The synthesis and in vitro preclinical profile of a series of 5-heteroaryl substituted analogs of the antipsychotic drug sertindole are presented. Compounds 1-(4-fluorophenyl)-3-(1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)-5-(pyrimidin-5-yl)-1H-indole (Lu AA27122, 3i) and 1-(4-fluorophenyl)-5-(1-methyl-1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)-3-(1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)-1H-indole (3l) were identified as high affinity (1A)-adrenoceptor ligands with K(i) values of 0.52 and 0.16 nM, respectively, and with a &gt;100-fold selectivity versus dopamine D(2) receptors. Compound 3i showed almost equal affinity for (1B)- (K(i)=1.9 nM) and (1D)-adrenoceptors (K(i)=2.5 nM) as for (1A), as well as moderate affinity for 5-HT(1B) (K(i)=13 nM) and 5-HT(6) (K(i)=16 nM) receptors, whereas 3l showed &gt;40-fold selectivity toward all other targets tested. Based on in vitro assays for assessment of permeability rates and extent, it is predicted that both compounds enter the brain of rats, non-human primates, as well as humans, and as such are good candidates to be carried forward for further evaluation as positron emission tomography (PET) ligands.
The aim of this project was to synthesize and evaluate three novel fluorine-18 labeled derivatives of propargyl amine as potential PET radioligands to visualize monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) activity. The three fluorinated derivatives of propargyl amine ((S)-1-fluoro-N,4-dimethyl-N-(prop-2-ynyl)-pent-4-en-2-amine (5), (S)-N-(1-fluoro-3-(furan-2-yl)propan-2-yl)-N-methylprop-2-yn-1-amine (10) and (S)-1-fluoro-N,4-dimethyl-N-(prop-2-ynyl)pentan-2-amine (15)) were synthesized in multi-step organic syntheses. IC(50) values for inhibition were determined for compounds 5, 10 and 15 in order to determine their specificity for binding to MAO-B. Compound 5 inhibited MAO-B with an IC(50) of 664  48.08 nM. No further investigation was carried out with this compound. Compound 10 inhibited MAO-B with an IC(50) of 208.5  13.44 nM and compound 15 featured an IC(50) of 131.5  0.71 nM for its MAO-B inhibitory activity. None of the compounds inhibited MAO-A activity (IC(50) &gt; 2 M). The fluorine-18 labeled analogues of the two higher binding affinity compounds (10 and 15) (S)-N-(1-[(18)F]fluoro-3-(furan-2-yl)propan-2-yl)-N-methylprop-2-yn-1-amine (16) and (S)-1-[(18)F]fluoro-N,4-dimethyl-N-(prop-2-ynyl)pentan-2-amine (18) were both prepared from the corresponding precursors 9A, 9B and 14A, 14B by a one-step fluorine-18 nucleophilic substitution reaction. Autoradiography experiments on human postmortem brain tissue sections were performed with 16 and 18. Only compound 18 demonstrated a high selectivity for MAO-B over MAO-A and was, therefore, chosen for further examination by PET in a cynomolgus monkey. The initial uptake of 18 in the monkey brain was 250% SUV at 4 min post injection. The highest uptake of radioactivity was observed in the striatum and thalamus, regions with high MAO-B activity, whereas lower levels of radioactivity were detected in the cortex and cerebellum. The percentage of unchanged radioligand 18 was 30% in plasma at 90min post injection. In conclusion, compound 18 is a selective inhibitor of MAO-B in vitro and demonstrated a MAO-B specific binding pattern in vivo by PET in monkey. It can, therefore, be considered as a candidate for further investigation in human by PET.


Peripartum events hold the potential to have dramatic effects in the programming of physiology and behaviour of offspring and possibly subsequent generations. Here we have characterized transgenerational changes in rat maternal behaviour as a function of gestational and prenatal stress. Pregnant dams of the parental generation were exposed to stress from days 12-18 (F0-S). Their daughters and grand-daughters were either stressed (F1-SS, F2-SSS) or non-stressed (F1-SN, F2-SNN). Maternal antepartum behaviours were analyzed at a time when pregnant dams usually show a high frequency of tail chasing behaviours. F1-SS, F2-SNN and F2-SSS groups showed a significant reduction in tail chasing behaviours when compared with controls. The effects of multigenerational stress (SSS) slightly exceeded those of transgenerational stress (SNN) and resulted in absence of tail chasing behaviour. These findings suggest that antepartum maternal behaviour in rats is programmed by transgenerational inheritance of stress responses. Thus, altered antepartum maternal behaviour may serve as an indicator of an activated stress response during gestation.

Translational sciences increasingly emphasize the measurement of functions in native human tissues. However, such studies must confront variations in patient age, gender, genetic background and disease. Here, these are discussed with reference to neuromuscular and neurosecretory functions of the human gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Tissues are obtained after informed consent, in collaboration with surgeons (surgical techniques help minimize variables) and pathologists. Given the difficulties of directly recording from human myenteric neurones (embedded between muscle layers), enteric motor nerve functions are studied by measuring muscle contractions/relaxations evoked by electrical stimulation of intrinsic nerves; responses are regionally dependent, often involving cholinergic and nitrergic phenotypes. Enteric sensory functions can be studied by evoking the peristaltic reflex, involving enteric sensory and motor nerves, but this has rarely been achieved. As submucosal neurones are more accessible (after removing the mucosa), direct neuronal recordings are possible. Neurosecretory functions are studied by measuring changes in short-circuit current across the mucosa. For all experiments, basic questions must be addressed. Because tissues are from patients, what are the controls and the influence of disease? How long does it take before function fully recovers? What is the impact of age- and gender-related differences? What is the optimal sample size? Addressing these and other questions minimizes variability and raises the scientific credibility of human tissue research. Such studies also reduce animal use. Further, the many differences between animal and human GI functions also means that human tissue research must question the ethical validity of using strains of animals with unproved translational significance.

Myoclonus dystonia syndrome is a childhood onset hyperkinetic movement disorder characterized by predominant alcohol responsive upper body myoclonus and dystonia. A proportion of cases are due to mutations in the maternally imprinted SGCE gene. Previous studies have suggested that patients with SGCE mutations may have an increased rate of psychiatric disorders. We established a cohort of patients with myoclonus dystonia syndrome and SGCE mutations to determine the extent to which psychiatric disorders form part of the disease phenotype. In all, 89 patients with clinically suspected myoclonus dystonia syndrome were recruited from the UK and Ireland. SGCE was analysed using direct sequencing and for copy number variants. In those patients where no mutation was found TOR1A (GAG deletion), GCH1, THAP1 and NKX2-1 were also sequenced. SGCE mutation positive cases were systematically assessed using standardized psychiatric interviews and questionnaires and compared with a disability-matched control group of patients with alcohol responsive tremor. Nineteen (21%) probands had a SGCE mutation, five of which were novel. Recruitment of family members increased the affected SGCE mutation positive group to 27 of whom 21 (77%) had psychiatric symptoms. Obsessive-compulsive disorder was eight times more likely (P &lt; 0.001) in mutation positive cases, compulsivity being the predominant feature (P &lt; 0.001). Generalized anxiety disorder (P = 0.003) and alcohol dependence (P = 0.02) were five times more likely in mutation positive cases than tremor controls. SGCE mutations are associated with a specific psychiatric phenotype consisting of compulsivity, anxiety and alcoholism in addition to the characteristic motor phenotype. SGCE mutations are likely to have a pleiotropic effect in causing both motor and specific psychiatric symptoms.
Aicardi-Goutires syndrome is a genetically determined infantile encephalopathy, manifesting as progressive microcephaly, psychomotor retardation, and in 25% of patients, death in early childhood. Aicardi-Goutires syndrome is caused by mutations in any of the genes encoding TREX1, RNASEH2-A, -B, -C and SAMHD1, with protein dysfunction hypothesized to result in the accumulation of nucleic acids within the cell, thus triggering an autoinflammatory response with increased interferon- production. Astrocytes have been identified as a major source of interferon- production in the brains of patients with Aicardi-Goutires syndrome. Here, we study the effect of interferon- treatment on astrocytes derived from immortalized human neural stem cells. Chronic interferon- treatment promoted astrocyte activation and a reduction in cell proliferation. Moreover, chronic exposure resulted in an alteration of genes and proteins involved in the stability of white matter (ATF4, eIF2B, cathepsin D, cystatin F), an increase of antigen-presenting genes (human leukocyte antigen class I) and downregulation of pro-angiogenic factors and other cytokines (vascular endothelial growth factor and IL-1). Interestingly, withdrawal of interferon- for 7 days barely reversed these cellular alterations, demonstrating that the interferon- mediated effects persist over time. We confirmed our in vitro findings using brain samples from patients with Aicardi-Goutires syndrome. Our results support the idea of interferon- as a key factor in the pathogenesis of Aicardi-Goutires syndrome relating to the observed leukodystrophy and microangiopathy. Because of the sustained interferon- effect, even after withdrawal, therapeutic targets for Aicardi-Goutires syndrome, and other interferon--mediated encephalopathies, may include downstream interferon- signalling cascade effectors rather than interferon- alone.
Vanishing white matter disease is a genetic leukoencephalopathy caused by mutations in eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2B. Patients experience a slowly progressive neurological deterioration with episodes of rapid clinical worsening triggered by stress. The disease may occur at any age and leads to early death. Characteristic neuropathological findings include cystic degeneration of the white matter with feeble, if any, reactive gliosis, dysmorphic astrocytes and paucity of myelin despite an increase in oligodendrocytic density. These features have been linked to a maturation defect of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. However, the nature of the link between glial immaturity and the observed neuropathological features is unclear. We hypothesized that the defects in maturation and function of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes are related. Brain tissue of seven patients with genetically proven vanishing white matter disease was investigated using immunohistochemistry, western blotting, quantitative polymerase chain reaction and size exclusion chromatography. The results were compared with those obtained from normal brain tissue of age-matched controls, from chronic demyelinated multiple sclerosis lesions and from other genetic and acquired white matter disorders. We found that the white matter of patients with vanishing white matter disease is enriched in CD44-expressing astrocyte precursor cells and accumulates the glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan. Hyaluronan is a major component of the extracellular matrix, and CD44 is a hyaluronan receptor. We found that a high molecular weight form of hyaluronan is overabundant, especially in the most severely affected areas. Comparison between the more severely affected frontal white matter and the relatively spared cerebellum confirms that high molecular weight hyaluronan accumulation is more pronounced in the frontal white matter than in the cerebellum. High molecular weight hyaluronan is known to inhibit astrocyte and oligodendrocyte precursor maturation and can explain the arrested glial progenitor maturation observed in vanishing white matter disease. In conclusion, high molecular weight species of hyaluronan accumulate in the white matter of patients with vanishing white matter disease, and by inhibiting glial maturation and proper function, they may be a major determinant of the white matter pathology and lack of repair.
Neurodegeneration is the main cause for permanent disability in multiple sclerosis. The effect of current immunomodulatory treatments on neurodegeneration is insufficient. Therefore, direct neuroprotection and myeloprotection remain an important therapeutic goal. Targeting acid-sensing ion channel 1 (encoded by the ASIC1 gene), which contributes to the excessive intracellular accumulation of injurious Na(+) and Ca(2+) and is over-expressed in acute multiple sclerosis lesions, appears to be a viable strategy to limit cellular injury that is the substrate of neurodegeneration. While blockade of ASIC1 through amiloride, a potassium sparing diuretic that is currently licensed for hypertension and congestive cardiac failure, showed neuroprotective and myeloprotective effects in experimental models of multiple sclerosis, this strategy remains untested in patients with multiple sclerosis. In this translational study, we tested the neuroprotective effects of amiloride in patients with primary progressive multiple sclerosis. First, we assessed ASIC1 expression in chronic brain lesions from post-mortem of patients with progressive multiple sclerosis to identify the target process for neuroprotection. Second, we tested the neuroprotective effect of amiloride in a cohort of 14 patients with primary progressive multiple sclerosis using magnetic resonance imaging markers of neurodegeneration as outcome measures of neuroprotection. Patients with primary progressive multiple sclerosis underwent serial magnetic resonance imaging scans before (pretreatment phase) and during (treatment phase) amiloride treatment for a period of 3 years. Whole-brain volume and tissue integrity were measured with high-resolution T(1)-weighted and diffusion tensor imaging. In chronic brain lesions of patients with progressive multiple sclerosis, we demonstrate an increased expression of ASIC1 in axons and an association with injury markers within chronic inactive lesions. In patients with primary progressive multiple sclerosis, we observed a significant reduction in normalized annual rate of whole-brain volume during the treatment phase, compared with the pretreatment phase (P = 0.018, corrected). Consistent with this reduction, we showed that changes in diffusion indices of tissue damage within major clinically relevant white matter (corpus callosum and corticospinal tract) and deep grey matter (thalamus) structures were significantly reduced during the treatment phase (P = 0.02, corrected). Our results extend evidence of the contribution of ASIC1 to neurodegeneration in multiple sclerosis and suggest that amiloride may exert neuroprotective effects in patients with progressive multiple sclerosis. This pilot study is the first translational study on neuroprotection targeting ASIC1 and supports future randomized controlled trials measuring neuroprotection with amiloride in patients with multiple sclerosis.

Stimulation of sensory pathways is important for the normal development of cortical sensory areas, and impairments in the normal development can have long-lasting effect on animal's behavior. In particular, disturbances that occur early in development can cause permanent changes in brain structure and function. The behavioral effect of early sensory deprivation was studied in the mouse whisker system using a protocol to induce a 1-week sensory deprivation immediately after birth. Only two rows of whiskers were spared (C and D rows), and the rest were deprived, to create a situation where an unbalanced sensory input, rather than a complete loss of input, causes a reorganization of the sensory map. Sensory deprivation increased the barrel size ratio of the spared CD rows compared with the deprived AB rows; thus, the map reorganization is likely due, at least in part, to a rewiring of thalamocortical projections. The behavioral effect of such a map reorganization was investigated in the gap-crossing task, where the animals used a whisker that was spared during the sensory deprivation. Animals that had been sensory deprived performed equally well with the control animals in the gap-crossing task, but were more active in exploring the gap area and consequently made more approaches to the gap - approaches that on average were of shorter duration. A restricted sensory deprivation of only some whiskers, although it does not seem to affect the overall performance of the animals, does have an effect on their behavioral strategy on executing the gap-crossing task.
This case report describes the use of high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (HRMRI) to visualize basilar artery atherosclerotic plaque in a patient with a pontine stroke. HRMRI with three-dimensional image acquisition was used to visualize plaque in several planes to localize arterial wall pathology. Fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences of the basilar artery showed wall thickening throughout the basilar artery wall and good contrast between the artery wall and cerebrospinal fluid.
Due to the largely absent fossil record, phylogenetic comparisons of brain structures rely on the analysis of nervous systems in extant taxa, many of which appear to have distinctive and dissimilar neural arrangements. The use of a multitude of comparative criteria, including developmental genetics, phylogenomics and neural circuit architecture, has recently resolved a highly conserved structural and functional ground pattern organization in the arthropod central complex and vertebrate basal ganglia. The minuteness of resemblance is exemplified by orthologous action selection circuits that are formed by homologous gene networks and which can lead to similar pathologies and behavioral disorders. It has been argued, however, that these similarities of brain centers can only be due to convergent evolution. What is still missing is a plausible scenario to explain how convergence could result in such a multitude of similarities and minuteness of resemblances, including gene expression, functional attributes and pathologies. In contrast, homology by common descent is the more parsimonious explanation. Moreover, the divergent elaboration of arthropod central complex and vertebrate basal ganglia does not obscure their shared ground pattern organization and thus genealogical correspondence.
While drug addiction is a uniquely human problem, most research examining the biological mechanisms of the transition from substance use to addiction is conducted with vertebrate animal models. Many other fields of neuroscience have greatly benefitted from contributions from simple and manipulable invertebrate model systems. However, the potential of invertebrate research has yet to be fully capitalised on in the field of addiction neuroscience. This may be because of the complexity of addiction and the clinical imperative of addiction research. We argue that the homocentric diagnostic criteria of addiction are no more a hindrance to the use of invertebrate models than they are to vertebrate models. We highlight the strengths of the diversity of different invertebrate model systems in terms of neuroanatomy and molecular machinery, and stress that working with a range of different models will aid in understanding addiction and not be a disadvantage. Finally, we discuss the specific advantages of utilising invertebrate animals for addiction research and highlight key areas in which invertebrates are suited for making unique and meaningful contributions to this field.

The class Reptilia is monophyletic, if all synapsid tetrapods are excluded and birds are included. The phylogenetic position of turtles within the reptilian clade is still problematic, but recent microRNA data suggest that turtles are the sister group to lepidosaurians. Brain-body data for approximately 60 reptilian taxa indicate that the relative brain size for a given body weight varies some six-fold among reptiles, with some turtles and lizards having relatively large brains and other turtles and lizards having relatively small brains. Snakes appear to be characterized by relatively small brains, and crocodilians appear to possess the largest brains among living reptiles, with the exception of birds. Data on the relative size of major brain divisions among tetrapods are limited, but the telencephalic and cerebellar hemispheres account for much of the variation. Telencephalic hemispheres in reptiles are approximately twice as large as those in amphibians, and the relative size of the telencephalic hemispheres in monitor lizards and crocodilians approaches that in basal birds and mammals. New data on the relative volumes of telencephalic pallial divisions in tetrapods reveal that the dorsal ventricular ridge, a ventral pallial derivative, accounts for much of the increase in pallial size that characterizes reptiles. Studies of spatial and visual cognition in nonavian reptiles reveal that they learn mazes and make visual discriminations as rapidly as most birds and mammals. Studies of social cognition and novel behavior, including play, reveal levels of complexity not previously believed to exist among nonavian reptiles. Given this level of neural and cognitive complexity, it is possible that consciousness has evolved numerous times, independently, among reptiles.
Sex differences in behavior and morphology are usually assumed to be stronger in polygynous species compared to monogamous species. A few brain structures have been identified as sexually dimorphic in polygynous rodent species, but it is less clear whether these differences persist in monogamous species. California mice are among the 5% or less of mammals that are considered to be monogamous and as such provide an ideal model to examine sexual dimorphism in neuroanatomy. In the present study we compared the volume of hypothalamic- and limbic-associated regions in female and male California mice for sexual dimorphism. We also used tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry to compare the number of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in female and male California mice. Additionally, tract tracing was used to accurately delineate the boundaries of the VTA. The total volume of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (SDN-POA), the principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), and the posterodorsal medial amygdala (MEA) was larger in males compared to females. In the SDN-POA we found that the magnitude of sex differences in the California mouse were intermediate between the large differences observed in promiscuous meadow voles and rats and the absence of significant differences in monogamous prairie voles. However, the magnitude of sex differences in MEA and the BNST were comparable to polygynous species. No sex differences were observed in the volume of the whole brain, the VTA, the nucleus accumbens or the number of TH-ir neurons in the VTA. These data show that despite a monogamous social organization, sexual dimorphisms that have been reported in polygynous rodents extend to California mice. Our data suggest that sex differences in brain structures such as the SDN-POA persist across species with different social organizations and may be an evolutionarily conserved characteristic of mammalian brains.

Individual variation is the foundation for evolutionary change, but little is known about the nature of normal variation between brains. Phylogenetic variation across mammalian brains is characterized by high intercorrelations in brain region volumes, distinct allometric scaling for each brain region and the relative independence of olfactory and limbic structure volumes from the rest of the brain. Previous work examining brain variation in individuals of some domesticated species showed that these three features of phylogenetic variation were mirrored in individual variation. We extend this analysis to the human brain and 10 of its subdivisions (e.g., isocortex and hippocampus) by using magnetic resonance imaging scans of 90 human brains ranging between 16 and 25 years of age. Human brain variation resembles both the individual variation seen in other species and variation observed across mammalian species, i.e., the relative differences in the slopes of each brain region compared to medulla size within humans and between mammals are concordant, and limbic structures scale with relative independence from other brain regions. This nonrandom pattern of variation suggests that developmental programs channel the variation available for selection.
Although they are usually regarded as nocturnal, owls exhibit a wide range of activity patterns, from strictly nocturnal, to crepuscular or cathemeral, to diurnal. Several studies have shown that these differences in the activity pattern are reflected in differences in eye morphology and retinal organization. Despite the evidence that differences in activity pattern among owl species are reflected in the peripheral visual system, there has been no attempt to correlate these differences with changes in the visual regions in the brain. In this study, we compare the relative size of nuclei in the main visual pathways in nine species of owl that exhibit a wide range of activity patterns. We found marked differences in the relative size of all visual structures among the species studied, both in the tectofugal and the thalamofugal pathway, as well in other retinorecipient nuclei, including the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, the nucleus of the basal optic root and the nucleus geniculatus lateralis, pars ventralis. We show that the barn owl (Tyto alba), a species widely used in the study of the integration of visual and auditory processing, has reduced visual pathways compared to strigid owls. Our results also suggest there could be a trade-off between the relative size of visual pathways and auditory pathways, similar to that reported in mammals. Finally, our results show that although there is no relationship between activity pattern and the relative size of either the tectofugal or the thalamofugal pathway, there is a positive correlation between the relative size of both visual pathways and the relative number of cells in the retinal ganglion layer.
Increasing evidence suggests that genetic background affects outcome of traumatic brain injuries (TBI). Still, there is limited detailed knowledge on what pathways/processes are affected by genetic heterogeneity. The inbred rat strains DA and PVG differ in neuronal survival following TBI. We here carried out global expressional profiling to identify differentially regulated pathways governing the response to an experimental controlled brain contusion injury. One of the most differentially regulated molecular networks concerned immune cell trafficking. Subsequent characterization of the involved cells using flow cytometry demonstrated greater infiltration of neutrophils and monocytes, as well as a higher degree of microglia activation in DA compared to PVG rats. In addition, DA rats displayed a higher number of NK cells and a higher ratio of CD161bright compared to CD161dim NK cells. Local expression of complement pathway molecules such as C1 and C3 was higher in DA and both the key complement component C3 and membrane-attack complex (MAC) could be demonstrated on axons and nerve cells. A stronger activation of the complement system in DA was associated with higher cerebrospinal fluid levels of neurofilament-light, a biomarker for nerve/axonal injury. In summary, we demonstrate substantial differences between DA and PVG rats in activation of inflammatory pathways; in particular, immune cell influx and complement activation associated with neuronal/axonal injury after TBI. These findings suggest genetic influences acting on inflammatory activation to be of importance in TBI and motivate further efforts using experimental forward genetics to identify genes/pathways that affect outcome.
Since the inception of the field of psychoneuroimmunolology research, there has been an appreciation that the physiological response to stressors includes modulation of immune function. Investigators initially focused on the effect of stress on cellular migration and immunosuppression and the resultant decreases in tumor surveillance, anti-viral T cell immunity and antigen-specific antibody responses. More recently, it has become clear that exposure to stressors also potentiate innate immune processes. Stressor exposure, for example, can change the activation status of myeloid lineage cells such as monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and microglia, leading to a primed state. In addition, stressor exposure increases the synthesis and release of a vast cadre' of inflammatory proteins both in the blood and within tissues (i.e., spleen, liver, adipose, vasculature and brain). The mechanisms for stress-evoked innate immune 'arousal' remain unknown. The goals of this presidential address are the following: (1) offer a personalized, brief overview of stress and immunity with a focus on 'aroused' innate immunity; (2) describe sterile inflammatory processes and the role of the inflammasome; and (3) suggest that these same processes likely contribute to primed myeloid cells and inflammatory protein responses (systemic and tissue) produced by stress in the absence of pathogens.
Recovering directed pathways of information transfer between brain areas is an important issue in neuroscience and helps to shed light on the brain function in several physiological and cognitive states. Granger causality (GC) analysis is a valuable tool to detect directed dynamical connectivity, and it is being increasingly used. Unfortunately, this approach encounters some limitations in particularly when applied to neuroimaging datasets, often consisting in short and noisy data and for which redundancy plays an important role. In this article, we address one of these limitations, namely, the computational and conceptual problems arising when conditional GC, necessary to disambiguate direct and mediated influences, is used on short and noisy datasets of many variables, as it is typically the case in some electroencephalography (EEG) protocols and in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We show that considering GC in the framework of information theory we can limit the conditioning to a limited number of variables chosen as the most informative, obtaining more stable and reliable results both in EEG and fMRI data.
We investigated how the structure of the brain network relates to the stability of perceptual alternation in binocular rivalry. Historically, binocular rivalry has provided important new insights to our understandings in neuroscience. Although various relationships between the local regions of the human brain structure and perceptual switching phenomena have been shown in previous researches, the global organization of the human brain structural network relating to this phenomenon has not yet been addressed. To approach this issue, we reconstructed fiber-tract bundles using diffusion tensor imaging and then evaluated the correlations between the speeds of perceptual alternation and fractional anisotropy (FA) values in each fiber-tract bundle integrating among 84 brain regions. The resulting comparison revealed that the distribution of the global organization of the structural brain network showed positive or negative correlations between the speeds of perceptual alternation and the FA values. First, the connections between the subcortical regions stably were negatively correlated. Second, the connections between the cortical regions mainly showed positive correlations. Third, almost all other cortical connections that showed negative correlations were located in one central cluster of the subcortical connections. This contrast between the contribution of the cortical regions to destabilization and the contribution of the subcortical regions to stabilization of perceptual alternation provides important information as to how the global architecture of the brain structural network supports the phenomenon of binocular rivalry.
Communication and integration of information between brain regions plays a key role in healthy brain function. Conversely, disruption in brain communication may lead to cognitive and behavioral problems. Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder that is characterized by impaired social interactions and aberrant basic information processing. Aberrant brain connectivity patterns have indeed been hypothesized to be a key neural underpinning of autism. In this study, graph analytical tools are used to explore the possible deviant functional brain network organization in autism at a very early stage of brain development. Electroencephalography (EEG) recordings in 12 toddlers with autism (mean age 3.5 years) and 19 control subjects were used to assess interregional functional brain connectivity, with functional brain networks constructed at the level of temporal synchronization between brain regions underlying the EEG electrodes. Children with autism showed a significantly increased normalized path length and reduced normalized clustering, suggesting a reduced global communication capacity already during early brain development. In addition, whole brain connectivity was found to be significantly reduced in these young patients suggesting an overall under-connectivity of functional brain networks in autism. Our findings support the hypothesis of abnormal neural communication in autism, with deviating effects already present at the early stages of brain development.
Graph-based brain anatomical network analysis models the brain as a graph whose nodes represent structural/functional regions, whereas the links between them represent nervous fiber connections. Initial studies of brain anatomical networks using this approach were devoted to describe the key organizational principles of the normal brain, while current trends seem to be more focused on detecting network alterations associated to specific brain disorders. Anatomical networks reconstructed using diffusion-weighed magnetic resonance-imaging techniques can be particularly useful in predicting abnormal brain states in which the white matter structure and, subsequently, the interconnections between gray matter regions are altered (e.g., due to the presence of diseases such as schizophrenia, stroke, multiple sclerosis, and dementia). This article offers an overview from early gross connectional anatomy explorations until more recent advances on anatomical brain network reconstruction approaches, with a specific focus on how the latter move toward the prediction of abnormal brain states. While anatomical graph-based predictor approaches are still at an early stage, they bear promising implications for individualized clinical diagnosis of neurological and psychiatric disorders, as well as for neurodevelopmental evaluations and subsequent assisted creation of educational strategies related to specific cognitive disorders.
Some individuals with balance impairment have hypersensitivity of the motion-sensitive visual cortices (hMT+) compared to healthy controls. Previous work showed that electrical tongue stimulation can reduce the exaggerated postural sway induced by optic flow in this subject population and decrease the hypersensitive response of hMT+. Additionally, a region within the brainstem (BS), likely containing the vestibular and trigeminal nuclei, showed increased optic flow-induced activity after tongue stimulation. The aim of this study was to understand how the modulation induced by tongue stimulation affects the balance-processing network as a whole and how modulation of BS structures can influence cortical activity. Four volumes of interest, discovered in a general linear model analysis, constitute major contributors to the balance-processing network. These regions were entered into a dynamic causal modeling analysis to map the network and measure any connection or topology changes due to the stimulation. Balance-impaired individuals had downregulated response of the primary visual cortex (V1) to visual stimuli but upregulated modulation of the connection between V1 and hMT+ by visual motion compared to healthy controls (p  1E-5). This upregulation was decreased to near-normal levels after stimulation. Additionally, the region within the BS showed increased response to visual motion after stimulation compared to both prestimulation and controls. Stimulation to the tongue enters the central nervous system at the BS but likely propagates to the cortex through supramodal information transfer. We present a model to explain these brain responses that utilizes an anatomically present, but functionally dormant pathway of information flow within the processing network.



When asked to search for a target letter while reading, the patterns with which people miss the target letter reveal information about the process of reading itself. Questions remain as to whether this paradigm reflects normal reading processes however. We used a novel continuous-performance neuroimaging paradigm to address this question. In separate scanning runs, subjects either read alone, read while searching for a target letter, or searched non-words continuously. Functional connectivity analysis recovered the full extent of brain areas identified for reading in a localizer scan, with no differences between reading alone and the dual task condition. Differences were found, however, between both reading conditions and the nonword search condition. These results demonstrate that in skilled readers brain activation associated with reading is unaffected by a concurrent letter-search task. They further demonstrate the utility of a naturalistic, continuous-performance paradigm for studying the neural basis of language processing.
ATP13A2 is a lysosome-specific transmembrane ATPase protein of unknown function. This protein was initially linked to Kufor-Rakeb syndrome where it is absent or mutated. More recently, point mutations in ATP13A2 were linked to familial cases of Parkinson's disease. Zebrafish is commonly used as a vertebrate model for the study of different neurodegenerative diseases and has homologues of several Parkinson's disease associated proteins. Here, we describe for the first time the zebrafish homologue of human ATP13A2, demonstrating the homology between the protein sequences, which supports a conserved biological role. Furthermore, the spatial pattern of protein expression was studied and the lethality of the knockdown of ATP13A2 suggests it plays a crucial role during embryonic development. Our findings bring new insight into the biology of ATP13A2 and open novel opportunities for its study using zebrafish as a model organism.
The probability density function (PDF) of the surface electromyogram (EMG) signals has been modelled with Gaussian and Laplacian distribution functions. However, a general consensus upon the PDF of the EMG signals is yet to be reached, because not only are there several biological factors that can influence this distribution function, but also different analysis techniques can lead to contradicting results. Here, we recorded the EMG signal at different isometric muscle contraction levels and characterised the probability distribution of the surface EMG signal with two statistical measures: bicoherence and kurtosis. Bicoherence analysis did not help to infer the PDF of measured EMG signals. In contrast, with kurtosis analysis we demonstrated that the EMG PDF at isometric, non-fatiguing, low contraction levels is super-Gaussian. Moreover, kurtosis analysis showed that as the contraction force increases the surface EMG PDF tends to a Gaussian distribution.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is currently being evaluated as a potential therapy in improving memory functions in Alzheimer's disease. The target for DBS and the stimulation parameters to be used are unknown. Here, we implanted bilateral electrodes in the vicinity of the fornix, a key element of the memory circuitry, and applied DBS with different stimulation frequencies and amplitudes in an experimental model of dementia. Rats received scopolamine, a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, to mimic memory impairment. Rats were then tested in the object location task with the following conditions: (i) with attachment of stimulation cable (off stimulation), and (ii) with DBS at various amplitudes (50A, 100A and 200A), 100s pulse width and 100Hz or 10Hz stimulation frequency. DBS reversed the memory impairing effects of scopolamine when compared to sham rats. We found that the fornix is not sensitive to the frequency of stimulation, but rather to current levels. With the most optimal stimulation parameter, we found no side-effects on anxiety levels and general motor activity. These findings identify the fornix as a key region in controlling spatial memory functions. DBS of this region, using tailored stimulation parameters, has the potential to improve memory functions in conditions characterised by memory impairment.
Pigeons are classic animal models for learning, memory, and cognition. The majority of the current understanding about avian neurobiology outside of the domain of the song system has been established using pigeons. Since MRI represents an increasingly relevant tool for comparative neuroscience, a 3-dimensional MRI-based atlas of the pigeon brain becomes essential. Using multiple imaging protocols, we delineated diverse ascending sensory and descending motor systems as well as the hippocampal formation. This pigeon brain atlas can easily be used to determine the stereotactic location of identified neural structures at any angle of the head. In addition, the atlas is useful to find the optimal angle of sectioning for slice experiments, stereotactic injections and electrophysiological recordings. This pigeon brain atlas is freely available for the scientific community.
We identified the motor neurons (MNs) supplying the shoulder girdle and forelimb muscles in the C57BL/6J mouse spinal cord using Fluoro-Gold retrograde tracer injections. In spinal cord transverse sections from C2 to T2, we observed two MN columns (medial and lateral) both with ventral and dorsal subdivisions. The dorsolateral column consisted of the biceps brachii, forearm extensors, forearm flexors, and hand MNs, and the ventrolateral column consisted of the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, teres major, deltoid, and triceps MNs. The supraspinatus muscle MNs were located in the dorsomedial column, and pectoralis major and serratus anterior MNs were located in the ventromedial columns. MNs of the dorsolateral column innervated the biceps brachii in mid-C4 to mid-C7, forearm extensors in caudal C4 to mid-T1, forearm flexors in rostral C5 to mid-T1, and hand muscles in mid-C8 to mid-T2 segments. The MNs innervating the trapezius were located in mid-C2 to mid-C4, triceps brachii in mid-C6 to rostral T1, deltoid in rostral C4 to mid-C6, teres major in rostral C5 to mid-C8, and latissimus dorsi in mid-C5 to caudal C8. In addition, MNs innervating the supraspinatus were located from rostral C4 to caudal C8, pectoralis major in mid-C6 to mid-T2, and serratus anterior in rostral C5 to caudal C7/rostral C8 segments. While the musculotopic pattern of MN groups was very similar to that documented for other species, we found differences in the position and cranio-caudal extent of some MN pools compared with previous reports. The identification of mouse forelimb MNs can serve as an anatomical reference for studying degenerative MN diseases, spinal cord injury, and developmental gene expression.
The central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA) and lateral bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BST) are highly interconnected limbic forebrain regions that share similar connectivity with other brain regions that coordinate behavioral and physiological responses to internal and environmental stressors. Their similar connectivity is frequently referred to when describing the CEA and lateral BST together as a unified &quot;central extended amygdala&quot;. However, the CEA and BST reportedly play distinct roles in behavioral and physiological responses associated with fear, anxiety, and social defeat, presumably due to differences in connectivity. To identify common and unique sources of input to the CEA and lateral BST, we performed dual retrograde tracing. Fluorogold and cholera toxin  were iontophoresed into the medial CEA (CEAm) and the anterior ventrolateral BST (BSTvl) of adult male rats. The anatomical distribution of tracer-labeled neurons was mapped throughout the brain. Regions with overlapping populations of CEAm- and BSTvl-projecting neurons were further examined for the presence of double-labeled neurons. Although most regions with input to the mCEA also projected to the BSTvl, and vice versa, cortical and sensory system-related regions projected more robustly to the CEAm, while motor system-related regions primarily innervated the BSTvl. The incidence of double-labeled neurons with collateralized axonal inputs to the CEAm and BSTvl was relatively small (~2 to 13%) and varied across regions, suggesting regional differences in the degree of coordinated CEAm and BSTvl input. The demonstrated similarities and differences in inputs to CEAm and BSTvl provide new anatomical insights into the functional organization of these limbic forebrain regions.
We have studied the distribution of alpha-neo-endorphin- or neurokinin B-immunoreactive fibres and cell bodies in the adult human brainstem with no prior history of neurological or psychiatric disease. A low density of alpha-neo-endorphin-immunoreactive cell bodies was only observed in the medullary central gray matter and in the spinal trigeminal nucleus (gelatinosa part). Alpha-neo-endorphin-immunoreactive fibres were moderately distributed throughout the human brainstem. A high density of alpha-neo-endorphin-immunoreactive fibres was found only in the solitary nucleus (caudal part), in the spinal trigeminal nucleus (caudal part), and in the gelatinosa part of the latter nucleus. Neurokinin B-immunoreactive cell bodies (low density) were found in the periventricular central gray matter, the reticular formation of the pons and in the superior colliculus. The distribution of the neurokinin-immunoreactive fibres was restricted. In general, for both neuropeptides the density of the immunoreactive fibres was low. In the human brainstem, the proenkephalin system was more widely distributed than the prodynorphin system, and the preprotachykinin A system (neurokinin A) was more widely distributed than the preprotachykinin B system (neurokinin B).
The anatomy and functional role of the inferior fronto-occipital fascicle (IFOF) remain poorly known. We accurately analyze its course and the anatomical distribution of its frontal terminations. We propose a classification of the IFOF in different subcomponents. Ten hemispheres (5 left, 5 right) were dissected with Klingler's technique. In addition to the IFOF dissection, we performed a 4-T diffusion tensor imaging study on a single healthy subject. We identified two layers of IFOF. The first one is superficial and antero-superiorly directed, terminating in the inferior frontal gyrus. The second is deeper and consists of three portions: posterior, middle and anterior. The posterior component terminates in the middle frontal gyrus (MFG) and dorso-lateral prefrontal cortex. The middle component terminates in the MFG and lateral orbito-frontal cortex. The anterior one is directed to the orbito-frontal cortex and frontal pole. In vivo tractography study confirmed these anatomical findings. We suggest that the distribution of IFOF fibers within the frontal lobe corresponds to a fine functional segmentation. IFOF can be considered as a &quot;multi-function&quot; bundle, with each anatomical subcomponent subserving different brain processing. The superficial layer and the posterior component of the deep layer, which connects the occipital extrastriate, temporo-basal and inferior frontal cortices, might subserve semantic processing. The middle component of the deep layer could play a role in a multimodal sensory-motor integration. Finally, the anterior component of the deep layer might be involved in emotional and behavioral aspects.
The corpus callosum is the major brain structure responsible for the transferring of information between the two hemispheres. In congenital agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACC), an alternative functional connection might exist between the hemispheres; however, this has yet to be demonstrated. The present study evaluated a 27-year-old man with ACC but no detectable motor function deficits using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), movement-related cortical potential (MRCP), and interhemispheric inhibition (IHI). The MRCP was analyzed at the electrodes of C3, FCZ, and C4. IHI was measured using paired transcranial magnetic stimulation over the hand area of the primary motor cortex at both hemispheres. Data of the patient were compared with those of an age-matched healthy control group (n=8, mean age: 27.62.5years). DTI showed absence of the callosal fibers and the presence of enhanced transcommissural fibers in the ACC patient. The mean fractional anisotropy of the transcommissural fibers revealed a significant difference between the patient and the control group (0.62 vs. 0.43, p&lt;0.01). The MRCP and IHI, supposed to be highly relevant to the transcallosal pathway, were present in the patient though they occurred to a relatively low degree compared to the control group. Findings suggest that in the ACC patient, the abnormal transcommissural fibers might be functional and serve as an alternative pathway connecting the bilateral hemispheres.
To hone knowledge of sensorimotor cerebral organization changes with physiological aging, we focused on the primary somatosensory cortical area (S1). S1 neuronal pools (FS_S1) were identified by the functional source separation (FSS) algorithm applied to magnetoencephalographic recordings during median nerve stimulation. Age-dependence of FS_S1 was then studied at rest separately in the left and right hemispheres of 26 healthy, right-handed subjects between the ages of 24 and 95years. The resting state FS_S1 spectral features changed with increasing age: (1) alpha activity slowed down; (2) total power increased only in the right hemisphere; (3) right&gt;left interhemispheric asymmetry increased in the whole spectrum; (4) spectral entropy increased with age selectively in the left hemisphere. The present FSS-enriched electrophysiological procedure provided measures of resting state hand representation area sensitive to changes with age. Alterations were stronger in the right hemisphere. Relationships between resting state S1 activity and its responsiveness to external stimuli, revealed that the interhemispheric unbalances which emerged with age were conceivably due to an increased excitability within the right thalamocortical circuit impacting left versus right unbalances of spontaneous firing rates and of local inhibitory-excitatory networks.
With combined EEG-fMRI a powerful combination of methods was developed in the last decade that seems promising for answering fundamental neuroscientific questions by measuring functional processes of the human brain simultaneously with two complementary modalities. Recently, resting state networks (RSNs), representing brain regions of coherent BOLD fluctuations, raised major interest in the neuroscience community. Since RSNs are reliably found across subjects and reflect task related networks, changes in their characteristics might give insight to neuronal changes or damage, promising a broad range of scientific and clinical applications. The question of how RSNs are linked to electrophysiological signal characteristics becomes relevant in this context. In this combined EEG-fMRI study we investigated the relationship of RSNs and their correlated electrophysiological signals [electrophysiological correlation patterns (ECPs)] using a long (34min) resting state scan per subject. This allowed us to study ECPs on group as well as on single subject level, and to examine the temporal stability of ECPs within each subject. We found that the correlation patterns obtained on group level show a large inter-subject variability. During the long scan the ECPs within a subject show temporal fluctuations, which we interpret as a result of the complex temporal dynamic of the RSNs.
Integrative Biology (IB) uses experimental or computational quantitative technologies to characterize biological systems at the molecular, cellular, tissue and population levels. IB typically involves the integration of the data, knowledge and capabilities across disciplinary boundaries in order to solve complex problems. We identify a series of bioinformatics problems posed by interdisciplinary integration: (i) data integration that interconnects structured data across related biomedical domains; (ii) ontology integration that brings jargons, terminologies and taxonomies from various disciplines into a unified network of ontologies; (iii) knowledge integration that integrates disparate knowledge elements from multiple sources; (iv) service integration that build applications out of services provided by different vendors. We argue that IB can benefit significantly from the integration solutions enabled by Semantic Web (SW) technologies. The SW enables scientists to share content beyond the boundaries of applications and websites, resulting into a web of data that is meaningful and understandable to any computers. In this review, we provide insight into how SW technologies can be used to build open, standardized and interoperable solutions for interdisciplinary integration on a global basis. We present a rich set of case studies in system biology, integrative neuroscience, bio-pharmaceutics and translational medicine, to highlight the technical features and benefits of SW applications in IB.





Recent studies have provided robust evidence for an association between childhood trauma (CT) and psychosis. Meta-analyses have quantified the association, pointing to odds ratios in the order of around 3, and prospective studies have shown that reverse causation is unlikely to explain the association. However, more work is needed to address the possibility of a gene-environment correlation, that is, whether genetic risk for psychosis predicts exposure to CT. Nevertheless, multiple studies have convincingly shown that the association between CT and psychosis remains strong and significant when controlling for genetic risk, in agreement with a possible causal association. In addition, several studies have shown plausible psychological and neurobiological mechanisms linking adverse experiences to psychosis, including induction of social defeat and reduced self-value, sensitization of the mesolimbic dopamine system, changes in the stress and immune system, and concomitant changes in stress-related brain structures, such as the hippocampus and the amygdala, findings that should be integrated, however, in more complex models of vulnerability. It is currently unclear whether genetic vulnerability plays a role in conferring the mental consequences of adversity, and which genes are likely to be involved. The current, limited evidence points to genes that are not specifically involved in psychosis but more generally in regulating mood (serotonin transporter gene), neuroplasticity (brain-derived neurotrophic factor), and the stress-response system (FKBP5), in line with a general effect of CT on a range of mental disorders, rather than suggesting specificity for psychosis.
Studies suggest that psychosocial factors can impact cancer progression. Parallel work in the fields of psychoneuroimmunology and developmental neuroscience have led to the implication of catecholamine hormones (norepinephrine and epinephrine) and their receptors (the -adrenergic receptors; -ARs) in regulating cancer progression. In this review we discuss studies that describe the effects of psychological stress as mediated by factors including the catecholamines norepinephrine and epinephrine on various aspects of tumor progression including proliferation, angiogenesis, and metastasis. We discuss the role of -ARs in facilitating these effects and the potential use of -blockers in adjuvant cancer therapy.
Background. Endarterectomy (CEA) or stenting (CAS) of a stenotic carotid artery is currently undertaken to reduce stroke risk. In addition removal of the arterial narrowing has been hypothesized to improve cerebral hemodynamics and provide benefits in cognitive functions, by supposedly resolving a &quot;hypoperfusion&quot; condition. Methods. In this study we sought to test whether resolution of a carotid stenosis is followed by measurable changes in cognitive functions in 22 subjects with &quot;asymptomatic&quot; stenosis. Results. A main finding of the study was the statistically significant pre-post difference observed in the performance of phonological verbal fluency and Rey's 15-word immediate recall. Remarkably, there was a significant interaction between phonological verbal fluency performance and side of the carotid intervention, as the improvement in the verbal performance, a typical &quot;lateralized&quot; skill, was associated with resolution of the left carotid stenosis. Conclusion. The results reflect a substantial equivalence of the overall performance at the before- and after- CEA or CAS tests. In two domains, however, the postintervention performance resulted improved. The findings support the hypothesis that recanalization of a stenotic carotid could improve brain functions by resolving hypothetical &quot;hypoperfusion&quot; states, associated with the narrowing of the vessels.
Obesity is a serious public health problem, especially in some minority communities, and it has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases. While obesity is a serious health concern in both American Indian and Mexican American populations, the relationship between obesity and cardiac autonomic control in these two populations is not well understood. The present study in a selected sample of American Indians and Mexican Americans assessed associations between obesity, blood pressure (BP), and cardiovascular autonomic control. Cardiovascular autonomic control, systolic and diastolic mean BP, and body mass index were obtained from one hundred thirty-two American Indian and Mexican American men and women who are literate in English and are residing legally in San Diego County. Men had a significant greater systolic and diastolic BP and were more likely to develop systolic prehypertension and hypertension than women. Obese participants showed greater mean heart rate (HR) and systolic and diastolic BP than nonobese participants. Obese men also exhibited greater cardiac sympathetic activity and lower cardiovagal control than obese women. These results suggest that obesity and gender differences in cardiovascular autonomic control may contribute to risk for cardiovascular disorders in this sample of American Indians and Mexican Americans.
Basilar artery fenestration is an uncommon congenital variant that has been associated with aneurysms and posterior circulation infarcts in the adult literature. Little is known about the functional consequences of basilar artery fenestration, if any, in childhood. We present a case of a previously healthy 12-year-old boy who presented with diplopia, tinnitus, and ataxia who had subtle findings on diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging consistent with posterior circulation territory infarction. Computed tomography angiography and magnetic resonance angiography revealed an area of signal abnormality in the basilar artery, which was confirmed on conventional angiography to be a type 2 basilar artery fenestration, without thrombus or aneurysm. The patient recovered from his neurologic deficits over two days and was placed on prophylactic aspirin therapy without recurrence of symptoms. This rare anatomic variant of the posterior circulation is important for physicians to recognize and may have associated neurologic consequences during childhood worthy of further investigation.
The computer-based method allows the computerized planning of a surgical implantology procedure, using computed tomography (CT) of the maxillary bones and prosthesis. This procedure, however, is not error-free, unless the operator has been well trained and strictly follows the protocol. A 70-year-old woman whom was edentulous asked for a lower jaw implant-supported prosthesis. A computer-guided surgery was planned with an immediate loading according to the NobelGuide technique. However, prior to surgery, new dentures were constructed to adjust the vertical dimension. An interim screwed metal-resin prosthesis was delivered just after the surgery; however, after only two weeks, it was removed because of a complication. Finally, a screwed implant bridge was delivered. The computer guided surgery is a useful procedure when based on an accurate 3D CT-based image data and an implant planning software which minimizes errors.
Cervical spine injuries represent a minority of injury cases in motor vehicles accidents but are a real threat to a patient's life. In the wide range of cervical spine injuries, odontoid (dens) fractures represent the most common findings. These fractures are more usually found in the elderly population due to the changes associated with age. Neurological deficit is not frequently found in these injuries. The following is a case presentation of a chronic odontoid fracture with neurological deficit in a young man that was discovered 23 years after he sustained a motor vehicle accident.
We report a 9-year-old boy with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in high-risk group who suffered from left sided focal seizures and ipsilateral hemiparesis during his induction with Asparaginase chemotherapy. Superior sagittal sinus thrombosis and right frontal hemorrhage were demonstrated on brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans . Anticoagulation was initiated with unfractionated heparin and switched to low molecular weight heparin after 3weeks and continued for 6months. At one-year followup, he had complete response to chemotherapy for ALL, with residual mild left hemiparesis, and his MRI scans revealed recanalized venous sinuses. The case highlights the importance of considering cerebral venous thrombosis as a complication of Asparaginase therapy.
Sporadic inclusion-body myositis (s-IBM) is a myopathy that is characterized by progressive weakness and muscle pathology demonstrating inflammation and rimmed vacuoles. In addition, similar to the pathology observed in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease, the deposition of beta-amyloid and phosphorylated tau proteins in muscle fibers has been reported. These shared pathologic features have prompted hypotheses suggesting a shared etiology of these two conditions. We report a case of a 73-year-old woman initially diagnosed with s-IBM who later developed Alzheimer's disease.
We present the case of a 50-year-old female patient with Friedreich ataxia (FA) who was treated successfully with an intrathecal baclofen (ITB)-delivering pump for painful spasms. To our knowledge, this is the second reported case of FA where ITB relieved painful and disabling spasms. We suggest that ITB should be considered in the treatment of disabling spasms in patients with FA.
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) may occur following head trauma and contribute to intracranial hypertension that mandates immediate action. Anticoagulant therapy is the first line of treatment in CVST but may not be applicable in patients with head trauma. Here, we report on the treatment of 2 patients with CVST. In 1 patient, there was an attempt to perform thrombectomy and thrombolysis, and eventually a decompressive craniectomy was performed. In this patient, there was an excellent outcome. In the other patient, an immediate decompressive craniectomy was performed that did not improve the outcome.
Carotid and vertebral artery dissection are relatively frequent and risky conditions. In the last decade, different patients with extracranial (and in 1 case also intracranial) dissections associated with the practice of scuba diving were reported. The connection between the two conditions has not been fully explained so far. In the present article, we report the case of a patient presenting with Claude Bernard-Horner syndrome and homolateral XII cranial nerve palsy, manifesting a few days after diving in the cold water of a lake. The patient ended up having internal carotid artery dissection associated with the formation of a pseudoaneurysm. Here, we offer a summary of all cases reported in the literature about scuba diving and arterial dissection, and provide a critical discussion about which scuba diving-related factors can trigger the dissection of cervical vessels.


Internal carotid artery (ICA) aneurysms involving the sphenoid sinus are uncommon, and their optimal treatment remains debated. We report the case of a patient presenting with recurrent epistaxis due to a bleeding cavernous ICA aneurysm. We suggest a combined endovascular and endoscopic approach when ICA occlusion may not be performed.
In advanced Parkinson's disease (PD), deep brain stimulation (DBS) may be an alternative option for the treatment of motor symptoms. Side effects associated with subthalamic nucleus (STN) DBS in patients with PD are emerging as the most frequent sensory and motor symptoms. DBS-related syncope is reported as extremely rare. We wanted to discuss the mechanisms of syncope associated with STN DBS in a patient with Parkinson's disease. Case report. Sixty-three-year-old female patient is followed up with diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease for 6 years in our clinic. The patient has undergone STN DBS due to painful dystonia and drug resistant tremor. During the operation, when the left STN was stimulated at 5 milliampere (mAmp), the patient developed presyncopal symptoms. However, when the stimulation was stopped symptoms improved. During the early period after the operation, when the right STN was stimulated at 1.3 millivolts (mV), she developed the pre-yncopal symptoms and then syncope. Our case shows that STN DBS may lead to directly autonomic symptoms resulting in syncope during stimulation-on (stim-on).
Background. Hemiplegic migraine is a rare type of migraine that may present in children and adolescents. Both familial and sporadic hemiplegic migraines have similar prevalence and clinical characteristics. Patient. We report an adolescent with sporadic hemiplegic migraine who previously had a similar attack in the past and who was initially evaluated for a possible acute ischemic event. Results. Magnetic resonance angiography showed dilatation of the left middle cerebral artery that resolved in a follow-up study. She was also found to have a ATP1A2 (c.2273 G&gt;C) mutation and a heterozygous prothrombin mutation. Conclusions. We suggest that patients with sporadic hemiplegic migraine be tested for both ATP1A2 mutations which in some cases may be pathogenic, and prothrombin mutations which increase the stroke risk for this patient population.
Stroke after internal jugular venous cannulation typically leads to acute carotid or vertebral arteries injury and cerebral ischemia. We report the first case of delayed posterior cerebral infarction following loss of guide wire after left internal jugular venous cannulation in a 46-year-old woman with a history of inflammatory bowel disease. Our observation highlights that loss of an intravascular guide wire can be a cause of ischemic stroke in patients undergoing central venous catheterization.
Cardiac myxoma is the most common primary tumor of the heart, located mainly in the left atrium. Cerebral embolization or intracranial aneurysm formation as a consequence of left atrial myxomas has been well documented, whereas myxoma embolization causing the combination of cerebral infarction and intracranial myxomatous aneurysm is rare. We report herein, a 67-year-old female with a cardiac myxoma who experienced a left hemispheric embolic ischemic stroke and in addition was found to have right internal carotid artery aneurysm. The patient underwent emergency surgical excision of left atrial myxoma 2 hours after the stroke onset and endovascular coiling of the aneurysm a week later. Although the timing of cardiac surgery is controversial in patients who have had recent ischemic stroke, we recommend immediate resection of cardiac myxoma, if feasible, and early endovascular treatment of associated intracranial myxomatous aneurysms.
The ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt is a common procedure in pediatric neurosurgery that carries a risk of complications at cranial and abdominal sites. We report on the case of a child with shunt infection and malfunction. The peritoneal catheter was tethered within the abdominal cavity, precluding its removal. Subsequently, laparoscopic exploration identified a knot at the distal end of the peritoneal catheter around the omentum. A new VP shunt was inserted after the infection was healed. This type of complication occurs rarely, so there are a limited number of case reports in the literature. This report is complemented by a literature review.
Introduction. The subcortical region underneath Wernicke's area (WA) is a critical crossing of the eloquent language pathways involved in all semantic, phonological, syntactic, and working memory elaboration. We report the resection of a CA located underneath the dominant WA discussing the functional and anatomical evidence provided by fMRI, dissections with Klingler's technique, and intraoperative mapping during awake surgery. Case Report. A 64-year-old right-handed female affected by daily complex focal seizures underwent f-MRI, showing language activations in the middle and inferior temporal gyri and an unusual free entry zone in the &quot;classical&quot; WA. The cortical intraoperative mapping partially confirmed the f-MRI results, and we approached the lesion directly through WA. Subcortical DES allowed the identification of the eloquent language pathways and the radical resection of the perilesional gliotic rim. The patient did not report deficits and she is seizures and drug free after 1-year surgery. Discussion. Cortical DES demonstrated the variability of the eloquent areas within the cortex of the dominant temporal lobe. The subcortical DES confirmed the crucial role in language elaboration and the anatomical course of the bundles underneath WA. Conclusions. Awake surgery with DES represents a reliable and dynamic technique also for safer and functional-customized resection of CAs.
The involvement of the central nervous system in case of Wegener granulomatosis (WG) is infrequent and usually leads to cranial nerve abnormalities, cerebrovascular events, and seizures. Meningeal involvement is quite rare and usually is due to the spreading from adjacent disease in the skull base. We described the case of a remote intraparenchymal Wegener's granuloma in a 55-year-old man presenting with seizures and a history of severe generalized WG. The radiological findings were not useful for the diagnosis, and the pharmacological treatment was ineffective. The importance of a surgery in case of localized WG has been emphasized, in order to confirm the diagnosis and to avoid additional medicaments, like antiepileptic drugs, potentially harmful in immunosuppressed patients.
Epilepsy is a chronic medical condition which is disabling to both patients and caregivers. The differential diagnosis of epilepsy includes psychogenic nonepileptic spells or &quot;pseudoseizures.&quot; Epilepsy is due to abnormal electrical activity in the brain, and pseudoseizure is a form of conversion disorder. The brain waves remain normal in pseudoseizures. The problem arises when a patient with significant psychiatric history presents with seizures. Pseudoseizures become high on the differential diagnosis without extensive work up. This is a case of woman with significant psychiatric issues which resulted in a delay in the diagnosis of epilepsy.
A-41-year old man presented with violent thunderclap headache and a bilateral proprioceptive sensibility deficit of the upper limbs. Cerebral CT scan and MRI were negative. Lumbar puncture confirmed subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), but cerebral angiography was negative. Three months later, the patient presented with paraparesis, and a thorough work-up revealed a diffuse, anaplastic extramedullary C7-D10 ependymoma with meningeal carcinomatosis considered the source of hemorrhage. The patient went through a D5-D8 laminectomy, temozolomide chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. The situation remained stable for a few months. In this paper, we would like to emphasize that spinal masses should be considered in cases of SAH with negative diagnostic findings for aneurysms or arteriovenous malformation.
A 9-year-old girl with a several-month history of unilateral intermittent headaches presented to the hospital with worsening headaches and unsteadiness. Neurologic exam was positive for a mild right hemiparesis and right homonymous hemianopsia. Noncontrast computed tomography revealed an engorged sagittal and straight sinus with prominent cortical veins concerning an arteriovenous malformation and the patient was admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit. Computed tomography angiogram demonstrated a left hemispheric vascular malformation, without evidence of dural arteriovenous fistula on conventional angiogram consistent with a diagnosis of cerebral proliferative angiopathy. There was no evidence of infarct on magnetic resonance imaging, and the patient's symptoms were completely resolved within 24 hours. Cerebral proliferative angiopathy is a rare but important vascular malformation distinct from classic arteriovenous malformations that may present with stroke-like symptoms in childhood.
Tanycytic ependymoma is a rare form of ependymoma that usually arises in the intramedullary spine. It has a unique histology emphasized by the inconspicuous ependymal pattern of cells and close resemblance to schwannoma and astrocytoma. The authors report a 50-year-old man with a cervical tanycytic ependymoma that was initially thought to be a schwannoma. The frozen histology section showed spindle cells with oval and elongated nuclei with occasional hemosiderin deposits present suggesting a preliminary diagnosis of schwannoma. Immunohistochemical staining of the permanent section revealed strong immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein with intermittent S-100 positivity, confirming that the tumor was a tanycytic ependymoma. This underlines the challenges involved in making an accurate diagnosis and demonstrates that careful and detailed histological inspection with immunohistochemical stains and ultrastructural microscopy may be necessary to distinguish tanycytic ependymoma from other neoplasms.
Factor-Xa inhibitors like edoxaban have been shown to have comparable or superior rates of stroke and systemic embolization prevention to warfarin while exhibiting lower clinically significant bleeding rates. The authors report a case of a man who presented with delayed, recurrent intracranial hemorrhage months after successful deep brain stimulator placement for Parkinson disease while on edoxaban for atrial fibrillation. Further reports on the use of novel anticoagulants after intracranial surgery are acutely needed to help assess the true relative risk they pose.
Spinal chronic subdural hematoma (SCSH) is a rare pathology usually associated with trauma or hematological alterations or is due to iatrogenic causes; rarely SCSH can be spontaneous. We report a case of a 79-year-old female who underwent a surgical evacuation of a spontaneous SCSH one year after diagnosis. She presented with a severe paraparesis and showed a considerable improvement in sensory-motor performances after surgery. The treatment of spontaneous SCSH is not well defined and universally accepted. Early surgery is mandatory in cases presenting with severe deficits. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case showing a good outcome in a case of SCSH following a delayed surgery. In our opinion, an aggressive approach should be considered as a viable option in cases of spontaneous SCSH even after a lasting spinal cord compression.
For a long time, head injury has been considered as a possible causative factor for later development of brain tumors. However, the actual role of previous head trauma in the pathogenesis of intracranial tumors is still a matter of debate, also due to the possible medico-legal implications. Some authors have suggested several criteria for establishing a possible causal relationship between the aforementioned factors. We report a case of a left posterior paraventricular high-grade glioma which developed 20 years after a posttraumatic hematoma occurring in the same area. This case is reported in detail and the relevant literature is reviewed.
Purpose. Solar retinopathy is a rare clinical disturbance, for which spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) findings are not always consistent. We report on two cases of solar retinopathy and discuss its differential diagnosis. Methods. This is an observational case study. Results. A 12-year-old female was referred to ophthalmology for bilateral scotoma. Visual acuity was 20/50 in both eyes. Fundus examination was unremarkable, except for slight yellowish material in the central macula, bilaterally. SD-OCT revealed juxtafoveal microcystic cavities in the outer retina, interruption of the external limiting membrane and the inner and outer segment junctions, with disorganized material in the vitelliform space. Fundus autofluorescence showed hypoautofluorescence surrounded by a relatively hyperautofluorescent ring, bilaterally. Similar clinical and morphological findings were detected in a 27-year-old male. Conclusions. Solar retinopathy has a subtle presentation and patients often deny sun-gazing. SD-OCT and fundus autofluorescence are noninvasive and useful tools for its diagnosis.
The petrous apex is a pyramid-shaped structure, located medial to the inner ear and the intrapetrous segment of the internal carotid artery. Lesions of the petrous apex can be surgically treated through different surgical routes. Because of the important neurovascular structures located inside the temporal bone, anatomical 3D knowledge is paramount. For this reason, image-guided surgery could represent a useful tool. We report the case of a young woman who came to our observation for a trigeminal neuralgia due to a petrous apex cholesterol granuloma. The lesion was treated through the placement of a drainage tube via an infracochlear approach, with the aid of neuronavigation and intraoperative MRI. Preoperative CT scan images and intraoperative MRI images were fused for surgical planning. The accuracy of the neuronavigation system has proved to be good, and the safety of the procedure was enhanced. Therefore, neuronavigation and intraoperative MRI, though not available in all neurootological centres, should be considered useful tools in these challenging procedures.
Triple A syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the triad of adrenocorticotropic hormone resistant adrenal insufficiency, achalasia, and alacrima. Our aim was to describe the neuropsychological characteristics and the cooccurring psychopathological and neurological disorders in an Italian male child suffering from Triple A syndrome at the time of admission (T0) and after one year of follow-up (T1). Many difficulties were observed in the motor domain, as well as in manual dexterity and static/dynamic balance domains of the motor task over time. In sharp contrast with previous literature reports on frequent mild cognitive dysfunction in patients with Triple A syndrome, our child did not show any mental retardation. By contrast, he showed an average IQ at T0 with a slight improvement at T1. To our knowledge, this report is the first describing neuropsychological profile and co-occurring psychopathological problems in a child with Triple A syndrome. Considering that the Triple A syndrome is a progressive disorder which can take years to develop the full-blown clinical picture, these patients require periodical medical controls. Moreover, assessment of neuropsychological and psychopathological features should be performed in patients with this disease, in order to underline the variability of this syndrome.
Auditory verbal hallucinations (AVHs) are known as a core symptom of schizophrenia, but also occur in a number of other conditions, not least in neurodegenerative disorders such as dementia. In the last decades, Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) emerged as a valuable therapeutic approach towards several neurological and psychiatric diseases, including AVHs. Herein we report a case of a seventy-six-years-old woman with vascular-degenerative brain disease, complaining of threatening AVHs. The patient was treated with a high-frequency temporoparietal (T3P3) rTMS protocol for fifteen days. A considerable reduction of AVHs in frequency and content (no more threatening) was observed. Although further research is needed, this seems an encouraging result.
Partial seizures can be misdiagnosed as panic attacks. There is considerable overlap of symptoms between temporal lobe seizures and panic attacks making the diagnosis extremely challenging. Temporal lobe seizures can present with intense fear and autonomic symptoms which are also seen in panic disorders. This results in delay in diagnosis and management. We report an interesting case of a young woman who was diagnosed with right temporal lobe seizures with symptoms suggestive of a panic attack.
Delusional parasitosis is characterized by the false idea that own body is infested by invisible mites, insects, or other parasites. This case report describes a 24-year-old woman with delusional parasitosis who was treated with ziprasidone monotherapy (120mg/day) with a complete remission of delusion and followed for one year without symptom recurrences. These findings, although preliminary, indicate that further investigation of ziprasidone monotherapy for the treatment of delusional parasitosis is warranted in further trials.
Geschwind syndrome has been described in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and is characterized by sexual behavioural disorders, hyperreligiosity, hypergraphia, and viscosity. Presented here is a case of a 53-year-old man with clinical findings consistent with Geschwind syndrome in the setting of a known diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder, with no identifiable comorbid illness of temporal lobe epilepsy or frontotemporal dementia. Brain MRI showed bilateral temporal lobe atrophy greater than would be expected for age and more prominent on the left side than the right. It is likely that these structural abnormalities may be related to this patient's clinical presentation of Geschwind syndrome. To our knowledge, this is the first reporting of a case of Geschwind syndrome in the setting of schizoaffective disorder. These symptoms of Geschwind syndrome were present irrespective of mental state status. The report highlights the importance in correct identification of underlying cause and differentiation between Geschwind syndrome and schizoaffective disorder in order to avoid mistreatment and consequent iatrogenic adverse events.
Nowadays, the misuse of benzodiazepines (BZDs) is a cause for a serious concern among pharmacologically inexperienced patients, whether treated or untreated, that could lead to significant complications, including tolerance, dependence, and addiction. We present a case report in which an Italian patient affected by anxiety disorder and treated with BZDs presented a severe case of dependence on BZDs. We treated him according to an agonist substitution approach, switching from the abused BZD to a slow-onset, long-acting, high potency agonist (clonazepam), and looking at the methadone treatment model as paradigm. We decided to use clonazepam for its pharmacokinetic properties. The advantage of choosing a slow-onset, long-lasting BZD for the treatment of our patient was that it led us to a remarkable improvement in the clinical situation, including the cessation of craving, absence of withdrawal symptoms, reduced anxiety, improvements in social functioning, and a better cognition level.
A 9-month-old male infant with multiple congenital anomalies including cleft lip and palate was referred to us for a brain MR to exclude additional intracranial abnormalities. Imaging revealed an interhypothalamic adhesion, which we present as a possible forme fruste of holoprosencephaly.

Lymphocyte migration into the central nervous system is a critical step in the physiopathology of a variety of neurological diseases, including multiple sclerosis and virus-induced neuroinflammation. To better understand the molecular mechanisms involved in cells migration, we focused our studies on collapsin response mediator proteins (CRMPs), a group of phosphoproteins that mediate neural cell motility. There is now evidence that collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2) plays critical roles in the polarization (uropod formation) of T lymphocytes and their subsequent migration. CRMP2 was known to respond to semaphorin, ephrin and neurotrophin signaling in neurons. The link between the chemokine CXCL12, CRMP2 activity and cell migration has been demonstrated in T lymphocytes. These observations and comparisons of the activity of CRMPs in immune and non-immmune cells are summarized here. The ability of a human retrovirus to enhance lymphocyte migration through the modulation of CRMP2 activity is also discussed. In conclusion, viruses have the ability to manipulate the lymphocyte motility machinery, intensifying neural tissue invasion in infected patients.
Interest in the morphological and physiological events that take place during fertilization in fish eggs began as early as the late 1800s. In these initial studies, and up to the present day, fertilization has been investigated in a range of different fish species. In this short review, we focus on just one aspect of fertilization in fish; the role of Ca(2+) signaling. Somewhat surprisingly, to date, the Ca(2+) dynamics at activation/fertilization have been visualized in only two teleost species, the medaka (Oryzias latipes) and the zebrafish (Danio rerio), where their year-round breeding potential and small size, as well as the optical clarity of the eggs and ex utero fertilization, have made them the model of choice of researchers studying fertilization and early development. In these two species, activation/fertilization is accompanied by a single self-propagating Ca(2+) wave, unlike the multiple regenerating waves reported for mammals, ascidians, certain amphibians (urodeles) and annelids. During medaka and zebrafish fertilization, the Ca(2+) wave is initiated at the micropyle, the point of sperm/egg contact located at the animal pole, and then it propagates at 10-12m/s to its antipode at the vegetal pole.
Ceramide, the precursor of all complex sphingolipids, is a potent signaling molecule that mediates key events of cellular pathophysiology. In the nervous system, the sphingolipid metabolism has an important impact. Neurons are polarized cells and their normal functions, such as neuronal connectivity and synaptic transmission, rely on selective trafficking of molecules across plasma membrane. Sphingolipids are abundant on neural cellular membranes and represent potent regulators of brain homeostasis. Ceramide intracellular levels are fine-tuned and alteration of the sphingolipid-ceramide profile contributes to the development of age-related, neurological and neuroinflammatory diseases. The purpose of this review is to guide the reader towards a better understanding of the sphingolipid-ceramide pathway system. First, ceramide biology is presented including structure, physical properties and metabolism. Second, we describe the function of ceramide as a lipid second messenger in cell physiology. Finally, we highlight the relevance of sphingolipids and ceramide in the progression of different neurodegenerative diseases.
Alpha-synuclein (-syn), as a neuroprotein, is expressed in neural tissue, and it is related to a synaptic transmission and neuronal plasticity. In this study, we compared the distribution and immunoreactivity of -syn and related gliosis in hippocampus between young adult (2-3years) and aged (10-12years) beagle dogs. In both groups, -syn immunoreactivity was detected in neuropil of all the hippocampal sub-regions, but not in neuronal somata. In the aged hippocampus, -syn immunoreactivity was apparently increased in mossy fibers compared to that in the adult dog. In addition, -syn protein level was markedly increased in the aged hippocampus. On the other hand, GFAP and Iba-1 immunoreactivity in astrocytes and microglia, respectively, were increased in all the hippocampal sub-regions of the aged group compared to that in the adult group: especially, their immunoreactivity was apparently increased around mossy fibers. In addition, in this study, we could not find any expression of -syn in astrocytes and microglia. These results indicate that -syn immunoreactivity apparently increases in the aged hippocampus and that GFAP and Iba-1 immunoreactivity are also apparently increased at the regions with increased -syn immunoreactivity. This increase in -syn expression might be a feature of normal aging.
Some of the excitatory effects of norepinephrine on central neurons are mediated by alpha-1 (1) adrenoceptors. These receptors are coupled to the Gq family of G proteins, and hence stimulate hydrolysis of the membrane phospholipid phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate. Other receptors of this type can excite neurons by inhibiting the subthreshold voltage-gated potassium M-current. We tested this possibility using rat sympathetic neurons transformed to express 1a receptors. The 1 agonist phenylephrine strongly inhibited the M-current recorded under voltage-clamp by 7211% (n=4) and in an unclamped neuron dramatically increased the number of action potentials produced by a 2s depolarizing current step from 2 to 40, without effect on control neurons devoid of 1 receptors. We suggest that this might be a potential cause of the increased excitability produced by norepinephrine in some central neurons.
Myocardin (Mycd) family members function as a transcriptional cofactor for serum response factor (SRF). Dimer formation is necessary to exhibit their function, and the coiled-coil domain (CC) plays a critical role in their dimerization. We have recently revealed a detailed molecular mechanism for their Crm1 (exportin1)-mediated nuclear export. Here, we found other unique significances of the dimerization of Mycd family members. Introduction of mutations in the CC of myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTF-A) and truncated Mycd resulted in significant decreases in their cytoplasmic localization and increases in their nuclear localization. In accordance with such subcellular localization changes, their binding to Crm1 were reduced. These results indicate that the dimerization of Mycd family members is necessary for their Crm1-mediated nuclear export. We have recently found that the N-terminal region of Mycd consisting of 128 amino acids (Mycd N128) self-associates to Mycd via the central basic domain (CB), resulting in masking the Crm1-binding site. Such self-association of MRTF-A would be unlikely. In this study, we also revealed that the dimerization of Mycd was also necessary for this self-association. Wild-type Mycd activated SRF-mediated transcription more potently than Mycd lacking the Mycd N128 (Mycd N128) did. These results suggest two possible functions of the Mycd N128: 1) stabilization of Mycd dimer to enhance SRF-mediated transcription and 2) positive regulation of the transactivation ability of Mycd. These findings provide a new insight into the functional regulation of Mycd family members.
DNA demethylation of astrocyte-specific gene promoters and STAT3 activation in neural precursor cells (NPCs) are essential for astrogliogenesis in the developing brain. To date, it remains unclear whether DNA methylation is the sole epigenetic determinant responsible for suppressing astrocyte-specific genes. Here, we used mouse embryonic stem cells (TKO ESCs) that lacked all 3 DNA methyltransferase genes, Dnmt1, Dnmt3a, and Dnmt3b, and thereby exhibit complete demethylation of the astrocyte-specific glial fibrillary acidic protein (Gfap) gene promoter. We found that although the Gfap promoter was demethylated, STAT3 failed to bind to its cognate element to induce Gfap transcription, whereas it induced transcription of a different target gene, Socs3. Moreover, although the Gfap promoter region containing the STAT3-binding site (GSBS) is enriched with transcription-repressive histone modifications, such as methylation of H3 at lysine 9 (H3K9me3) and H3K27me3, the reduction of these modifications in TKO ESCs was not sufficient for binding of STAT3 at GSBS. Furthermore, GSBS was digested by micrococcal nuclease in late-gestational NPCs that express GFAP upon LIF stimulation, but not in cells that show no expression of GFAP even in the presence of LIF, indicating that STAT3 can access GSBS in the former cells. We further showed that expression of NF-1A, which is known to potentiate differentiation of mid-gestational NPCs into astrocytes, increased its accessibility. Taken together, our results suggest that chromatin accessibility of GSBS plays a critical role in the regulation of Gfap expression.
Oligodendrocyte (OL) replacement can be a promising strategy for spinal cord injury (SCI) repair. However, the poor posttransplantation survival and inhibitory properties to axonal regeneration are two major challenges that limit their use as donor cells for repair of CNS injuries. Therefore, strategies aimed at enhancing the survival of grafted oligodendrocytes as well as reducing their inhibitory properties, such as the use of more permissive oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs), also called glial restricted precursor cells (GRPs), should be highly prioritized. Schwann cell (SC) transplantation is a promising translational strategy to promote axonal regeneration after CNS injuries, partly due to their expression and secretion of multiple growth-promoting factors. Whether grafted SCs have any effect on the biological properties of grafted GRPs remains unclear. Here we report that either SCs or SC-conditioned medium (SCM) promoted the survival, proliferation, and migration of GRPs in vitro. When GRPs and SCs were cografted into the normal or injured spinal cord, robust survival, proliferation, and migration of grafted GRPs were observed. Importantly, grafted GRPs differentiated into mature oligodendrocytes and formed new myelin on axons caudal to the injury. Finally, cografts of GRPs and SCs promoted recovery of function following SCI. We conclude that cotransplantation of GRPs and SCs, the only two kinds of myelin-forming cells in the nervous system, act complementarily and synergistically to promote greater anatomical and functional recovery after SCI than when either cell type is used alone.
Stem cell therapy ameliorates motor deficits in experimental stroke model. Multimodal molecular imaging enables real-time longitudinal monitoring of infarct location, size, and transplant survival. In the present study, we used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) to track the infarct evolution,tissue repair, and the fate of grafted cells. We genetically engineered embryonic stem cell-derived neural stem cells (NSCs) with a triple fusion reporter gene to express monomeric red fluorescence protein and herpes simplex virus-truncated thymidine kinase for multimodal molecular imaging and SPIO labeled for MRI. The infarct size as well as fate and function of grafted cells were tracked in real time for 3 months using MRI and PET. We report that grafted NSCs reduced the infarct size in animals with less than 0.1 cm(3) initial infarct in a dose-dependent manner, while larger stroke was not amenable to such beneficial effects. PET imaging revealed increased metabolic activity in grafted animals and visualized functioning grafted cells in vivo. Immunohistopathological analysis demonstrated that, after a 3-month survival period, grafted NSCs dispersed in the stroke-lesioned parenchyma and differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Longitudinal multimodal imaging provides insights into time course dose-dependent interactions between NSC grafts and structural changes in infarcted tissue.
Our previous study indicated that electroacupuncture (EA) could increase neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) levels in the injured spinal cord, stimulate the differentiation of transplanted bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), and improve functional recovery in the injured spinal cord of rats. However, the number of neuron-like cells derived from the MSCs is limited. It is known that NT-3 promotes the survival and differentiation of neurons by preferentially binding to its receptor TrkC. In this study, we attempted to transplant TrkC gene-modified MSCs (TrkC-MSCs) into the spinal cord with transection to investigate whether EA treatment could promote NT-3 secretion in the injured spinal cord and to determine whether increased NT-3 could further enhance transplanted MSCs overexpressing TrkC to differentiate into neuron-like cells, resulting in increased axonal regeneration and functional improvement in the injured spinal cord. Our results showed that EA increased NT-3 levels; furthermore, it promoted neuron-phenotype differentiation, synaptogenesis, and myelin formation of transplanted TrkC-MSCs. In addition, TrkC-MSC transplantation combined with EA (the TrkC-MSCs + EA group) treatment promoted the growth of the descending BDA-labeled corticospinal tracts (CSTs) and 5-HT-positive axonal regeneration across the lesion site into the caudal cord. In addition, the conduction of cortical motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) and hindlimb locomotor function increased as compared to controls (treated with the LacZ-MSCs, TrkC-MSCs, and LacZ-MSCs + EA groups). In the TrkC-MSCs + EA group, the injured spinal cord also showed upregulated expression of the proneurogenic factors laminin and GAP-43 and downregulated GFAP and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), major inhibitors of axonal growth. Together, our data suggest that TrkC-MSC transplantation combined with EA treatment spinal cord injury not only increased MSC survival and differentiation into neuron-like cells but also promoted CST regeneration across injured sites to the caudal cord and functional improvement, perhaps due to increase of NT-3 levels, upregulation of laminin and GAP-43, and downregulation of GFAP and CSPG proteins.

The brain's intrinsic functional architecture, revealed in correlated spontaneous activity, appears to constitute a faithful representation of its repertoire of evoked, extrinsic functional interactions. Here, using broad task contrasts to probe evoked patterns of coactivation, we demonstrate tight coupling between the brain's intrinsic and extrinsic functional architectures for default and task-positive regions, but not for subcortical and limbic regions or for primary sensory and motor cortices. While strong correspondence likely reflects persistent or recurrent patterns of evoked coactivation, weak correspondence may exist for regions whose patterns of evoked functional interactions are more adaptive and context dependent. These findings were independent of task. For tight task contrasts (e.g., incongruent vs. congruent trials), evoked patterns of coactivation were unrelated to the intrinsic functional architecture, suggesting that high-level task demands are accommodated by context-specific modulations of functional interactions. We conclude that intrinsic approaches provide only a partial understanding of the brain's functional architecture. Appreciating the full repertoire of dynamic neural responses will continue to require task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging approaches.
We have previously analyzed shape processing dynamics in macaque monkey posterior inferotemporal cortex (PIT). We described how early PIT responses to individual contour fragments evolve into tuning for multifragment shape configurations. Here, we analyzed curvature processing dynamics in area V4, which provides feedforward inputs to PIT. We contrasted 2 hypotheses: 1) that V4 curvature tuning evolves from tuning for simpler elements, analogous to PIT shape synthesis and 2) that V4 curvature tuning emerges immediately, based on purely feedforward mechanisms. Our results clearly supported the first hypothesis. Early V4 responses carried information about individual contour orientations. Tuning for multiorientation (curved) contours developed gradually over 50 ms. Together, the current and previous results suggest a partial sequence for shape synthesis in ventral pathway cortex. We propose that early orientation signals are synthesized into curved contour fragment representations in V4 and that these signals are transmitted to PIT, where they are then synthesized into multifragment shape representations. The observed dynamics might additionally or alternatively reflect influences from earlier (V1, V2) and later (central and anterior IT) processing stages in the ventral pathway. In either case, the dynamics of contour information in V4 and PIT appear to reflect a sequential hierarchical process of shape synthesis.
Head movement imposes the additional burdens on the visual system of maintaining visual acuity and determining the origin of retinal image motion (i.e., self-motion vs. object-motion). Although maintaining visual acuity during self-motion is effected by minimizing retinal slip via the brainstem vestibular-ocular reflex, higher order visuovestibular mechanisms also contribute. Disambiguating self-motion versus object-motion also invokes higher order mechanisms, and a cortical visuovestibular reciprocal antagonism is propounded. Hence, one prediction is of a vestibular modulation of visual cortical excitability and indirect measures have variously suggested none, focal or global effects of activation or suppression in human visual cortex. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation-induced phosphenes to probe cortical excitability, we observed decreased V5/MT excitability versus increased early visual cortex (EVC) excitability, during vestibular activation. In order to exclude nonspecific effects (e.g., arousal) on cortical excitability, response specificity was assessed using information theory, specifically response entropy. Vestibular activation significantly modulated phosphene response entropy for V5/MT but not EVC, implying a specific vestibular effect on V5/MT responses. This is the first demonstration that vestibular activation modulates human visual cortex excitability. Furthermore, using information theory, not previously used in phosphene response analysis, we could distinguish between a specific vestibular modulation of V5/MT excitability from a nonspecific effect at EVC.
The current study provides a complete magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) analysis of thickness throughout the cerebral cortical mantle in patients with schizophrenia (SZ) and rigorously screened and matched unaffected relatives and controls and an assessment of its relation to psychopathology and subjective cognitive function. We analyzed 3D-anatomical MRI data sets, obtained at 3 T, from 3 different subject groups: 25 SZ patients, 29 first-degree relatives, and 37 healthy control subjects. We computed whole-brain cortical thickness using the Freesurfer software and assessed group differences. We also acquired clinical and psychometric data. The results showed markedly reduced cortical thickness in SZ patients compared with controls, most notably in the frontal and temporal lobes, in the superior parietal lobe and several limbic areas, with intermediate levels of cortical thickness in relatives. In both patients and relatives, we found an association between subjective cognitive dysfunction and reduced thickness of frontal cortex, and predisposition toward hallucinations and reduced thickness of the superior temporal gyrus. Our findings suggest that changes in specific cortical areas may predispose to specific symptoms, as exemplified by the association between temporal cortex thinning and hallucinations.
Acetylcholine signaling through nicotinic receptors (nAChRs) in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is crucial for attention. Nicotinic AChRs are expressed on glutamatergic inputs to layer V (LV) cells and on LV interneurons and LVI pyramidal neurons. Whether PFC layers are activated by nAChRs to a similar extent or whether there is layer-specific activation is not known. Here, we investigate nAChR modulation of all PFC layers and find marked layer specificity for pyramidal neurons: LII/III pyramidal neurons and glutamatergic inputs to these cells do not contain nAChRs, LV and LVI pyramidal neurons are modulated by 7 and 2* nAChRs, respectively. Interneurons across layers contain mixed combinations of nAChRs. We then tested the hypothesis that nAChRs activate the PFC in a layer-specific manner using 2-photon population imaging. In all layers, nAChR-induced neuronal firing was dominated by 2* nAChRs. In LII/III, only interneurons were activated. In LV and LVI, both interneurons and pyramidal neurons were activated, the latter most strongly in LVI. Together, these results suggest that in the PFC nAChR activation results in inhibition of LII/III pyramidal neurons. In LV and LVI, nAChR-induced activation of inhibitory and excitatory neurons results in a net augmentation of output neuron activity.
The human brain is a topologically complex network embedded in anatomical space. Here, we systematically explored relationships between functional connectivity, complex network topology, and anatomical (Euclidean) distance between connected brain regions, in the resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging brain networks of 20 healthy volunteers and 19 patients with childhood-onset schizophrenia (COS). Normal between-subject differences in average distance of connected edges in brain graphs were strongly associated with variation in topological properties of functional networks. In addition, a club or subset of connector hubs was identified, in lateral temporal, parietal, dorsal prefrontal, and medial prefrontal/cingulate cortical regions. In COS, there was reduced strength of functional connectivity over short distances especially, and therefore, global mean connection distance of thresholded graphs was significantly greater than normal. As predicted from relationships between spatial and topological properties of normal networks, this disorder-related proportional increase in connection distance was associated with reduced clustering and modularity and increased global efficiency of COS networks. Between-group differences in connection distance were localized specifically to connector hubs of multimodal association cortex. In relation to the neurodevelopmental pathogenesis of schizophrenia, we argue that the data are consistent with the interpretation that spatial and topological disturbances of functional network organization could arise from excessive &quot;pruning&quot; of short-distance functional connections in schizophrenia.
Detection and appropriate reaction to sudden and intense events happening in the sensory environment is crucial for survival. By combining Bayesian model selection with dynamic causal modeling of functional magnetic resonance imaging data, a novel analysis approach that allows inferring the causality between neural activities in different brain areas, we demonstrate that salient sensory information reaches the multimodal cortical areas responsible for its detection directly from the thalamus, without being first processed in primary and secondary sensory-specific areas. This direct thalamocortical transmission of multimodal salient information is parallel to the processing of finer stimulus attributes, which are transmitted in a modality-specific fashion from the thalamus to the relevant primary sensory areas. Such direct thalamocortical connections bypassing primary sensory cortices provide a fast and efficient way for transmitting information from subcortical structures to multimodal cortical areas, to allow the early detection of salient events and, thereby, trigger immediate and appropriate behavior.
Current theories of medial temporal lobe (MTL) function focus on event content as an important organizational principle that differentiates MTL subregions. Perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices may play content-specific roles in memory, whereas hippocampal processing is alternately hypothesized to be content specific or content general. Despite anatomical evidence for content-specific MTL pathways, empirical data for content-based MTL subregional dissociations are mixed. Here, we combined functional magnetic resonance imaging with multiple statistical approaches to characterize MTL subregional responses to different classes of novel event content (faces, scenes, spoken words, sounds, visual words). Univariate analyses revealed that responses to novel faces and scenes were distributed across the anterior-posterior axis of MTL cortex, with face responses distributed more anteriorly than scene responses. Moreover, multivariate pattern analyses of perirhinal and parahippocampal data revealed spatially organized representational codes for multiple content classes, including nonpreferred visual and auditory stimuli. In contrast, anterior hippocampal responses were content general, with less accurate overall pattern classification relative to MTL cortex. Finally, posterior hippocampal activation patterns consistently discriminated scenes more accurately than other forms of content. Collectively, our findings indicate differential contributions of MTL subregions to event representation via a distributed code along the anterior-posterior axis of MTL that depends on the nature of event content.










The rejection rate by scientific journals may be rather high, sometimes up to 70-90%. On receipt of notification of rejection, one may experience various stages of the Kbler-Ross grief cycle--denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance, with an initial shock and an intermediate 'testing' stage. A paper may be rejected because of several reasons, such as the following: (1) it was submitted to an inappropriate journal, (2) journal format was not followed, (3) reading was not interesting or scientific/clinically sound, (4) topic was not current, (5) research was not novel, (6) low publication priority despite the absence of major flaws, (7) poor En-glish/writing style, (8) poor methods and statistics, (9) unbelievable results that were not properly discussed and (10) 'recycled' paper. Plagiarism is not tolerated. Simultaneous submission to 2 or more journals is not allowed. Outright rejection sometimes occurs in 70-80%; for 10-15%, the editor rejects without sending the paper to reviewers for obvious reasons as mentioned. For the majority, reviewers give feedback that leads to the editor rejecting the paper. On receiving notification of rejection, one should read the feedback and consider its contents prior to rewriting and submitting the paper to another journal (sometimes reviewers may see the same manuscript several times if asked by different editors). An invitation to resubmit 'de novo' occurs in only 1-5% of submissions; it requires substantial revision before resubmission. Being rejected but invited to resubmit a revised version occurs in 5-20% of submissions--it indicates a good chance of acceptance; one should carefully read the feedback and respond/comply with all suggestions. Papers rejected repeatedly may have 'fatal flaws' and are best abandoned.


The treatise &quot;De structura nervorum&quot; by Jir Prochska was published in 1779 after his appointment as a professor in Prague. This work is remarkable not only for its anatomical and histological findings, but also for its historical introduction, which contains a very detailed bibliographical review of previous knowledge about the structure of the nervous tissue. The treatise &quot;De structura nervorum&quot; has never been translated from the Latin language, but as a historical document about the level of neuroscience research conducted by a famous Czech researcher, it deserves further analysis. The present article includes a historical overview of knowledge about the structure of nervous tissue up to the late 18th century from the perspective of today, a translation of the historical introduction about the medieval knowledge of the structure of the nervous tissue and documenting the way in which Jir Prochska processed his bibliography, a translation and interpretation of his neurohistological observations and an analysis of the results in the light of current knowledge.
Lipid composition and properties play an important role in many cellular properties such as fusion of vesicles to cell membranes, an essential process for exocytosis. Using a model system composed of artificial vesicles (liposomes) and artificial membranes (planar lipid bilayers), we observed that fusion is significantly affected by the lipid phase of the planar membrane. To determine the effect of lipid phases on fusion rates, we utilized the nystatin/ergosterol fusion assay and stimulated fusion with an osmotic gradient. Phase of the planar membrane was altered by changing cholesterol or temperature while the vesicular lipids were held constant. Liquid disordered (L(d) or L()) planar membranes were formed from phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylcholine with unsaturated acyl chains. Addition of cholesterol shifts these membranes to the liquid ordered (L(o)) phase and increases liposome fusion. Planar membranes in the L() phase were also made from dipalmitoylphoshatidylcholine (DPPC) above the transition temperature (T(m)) of 41.5  C. Decreasing the temperature below T(m) shifts these membranes into the ripple phase (P(')) and also increases liposome fusion. The cholesterol and temperature data are consistent with the hypothesis that fusion is promoted in membranes that have greater exposure of their lipid tails or in membranes which can form leaflet domains with negative curvature. The data are not consistent with the hypothesis that lipid mismatch drives fusion.
Olfactory sensory deprivation during development has been shown to induce significant alterations in the neurophysiology of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), the primary sensory inputs to the brain's olfactory bulb. Deprivation has also been shown to alter the neurochemistry of the adult olfactory system, but the physiological consequences of these changes are poorly understood. Here we used in vivo synaptopHluorin (spH) imaging to visualize odorant-evoked neurotransmitter release from ORNs in adult transgenic mice that underwent 4 weeks of unilateral olfactory deprivation. Deprivation reduced odorant-evoked spH signals compared with sham-occluded mice. Unexpectedly, this reduction was equivalent between ORNs on the open and plugged sides. Changes in odorant selectivity of glomerular subpopulations of ORNs were also observed, but only in ORNs on the open side of deprived mice. These results suggest that naris occlusion in adult mice produces substantial changes in primary olfactory processing which may reflect not only the decrease in olfactory stimulation on the occluded side but also the alteration of response properties on the intact side. We also observed a modest effect of true sham occlusions that included noseplug insertion and removal, suggesting that conventional noseplug techniques may have physiological effects independent of deprivation per se and thus require more careful controls than has been previously appreciated.

This article provides a selective review of the neuroscience and child-psychoanalytic literature, focusing on areas of significant overlap and emphasizing comprehensive theories in developmental neuroscience and child psychoanalysis with testable mechanisms of action. Topics include molecular biology and genetics findings relevant to psychotherapy research, neuroimaging findings relevant to psychotherapy, brain regions of interest for psychotherapy, neurobiologic changes caused by psychotherapy, use of neuroimaging to predict treatment outcome, and schemas as a bridging concept between psychodynamic and cognitive neuroscience models. The combined efforts of neuroscientists and psychodynamic clinicians and theorists are needed to unravel the mechanisms of human mental functioning.
The present study investigated the relation between academic performance and ratings of executive functioning in children aged 6-11 from four countries: Sweden, Spain, Iran, and China. Ratings of executive functioning were made by both parents and teachers using the Childhood Executive Functioning Inventory (CHEXI). The results showed that the Chinese sample was generally rated as having more executive deficits compared to the other samples. The finding that executive functioning deficits are exacerbated in China is most likely the result of cultural biases. Boys were generally rated as having poorer executive functioning compared to girls, except in Iran where parents, but not teachers, rated girls as having poorer executive functioning compared to boys. However, this opposite pattern of results found for Iran is not likely to reflect true gender differences in executive functioning. Despite some differences in the levels of executive functioning across countries, both the inhibition and working memory subscales of the CHEXI were related to academic achievement in all four countries, except for CHEXI parent ratings in China. Altogether, the results indicate that the CHEXI may be used as a screening measure for early academic difficulties, although cultural biases clearly have to be taken into consideration.

Recent attempts to identify a neurocognitive profile of children with prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) have led to an emerging &quot;generalized deficit&quot; conceptualization marked by diffuse information processing and integration difficulties as opposed to a specific profile. This study examines whether this conceptualization can be extended to higher functioning children with PAE who are without intellectual disability and addresses several limitations of previous research. One hundred twenty-five children aged 6-12 years with social skills deficits, 97 of whom met diagnostic criteria for a Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD), underwent a comprehensive, multi-informant assessment of neurocognitive, emotional, social, behavioral, and adaptive functioning. Multivariate analyses of variance examined differences in functioning between the PAE group and a nonexposed comparison group with and without controlling for child IQ. Results indicated that the PAE group returned significantly poorer scores than the nonexposed group on every construct assessed, including executive functioning, attention, working/visuospatial memory, linguistic abstraction, adaptive behavior, emotional/behavioral functioning, and social cognition. These differences largely maintained after controlling for IQ and were similar regardless of informant, although teachers reported somewhat fewer group differences. Within the PAE group, no differences were found across FASD subtypes. These results provide evidence extending the emerging generalized deficit conceptualization of children with PAE to those higher functioning individuals without global intellectual disability.



A reduction in the amount of time spent sleeping occurs chronically in modern society. Clinical and experimental studies in humans and animal models have shown that immune function is impaired when sleep loss is experienced. Sleep loss exerts a strong regulatory influence on peripheral levels of inflammatory mediators of the immune response. An increasing number of research projects support the existence of reciprocal regulation between sleep and low-intensity inflammatory response. Recent studies show that sleep deficient humans and rodents exhibit a proinflammatory component; therefore, sleep loss is considered as a risk factor for developing cardiovascular, metabolic, and neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, and multiple sclerosis). Circulating levels of proinflammatory mediators depend on the intensity and duration of the method employed to induce sleep loss. Recognizing the fact that the concentration of proinflammatory mediators is different between acute and chronic sleep-loss may expand the understanding of the relationship between sleep and the immune response. The aim of this review is to integrate data from recent published reports (2002-2013) on the effects of sleep loss on the immune response. This review may allow readers to have an integrated view of the mechanisms involved in central and peripheral deficits induced by sleep loss.
Sphingolipid metabolism is deeply regulated along the differentiation and development of the central nervous system (CNS), and the expression of a peculiar spatially and temporarily regulated sphingolipid pattern is essential for the maintenance of the functional integrity of the nervous system. Microglia are resident macrophages of the CNS involved in general maintenance of neural environment. Modulations in microglia phenotypes may contribute to pathogenic forms of inflammation. Since defects in macrophage/microglia activity contribute to neurodegenerative diseases, it will be essential to systematically identify the components of the microglial cell response that contribute to disease progression. In such complex processes, the sphingolipid systems have recently emerged to play important roles, thus appearing as a key new player in CNS disorders. This review provides a rationale for harnessing the sphingolipid metabolic pathway as a potential target against neuroinflammation.
The pathophysiology of psychosis is poorly understood, with both the cognitive and cellular changes of the disease process remaining mysterious. There is a growing body of evidence that points to dysfunction of the immune system in a subgroup of patients with psychosis. Recently, autoantibodies directed against neuronal cell surface targets have been identified in a range of syndromes that feature psychosis. Of interest is the detection of autoantibodies in patients whose presentations are purely psychiatric, such as those suffering from schizophrenia. Autoantibodies have been identified in a minority of patients, suggesting that antibody-associated mechanisms of psychiatric disease likely only account for a subgroup of cases. Recent work has been based on the application of cell-based assays-a paradigm whose strength lies in the expression of putative antigens in their natural conformation on the surface of live cells. The responsiveness of some of these newly described clinical syndromes to immune therapy supports the hypothesis that antibody-associated mechanisms play a role in the pathogenesis of psychotic disease. However, further investigation is required to establish the scope and significance of antibody pathology in psychosis. The identification of a subgroup of patients with antibody-mediated disease would promise more effective approaches to the treatment of these high-morbidity conditions.
Recent evidences have highlighted that the pituitary hormones have profound effects on bone, so that the pituitary-bone axis is now becoming an important issue in the skeletal biology. Here, we discuss the topical evidence about the dysfunction of the pituitary-bone axis that leads to osteoporotic bone loss. We will explore the context of FSH and TSH hormones arguing their direct or indirect role in bone loss. In addition, we will focus on the knowledge that both FSH and TSH have influence on proinflammatory and proosteoclastogenic cytokine expression, such as TNF  and IL-1, underlining the correlation of pituitary-bone axis to the immune system.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a hematologic malignancy of differentiated plasma cells that accumulates and proliferates in the bone marrow. MM patients often develop bone disease that results in severe bone pain, osteolytic lesions, and pathologic fractures. These skeletal complications have not only a negative impact on quality of life but also a possible effect in overall survival. MM osteolytic bone lesions arise from the altered bone remodeling due to both increased osteoclast activation and decreased osteoblast differentiation. A dysregulated production of numerous cytokines that can contribute to the uncoupling of bone cell activity is well documented in the bone marrow microenvironment of MM patients. These molecules are produced not only by malignant plasma cells, that directly contribute to MM bone disease, but also by bone, immune, and stromal cells interacting with each other in the bone microenvironment. This review focuses on the current knowledge of MM bone disease biology, with particular regard on the role of bone and immune cells in producing cytokines critical for malignant plasma cell proliferation as well as in osteolysis development. Therefore, the understanding of MM pathogenesis could be useful to the discovery of novel agents that will be able to both restore bone remodelling and reduce tumor burden.
Periodontal disease (PD), or periodontitis, is defined as a bacterially induced disease of the tooth-supporting (periodontal) tissues. It is characterized by inflammation and bone loss; therefore understanding how they are linked would help to address the most efficacious therapeutic approach. Bacterial infection is the primary etiology but is not sufficient to induce the disease initiation or progression. Indeed, bacteria-derived factors stimulate a local inflammatory reaction and activation of the innate immune system. The innate response involves the recognition of microbial components by host cells, and this event is mediated by toll-like receptors (TLRs) expressed by resident cells and leukocytes. Activation of these cells leads to the release of proinflammatory cytokines and recruitment of phagocytes and lymphocytes. Activation of T and B cells initiates the adaptive immunity with Th1 Th2 Th17 Treg response and antibodies production respectively. In this inflammatory scenario, cytokines involved in bone regulation and maintenance have considerable relevance because tissue destruction is believed to be the consequence of host inflammatory response to the bacterial challenge. In the present review, we summarize host factors including cell populations, cytokines, and mechanisms involved in the destruction of the supporting tissues of the tooth and discuss treatment perspectives based on this knowledge.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an abundant class of small noncoding RNA molecules that play an important role in the regulation of gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. Due to their ability to simultaneously modulate the fate of different genes, these molecules are particularly well suited to act as key regulators during immune cell differentiation and activation, and their dysfunction can contribute to pathological conditions associated with neuroinflammation. Recent studies have addressed the role of miRNAs in the differentiation of progenitor cells into microglia and in the activation process, aiming at clarifying the origin of adult microglia cells and the contribution of the central nervous system (CNS) environment to microglia phenotype, in health and disease. Altered expression of several miRNAs has been associated with Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, and ischemic injury, hence strongly advocating the use of these small molecules as disease markers and new therapeutic targets. This review summarizes the recent advances in the field of miRNA-mediated regulation of microglia development and activation. We discuss the role of specific miRNAs in the maintenance and switching of microglia activation states and illustrate the potential of this class of nucleic acids both as biomarkers of inflammation and new therapeutic tools for the modulation of microglia behavior in the CNS.
In this report, we describe a kindred consisting of five affected males presenting with many of the well-recognized features of Aarskog-Scott syndrome. The diagnosis, which was confirmed by the identification of a novel nonsense mutation of FGD1, was associated with the presence of a symmetric distal arthropathy with electromyographic signs of myopathy. These features should be considered in the evaluation of future patients.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are a diffuse cerebrovascular disease affecting approximately 0.5% of the population. A CCM is characterized by abnormally enlarged and leaky capillaries arranged in mulberry-like structures with no clear flow pattern. The lesion might predispose to seizures, focal neurological deficits or fatal intracerebral hemorrhage. However, a CCM can also remain neurologically silent. It might either occur sporadically or as an inherited disorder with incomplete penetrance and variable expressivity. Due to advances in imaging techniques, the incidence of CCM diagnoses are increasing, and the patient must be managed on a multidisciplinary basis: genetic counselling, treatment if needed, and follow-up. Advances have been made using radiological and pathological correlates of CCM lesions adding to the accumulated knowledge of this disease, although management of these patients is very variable among centers. This review is aimed at providing an update in genetic and molecular insights of this condition. Included are implications for genetic counselling, and possible approaches to prevention and treatment that derive from the understanding of pathogenetic mechanisms.
The aim of the present study was to assess the in vivo effects of aldosterone topically applied on the hamster cheek pouch microcirculation under baseline conditions or during ischemia-reperfusion. Male Syrian hamsters were anesthetized, tracheotomized and intubated. They were studied under baseline conditions or submitted to ischemia-reperfusion. Cheek pouch microvessels were visualized by fluorescence microscopy. Microvascular parameters were determined by computerized methods. Under baseline conditions, aldosterone (0.2, 0.5, 2.4 M/L/2 min) induced dose-dependent constriction of all arterioles within 2.0  0.5 min of administration. Diameter reduction was in the same range in smaller arterioles: A3 ones constricted by 24  3% of baseline (at the highest dose). Aldosterone applied prior to ischemia and at reperfusion caused arteriolar constriction, marked microvascular permeability (0.66  0.03 Normalized Grey Level), reduction in perfused capillary (-70  4% of baseline) and leukocyte adhesion. All changes were statistically significant compared with ischemic animals. Potassium canrenoate (mineralcorticoid receptor inhibitor) prior to aldosterone did not abolish the aldosterone-induced effects, while valsartan (angiotensin II AT1 receptor inhibitor) prior to aldosterone ameliorated microvascular ischemia-reperfusion injury. In conclusion, aldosterone determined dose-dependent arteriolar constriction likely by angiotensin II type-1 receptor activation (non-genomic mechanism) worsening the effects of ischemia-reperfusion on capillary perfusion, while protecting from free radical formation.
Sleep disorders are so frequently associated with depression that, in the absence of sleep complaints, a diagnosis of depression should be made with caution. Insomnia, in particular, may occur in 60%-80% of depressed patients. Depressive symptoms are important risk factors for insomnia, and depression is considered an important comorbid condition in patients with chronic insomnia of any etiology. In addition, some drugs commonly prescribed for the treatment of depression may worsen insomnia and impair full recovery from the illness. The aim of this paper is to review briefly and discuss the following topics: common sleep disturbances during depression (in particular pavor nocturnus, nightmares, hypersomnia, and insomnia); circadian sleep disturbances; and treatment of depression by manipulation of the sleep-wake rhythm (chronotherapy, light therapy, cycles of sleep, and manipulation of the sleep-wake rhythm itself). Finally, we present a case report of a 65-year-old Caucasian woman suffering from insomnia associated with depression who was successfully treated with sleep deprivation.

Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is a severe form of premenstrual syndrome, characterized by depressive, anxious, and somatic symptoms, associated to a significant reduction in social functioning and quality of life. Although selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and oral contraceptives show a substantial effectiveness in PMDD, a wide percentage of women affected by PMDD do not respond to those first-line treatments. We present the case of a 42-year-old woman, affected by a disabling form of PMDD, who partially responded to an SSRI treatment and significantly improved after an add-on therapy with lamotrigine. We therefore suggest that lamotrigine may be an efficacious and safe augmentation strategy in severe PMDD cases showing unsatisfactory or partial response to SSRI treatments.







Rotation of drawings has been described in focal brain lesions, at copy when the dorsal visual stream is involved, at recall in patients with memory or frontal dysfunction. In the present study Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure performance was reviewed in 445 consecutive patients with mild cognitive impairment or degenerative dementia; a smaller sample (n = 243) had also performed the recall trial. Rotation was present in 19 cases overall: at copy in 11, at recall in 7, and at recall on a first assessment and at copy on retest in 1 last patient. Rotation at copy was often associated with neuropsychological and metabolic imaging evidence of parietal dysfunction, supporting previous evidence that rotation at copy might be due to an impairment of object perception processes within the dorsal visual stream. Rotation at recall seemed to be related predominantly to executive deficits, but no specific hypothesis on its cognitive origin can be advanced based on the present data.
This study investigated the effects of child-related factors (age, sex, and intellectual abilities) upon design fluency (DF) test scores. A DF test, a semantic verbal fluency (VF) test, and a Block Design test, as a proxy of intelligence, were administered to N = 80 healthy native Dutch-speaking children aged 8.45-12.82 years. Three components of DF performance were examined, i.e., design productivity over time, clustering (i.e., generating designs that share visual-spatial similarities, such as addition, deletion, or rotation), and switching (i.e., shifting between strategies that children use to draw the designs). The relation between DF design productivity over time and age was curvilinear, that is, improvements in test scores were much more pronounced for younger children than for older children. No (curvi)linear age effects were found in DF productivity scores, clustering, and switching. Also, our results did not reveal a relation between intellectual abilities and DF test scores. Furthermore, DF test scores and VF test scores were only partially significant, i.e., only significant positive correlations were found between the productivity scores of the VF test and the DF test. Finally, higher order sex by age interactions were found in all DF test scores, i.e., girls &lt;10.5 years produced more designs, made longer clusters, and switched less than boys. Opposite sex differences were found for children &gt;10.5 years. This illustrates the utility of combining quantitative scoring procedures with in-depth clustering and switching to understand interactions between age and sex during DF tests.
Schizophrenia (SCZ)-related verbal memory impairment is hypothesized to be mediated, in part, by frontal lobe (FTL) dysfunction. However, little research has contrasted the performance of SCZ patients with that of patients exhibiting circumscribed frontal lesions. The current study compared verbal episodic memory in patients with SCZ and focal FTL lesions (left frontal, LF; right frontal, RF; and bi-frontal, BF) on a four-trial list learning task consisting of three lists of varying semantic organizational structure. Each dependent variable was examined at two levels: scores collapsed across all four trials and learning scores (i.e., trial 4-trial 1). Performance deficits were observed in each patient group across most dependent measures at both levels. Regarding patient group differences, SCZ patients outperformed LF/BF patients (i.e., either learning scores or scores collapsed across trial) on free recall, primacy, primary memory, secondary memory, and subjective organization, whereas they only outperformed RF patients on the semantically blocked list on recency and primary memory. Collectively, these results indicate that the pattern of memory performance is largely similar between patients with SCZ and those with RF lesions. These data support tentative arguments that verbal episodic memory deficits in SCZ may be mediated by frontal dysfunction in the right hemisphere.
SR suffered a right hemispheric stroke more than 3 years ago, and now lives with left-sided hemiparesis and chronic spatial neglect due to damaged white matter pathways connecting the frontal, temporal and parietal regions. We report here that SR suffers from both viewer-centered (i.e., egocentric) and object-centered (i.e., allocentric) spatial neglect. Notably, unlike most neuropsychological and functional assessments that focus on egocentric deficits, a specialized neuropsychological figurative discrimination test (the Apples test) revealed SR's allocentric neglect. Further, using assessments sensitive to detect functional deficits related to allocentric neglect, we observed SR's difficulty in reading and using clocks, reflecting his object-centered errors in these everyday activities. SR's case suggests that allocentric-specific assessments, both neuropsychological and functional, are valuable in standard neglect examinations, particularly to predict daily function after stroke. We recommend that neglect-related functional disability be distinguished further with respect to allocentric spatial deficits, and functional assessments for allocentric neglect should be validated in future large sample studies. Identifying allocentric neglect early, and learning about its influence on daily function, may enhance care quality and facilitate effective rehabilitation planning for stroke recovery.
Cognitive impairments are often under diagnosed in stroke patients with good functional outcome. There is a need for a cognitive screening instrument that is sufficiently sensitive to cognitive impairments in these stroke patients. For this goal, we tested the feasibility and validity of the Barrow Neurological Institute Screen for Higher Cerebral Functions (BNIS). Stroke patients with good functional outcome (Barthel Index 19/20) within 1 year poststroke were administered the BNIS and a brief neuropsychological assessment (NPA) including tests for perception, language, memory, attention, reasoning, and executive functioning. We compared the BNIS with the NPA to investigate its feasibility, internal consistency, floor and ceiling effects, concurrent validity, sensitivity and specificity. Fifty-four stroke patients were included. It took significantly less time to administer the BNIS (median = 16 minutes) than the NPA (median = 32.7 minutes). The BNIS showed good internal consistency (alpha = .82) and no floor or ceiling effects. The recommended cutoff values yielded good sensitivity and low to good specificity, depending on age. Except for perception (Spearman correlation .33), BNIS domain scores were significantly (0.44-0.55) associated with matching neuropsychological tests. This study provides promising results for the BNIS as a measure to detect cognitive impairments in stroke patients with good functional outcome.
Assessment of visuospatial function is an integral part of most neuropsychological assessments and is frequently assessed by visuoconstructional tests. A significant impact of limited schooling and illiteracy has been found on numerous neuropsychological tests and it can be difficult to interpret test results from illiterate individuals. In this study, quantitative and qualitative aspects of performance of elderly cognitively healthy illiterate and literate Turkish immigrants were compared on five commonly used visuoconstructional tests. Significantly poorer performances of illiterate compared to literate subjects were found in copying of two- and three-dimensional geometric designs, and in Clock Drawing Test performance. A systematic qualitative analysis found lacking three-dimensionality, &quot;curved angles&quot;, omissions, distorted relation between elements, and spatial disorganization to be common error types in illiterate subjects. Performances were not found to be influenced by duration of residence in Denmark or level of acculturation. The results warrant caution in the interpretation of visuoconstructional test performances in illiterate subjects, as they can easily be misinterpreted as signs of cognitive dysfunction.
Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome (ARS) is a genetic disorder representing a disease spectrum resulting from neural crest cell maldevelopment. Glaucoma is a common complication from the incomplete formation of the iridocorneal angle structures. Neural crest cells also form structures of the forebrain and pituitary gland, dental papillae, aortic arch walls, genitalia, and long bones; therefore, patients with ARS manifest a wide range of systemic findings. To our knowledge, detailed magnetic resonance imaging findings have not been previously reported. We report a case of a 19-month-old Indian male diagnosed with ARS with emphasis on magnetic resonance imaging findings of the globes, brain, teeth, and skull base.

The present study aims to conduct a systematic review of the literature by checking the impact of positive emotion in the treatment of depression and on the use of strategies of positive psychology which involves positive emotion to treat and reduce symptoms of depression.For this purpose, we conducted searches in databases ISI Web of Knowledge, PsycINFO and PubMed and found a total of 3400 studies. After inclusion application and exclusion criteria, 28 articles remained, presented and discussed in this study.The studies have important relations between humor and positive emotion as well as a significant improvement in signs and symptoms of depression using differents strategies of positive psychology. Another relevant aspect is the preventative character of the proposed interventions by positive psychology by the fact that increase well-being and produce elements such as resilience and coping resources that reduce the recurrent relapses in the treatment of depression. The strategies of positive psychology, such as increasing positive emotions, develop personal strengths: seeking direction, meaning and engagement for the day-to-day life of the patients, appear as potentially tools for the prophylaxis and treatment of depression, helping to reduce signs and symptoms as well as for prevention of relapses.


Schizophrenia is a brain disease that represents a not rare condition, in fact the lifetime risk of developing schizophrenia is widely accepted to be around 1 in 100. Schizophrenia clinically manifests with acute episodes which are associated with hallucinations, delirium, behavioral disorders and a variable range of chronic persistent symptoms, which can be debilitating. The causes of schizophrenia are not clearly understood. It seems that genetic factors may produce a vulnerability to schizophrenia, along with environmental factors that contribute in a different way from individual to individual. In this context schizophrenia constitutes the outcome of a complex interaction between multiple genes and environmental risk factors, none of which on its own causes the disorder itself. Antipsychotic medications represent the first line of psychiatric treatment for schizophrenia. But there is a growing body of evidence that omega-3 fatty acids can prevent the disease or at least mitigate the course and symptoms. Probably, an appropriate dietary supplementation can play a partially therapeutic effect, even in more severe patients, improving some behavioral aspects and, mainly, reducing the cognitive deterioration. In this context the role of omega-3 fatty acids as a treatment for schizophrenia will strengthen the thrust of researchers and clinicians to the integrated approach to the prevention and cure of a disease that for more than a century challenging researchers.
Daily rhythms regulate everiday life and sleep/wake alternation is the best expression of this. Disruptions in biological rhythms is strongly associated with mood disorders, often being the major feature of this, major depressive disorder first of all. Although stabilization of rhythms produced by treatments have important outcome on therapeutic efficacy, insomnia often remains an unresolved symptom when major depression has otherwise been successfully treated with antidepressant. We review scientific literature in order to better clarify how to better approach insomnia as a clinical aspect to investigate and to early treat while treating other psychiatric conditions, major depression in particular. Insomnia is associated with impaired quality of life. It can be resolved with adequate diagnosis and treatment: it should be considered a comorbid condition and should be early identificated and treated in a multidisciplinary way, so that the ideal of treatment for patients with treatment resistant insomnia in major depression is an integration of non-pharmacologic measures, along with judicious use of medication, often used as an adjunctive therapy.

In this study, we investigated the associations between single-nucleotide polymorphisms in GAB2 (rs2373115), GSK3B (rs6438552) and SORL1 (rs641120) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), both alone and in combination with the APOE*4 allele.

The Quality of Life Inventory (QOLI) is an established rating scale of self-perceived quality of life across 16 domains. Norms for different psychiatric conditions when rated via the Internet, responsiveness to change following treatment, and the clinical impact of importance-weighting items have yet to be examined. To investigate these unanswered questions, important for the continued and expanded use of the QOLI, we compiled archival screening and post-treatment data from 20 studies featuring Internet-delivered psychological interventions for seven different psychiatric conditions and an undergraduate sample, totalling over 4000 participants. Disorder-specific norms were indicated by between-group analyses and are reported here, item-by-item. The QOLI showed adequate responsiveness to change and construct validity. Discrepancies were found when conducting between-group analyses with and without weighted items (more significant differences when items were not weighted) on both the screening and post-treatment data, suggesting that weighting is a procedure that is likely to have an impact when analysing QOLI results. Limitations and the needs for future research are discussed.
Several psychological domains may be dysfunctional in people with bipolar disorder (BD). When dysfunction occurs prior to onset of mood symptoms, it may signify risk for onset of the full syndrome of illness. Among these domains, cognitive dysfunction has received considerable attention as a possible endophenotype for BD, with some suggestion that changes in cognitive function may antedate onset of mood symptoms in individuals at risk for BD. Domains of social cognition, including emotion comprehension, theory of mind, and empathy, along with autobiographical memory, represent understudied aspects of psychological function that may be dysfunctional in people with BD. Temperament and personality factors, such as ruminative tendencies and neuroticism, may also leave some people vulnerable to mood instability. This review summarises the evidence for dysfunction in each of these domains for people with BD and examines whether there is any evidence that this dysfunction antedates the onset of mood symptoms or confers risk for illness.
Motor theories of action comprehension claim that comprehending the meaning of an action performed by a conspecific relies on the perceiver's own motor representation of the same action. According to this view, whether an action belongs to the motor repertoire of the perceiver should impact the ease by which this action is comprehended. We tested this prediction by assessing the ability of an individual (D.C.) born without upper limbs to comprehend actions involving hands (e.g., throwing) or other body parts (e.g., jumping). The tests used a range of different visual stimuli differing in the kind of information provided. The results showed that D.C. was as accurate and fast as control participants in comprehending natural video and photographic presentations of both manual and nonmanual actions, as well as pantomimes. However, he was selectively impaired at identifying point-light animations of manual actions. This impairment was not due to a difficulty in processing kinematic information per se. D.C. was indeed as accurate as control participants in two additional tests requiring a fine-grained analysis of an actor's arm or whole-body movements. These results challenge motor theories of action comprehension by showing that the visual analysis of body shape and motion provides sufficient input for comprehending observed actions. However, when body shape information is sparsely available, motor involvement becomes critical to interpret observed actions. We suggest that, with natural human movement stimuli, motor representations contribute to action comprehension each time visual information is incomplete or ambiguous.
We compared the performance of 15 adults with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and a group of 16 control adults on a temporal bisection task in auditory and visual modalities. The point of subjective equality (PSE) and the difference limen (DL) were computed to analyse performance. The main findings were that (a) individuals with ADHD overestimated the duration of both the auditory and visual stimuli in comparison to the control group, as evidenced by a shift in their mean PSE; (b) individuals with ADHD also showed less precision in their estimates than did the control group as evidenced by flatter psychometric functions; and (c) the degrees of overestimation and imprecision in subjects with ADHD were comparable across modalities. These results, discussed in the framework of the pacemaker-counter clock model of time estimation, suggest that temporal difficulties encountered by ADHD patients might be explained both by an alertness effect at the level of the switch that directs pulses into the accumulator and also by distortions of durations stored in reference memory.
The Differentiation-Integration for Surface Completion (DISC) model aims to explain the reconstruction of visual surfaces. We find the model a valuable contribution to our understanding of figure-ground organization. We point out that, next to border-ownership, neurons in visual cortex code whether surface elements belong to a figure or the background and that this is influenced by attention. We furthermore suggest that there must be strong links between object recognition and figure-ground assignment in order to resolve the status of interior contours. Incorporation of these factors in neurocomputational models will further improve our understanding of surface reconstruction, figure-ground organization, and border-ownership.
The main functions of the respiratory neural network are to produce a coordinated, efficient, rhythmic motor behavior and maintain homeostatic control over blood oxygen and CO2/pH levels. Purinergic (ATP) signaling features prominently in these homeostatic reflexes. The signaling actions of ATP are produced through its binding to a diversity of ionotropic P2X and metabotropic P2Y receptors. However, its net effect on neuronal and network excitability is determined by the interaction between the three limbs of a complex system comprising the signaling actions of ATP at P2Rs, the distribution of multiple ectonucleotidases that differentially metabolize ATP into ADP, AMP, and adenosine (ADO), and the signaling actions of ATP metabolites, especially ADP at P2YRs and ADO at P1Rs. Understanding the significance of purinergic signaling is further complicated by the fact that neurons, glia, and the vasculature differentially express P2 and P1Rs, and that both neurons and glia release ATP. This article reviews at cellular, synaptic, and network levels, current understanding and emerging concepts about the diverse roles played by this three-part signaling system in: mediating the chemosensitivity of respiratory networks to hypoxia and CO2/pH; modulating the activity of rhythm generating networks and inspiratory motoneurons, and; controlling blood flow through the cerebral vasculature.
Neural spike train analysis is an important task in computational neuroscience which aims to understand neural mechanisms and gain insights into neural circuits. With the advancement of multielectrode recording and imaging technologies, it has become increasingly demanding to develop statistical tools for analyzing large neuronal ensemble spike activity. Here we present a tutorial overview of Bayesian methods and their representative applications in neural spike train analysis, at both single neuron and population levels. On the theoretical side, we focus on various approximate Bayesian inference techniques as applied to latent state and parameter estimation. On the application side, the topics include spike sorting, tuning curve estimation, neural encoding and decoding, deconvolution of spike trains from calcium imaging signals, and inference of neuronal functional connectivity and synchrony. Some research challenges and opportunities for neural spike train analysis are discussed.
We address strategic cognitive sequencing, the &quot;outer loop&quot; of human cognition: how the brain decides what cognitive process to apply at a given moment to solve complex, multistep cognitive tasks. We argue that this topic has been neglected relative to its importance for systematic reasons but that recent work on how individual brain systems accomplish their computations has set the stage for productively addressing how brain regions coordinate over time to accomplish our most impressive thinking. We present four preliminary neural network models. The first addresses how the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and basal ganglia (BG) cooperate to perform trial-and-error learning of short sequences; the next, how several areas of PFC learn to make predictions of likely reward, and how this contributes to the BG making decisions at the level of strategies. The third models address how PFC, BG, parietal cortex, and hippocampus can work together to memorize sequences of cognitive actions from instruction (or &quot;self-instruction&quot;). The last shows how a constraint satisfaction process can find useful plans. The PFC maintains current and goal states and associates from both of these to find a &quot;bridging&quot; state, an abstract plan. We discuss how these processes could work together to produce strategic cognitive sequencing and discuss future directions in this area.
Our limited understanding of the relationship between the behavior of individual neurons and large neuronal networks is an important limitation in current epilepsy research and may be one of the main causes of our inadequate ability to treat it. Addressing this problem directly via experiments is impossibly complex; thus, we have been developing and studying medium-large-scale simulations of detailed neuronal networks to guide us. Flexibility in the connection schemas and a complete description of the cortical tissue seem necessary for this purpose. In this paper we examine some of the basic issues encountered in these multiscale simulations. We have determined the detailed behavior of two such simulators on parallel computer systems. The observed memory and computation-time scaling behavior for a distributed memory implementation were very good over the range studied, both in terms of network sizes (2,000 to 400,000 neurons) and processor pool sizes (1 to 256 processors). Our simulations required between a few megabytes and about 150 gigabytes of RAM and lasted between a few minutes and about a week, well within the capability of most multinode clusters. Therefore, simulations of epileptic seizures on networks with millions of cells should be feasible on current supercomputers.
Background. Haptic robots allow the exploitation of known motor learning mechanisms, representing a valuable option for motor treatment after stroke. The aim of this feasibility multicentre study was to test the clinical efficacy of a haptic prototype, for the recovery of hand function after stroke. Methods. A prospective pilot clinical trial was planned on 15 consecutive patients enrolled in 3 rehabilitation centre in Italy. All the framework features of the haptic robot (e.g., control loop, external communication, and graphic rendering for virtual reality) were implemented into a real-time MATLAB/Simulink environment, controlling a five-bar linkage able to provide forces up to 20[N] at the end effector, used for finger and hand rehabilitation therapies. Clinical (i.e., Fugl-Meyer upper extremity scale; nine hold pegboard test) and kinematics (i.e., time; velocity; jerk metric; normalized jerk of standard movements) outcomes were assessed before and after treatment to detect changes in patients' motor performance. Reorganization of cortical activation was detected in one patient by fMRI. Results and Conclusions. All patients showed significant improvements in both clinical and kinematic outcomes. Additionally, fMRI results suggest that the proposed approach may promote a better cortical activation in the brain.

Clinical differentiation of parkinsonian syndromes such as the Parkinson variant of multiple system atrophy (MSA-P) and cerebellar subtype (MSA-C) from Parkinson's disease is difficult in the early stage of the disease. To identify the correlative pattern of brain changes for differentiating parkinsonian syndromes, we applied discriminant analysis techniques by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). T1-weighted volume data and diffusion tensor images were obtained by MRI in eighteen patients with MSA-C, 12 patients with MSA-P, 21 patients with Parkinson's disease, and 21 healthy controls. They were evaluated using voxel-based morphometry and tract-based spatial statistics, respectively. Discriminant functions derived by step wise methods resulted in correct classification rates of 0.89. When differentiating these diseases with the use of three independent variables together, the correct classification rate was the same as that obtained with step wise methods. These findings support the view that each parkinsonian syndrome has structural deviations in multiple brain areas and that a combination of structural brain measures can help to distinguish parkinsonian syndromes.
Consumer neuroscience addresses marketing relevant problems through the integration and application of neuroscientific theories, concepts, findings and methods to the research discipline of consumer behavior. The key contribution of this paper is to complement the advancement of traditional consumer research through the investigation of the patterns of interdependency between the Electroencephalogram (EEG) signals from the different brain regions while participants undertook a choice task designed to elicit preferences for a marketing product (crackers). Specifically, the task required participants to choose their preferred crackers described by shape (square, triangle, round), flavor (wheat, dark rye, plain) and topping (salt, poppy, no topping).We analyze the Electroencephalogram (EEG) signals collected from the different brain regions using the commercially available 14 channel Emotiv EPOC wireless EEG headset and relate the EEG data to the specific choice options with a Tobii X60 eye tracker. Fifteen participants were recruited for this experiment and were shown 57 choice sets; each choice set described three choice options. The patterns of cortical activity were obtained in the five principal frequency bands, Delta (0 - 4 Hz), Theta (3 - 7 Hz), Alpha (8 - 12 Hz), Beta (13 - 30 Hz), and Gamma (30 - 40 Hz). Our results indicate significant phase synchronization between the left and right frontal and occipital regions indicating interhemispheric communications during the choice task. Our experimental results also show that participants spent more time looking at the non-preferred items in each choice set at the beginning of the experiment (exploration mode), while reducing that time progressively to indicate significant amount of cognitive processing assigned to preferred items (exploitation mode).
Multimodal approaches to brain imaging are getting increasingly popular among the neuroscience comunity. One such multimodal approach is the combination of electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In this paper we demonstrate two EEG-fMRI integration methods for contour integration task. First, we derrive the contour-selectivity measures from event related potential (ERP) and fMRI data, and explore the correlation between the two. In this way, we connect the spatial information from fMRI with the temporal information from ERPs. Thereafter, the results from this approach are compare to JointICA integration approach [5], [6], which aims at extracting spatio-temporal independent components, which are the combination of ERP and fMRI activations.
This paper aims at estimating causal relationships between signals to detect flow propagation in autoregressive and physiological models. The main challenge of the ongoing work is to discover whether neural activity in a given structure of the brain influences activity in another area during epileptic seizures. This question refers to the concept of effective connectivity in neuroscience, i.e. to the identification of information flows and oriented propagation graphs. Past efforts to determine effective connectivity rooted to Wiener causality definition adapted in a practical form by Granger with autoregressive models. A number of studies argue against such a linear approach when nonlinear dynamics are suspected in the relationship between signals. Consequently, nonlinear nonparametric approaches, such as transfer entropy (TE), have been introduced to overcome linear methods limitations and promoted in many studies dealing with electrophysiological signals. Until now, even though many TE estimators have been developed, further improvement can be expected. In this paper, we investigate a new strategy by introducing an adaptive kernel density estimator to improve TE estimation.
Understanding the neurobiological mechanisms underlying different types of tremor and the altered functional connectivity of the involved areas is a timely goal in clinical neuroscience. If successful, this quest may open new perspectives on how to achieve tremor modulation, which is notably relevant, in Parkinson's disease (PD). Tremor can be characterized by simple parameters such as frequency and amplitude. It is therefore prone to be objectively targeted by neuromodulation and quantitatively investigated using multimodal techniques, such as, accelerometry, EMG and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI). Embarking on the latter challenge requires an a priori knowledge of how effective functional connectivity is altered in PD tremor. This works aims to ascertain which postural and voluntary movement tasks with distinct types of physical load are suitable for designing efficient fMRI protocols, by performing an accelerometry analysis to measure spontaneous and imposed tremor modulation on cohorts of PD patients, essential tremor patients and a group of voluntary healthy controls.
Emotional behavior is an active area of study in the fields of neuroscience and affective computing. This field has the fundamental role of emotion recognition in the maintenance of physical and mental health. Valence/Arousal levels are two orthogonal, independent dimensions of any emotional stimulus and allows an analysis framework in affective research. In this paper we present our framework for emotional regression based on machine learning techniques. Autoregressive coefficients and hidden markov models on physiological signals, based on Fisher Kernels characterization are presented for mapping variable length sequences to new dimension feature vector space. Then, support vector regression is performed over the Fisher Scores for emotional recognition. Also quantitatively we evaluated the accuracy of the proposed model by acomplishing a hold-out cross validation over the dataset. The experimental results show that the proposed model can effectively perform the regression in comparison with static characterization methods.
A challenging problem in motor control neuroimaging studies is the inability to perform complex human motor tasks given the Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanner's disruptive magnetic fields and confined workspace. In this paper, we propose a novel experimental platform that combines Functional MRI (fMRI) neuroimaging, haptic virtual simulation environments, and an fMRI-compatible haptic device for real-time haptic interaction across the scanner workspace (above torso  .65.40.20m(3)). We implement this Haptic fMRI platform with a novel haptic device, the Haptic fMRI Interface (HFI), and demonstrate its suitability for motor neuroimaging studies. HFI has three degrees-of-freedom (DOF), uses electromagnetic motors to enable high-fidelity haptic rendering (&gt;350Hz), integrates radio frequency (RF) shields to prevent electromagnetic interference with fMRI (temporal SNR &gt;100), and is kinematically designed to minimize currents induced by the MRI scanner's magnetic field during motor displacement (&lt;2cm). HFI possesses uniform inertial and force transmission properties across the workspace, and has low friction (.05-.30N). HFI's RF noise levels, in addition, are within a 3 Tesla fMRI scanner's baseline noise variation (.85.1%). Finally, HFI is haptically transparent and does not interfere with human motor tasks (tested for .4m reaches). By allowing fMRI experiments involving complex three-dimensional manipulation with haptic interaction, Haptic fMRI enables-for the first time-non-invasive neuroscience experiments involving interactive motor tasks, object manipulation, tactile perception, and visuo-motor integration.
Recently effective connectivity studies have gained significant attention among the neuroscience community as Electroencephalography (EEG) data with a high time resolution can give us a wider understanding of the information flow within the brain. Among other tools used in effective connectivity analysis Granger Causality (GC) has found a prominent place. The GC analysis, based on strictly causal multivariate autoregressive (MVAR) models does not account for the instantaneous interactions among the sources. If instantaneous interactions are present, GC based on strictly causal MVAR will lead to erroneous conclusions on the underlying information flow. Thus, the work presented in this paper applies an extended MVAR (eMVAR) model that accounts for the zero lag interactions. We propose a constrained adaptive Kalman filter (CAKF) approach for the eMVAR model identification and demonstrate that this approach performs better than the short time windowing-based adaptive estimation when applied to information flow analysis.
The combination of optical stimulation and electrical recording is commonly employed in neuroscience research. Researchers using optogenetics are familiar with the photo-induced &quot;artifacts&quot; that arise from illumination of an electrode array. We sought to characterize this photoelectrochemical (PEC) effect to understand the underlying mechanism seen on NeuroNexus optoelectrodes. In doing so, we discovered that the phenomenon is inversely proportional to electrode site area in the same manner as electrical impedance measurements. We have applied the PEC effect as a method of electrode evaluation and show that a PEC measurement system can be both faster and more effective than impedance at sensing defects in high-throughput biomedical device testing.
The association of functional connectivity patterns with particular cognitive tasks has long been a topic of interest in neuroscience, e.g., studies of functional connectivity have demonstrated its potential use for decoding various brain states. However, the high-dimensionality of the pairwise functional connectivity limits its usefulness in some real-time applications. In the present study, the methodology of tensor subspace analysis (TSA) is used to reduce the initial high-dimensionality of the pairwise coupling in the original functional connectivity network to a space of condensed descriptive power, which would significantly decrease the computational cost and facilitate the differentiation of brain states. We assess the feasibility of the proposed method on EEG recordings when the subject was performing mental arithmetic task which differ only in the difficulty level (easy: 1-digit addition v.s. 3-digit additions). Two different cortical connective networks were detected, and by comparing the functional connectivity networks in different work states, it was found that the task-difficulty is best reflected in the connectivity structure of sub-graphs extending over parietooccipital sites. Incorporating this data-driven information within original TSA methodology, we succeeded in predicting the difficulty level from connectivity patterns in an efficient way that can be implemented so as to work in real-time.
Graph theory is a powerful mathematical tool recently introduced in neuroscience field for quantitatively describing the main properties of investigated connectivity networks. Despite the technical advancements provided in the last few years, further investigations are needed for overcoming actual limitations in the field. In fact, the absence of a common procedure currently applied for the extraction of the adjacency matrix from a connectivity pattern has been leading to low consistency and reliability of ghaph indexes among the investigated population. In this paper we proposed a new approach for adjacency matrix extraction based on a statistical threshold as valid alternative to empirical approaches, extensively used in Neuroscience field (i.e. fixing the edge density). In particular we performed a simulation study for investigating the effects of the two different extraction approaches on the topological properties of the investigated networks. In particular, the comparison was performed on two different datasets, one composed by uncorrelated random signals (null-model) and the other one by signals acquired on a mannequin head used as a phantom (EEG null-model). The results highlighted the importance to use a statistical threshold for the adjacency matrix extraction in order to describe the real existing topological properties of the investigated networks. The use of an empirical threshold led to an erroneous definition of small-world properties for the considered connectivity patterns.
In this paper we developed an integrated device comprised of a multi-electrode array coupled with optical fiber for deep-brain optical stimulation and electrical recording. We characterized the array device both electrically and optically, and conducted in vivo experiments on free moving rats for validation. This design of array device provides a viable tool for neuromodulation and neural signal acquisition in optogenetics and in other fields of neuroscience studies perspectively.
This paper presents an upper extremity exoskeleton with an original application in neuroscience. The novelty of this study is the investigation of the self-advantage phenomenon under various experimental conditions. Usually this kind of experiments lies only on human visual ability to explicitly and/or implicitly recognize their own arm movements. Using an exoskeleton to replay recorded trajectories allows to give another perspective to the previous studies in including the proprioceptive ability of humans. Twelve healthy subjects were involved in this study. The results show that the self advantage phenomenon is even more present in the implicit tasks.
Functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) is rapidly gaining interest in both the Neuroscience, as well as the Brain-Computer-Interface (BCI) community. Despite these efforts, most single-trial analysis of fNIRS data is focused on motor-imagery, or mental arithmetics. In this study, we investigate the suitability of different mental tasks, namely mental arithmetics, word generation and mental rotation for fNIRS based BCIs. We provide the first systematic comparison of classification accuracies achieved in a sample study. Data was collected from 10 subjects performing these three tasks.
Microsaccades together with drift and tremor are fixational eye movements that are generated when we try to fixate our gaze on a visual target. Besides their function in vision to prevent neural adaptation to unchanging retinal image, microsaccades have been studied in neuroscience as an indicator of attentional states for the last decade. Most of microsaccade researches have been conducted in unnatural laboratory environments, using controlled artificial visual stimuli. Thus, little is known about the characteristics of microsaccades in natural viewing conditions. Here we attempted to evaluate microsaccades during car driving condition in the aim of estimating driver's spatial attention. We demonstrate that microsaccades are generated during car driving, and the rate of microsaccade generation is modulated by road conditions such as appearance of pedestrians or/and other cars.
The rodent whisker system is a common model for somatosensory neuroscience and sensorimotor integration. In support of ongoing efforts to assess neural stimulation approaches for future sensory prostheses, in which we deliver optogenetic stimulation to the somatosensory cortex of behaving mice, we must coordinate feedback in real time with active sensing whisker motions. Here we describe methods for extracting the times of whisker palpations from bilateral bipolar facial electromyograms (EMG). In particular, we show onset times extracted offline from EMG envelopes lead whisker motion onsets extracted from high speed video (HSV) by  16 ms. While HSV provides ground truth for sensing motions, it is not a feasible source of real time information suitable for neurofeedback experiments. As an alternative, we find the temporal derivative of the EMG envelope reliably predicts whisker motion onsets with short latency. Thus EMG, although providing noisy and partial information, can serve well as an input to control algorithms for testing neural processing of active sensing information, and providing stimulation for artificial touch experiments.
Development of methods to detect and classify neural spikes in extracellular voltage signals (e.g. commonly referred to as spike sorting) have been one of important subjects in neuroscience and neural engineering. Most of previous spike sorting methods suffer from unresolved overlaps of spike waveforms which make timings and shapes of spikes unclear. Some methods have got a handle on this problem, but they had restrictions about the type of electrodes or complexity of overlaps. In this paper, we attempted to develop a spike sorting method for the signal containing overlaps of the arbitrary number of spikes recorded with arbitrary electrodes. We estimated templates and timings of spikes by the inference based on hidden Markov model. In order to avoid the problem of too high computational cost and too much decomposition caused by assuming arbitrary overlaps, we imposed the weak probabilistic penalty on overlaps in the model and reduced computation of estimation by approximating low probabilities to zero. As the result of assessments using simulated signal and real extracellular recordings, we showed that proposed method could robustly detect and sort complexly overlapped spikes.
Investigating the brain connective network using the modern graph theory has been widely applied in cognitive and clinical neuroscience research. In this study, we aimed to investigate the effects of streamline-based fiber tractography on the change of network properties and established a systematic framework to understand how an adequate network matrix scaling can be determined. The network properties, including degree, efficiency and betweenness centrality, show similar tendency in both left and right hemispheres. By employing the curve-fitting process with exponential law and measuring the residuals, the association between changes of network properties and threshold of track numbers is found and an adequate range of investigating the lateralization of brain network is suggested. The proposed approach can be further applied in clinical applications to improve the diagnostic sensitivity using network analysis with graph theory.
In thalamic lesions a pseudocortical syndrome has been occasionally described but the effect of the lesion on the cortical network of tactile recognition has never been studied. We report a patient who developed tactile agnosia in the left hand after right thalamic stroke, configuring a pseudocortical sensory syndrome. The discriminative sensory dysfunction was dissociate because only tactile agnosia and mild pseudoathetosis were present. A functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study showed that tactile recognition with the unaffected hand recruited a bilateral fronto-parietal network. During recognition with the left hand the activation was restricted and lateralized to the ipsilateral hemisphere. In this patient with pseudocortical discriminative sensory dysfunction the lack of activation of the whole cortical network, implicated in tactile recognition, demonstrates that pseudocortical is functionally equivalent to cortical tactile agnosia.
The strong association between numbers and space is found in the well-documented SNARC effect (Spatial Numerical Association of Response Codes), where responses on small/large numbers are faster in the left/right side of space, respectively. However, little is known about the developmental process through which numbers are mapped onto external physical space. Here we show that early blind individuals, but not late blind or sighted, demonstrate a reversed SNARC effect when performing a numerical comparison task with hands crossed over the body midline. Importantly, this reversed SNARC effect was not observed in any group of participants in a control parity judgment task. The present study therefore demonstrates that early visual experience drives the development of an external coordinate system for the visuo-spatial representation of numbers and further supports the idea that different types of spatial information are engaged in specific numerical tasks.
Von Economo neurons (VENs) are projection neurons located in layer V of the anterior cingulate and frontoinsular cortex that are increasingly attracting the interest of the scientific community as many studies point to their involvement in neuropsychiatric conditions. In this review we provide a critical appraisal of both historic and recent literature on VENs that highlights the importance of clinicopathological studies in areas of research where animal models are not available. Current data suggest that VENs represent a specialized neuronal type with a characteristic morphology that evolved only in a restricted number of species most likely from a population of pyramidal neurons present in ancestral mammals in the context of specific adaptive pressures. VENs, which evolved among primates only in the hominoid lineage, are particularly vulnerable in neuropsychiatric conditions characterized by deficits in social skills and emotional function. Moreover, recent evidence on the neurochemical profile, morphologic features, and laminar and regional distribution of VENs suggests that this intriguing neuronal population could be critically involved in autonomic regulation.

Interest is being shown in a componential analysis of performance on declarative memory tasks that distinguishes two different kinds of access to stored memories, recollection and familiarity. From a developmental perspective, it has been hypothesized that recollection emerges later and shows more developmental changes than familiarity. Nevertheless, the contribution of recollection and familiarity to the recognition performance of individuals with intellectual disabilities (ID) has been rarely examined. The present study was aimed at investigating the qualitative profile of declarative long-term memory in a group of individuals with Williams syndrome (WS). We compared 13 individuals with WS and 13 mental-age-matched typically developing children in two different experimental paradigms to assess the contribution of familiarity and recollection to recognition performance. We adopted a modified version of the process dissociation procedure and a task dissociation procedure, both of which are suited to individuals with ID. Results of both experimental paradigms demonstrated reduced recollection and spared familiarity in the declarative memory performances of individuals with WS. These results provide direct evidence of a dissociation between recollection and familiarity in a neurodevelopmental disorder and are discussed in relation to alternative approaches for explaining abnormal cognition in individuals with ID.
Contemporary care models and new knowledge in neuroscience and brain development are the foundation for including mindfulness in the delivery of holistic health care. Youth who experience persistent poverty or other chronic environmental stressors face serious challenges to health development. This article shares a nursing challenge in piloting a mindfulness program with urban youth who have experienced homelessness.

Patients with neurologic illness or injury benefit from early interventions to increase physical activity and mobility, but they also have special needs related to hemodynamic stability and intracranial pressure dynamics. After brain injury, moving paralyzed limbs--even passively--helps promote neural plasticity, &quot;rerouting&quot; signals around the injured area and forming new connections, resulting in improved functional recovery. Neurologic deficits may impede a patient's functional and language abilities, so a mobility program must take into account the need for assistive devices, communication strategies, and additional personnel. Because cerebral autoregulation may be impaired, stability of blood pressure and intracranial pressure must be considered when planning mobility activities. The clinical team must consider the full spectrum of mobility for the neuroscience patient, from having the bed in the chair position for a comatose patient to ambulation of the patient with ventriculostomy whose intracranial pressure will tolerate having drainage clamped for a short period of time. Those involved with mobility need to understand the patient's disease process, the implications of increasing activity levels, and the monitoring required during activity.


AMPK is a conserved heterotrimeric serine-threonine kinase that regulates anabolic and catabolic pathways in eukaryotes. Its central role in cellular and whole body metabolism makes AMPK a commonly proposed therapeutic target for illnesses characterized by abnormal energy regulation, including cancer and diabetes. Many AMPK modulators, however, produce AMPK-independent effects. To identify drugs that modulate AMPK activity independent of the canonical ATP-binding pocket found throughout the kinome, we designed a robust fluorescence-based high throughput screening assay biased toward the identification of molecules that bind the regulatory region of AMPK through displacement of MANT-ADP, a fluorescent ADP analog. Automated pin tools were used to rapidly transfer small molecules to a low volume assay mixture on 384-well plates. Prior to assay validation, we completed a full assay optimization to maximize the signal-to-background and reduce variability for robust detection of small molecules displacing MANT-ADP. After validation, we screened 13,120 molecules and identified 3 positive hits that dose-dependently inhibited the protein-bound signal of MANT-ADP in the presence of both full-length AMPK and the truncated &quot;regulatory fragment&quot; of AMPK, which is missing the kinase active site. The average Z'-factor for the screen was 0.55 and the compound confirmation rate was 60%. Thus, this fluorescence-based assay may be paired with in vitro kinase assays and cell-based assays to help identify molecules that selectively regulate AMPK with fewer off-target effects on other kinases.
Ischemic stroke is one of the leading causes of death and disability worldwide. There is no effective treatment for ischemic stroke apart from thrombolytic therapy, which has a narrow therapeutic time window. Gene therapy has proven to be effective in experimental stroke, but it suffers from disadvantages that limit its clinical application, such as difficulty in intracranial delivering of therapeutic genes, low efficacy in transfecting host cells and long-term expression of exogenous genes. Delivering therapeutic genes to the ischemic brain via stem cells is an alternative strategy of combined gene and stem cell therapy. There are advantages for stem cell-mediated gene delivery as opposed to direct gene transfer. In recent years, studies used stem cells that over-express different neurotrophic factors, such as BDNF, GDNT, or NT3, and found that the delivery of these genetically-modified stem cells to animal models of ischemic stroke is safe and effective, thus suggesting that stem cell-based gene therapy may be a promising treatment for stroke. This review summarizes the advantages and recent progress of stem cell-based gene therapy for ischemic stroke. We also discuss the relevant strategy for optimizing stem cell-based gene therapy and discuss the potential strategies for its future application.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by progressive loss of memory and cognitive impairment. Aggregation of amyloid- (A) peptides is the crucial factor in the onset of AD. The toxic A peptides A40 and A42 are produced from the A precursor protein (APP), a transmembrane protein which is folded and modified in endoplasmic reticulum (ER). ER is the main organelle for the synthesis and processing of nearly all proteins as well as the main cellular source of Ca2+. Under stress conditions, three main ER pathways including inositol-requiring enzyme 1, protein kinase RNA-like ER kinase, and activating transcription factor 6 become activated causing the accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins within ER lumen. These pathways manage the stress by regulating the expression of chaperones and enzymes involved in protein folding. Several studies have reported the dysfunction of these stress-sensing pathways in pathological conditions, including neurodegenerative diseases. Recent studies have proposed that neuronal death in AD arises from dysfunction of the ER. Here, we will review recent research findings on the interaction between ER and mitochondria, and its effect on apoptotic pathways. We further provide insights into studies which suggest the role of ER in animal and/or cellular models of AD. Therapeutic strategies that modulate ER could represent a promising approach for prevention or treatment of AD.
Alterations in serotonergic activity have been observed in many pathological conditions, including neuro psychiatric diseases, irritable bowel syndrome, and hypertension. The serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) transporter(SERT) in the brain clears 5-HT from extracellular spaces, modulating the strength and duration of serotonergic signaling.Outside the central nervous system, it is also present in platelets, where it takes up 5-HT from plasma, keeping levels very low (i.e., ~1 nM). Importantly, it is generally accepted that SERT protein expressed in platelets is identical to the one found in neurons, displaying similar structural and functional properties in both tissues. At the present time, it is technically difficult to measure SERT binding and function in vivo since imaging methods are limited by a number of factors,especially the cost and the selectivity of the available radioligands. One of the most frequently used molecular imaging techniques to study SERT is positron emission tomography (PET). Although an impressive number of PET radio ligands have been synthesized and validated, there is still a lack of suitable ligands for a large part of the 5-HT system. Interest in determining both the molecular characteristics and the regulation of SERT has been enormous over the last decade, but the difficulty in obtaining human tissues and the ethical limitations in human experiments have turned researchers to look for alternative models. This review summarizes recent clinical and preclinical data relevant to the use of blood platelets asa peripheral marker for the central 5-HT system, and outlines future directions in this field.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a very popular tool used within neuroscience. This and other associated techniques allow the in vivo investigation of cortical excitability, cortical connectivity and cortical plasticity. Schizophrenia is a brain disorder and various theories other than the dopamine hypothesis have been developed to describe its underlying neurobiology. Supported by animal and post mortem studies, findings from TMS studies indicate that schizophrenia is a disease of reduced cortical inhibition and impaired intra- and intercortical connectivity. Further studies using repetitive TMS and other plasticity-inducing techniques have shown that cortical plasticity is altered in schizophrenia patients, supporting the recently discussed plasticity deficiency theory of schizophrenia. This review gives an introduction to the most frequently applied techniques, describes findings in schizophrenia patients and discusses these findings with regard to the neurotransmitters and associated receptors involved. In summary, there is emerging evidence of an important pathophysiological interplay between reduced inhibition, impaired connectivity and reduced plasticity in schizophrenia patients. Gamma-aminobutyric-acid-receptors and glutamtergic N-Methyl-D-aspartic-acid-receptors are most likely to be involved in this complex interplay, which may reflect a disturbed signal-to-noise ratio in schizophrenia patients. This review will discuss this issue with regard to the available treatment options and will give implications for future research and therapeutic strategies regarding disinhibition and neuroplasticity in schizophrenia.
The serotonin (5-HT) receptors of type 6 (5-HT6) are quite different from all other 5-HT receptors, as they include a short third cytoplasmatic loop and a long C-terminal tail, and one intron located in the middle of the third cytoplasmatic loop. A lot of controversies still exist regarding their binding affinity, effects of 5-HT6 ligands on brain catecholamines, behavioral syndromes regulated by them, and brain distribution. In spite of the lack of information on metabolic pattern of the various compounds, some of 5-HT6 receptor ligands entered the clinical development as potential anti-dementia, antipsychotic, antidepressant and anti-obese drugs. The present paper is a comprehensive review on the state of art of the 5-HT6 receptors, while highlighting the potential clinical applications of 5-HT6 receptor agonists/antagonists.

Our understanding of the syndromes of Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation (NBIA) continues to grow considerably. In addition to the core syndromes of pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN, NBIA1) and PLA2G6-associated neurodegeneration (PLAN, NBIA2), several other genetic causes have been identified (including FA2H, C19orf12, ATP13A2, CP and FTL). In parallel, the clinical and pathological spectrum has broadened and new age-dependent presentations are being described. There is also growing recognition of overlap between the different NBIA disorders and other diseases including spastic paraplegias, leukodystrophies and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis which makes a diagnosis solely based on clinical findings challenging. Autopsy examination of genetically-confirmed cases demonstrates Lewy bodies, neurofibrillary tangles, and other hallmarks of apparently distinct neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease. Until we disentangle the various NBIA genes and their related pathways and move towards pathogenesis-targeted therapies, the treatment remains symptomatic. Our aim here is to provide an overview of historical developments of research into iron metabolism and its relevance in neurodegenerative disorders. We then focus on clinical features and investigational findings in NBIA and summarize therapeutic results reviewing reports of iron chelation therapy and deep brain stimulation. We also discuss genetic and molecular underpinnings of the NBIA syndromes.
The majority of studies investigating the molecular pathogenesis and cell biology underlying dystonia have been performed in individuals with primary dystonia. This includes monogenic forms such as DYT1and DYT6 dystonia, and primary focal dystonia which is likely to be multifactorial in origin. In recent years there has been renewed interest in non-primary forms of dystonia including the dystonia-plus syndromes and heredodegenerative disorders. These are caused by a variety of genetic mutations and their study has contributed to our understanding of the neuronal dysfunction that leads to dystonia These findings have reinforced themes identified from study of primary dystonia including abnormal dopaminergic signalling, cellular trafficking and mitochondrial function. In this review we highlight recent advances in the understanding of the dystonia-plus syndromes and heredodegenerative dystonias.


The use of botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) for therapeutic purposes in neuromuscular disorders and peripheral hypercholinergic conditions as well as in aesthetic medicine is widespread and common. BoNTs are also able to block the release of a wide range of transmitters from presynaptic boutons. Therefore, application of BoNTs directly in the central nervous system (CNS) is currently under study with respect to basic research and potentially as a new therapeutic strategy of neurological diseases. Investigations concentrate on effects of intracerebral and intraspinal application of BoNTs in rodents on the impact on spinal, nuclear, limbic and cortical neuronal circuits. In animal model first promising BoNT-induced therapeutical benefit has been shown in the treatment of pain, epilepsy, stroke and Parkinson's disease.
In spite of increasing numbers of publications about cell replacement therapies in various neurodegenerative diseases, reports on therapeutic benefits are still rare due to the huge array of parameters affecting the clinically relevant outcome. Limiting conditions can be attributed to origin and number of cells used for transplantation, their in vitro storage, propagation and/or predifferentiation. In addition, the ability of these cells for a site directed differentiation and functional integration in sufficient numbers is known to depend on extrinsic factors including intracerebral position of graft(s). Thus, obstacles to the use of cells in replacement therapies of neurological disorders reflect the molecular as well as cellular complexity of affected functional systems. This review will highlight central aspects of cell replacement strategies that are currently regarded as the most limiting issues in respect to survival, cell identity and site directed differentiation as well as functional integration of grafts. Special attention will be paid to neural stem cells, derived from either fetal or adult central nervous tissue. Unravelling the molecular biology of these proliferating cells in combination with instructive environmental cues for their site directed differentiation will pave the way to high reproducibility in collection, propagation, and predifferentiation of transplantable cells in vitro. In addition, this knowledge of intrinsic and extrinsic cues for a site directed neural differentiation during development will broaden the perspective for any pluripotent stem cell, namely embryonic stem and induced pluripotent stem cells, as an alternate source for a cell based therapy of neurodegenerative diseases.
Brain structural and functional integrity exquisitely relies on a regular supply of oxygen. In order to circumvent the potential deleterious consequences of deficient oxygen availability, brain triggers endogenous adaptive and pro-survival mechanisms - a phenomenon known as brain hypoxic tolerance. The highly conserved hypoxia-inducible family (HIF) of transcription factors is the &quot;headquarter&quot; of the homeostatic response of the brain to hypoxia. HIF acts as a cellular oxygen sensor and regulates the expression of proteins involved in a broad range of biological processes, including neurogenesis, angiogenesis, erythropoiesis, and glucose metabolism, and thus, enables brain cells to survive in low-oxygen conditions. Hypoxia, as well as hypoxia-reoxygenation, is intimately implicated in the clinical and pathological course of several neurodegenerative diseases. Thus, two major questions can arise: Is HIF signaling and brain response to hypoxia compromised in neurodegenerative diseases? If so, are HIF stabilizers a possible therapeutic strategy to halt or prevent the progression of neurodegenerative diseases? This review highlights the current knowledge pertaining the role of HIF on brain response to hypoxia and its close association with the development of Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Finally, the potential therapeutic effects of HIF stabilizers (deferoxamine, clioquinol, M30, HLA20, DHB, FG0041, and VK-28) against the symptomatic and neuropathological features of the abovementioned neurodegenerative diseases will be discussed.
Herein, we investigated the role of periaqueductal gray (PAG)-resident microglia in the development of morphine tolerance and its underlying mechanisms. We showed that clodronate and minocycline known as microglia inhibitors reversed morphine tolerance, providing proof that microglia activation has key role in the development of morphine tolerance. The microglia-mediated anti-opioid mechanism occurs via sequential BDNF release and NMDA expression. Experimental evidence is provided here as conditional bdnf knockout mice (bdnf/) failed to develop tolerance following Cre-recombinase adenovirus treatment. Increased BDNF expression followed microglia activation in acute minocycline treatment reversible manner. Following BDNF release, NR2A subunit of NMDA receptor was upregulated in anti-BDNF reversible manner showing the contribution of BDNF signaling in the control of NMDA receptor expression following chronic morphine treatment. Our data provide compelling evidence that microglia activation and BDNF release are key regulators in opioid tolerance mechanism via glutaminergic synapse plasticity.
4-Phenylbutyrate (PBA) is a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor whose efficacy in the Tg2576 mouse model of Alzheimers disease (AD) is correlated with decreased tau phosphorylation, clearance of intraneuronal A and restoration of dendritic spine density in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. PBA is also a chemical chaperone that facilitates cell proteostasis. To determine the relative contributions of HDAC inhibition and chaperone-like activity in the anti-AD effects of PBA, we compared the effect of PBA with that of sodium butyrate (NaBu), an HDAC inhibitor with no chaperone activity. In neuronal cultures from Tg2576 mice, we observed a correlation between histone 3 acetylation and decreased p-tau levels. Moreover, we observed a decrease in the processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) in Tg2576 neurons treated with PBA, but not with NaBu. In Tg2576 mice administered PBA or NaBu for 3 weeks, only PBA normalized the pathological AD markers, implicating, at least in part, other mechanism as the chaperone-like activity in the reversal of the AD-like phenotype of Tg2576 mice. Furthermore, treatment with PBA but not NaBu prevented the neuronal loss in the hippocampus of hAPPWT-overexpressing mice, as was particularly evident in the CA1 layer. In addition to its activity as a HDAC inhibitor, the chaperone activity of PBA appears to at least partially, mediate its reversal of the AD phenotype in Tg2576 mice and its neuroprotective effect in a model of hippocampal neuronal loss.

Neurosteroids play essential roles in the control of central nervous system functions during physiological and pathological conditions. Increasing evidences show gender differences in the pathogenesis and clinical manifestations of several neurodevelopmental conditions, including Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD), possibly due to the action of sex hormones during critical periods of brain development. Furthermore, it is known that neuroactive steroids contribute to neuroprotection, spinogenesis, synaptogenesis, as well as to modulation of neuronal excitability via their interaction with GABA receptors. Dysfunctions of GABAergic signaling early in development lead to a severe excitation-inhibition unbalance in neuronal circuits, which may contribute to the pathophysiology of autism. In this review, we summarize recent data concerning the functional role of neurosteroids and their relationship with the GABAergic system, focusing on GABA-mediated neurotrasmission alterations characterizing some neurodevelopmental disorders.
Throughout life, neuronal network properties are modulated according to both external and internal stimuli. These adaptive capabilities of the central nervous system (CNS) have been generically termed &quot;plasticity&quot;. One prominent form of CNS plasticity is the capability of synapses to change their strength. Synaptic strength is not a constant value but depends at each moment on the synapse's past activity. These changes in transmission efficacy are called activity-dependent synaptic plasticity (ADSP) and result in an increase (potentiation) or a decrease (depression) in synaptic strength. The ability of synapses to express one type of ADSP can change as a function of previous plasticity and previous activation of synapses. This plasticity of synaptic plasticity has been termed metaplasticity. ADSP and metaplasticity are now regarded as essential mechanisms for normal information processing in neuronal networks. Rhythmic activities such as locomotion are generated by rhythmically active central neuronal networks called central pattern generators (CPGs) that possess the intrinsic ability to generate rhythmic and organized activity in the absence of sensory inputs. The CPG activity arises from a complex dynamic interaction between synaptic transmission, intrinsic membrane properties and neuromodulatory inputs. A growing body of evidence suggests that the spinal cord matches the plastic and metaplastic properties found in other parts of the CNS, both under normal conditions and after spinal cord injury. Here, findings describing ADSP and its neuromodulation in vertebrate sensorimotor networks are reviewed, followed by a discussion of the potential role of ADSP and neuromodulation in the physiology and pathophysiology of motor circuit assembly.
Most animal models of contused, compressed or transected spinal cord injury (SCI) require a laminectomy to be performed. However, despite advantages and disadvantages associated with each of these models, the laminectomy itself is generally associated with significant problems including longer surgery and anaesthesia (related post-operative complications), neuropathic pain, spinal instabilities, deformities, lordosis, and biomechanical problems, etc. This review provides an overview of findings obtained mainly from our laboratory that are associated with the development and characterization of a novel murine model of spinal cord transection that does not require a laminectomy. A number of studies successfully conducted with this model provided strong evidence that it constitutes a simple, reliable and reproducible transection model of complete paraplegia which is particularly useful for studies on large cohorts of wild-type or mutant animals - e.g., drug screening studies in vivo or studies aimed at characterizing neuronal and non-neuronal adaptive changes post-trauma. It is highly suitable also for studies aimed at identifying and developing new pharmacological treatments against aging associated comorbid problems and specific SCI-related dysfunctions (e.g., stereotyped motor behaviours such as locomotion, sexual response, defecation and micturition) largely related with 'command centers' located in lumbosacral areas of the spinal cord.
Although research on neural tissue repair has made enormous progress in recent years, spinal cord injury remains a devastating condition for which there is still no cure. In fact, recent estimates of prevalence in the United States reveal that spinal cord injury has undergone a five-fold increase in the last decades. Though, it has become the second most common neurological problem in North America after Alzheimer's disease. Despite modern trauma units and intensive care treatments, spinal cord injury remains associated with several comorbid conditions and unbearable health care costs. Regular administration of a plethora of symptomatic drug treatments aimed at controlling related-secondary complications and life-threatening problems in chronic spinal cord-injured patients has recently been reported. This article provides a thorough overview of the main drug classes and products currently used or in development for chronic spinal cord injury. Special attention is paid to a novel class of drug treatment designed to provide a holistic solution for several chronic complications and diseases related with spinal cord injury. There is clear evidence showing that new class can elicit 'on-demand' episodes of rhythmic and stereotyped walking activity in previously completely paraplegic animals and may consequently constitute a simple therapy against several physical inactivity-related comorbid problems. Understanding further pharmacological approaches to chronic spinal cord injury may improve both life expectancy and overall quality of life while reducing unsustainable cost increases associated with this debilitation condition.
For many years, glial cells from the central nervous system have been considered as support cells involved in the homeostasis of the brain. However, a series of key-findings obtained during the past two decades has put light on unexpected roles for glia and it is getting more and more admitted that glia play an active role in several physiological functions. The discovery that a bidirectional communication takes place between astrocytes (the star shaped glial cell of the brain) and neurons, was a major breakthrough in the field of synaptic physiology. Astrocytes express receptors that get activated by neurotransmitters during synaptic transmission. In turn they release other transmitters - called gliotransmitters - that bind to neuronal receptors and modulate synaptic transmission. This feedback, which led to the concept of the tripartite synapse, has been reported with various transmitters including glutamate, ATP, GABA or serine. In the present review we will focus on astrocytes and review the evidence suggesting and demonstrating their role in motor control. Rhythmic motor behaviors such as locomotion, swimming or chewing are generated by networks of neurons termed central pattern generators (CPG). These networks are highly flexible and adjust the frequency of their output to the external environment. In the case of respiration, the CPG reacts when changes in the pH of the blood occur. The chemosensory control of breathing is ensured by astrocytes, which react to variation of the blood pH by releasing ATP on neurons that in turn adapt the frequency of respiration. In the spinal cord, diverse transmitters such as ATP, adenosine or endocannabinoids modulate the CPG responsible for locomotion. A growing body of evidence suggests that glial cells release some of these molecules. These data suggest that astrocytes play an essential role in motor control and we believe that a range of studies will confirm this view in the near future.
Serotonin (5-HT) is one of the main transmitters in the nervous system. Serotonergic neurons in the raphe nuclei in the brainstem innervate most parts of the central nervous system including motoneurons in the spinal cord and brainstem. This review will focus on the modulatory role that 5-HT exerts on motoneurons and its physiological consequences. The somato-dendritic compartments of motoneurons are densely innervated by serotonergic synaptic boutons and several receptors are expressed in the membrane of motoneurons including 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D, 5-HT2A, 5-HT2B, 5-HT2C and 5-HT5A. The activation of serotonergic receptors induces a general increase of the excitability of motoneurons through the modulation of several classes of ion channels. 5-HT depolarizes motoneurons towards the threshold for action potentials by inhibiting leak conductances and promoting a hyperpolarization activated cationic current. At the same time, 5-HT increases the firing frequency by inhibiting the small Ca2+ activated K+ conductance (SK) responsible for the medium afterhyperpolarization (AHP) following action potentials. 5-HT also promotes persistent inward currents mediated by voltage sensitive Ca2+ and Na+ conductances, producing a sustained depolarization and an amplification of synaptic inputs. Under pathological conditions, such as after a spinal cord injury, the promotion of persistent inward currents by serotonin and/or the overexpression of autoactive serotonergic receptors may contribute to motoneuronal excitability, muscle spasms and spasticity and hence, impairment of stereotyped motor behaviors such as locomotion, ejaculation and micturition.
In this review we will first give a historical account of how the discovery of persistent inward currents (PICs) and plateau potentials changed the understanding of the operation and function of the &quot;final common path&quot;, i.e. the motoneurons themselves. A major function of voltage-dependent PICs is to serve as an adjustable amplifier of classical synaptic inputs. The complex control of this, and other intrinsic properties, certainly adjusts the performance of the motoneurons to the needs of the behavioral settings. It has emerged that supraspinal facilitation, mainly by monoaminergic projections, is a prerequisite for the normal function of the PIC channels. When these pathways are interrupted following a spinal lesion the &quot;gain&quot; of the transmission across the motoneurons is reduced and this is likely to be an important explanation for the spinal shock. However, after a few weeks the &quot;plateau properties&quot; of the motoneurons return - now without descending monoaminergic control. This plasticity after spinal lesion is likely to contribute to the hyperreflexia (spasticity) seen after spinal lesions. We then review the current knowledge on PICs in other spinal (inter-)neurons. The monoaminergic systems seem to play a pivotal role in activating the spinal network generating the rhythm and basic motor pattern of locomotion and scratch - the spinal &quot;central pattern generators&quot; (CPGs). We give a short historical background of this research with a special emphasis on the importance of the descending monoaminergic systems.

Gut immune system is daily exposed to a plethora of antigens contained in the environment as well as in food. Both secondary lymphoid tissue, such as Peyer's patches, and lymphoid follicles (tertiary lymphoid tissue) are able to respond to antigenic stimuli releasing cytokines or producing antibodies (secretory IgA). Intestinal epithelial cells are in close cooperation with intraepithelial lymphocytes and possess Toll-like receptors on their surface and Nod-like receptors (NLRs) which sense pathogens or pathogen-associated molecular patterns. Intestinal microbiota, mainly composed of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes, generates tolerogenic response acting on gut dendritic cells and inhibiting the T helper (h)-17 cell anti-inflammatory pathway. This is the case of Bacteroides fragilis which leads to the production of interleukin-10, an anti-inflammatory cytokine, from both T regulatory cells and lamina propria macrophages. Conversely, segmented filamentous bacteria rather induce Th17 cells, thus promoting intestinal inflammation. Intestinal microbiota and its toxic components have been shown to act on both Nod1 and Nod2 receptors and their defective signaling accounts for the development of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In IBD a loss of normal tolerance to intestinal microbiota seems to be the main trigger of mucosal damage. In addition, intestinal microbiota thanks to its regulatory function of gut immune response can prevent or retard neoplastic growth. In fact, chronic exposure to environmental microorganisms seems to be associated with low frequency of cancer risk. Major nutraceuticals or functional foods employed in the modulation of intestinal microbiota are represented by prebiotics, probiotics, polyunsaturated fatty acids, amino acids and polyphenols. The cellular and molecular effects performed by these natural products in terms of modulation of the intestinal microbiota and mostly attenuation of the inflammatory pathway are described.
The increasing knowledge on the genetic basis of disease has allowed the development of promising gene-targeted therapies that can be applied to numerous diseases. Such genetic-based approaches involve the use of nucleic acids as therapeutic agents, either for the insertion or repair and regulation of specific genes. However, the clinical application of these large and charged molecules remains highly dependent on the development of delivery systems capable of mediating efficient cellular uptake. Since the first observations, two decades ago, that some protein-derived domains can translocate across biological membranes, a wide group of peptides called cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) have been considered one of the most promising tools to improve non-invasive cellular delivery of therapeutic molecules. The mechanistic basis of CPP and CPP conjugate cellular uptake remains controversial. However, biophysical studies on the interactions of CPPs with membrane models have contributed to unravel the mechanisms underlying CPP membrane translocation as well as to propose relationships between those mechanisms and CPP efficiency in mediating cargo delivery. In this review, representative examples of CPPs were gathered from the most recent literature in order to emphasize the contributions of chemists, biophysicists and cell biologists towards the rational design of increasingly more efficient delivery systems. In this context, the present review aims at giving an overview of some of the most significant CPP families and their biological applications as nucleic acid delivery systems.
Rodent models of human disease are essential to obtain a better understanding of disease pathology, the mechanism of action underlying conventional treatments, as well as for the generation of novel therapeutic approaches. There are a number of rodent models of schizophrenia based on either genetic manipulations, acute or sub-chronic drug administration, or developmental disturbances. The prenatal methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) rodent model is a developmental disruption model gaining increased attention because it displays a number of histological, neurophysiological, and behavioral deficits analogous to those observed in schizophrenia patients. This unit describes the procedures required to safely induce the MAM phenotype in rats. In addition, we describe a simple behavioral procedure, amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion, which can be utilized to verify the MAM phenotype.
This protocol documents the construction of a custom microscope stage system currently in widespread use by a wide variety of investigators. The current design and construction of this stage is the result of multiple iterations, integrating input from a number of electrophysiologists working with a variety of preparations. Thus, this tool is a generally applicable solution, suitable for a wide array of end-user requirements; its flexible design facilitates rapid and easy configuration, making it useful for multi-user microscopes, as individual researchers can reconfigure the stage system or have their own readily replaceable stage plates. Furthermore, the stage can be manufactured using equipment typically found in small research machine shops, and by keeping the various parts on hand, machinists can quickly satisfy new requests and/or modifications for a wide variety of applications.
This unit describes two basic protocols for the detection of the proliferation of neural stem cells (NSC). The first one addresses cell proliferation in cultures, starting with primary cell cultures isolated from the mouse subventricular zone (SVZ), in which SVZ-derived NSC are kept in culture as neurospheres. By using this culture system, we are able to study different stages of adult neurogenesis, such as proliferation, differentiation, migration, and survival. Thus, in the first basic protocol, we describe two different techniques to evaluate cell proliferation based on EdU incorporation: (a) immunocytochemistry and (b) flow cytometry. EdU, a new thymidine analog, which is detected by a reproducible and sensitive method based on click chemistry, does not require DNA denaturation, as is the case with BrdU. Thus, co-labeling of EdU with other specific antibodies of extracellular or intracellular targets, as well as other DNA dyes, is possible. In the second basic protocol, we describe an in vivo assay to evaluate proliferation of NSC in the dentate gyrus of hippocampus of adult mice, by both BrdU and EdU detection. With this approach, it is also possible to study different stages of adult neurogenesis, by co-labeling thymidine analogs with other specific markers, such as doublecortin (DCX) or neuronal nuclei protein (NeuN).
Reductions in adult neurogenesis have been documented in the original 3xTg mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), notably occurring at the same age when spatial memory deficits and amyloid plaque pathology appeared. As this suggested reduced neurogenesis was associated with behavioral deficits, we tested whether activity and pharmacological stimulation could prevent memory deficits and modify neurogenesis and/or neuropathology in the 3xTg model backcrossed to the C57Bl/6 strain. We chronically administered the antidepressant fluoxetine to one group of mice, allowed access to a running wheel in another, and combined both treatments in a third cohort. All treatments lasted for 11 months. The female 3xTg mice failed to exhibit any deficits in spatial learning and memory as measured in the Morris water maze, indicating that when backcrossed to the C57Bl/6 strain, the 3xTg mice lost the behavioral phenotype that was present in the original 3xTg mouse maintained on a hybrid background. Despite this, the backcrossed 3xTg mice expressed prominent intraneuronal amyloid beta (A) levels in the cortex and amygdala, with lower levels in the CA1 area of the hippocampus. In the combined cohort, fluoxetine treatment interfered with exercise and reduced the total distance run. The extent of A neuropathology, the tau accumulations, or BDNF levels, were not altered by prolonged exercise. Thus, neuropathology was present but not paralleled by spatial memory deficits in the backcrossed 3xTg mouse model of AD. Prolonged exercise for 11 months did improve the long-term survival of newborn neurons generated during middle-age, whereas fluoxetine had no effect. We further review and discuss the relevant literature in this respect.
Stress is known to inhibit neuronal growth in the hippocampus. In addition to reducing the size and complexity of the dendritic tree, stress and elevated glucocorticoid levels are known to inhibit adult neurogenesis. Despite the negative effects of stress hormones on progenitor cell proliferation in the hippocampus, some experiences which produce robust increases in glucocorticoid levels actually promote neuronal growth. These experiences, including running, mating, enriched environment living, and intracranial self-stimulation, all share in common a strong hedonic component. Taken together, the findings suggest that rewarding experiences buffer progenitor cells in the dentate gyrus from the negative effects of elevated stress hormones. This chapter considers the evidence that stress and glucocorticoids inhibit neuronal growth along with the paradoxical findings of enhanced neuronal growth under rewarding conditions with a view toward understanding the underlying biological mechanisms.

Addiction is a complex neuropsychiatric disorder which causes disruption at multiple levels, including cognitive, emotional, and behavioral domains. Traditional biological theories of addiction have focused on the mesolimbic dopamine pathway and the nucleus accumbens as anatomical substrates mediating addictive-like behaviors. More recently, we have begun to recognize the engagement and dynamic influence of a much broader circuitry which encompasses the frontal cortex, the amygdala, and the hippocampus. In particular, neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus has become a major focus of attention due to its ability to influence memory, motivation, and affect, all of which are disrupted in addiction. First, I summarize toxicological data that reveal strongly suppressive effects of drug exposure on adult hippocampal neurogenesis. Then, I discuss the impact of deficient neurogenesis on learning and memory function, stress responsiveness and affective behavior, as they relate to addiction. Finally, I examine recent behavioral observations that implicate neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus in the emergence and maintenance of addictive behavior. The evidence reviewed here suggests that deficient neurogenesis is associated with several components of the downward spiraling loop that characterizes addiction, including elevated sensitivity to drug-induced reward and reinforcement, enhanced neurohormonal responsiveness, emergence of a negative affective state, memory impairment, and inflexible behavior.
The neurosurgical treatment of treatment-resistant depression (TRD) has entered a new era with more and more patients being treated with deep brain stimulation (DBS) via surgically implanted intracerebral electrodes. Although the mechanisms of action of DBS are still not fully understood, preclinical studies are being conducted to elucidate how the treatment might work. DBS in its present form can be considered as a relatively new neurosurgical treatment for TRD. However, the use of neurosurgery in the management of depression has a much longer history particularly with ablative procedures but also vagal nerve stimulation. Here, we provide a review of the clinical neurosurgical treatments for TRD, with a main emphasis on DBS. In addition, we discuss relevant preclinical data that are revealing new information about DBS mechanisms.
Accumulating evidence from animal and human research shows exercise benefits learning and memory, which may reduce the risk of neurodegenerative diseases, and could delay age-related cognitive decline. Exercise-induced improvements in learning and memory are correlated with enhanced adult hippocampal neurogenesis and increased activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. In this present chapter we will highlight the effects of physical activity on cognition in rodents, as well as on dentate gyrus (DG) neurogenesis, synaptic plasticity, spine density, neurotransmission and growth factors, in particular brain-derived nerve growth factor (BDNF).
Exposure to an enriched environment (EE) is beneficial to the structure and function of the brain. The added sensory, social, and spatial complexity of the EE also improves cognitive functions such as memory in both healthy brains and damaged or diseased brains, yet the underlying neural mechanisms of these cognitive improvements are poorly understood. In particular, studies that have examined the effects of EE on cellular function in the hippocampus, a structure critical for memory storage, have produced somewhat confusing results. Experiments performed in ex vivo hippocampal slices have reported a variety of EE effects on synaptic transmission and plasticity in both CA1 and the dentate gyrus. However, together with data from in vivo recordings made during and after the EE treatment, the overall results suggest an evolution of changes in neuronal function in the hippocampus, whereby there is an early transient increase in cell activity and plasticity that gives rise to more subtle long-term enhancements in cellular and network function that may contribute to enhanced hippocampus-dependent cognition.
Antidepressants were first developed serendipitously 60 years ago and gave rise to the monoamine hypothesis of depression and antidepressant action which has persisted in various forms ever since. Although we have made huge strides in our understanding of the pharmacology of antidepressants, and in the neuroscience of depression, our current antidepressants have changed little since the original drugs. In this chapter I first review some controversies in the use of antidepressant drugs including whether they actually work, and then go on to describe the current state of our clinical use of antidepressants, looking both at the principles and practice of treatment and reviewing the evidence for efficacy, tolerability and safety in acute and sequenced treatments. I finally briefly consider future directions and the aspiration of developing more effective antidepressants.
Alcohol addiction is a chronically relapsing disorder characterized by compulsive alcohol seeking and use. Alcohol craving and long-lasting vulnerability to relapse present a great challenge for the successful treatment of alcohol addiction. Therefore, relapse prevention has emerged as a critically important area of research, with the need for effective and valid animal models of relapse. This chapter provides an overview of the repertoire of animal models of craving and relapse presently available and employed in alcoholism research. These models include conditioned reinstatement, stress-induced reinstatement, ethanol priming-induced reinstatement, conditioned place preference, Pavlovian spontaneous recovery, the alcohol deprivation effect, and seeking-taking chained schedules. Thus, a wide array of animal models is available that permit investigation of behaviors directed at obtaining access to alcohol, as well as neurobehavioral mechanisms and genetic factors that regulate these behaviors. These models also are instrumental for identifying pharmacological treatment targets and as tools for evaluating the efficacy of potential medications for the prevention of alcohol craving and relapse.
The brain reward system, and especially the mesolimbic dopamine pathway, plays a major role in drug reinforcement and is most likely involved in the development of drug addiction. All major drugs of abuse, including ethanol, acutely activate the mesolimbic dopamine system. Both this acute drug-induced dopamine elevation, the dopamine elevations observed after presentations of drug-associated stimuli and alterations of dopamine function induced by chronic drug administration are of importance. Whereas the mechanisms of actions for central stimulants, opioids and nicotine in their dopamine activating effects are fairly well established, the corresponding mechanisms with respect to ethanol have been elusive. Here we review the actions of ethanol in the mesolimbic dopamine system, focusing on ethanol's interaction with ligand-gated ion-channel receptors, opiate receptors, the ghrelin system and the possible involvement of acetaldehyde. Preclinical studies have provided the opportunity to dissect these interactions in some detail and although we do not fully comprehend the actions of ethanol there have been some great advances resulting in increased knowledge of the complexity of ethanol's mechanism of action in this system.
This chapter reviews empirical research on risk-factors for adolescent onset of substance use and misuse, with a particular focus on a recent body of literature aimed at understanding the link between early onset substance use, neuropsychological impairment and future addiction risk. The evidence suggests a causal pathway with some studies showing that adolescents might be more sensitive to the neurotoxic effects of substances, which contributes to their heightened addiction vulnerability. While questions remain pertaining to the extent to which cognitive precursors to early onset substance use account for these impairments, the evidence from a few studies suggests that early substance misuse produces some cognitive or emotional processing impairment beyond these premorbid deficits. The possible interaction between premorbid deficits and the effects of substance use on cognitive development might also explain why early onset substance use so rapidly spirals into substance abuse and dependence and provides a strong rationale for preventing early onset substance use, particularly among those at risk. This chapter then reviews the different approaches to drug and alcohol prevention, the evidence-base for current programs and the essential intervention components that lead to beneficial outcomes and high implementation fidelity.
A diagnosis of alcohol dependence (AD) using the DSM-IV-R is categorical, based on an individual's manifestation of three or more symptoms from a list of seven. AD risk can be traced to both genetic and environmental sources. Most genetic studies of AD risk implicitly assume that an AD diagnosis represents a single underlying genetic factor. We recently found that the criteria for an AD diagnosis represent three somewhat distinct genetic paths to individual risk. Specifically, heavy use and tolerance versus withdrawal and continued use despite problems reflected separate genetic factors. However, some data suggest that genetic risk for AD is adequately described with a single underlying genetic risk factor. Rodent animal models for alcohol-related phenotypes typically target discrete aspects of the complex human AD diagnosis. Here, we review the literature derived from genetic animal models in an attempt to determine whether they support a single-factor or multiple-factor genetic structure. We conclude that there is modest support in the animal literature that alcohol tolerance and withdrawal reflect distinct genetic risk factors, in agreement with our human data. We suggest areas where more research could clarify this attempt to align the rodent and human data.
Ethanol (EtOH) has effects on numerous cellular molecular targets, and alterations in synaptic function are prominent among these effects. Acute exposure to EtOH activates or inhibits the function of proteins involved in synaptic transmission, while chronic exposure often produces opposing and/or compensatory/homeostatic effects on the expression, localization, and function of these proteins. Interactions between different neurotransmitters (e.g., neuropeptide effects on release of small molecule transmitters) can also influence both acute and chronic EtOH actions. Studies in intact animals indicate that the proteins affected by EtOH also play roles in the neural actions of the drug, including acute intoxication, tolerance, dependence, and the seeking and drinking of EtOH. This chapter reviews the literature describing these acute and chronic synaptic effects of EtOH and their relevance for synaptic transmission, plasticity, and behavior.
Alcohol accounts for major disability worldwide and available treatments are insufficient. A massive growth in the area of addiction neuroscience over the last several decades has not resulted in a corresponding expansion of treatment options available to patients. In this chapter, we describe our experience with building translational research programs aimed at developing novel pharmacotherapies for alcoholism. The narrative is based on experience and considerations made in the course of building these programs, and work on four mechanisms targeted by our libraries: cholinergic nicotine receptors, receptors for corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors for substance P (SP) and hypocretin/orexin receptors. Around this experience, we discuss issues we believe to be critical for successful translation of basic addiction neuroscience into treatments, and complementarities between academic and other actors that in our assessment need to be harnessed in order to bring treatments to the clinic.
Mammalian fetal skin regenerates perfectly, but adult skin repairs by the formation of scar tissue. The cause of this imperfect repair by adult skin is not understood. In contrast, wounded adult amphibian (urodeles and anurans) skin is like mammalian fetal skin in that it repairs by regeneration, not scarring. Scar-free wound repair in adult Xenopus is associated with expression of the paired homeobox transcription factor Prx1 by mesenchymal cells of the wound, a feature shared by mesenchymal cells of the regeneration blastema of the axolotl limb. Furthermore, mesenchymal cells of Xenopus skin wounds that harbor the mouse Prx1-limb-enhancer as a transgene exhibit activation of the enhancer despite the fact that they are Xenopus cells, suggesting that the mouse Prx1 enhancer possesses all elements required for its activation in skin wound healing, even though activation of the same enhancer in the mouse is not seen in the wounded skin of an adult mouse. Elucidation of the role of the Prx1 gene in amphibian skin wound healing will help to clarify the molecular mechanisms of scarless wound healing. Shifting the molecular mechanism of wound repair in mammals to that of amphibians, including reactivation of the Prx1-limb-enhancer, will be an important clue to stimulate scarless wound repair in mammalian adult skin. Finding or creating Prx1-positive stem cells in adult mammal skin by activating the Prx1-limb-enhancer may be a fast and reliable way to provide for scarless skin wound repair, and even directly lead to limb regeneration in mammals.
Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) are among the most poisonous substances known to man, but paradoxically, BoNT-containing medicines and cosmetics have been used with great success in the clinic. Accidental BoNT poisoning mainly occurs through oral ingestion of food contaminated with Clostridium botulinum. BoNTs are naturally produced in the form of progenitor toxin complexes (PTCs), which are high molecular weight (up to ~900kDa) multiprotein complexes composed of BoNT and several non-toxic neurotoxin-associated proteins (NAPs). NAPs protect the inherently fragile BoNTs against the hostile environment of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and help BoNTs pass through the intestinal epithelial barrier before they are released into the general circulation. These events are essential for ingested BoNTs to gain access to motoneurons, where they inhibit neurotransmitter release and cause muscle paralysis. In this review, we discuss the structural basis for assembly of NAPs and BoNT into the PTC that protects BoNT and facilitate its delivery into the bloodstream.
The first child (proband) of nonconsanguineous Caucasian parents underwent genetic investigation because she was affected with congenital choanal atresia, heart defects and kidney hyposplasia with mild transient renal insufficiency. The direct DNA sequencing after PCR of the CHD7 gene, which is thought to be responsible for approximately 60-70% of the cases of CHARGE syndrome/association, found no mutations. The cytogenetic analysis (standard GTG banding karyotype) revealed the presence of extrachromosomal material on 10q. The chromosome analysis was completed with array CGH (30 kb resolution), MLPA and FISH, which allowed the identification of three 6p regions (6p.25.3p23  3): 2 of these regions are normally located on chromosome 6, and the third region is translocated to the long arm of chromosome 10. The same chromosomal rearrangement was subsequently found in the father, who was affected with congenital ptosis and progressive hearing loss, and in the proband's sister, the second child, who presented at birth with choanal atresia and congenital heart defects. The mutated karyotypes, which were directly inherited, are thought to be responsible for a variable phenotype, including craniofacial dysmorphisms, choanal atresia, congenital ptosis, sensorineural hearing loss, heart defects, developmental delay, and renal dysfunction. Nevertheless, to achieve a complete audiological assessment of the father, he underwent further investigation that revealed an increased level of the coagulation factor XIII (300% increased activity), fluctuating levels of fibrin D-dimer degradation products (from 296 to 1,587 ng/ml) and a homoplasmic mitochondrial DNA mutation: T961G in the MTRNR1 (12S rRNA) gene. He was made a candidate for cochlear implantation. Preoperative high-resolution computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the temporal bone revealed the presence of an Arnold-Chiari malformation type I. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the second report on partial 6p trisomy that involves the 10q terminal region. Furthermore, we report the first case of documented Arnold-Chiari malformation type I and increased factor XIII activity associated with 6p trisomy. We present a comprehensive report of the familial cases and an exhaustive literature review.
Neovastat is a standardized extract of marine cartilage, an avascular tissue, which contains many biologically active molecules and has multiple antiangiogenic properties. In addition to VEGFR2 and MMPs inhibition, shark cartilage extract (SCE) has recently been shown to induce tissue plasminogen activator gene (PLAT) expression in bovine endothelial cells in a TNF like manner, by inducing the typical mediators NF-B and JNK. There is now compelling evidences that the NF-B and JNK pathways are activated by cytokines induced generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). We used macroarray genes expression analysis on human umbilical vein endothelial cells, to investigate if that mechanism could mediate the effect of SCE. Transcriptomic results showed that SCE induced expression of several cytokines. Their impact must be important, given that treatment of endothelial cells with the cytokine TNF- was able to reproduce most of the effects of cartilage extract on genes expression. In addition, most of the genes, known to be inducible by NF-B or JNK following cytokines stimulation, were less induced by SCE when endothelial cells were pretreated with the antioxidant N-Acetylcysteine (NAC), suggesting a role of ROS in endothelial cell activation by SCE. Finally, the possible effects of PLAT, PLG, SELE, IL8 and PRDX2 (those validated by q-PCR) on angiogenesis, will also be discussed.
Neurofilaments are transported along axons in a rapid intermittent and bidirectional manner but there is a long-standing controversy about whether this applies to all axonal neurofilaments. Some have proposed that only a small proportion of axonal neurofilaments are mobile and that most are deposited into a persistently stationary and extensively cross-linked cytoskeleton that remains fixed in place for many months without movement, turning over very slowly. In contrast, others have proposed that this hypothesis is based on a misinterpretation of the experimental data and that, in fact, all axonal neurofilaments move. These contrary perspectives have distinct implications for our understanding of how neurofilaments are organized and reorganized in axons both in health and disease. Here, we discuss the history and substance of this controversy. We show that the published data on the kinetics and distribution of neurofilaments along axons favor a simple &quot;stop and go&quot; transport model in which axons contain a single population of neurofilaments that all move in a stochastic, bidirectional and intermittent manner. Based on these considerations, we propose a dynamic view of the neuronal cytoskeleton in which all neurofilaments cycle repeatedly between moving and pausing states throughout their journey along the axon. The filaments move infrequently, but the average pause duration is on the order of hours rather than weeks or months. Against this fluid backdrop, the action of molecular motors on neurofilaments can have dramatic effects on neurofilament organization that would not be possible if the neurofilaments were extensively cross-linked into a truly stationary network.













Objectives and Methods. This was an observational study of the efficacy of short-term psychodynamic psychotherapy (STPP) in a sample of 35 (30 women and 5 men) patients with moderate-to-severe &quot;male depression&quot; (Gotland Scale for Male Depression (GSMD)13) comorbid with unipolar mood disorder (dysthymia and major depression) or anxiety disorder. Outcome measures were GSMD and BHS (Beck Hopelessness Scale) score changes from baseline. Results. Patients had a strong response to STPP on the GSMD (estimated mean score change ( SE) = -9.08  2.74; P &lt; 0.01; partial eta squared = 0.50), but not on the BHS (estimated mean score change ( SE) = -0.92  1.55; P = 0.57; partial eta squared  = 0.03). BHS score changes were significantly associated with GSMD score changes (Pearson's r = 0.56; P &lt; 0.001), even when controlling for the severity of hopelessness at the baseline (partial r = 0.62; P &lt; 0.001). Conclusions. STPP proved to be effective in patients suffering from &quot;male depression&quot; although hopelessness was only marginally reduced by this treatment which points to the need to better understand how STPP can be involved in the reduction of suicide risk.
There is much interest in the claim that dysfunction of the mirror neuron system in individuals with autism spectrum condition causes difficulties in social interaction and communication. This paper systematically reviews all published studies using neuroscience methods (EEG/MEG/TMS/eyetracking/EMG/fMRI) to examine the integrity of the mirror system in autism. 25 suitable papers are reviewed. The review shows that current data are very mixed and that studies using weakly localised measures of the integrity of the mirror system are hard to interpret. The only well localised measure of mirror system function is fMRI. In fMRI studies, those using emotional stimuli have reported group differences, but studies using non-emotional hand action stimuli do not. Overall, there is little evidence for a global dysfunction of the mirror system in autism. Current data can be better understood under an alternative model in which social top-down response modulation is abnormal in autism. The implications of this model and future research directions are discussed.
Adolescence is a period of intensified emotions and an increase in motivated behaviors and passions. Evidence from developmental neuroscience suggests that this heightened emotionality occurs, in part, due to a peak in functional reactivity to rewarding stimuli, which renders adolescents more oriented toward reward-seeking behaviors. Most prior work has focused on how reward sensitivity may create vulnerabilities, leading to increases in risk taking. Here, we test whether heightened reward sensitivity may potentially be an asset for adolescents when engaged in prosocial activities. Thirty-two adolescents were followed over a one-year period to examine whether ventral striatum activation to prosocial rewards predicts decreases in risk taking over a year. Results show that heightened ventral striatum activation to prosocial stimuli relates to longitudinal declines in risk taking. Therefore, the very same neural region that has conferred vulnerability for adolescent risk taking may also be protective against risk taking.
The transition from late adolescence to young adulthood is often overlooked in the cognitive neuroscience literature. However this is an important developmental period as even older adolescents have not yet reached adult level ability on many cognitive tasks. Adolescents (16-17-year olds) and young adults (23-30-year olds) were tested on a cued task switching paradigm specifically designed to isolate response preparation from response execution. A combined ERP and eletromyographic (EMG) investigation revealed that adolescents have attenuated contingent negative variation (CNV) activity during response preparation followed by larger P3b amplitude and EMG activity in the incorrect response hand during response execution. This is consistent with deficient response preparation and a reactive control strategy. Conversely young adults engaged increased response preparation followed by attenuated P3b activity and early EMG activity in the correct response hand during response execution which indicates a proactive control strategy. Through real time tracking of response-related processing we provide direct evidence of a developmental dissociation between reactive and proactive control. We assert that adoption of a proactive control strategy by adolescents is an important step in the transition to adulthood.
Seizures may be the first and the major presenting feature of an inborn error of metabolism (IEM), for example in a neonate with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. In other IEMs, seizures may be preceded by other major symptoms: by a reduced level of consciousness in a child with an organic acidaemia or urea cycle defect; or by loss of skills, progressive weakness, ataxia, and upper motor signs in a child with a lysosomal storage disorder or peroxisomal leukodystrophy. This review concentrates on those IEMs for which specific treatment is available. The common metabolic causes of seizures vary according to the age at presentation. Features from the history, examination, imaging, and first line biochemical investigations can all provide clues to an inborn error. This review attempts to delineate these and to provide a guide to the specific tests that can be used to make the diagnosis of disorders with specific treatment.
The mirror mechanism allows the direct translation of a perceived (seen, felt, heard) action into the same motor representation of its related goal. This mechanism allows a direct comprehension of others' goals and motor intentions, enabling an embodied link between individuals. Because the mirror mechanism is a functional expression of the motor system, these findings suggest the relevance of the motor system to social cognition. It has been hypothesized that the impaired understanding of others' intentions, sensations, and emotions reported in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) could be linked to an alteration of the mirror mechanism in all of these domains. In this review, we address the theoretical issues underlying the social impairments in ASD and discuss them in relation to the cognitive role of the mirror mechanism.
The spinal cord of rats contains the sexually dimorphic, steroid-sensitive motoneurons of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB). In males, SNB dendrite growth is dependent on gonadal steroids: dendrite growth is inhibited after castration, but supported in androgen- or estrogen-treated castrated males. Furthermore, estrogenic support of SNB dendrite growth is mediated by estrogen action at the target musculature, inhibited by estrogen receptor (ER) blockade at the muscle and supported by local estradiol treatment. However, this estrogenic support is restricted to the early postnatal period, after which the morphology of SNB dendrites is insensitive to estrogens. To test if the developmentally restricted effects of estrogens on SNB dendrite growth coincide with the transient expression of ER in the target musculature, ER expression was assessed during development and in adulthood. ER expression in extra-Muscle fiber cells was greatest from postnatal day 7 (P7) to P14 and declined after P21. Because this pattern of ER expression coincided with the period of estrogen-dependent dendrite growth, we tested if limiting hormone exposure to the period of maximal ER expression in extra-muscle fiber cells could fully support estrogen-dependent SNB dendrite growth. We restricted estradiol treatment in castrated males from P7 to P21 and assessed SNB dendritic morphology at P28. Treating castrates with estradiol implants at the muscle from P7 to P21 supported dendrite growth to normal levels through P28. These data suggest that the transient ER expression in target muscle could potentially define the critical period for estrogen-dependent dendrite growth in SNB motoneurons.
Many studies have used event-related potential and neural oscillations to probe the underlying neural mechanisms of inhibitory control in adults, but little has been done in typically developing preschoolers. In this study we tested healthy preschool children between the ages of 5 and 6, and observed better response inhibition in 6-year-olds compared to 5-year-olds. Importantly, this age-related difference could not be explained by the N2 component from event-related potential, but was reflected in an increase in right frontal beta power from electroencephalogram. These results suggest that frontal beta power during the preschool period may reflect neural development of inhibitory control.
This study examined how maturation and the size of deviance affect the development of mismatch responses to Mandarin lexical tones by a multi-deviant oddball paradigm with both large deviant T1/T3 and small deviant T2/T3 pairs in newborns and 6-month-olds. The T1/T3 pair elicited a positive mismatch response (P-MMR) at birth but an adult-like mismatch negativity (MMN) at 6 months of age. For the T2/T3 pair, no significant MMR was seen in newborns, whereas a P-MMR was found when infants are 6 months old. Results suggest that the developmental trajectories of MMRs are dependent on the neural maturation and the discriminability of tonal changes.
Due to its ability to map an observed action onto the observer's own cortical motor circuits, the mirror neuron system (MNS) has been implicated in many facets of social cognition. As such, achieving an understanding of the typical development of this intriguing brain system seems obvious. Only now, however, are studies attempting to explore the processes and principles behind the emergence of the MNS. This article critically reviews a number of experimental paradigms employed in this endeavor. We conclude by suggesting that future neuroscientific investigations should incorporate a response-stimulus procedure, whereby action execution results in, not from, novel sensory stimuli.

Developmental exposure to methamphetamine (MA) causes long-term behavioral and cognitive deficits. One pathway through which MA might induce these deficits is by elevating glucocorticoid levels. Glucocorticoid overexposure during brain development can lead to long-term disruptions in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. These disruptions affect the regulation of stress responses and may contribute to behavioral and cognitive deficits reported following developmental MA exposure. Furthermore, alterations in proteins associated with the HPA axis, including vasopressin, oxytocin, and glucocorticoid receptors (GR), are correlated with disruptions in mood and cognition. We therefore hypothesized that early MA exposure will result in short- and long-term alterations in the expression of HPA axis-associated proteins. Male mice were treated with MA (5 mg/kg daily) or saline from postnatal day (P) 11 to P20. At P20 and P90, mice were perfused and their brains processed for vasopressin, oxytocin, and GR immunoreactivity within HPA axis-associated regions. At P20, there was a significant decrease in the number of vasopressin-immunoreactive cells and the area occupied by vasopressin immunoreactivity in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of MA-treated mice, but no difference in oxytocin immunoreactivity in the PVN, or GR immunoreactivity in the hippocampus or PVN. In the central nucleus of the amygdala, the area occupied by GR immunoreactivity was decreased by MA. At P90, the number of vasopressin-immunoreactive cells was still decreased, but the area occupied by vasopressin immunoreactivity no longer differed from saline controls. No effects of MA were found on oxytocin or GR immunoreactivity at P90. Thus developmental MA exposure has short- and long-term effects on vasopressin immunoreactivity and short-term effects on GR immunoreactivity.
Approximately 500,000 infants are born prematurely each year in the United States. These infants typically require an extensive stay in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), where they experience on average 14 painful and invasive procedures each day. These procedures, including repeated heel lance, insertion of intravenous lines, and respiratory and gastric suctioning, typically result in an inflammatory response, inducing pain and stress in the newborn. Remarkably, the majority of these procedures are performed in the complete absence of pre- or post-emptive analgesics. Recent clinical studies report that former NICU patients have increased thresholds for pain and stress later in life as compared with term-born infants. However, to date, the mechanisms whereby early-life inflammation alters later-life response to stress and pain are not known. The present studies were conducted to determine if neonatal injury impairs adult responses to anxiety- and stress-provoking stimuli. As we have previously reported that early-life pain results in a significant increase in opioid peptide expression within the midbrain periaqueductal gray, the role of endogenous opioids in our behavioral studies was also examined. Male and female rats received an intraplantar injection of the inflammatory agent carrageenan (1%) on the day of birth. In adulthood, animals were assessed for changes in response to anxiety- and stress-provoking stimuli using the open field and forced swim tests, respectively. Injury-induced changes in sucrose preference and stress-induced analgesia were also assessed. As adults, neonatally injured animals displayed a blunted response to both anxiety- and stress-provoking stimuli, as indicated by significantly more time spent in the inner area of the open field and a 2-fold increase in latency to immobility in the forced swim test as compared to controls. No change in sucrose preference was observed. Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we observed a 2-fold increase in enkephalin mRNA and protein expression, respectively, in stress-related brain regions including the central amygdala and lateral septum. Administration of the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone reversed the attenuated responses to forced swim stress and stress-induced analgesia, suggesting the changes in stress-related behavior were opioid-dependent. Together, these data contribute to mounting evidence that neonatal injury in the absence of analgesics has adverse effects that are both long-term and polysystemic.

Precise temporal and spatial sequences of synaptogenesis were demonstrated in 172 human foetuses and neonates post-mortem in transverse paraffin sections of pons and cerebellar vermis and hemispheres, using synaptophysin immunoreactivity of this protein of synaptic vesicular walls. The pontine nuclei exhibit a transitory patchy pattern not predicted from the uniform histology and reminiscent of the corpus striatum; synaptic vesicle reactivity appears at 20 weeks and is uniform by 34 weeks. In the cerebellar cortex, the vermis matures sooner than the cerebellar hemispheres and the paravermal portions earlier than the lateral folia. The earliest synapses occur around the somata of Purkinje neurons and later in the internal granular layer, but synaptic glomeruli are not well formed until after 26 weeks. The normal patterns here shown, together with earlier data of the Guillain-Mollaret triangle, provide controls for the interpretation of synaptic delay or precociousness and other pathological patterns in malformations, genetic/metabolic conditions and prenatal acquired insults affecting the human foetus.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been reported to affect neural stem cell self-renewal and therefore may be important for normal development and may influence neurodegenerative processes when ROS activity is elevated. To determine if increasing production of superoxide, via activation of NADPH oxidase (Nox), increases neural stem cell proliferation, 100 nM angiotensin II (Ang II) - a strong stimulator of Nox - was applied to cultures of a murine neural stem cell line, C17.2. Twelve hours following a single treatment with Ang II, there was a doubling of the number of neural stem cells. This increase in neural stem cell numbers was preceded by a gradual elevation of superoxide levels (detected by dihydroethidium fluorescence) from the steady state at 0, 5, and 30 min and gradually increasing from 1 h to the maximum at 12 h, and returning to baseline at 24 h. Ang II-dependent proliferation was blocked by the antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine. Confocal microscopy revealed the presence of two sources of intracellular ROS in C17.2 cells: (i) mitochondrial and (ii) extramitochondrial; the latter indicative of the involvement of one or more specific isoforms of Nox. Of the Nox family, mRNA expression for one member, Nox4, is abundant in neural stem cell cultures, and Ang II treatment resulted in elevation of the relative levels of Nox4 protein. SiRNA targeting of Nox4 mRNA reduced both the constitutive and Ang II-induced Nox4 protein levels and attenuated Ang II-driven increases in superoxide levels and stem cell proliferation. Our findings are consistent with our hypothesis that Ang II-induced proliferation of neural stem cells occurs via Nox4-generated superoxide, suggesting that an Ang II/Nox4 axis is an important regulator of neural stem cell self-renewal and as such may fine-tune normal, stress- or disease-modifying neurogenesis.
The current study investigated the behavioral and neuroanatomical effects of embryonic knockdown of the candidate dyslexia susceptibility gene (CDSG) homolog Dyx1c1 through RNA interference (RNAi) in rats. Specifically, we examined long-term effects on visual attention abilities in male rats, in addition to assessing rapid and complex auditory processing abilities in male and, for the first time, female rats. Our results replicated prior evidence of complex acoustic processing deficits in Dyx1c1 male rats and revealed new evidence of comparable deficits in Dyx1c1 female rats. Moreover, we found new evidence that knocking down Dyx1c1 produced orthogonal impairments in visual attention in the male subgroup. Stereological analyses of male brains from prior RNAi studies revealed that, despite consistent visible evidence of disruptions of neuronal migration (i.e., heterotopia), knockdown of Dyx1c1 did not significantly alter the cortical volume, hippocampal volume, or midsagittal area of the corpus callosum (measured in a separate cohort of like-treated Dyx1c1 male rats). Dyx1c1 transfection did, however, lead to significant changes in medial geniculate nucleus (MGN) anatomy, with a significant shift to smaller MGN neurons in Dyx1c1-transfected animals. Combined results provide important information about the impact of Dyx1c1 on behavioral functions that parallel domains known to be affected in language-impaired populations as well as information about widespread changes to the brain following early disruption of this CDSG.
Schizophrenia is a chronic and debilitating mental illness characterized by a broad range of abnormal behaviors, including delusions and hallucinations, impaired cognitive function, as well as mood disturbances and social withdrawal. Due to the heterogeneous nature of the disease, the causes of schizophrenia are very complex; its etiology is believed to involve multiple brain regions and the connections between them, and includes alterations in both gray and white matter regions. The onset of symptoms varies with age and severity, and there is some debate over a degenerative or developmental etiology. Longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging studies have detected progressive gray matter loss in the first years of disease, suggesting neurodegeneration; but there is also increasing recognition of a temporal association between clinical complications at birth and disease onset that supports a neurodevelopmental origin. Presently, neuronal abnormalities in schizophrenia are better understood than alterations in myelin-producing cells of the brain, the oligodendrocytes, which are the predominant constituents of white matter structures. Proper white matter development and its structural integrity critically impacts brain connectivity, which affects sensorimotor coordination and cognitive ability. Evidence of defective white matter growth and compromised white matter integrity has been found in individuals at high risk of psychosis, and decreased numbers of mature oligodendrocytes are detected in schizophrenia patients. Inflammatory markers, including proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, are also associated with psychosis. A relationship between risk of psychosis, white matter defects and prenatal inflammation is being established. Animal models of perinatal brain injury are successful in producing white matter damage in the brain, typified by hypomyelination and/or dysmyelination, impaired motor coordination and prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex, recapitulating structural and functional characteristics observed in schizophrenia. In addition, elevated expression of inflammation-related genes in brain tissue and increased production of cytokines by blood cells from patients with schizophrenia indicate immunological dysfunction and abnormal inflammatory responses, which are also important underlying features in experimental models. Microglia, resident immune defenders of the central nervous system, play important roles in the development and protection of neural cells, but can contribute to injury under pathological conditions. This article discusses oligodendroglial changes in schizophrenia and focuses on microglial activity in the context of the disease, in neonatal brain injury and in various experimental models of white matter damage. These include disorders associated with premature birth, and animal models of perinatal bacterial and viral infection, oxygen deprivation (hypoxia) and excess (hyperoxia), and elevated systemic proinflammatory cytokine levels. We briefly review the effects of treatment with antipsychotic and anti-inflammatory agents in models of perinatal brain injury, and comment on the therapeutic potential of these strategies. By understanding the neurobiological basis of oligodendroglial abnormalities in schizophrenia, it is hoped that patients will benefit from the availability of targeted and more efficacious treatment options.
Abnormal development of the cerebellum is often associated with disorders of movement, postural control, and motor learning. Rodent models are widely used to study normal and abnormal cerebellar development and have revealed the roles of many important genetic and environmental factors. In the present report we describe the prevalence and cytoarchitecture of molecular-layer heterotopia, a malformation of neuronal migration, in the cerebellar vermis of C57BL/6 mice and closely-related strains. In particular, we found a diverse number of cell-types affected by these malformations including Purkinje cells, granule cells, inhibitory interneurons (GABAergic and glycinergic), and glia. Heterotopia were not observed in a sample of wild-derived mice, outbred mice, or inbred mice not closely related to C57BL/6 mice. These data are relevant to the use of C57BL/6 mice as models in the study of brain and behavior relationships and provide greater understanding of human cerebellar dysplasia.
Cortical function and related cognitive, language, and communication skills are genetically influenced. The auditory brainstem response to speech is linked to language skill, reading ability, cognitive skills, and speech-in-noise perception; however, the impact of shared genetic and environmental factors on the response has not been investigated. We assessed auditory brainstem responses to speech presented in quiet and background noise from (1) 23 pairs of same sex, same learning diagnosis siblings (Siblings), (2) 23 unrelated children matched on age, sex, IQ, and reading ability to one of the siblings (Reading-Matched), and (3) 22 pairs of unrelated children matched on age and sex but not on reading ability to the same sibling (Age/Sex-Matched). By quantifying response similarity as the intersubject response-to-response correlation for sibling pairs, reading-matched pairs, and age- and sex-matched pairs, we found that siblings had more similar responses than age- and sex-matched pairs and reading-matched pairs. Similarity of responses between siblings was as high as the similarity of responses collected from an individual over the course of the recording session. Responses from unrelated children matched on reading were more similar than responses from unrelated children matched only on age and sex, supporting previous data linking variations in auditory brainstem activity with variations in reading ability. These results suggest that auditory brainstem function can be influenced by siblingship and auditory-based communication skills such as reading, motivating the use of speech-evoked auditory brainstem responses for assessing risk of reading and communication impairments in family members.
The abilities of children diagnosed with developmental dyscalculia (DD) were examined in two types of object enumeration: subitizing, and small estimation (5-9 dots). Subitizing is usually defined as a fast and accurate assessment of a number of small dots (range 1 to 4 dots), and estimation is an imprecise process to assess a large number of items (range 5 dots or more). Based on reaction time (RT) and accuracy analysis, our results indicated a deficit in the subitizing and small estimation range among DD participants in relation to controls. There are indications that subitizing is based on pattern recognition, thus presenting dots in a canonical shape in the estimation range should result in a subitizing-like pattern. In line with this theory, our control group presented a subitizing-like pattern in the small estimation range for canonically arranged dots, whereas the DD participants presented a deficit in the estimation of canonically arranged dots. The present finding indicates that pattern recognition difficulties may play a significant role in both subitizing and subitizing deficits among those with DD.



FoxN4, a forkhead box transcription factor, is expressed in the chicken eye field and in retinal progenitor cells (RPCs) throughout development. FoxN4 labelling overlapped with that of Pax6 and Sox2, two crucial transcription factors for RPCs. Later, during neurogenesis in the retina, some cells were intensely and transiently labelled for FoxN4. These cells co-labelled for Lim1, a transcription factor expressed in early-born horizontal cells. The result suggests that high levels of FoxN4 combined with expression of Lim1 define a population of RPCs committed to the horizontal cell fate prior to their last apical mitosis. As these prospective horizontal cells develop, their FoxN4 expression is down-regulated. Previous results suggested that FoxN4 is important for the generation of horizontal and amacrine cells but that it is not sufficient for the generation of horizontal cells (Li et al., 2004). We found that over-expression of FoxN4 in embryonic day 3 chicken retina could activate horizontal cell markers Prox1 and Lim1, and that it generated numerous and ectopically located horizontal cells of both main subtypes. However, genes expressed in photoreceptors, amacrine and ganglion cells were also activated, indicating that FoxN4 triggered the expression of several differentiation factors. This effect was not exclusive for the retina but was also seen when FoxN4 was over-expressed in the mesencephalic neural tube. Combining the results from over-expression and wild-type expression data we suggest a model where a low level of FoxN4 is maintained in RPCs and that increased levels during a restricted period trigger neurogenesis and commitment of RPCs to the horizontal cell fate.

Biomarkers have been sought after in the field of schizophrenia research for decades. In this paper, we discuss some of the concepts around developing biomarkers in an effort to understand why the use of biomarkers for schizophrenia has not been realized. In particular, we address the following 4 questions. Why would we need a diagnostic biomarker for schizophrenia? How is a biomarker typically defined and how does that influence the discovery of biomarkers in schizophrenia? What is the best use of biomarkers in schizophrenia? Do any biomarkers for schizophrenia currently exist? Thus, while we suggest that no biomarker currently exists for schizophrenia, the heterogeneity associated with schizophrenia will most likely need to be taken into account which will result in multiple biomarkers that identify the multiple underlying pathophysiological processes involved in schizophrenia. Therefore, much additional work will be required prior to obtaining any well-established biomarkers for schizophrenia.
The actin-bundling protein fascin is a key mediator of tumor invasion and metastasis and its activity drives filopodia formation, cell-shape changes and cell migration. Small-molecule inhibitors of fascin block tumor metastasis in animal models. Conversely, fascin deficiency might underlie the pathogenesis of some developmental brain disorders. To identify fascin-pathway modulators we devised a cell-based assay for fascin function and used it in a bidirectional drug screen. The screen utilized cultured fascin-deficient mutant Drosophila neurons, whose neurite arbors manifest the 'filagree' phenotype. Taking a repurposing approach, we screened a library of 1040 known compounds, many of them FDA-approved drugs, for filagree modifiers. Based on scaffold distribution, molecular-fingerprint similarities, and chemical-space distribution, this library has high structural diversity, supporting its utility as a screening tool. We identified 34 fascin-pathway blockers (with potential anti-metastasis activity) and 48 fascin-pathway enhancers (with potential cognitive-enhancer activity). The structural diversity of the active compounds suggests multiple molecular targets. Comparisons of active and inactive compounds provided preliminary structure-activity relationship information. The screen also revealed diverse neurotoxic effects of other drugs, notably the 'beads-on-a-string' defect, which is induced solely by statins. Statin-induced neurotoxicity is enhanced by fascin deficiency. In summary, we provide evidence that primary neuron culture using a genetic model organism can be valuable for early-stage drug discovery and developmental neurotoxicity testing. Furthermore, we propose that, given an appropriate assay for target-pathway function, bidirectional screening for brain-development disorders and invasive cancers represents an efficient, multipurpose strategy for drug discovery.
Neural stimulation can reduce the frequency of seizures in persons with epilepsy, but rates of seizure-free outcome are low. Vagus nerve stimulation prevents seizures by continuously activating noradrenergic projections from the brainstem to the cortex. Cortical norepinephrine then increases GABAergic transmission and increases seizure threshold. Another approach, responsive nervous stimulation, prevents seizures by reactively shocking the seizure onset zone in precise synchrony with seizure onset. The electrical shocks abort seizures before they can spread and manifest clinically. The goal of this study was to determine whether a hybrid platform in which brainstem activation triggered in response to impending seizure activity could prevent seizures. We chose the zebrafish as a model organism for this study because of its ability to recapitulate human disease, in conjunction with its innate capacity for tightly controlled high-throughput experimentation. We first set out to determine whether electrical stimulation of the zebrafish hindbrain could have an anticonvulsant effect. We found that pulse train electrical stimulation of the hindbrain significantly increased the latency to onset of pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures, and that this apparent anticonvulsant effect was blocked by noradrenergic antagonists, as is also the case with rodents and humans. We also found that the anticonvulsant effect of hindbrain stimulation could be potentiated by reactive triggering of single pulse electrical stimulations in response to impending seizure activity. Finally, we found that the rate of stimulation triggering was directly proportional to pentylenetetrazole concentration and that the stimulation rate was reduced by the anticonvulsant valproic acid and by larger stimulation currents. Taken as a whole, these results show that that the anticonvulsant effect of brainstem activation can be efficiently utilized by reactive triggering, which suggests that alternative stimulation paradigms for vagus nerve stimulation might be useful. Moreover, our results show that the zebrafish epilepsy model can be used to advance our understanding of neural stimulation in the treatment of epilepsy.







Both chronic opiate dependence and diabetes are widespread public health problems. The historically causal relationship between opiate pharmacology and hyperglycemia would appear to have fallen from current medical knowledge. The aims of this study were to assess the severity of hyperglycemia in our opiate substance use disorder (SUD) patient population and review its pathophysiological basis. A review was undertaken of our clinical pathology database, comparing SUD patients and general medical controls (NSUD). A total of 1,602 SUD patients were compared with 2,858 NSUD patients 15-50 years of age. Mean ages were 31.29  7.40 and 31.55  9.17 years, respectively (P = 0.42) and were 68.60 and 52.76% male (P &lt; 0.0001). The glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) level in diabetics was 8.14  2.76 and 6.29  1.88 (P = 0.0032). In a nested case-control subset, random glucose, HbA1c, and fructosamine levels were all significantly elevated (P &lt; 0.05). Adjusted for age, the HbA1c level was elevated among the SUD group (P &lt; 0.0001) the age at addiction interaction was also significant (P &lt; 0.0001). Serum glucose, HbA1c, fructosamine, and microalbumin levels were shown to be biomarkers of age. At multiple regression analysis, interactions between age, addictive status, glycemia, and the inflammatory markers, ethrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein, were significant (P &lt; 0.05). At age 50, diabetic SUD patients had a HbA1c of 8.31%, which was equivalent to that of NSUD patients at age 140.54 years, a 181.07% elevation. These results confirm that hyperglycemia is higher in both an absolute and an age-dependent sense among diabetic SUD patients. These results are consistent with an acceleration of age-related and degenerative pathologies in many tissues and therefore carry far-reaching implications for the safety of indefinite opiate maintenance.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) involves a slowly-propagating depolarization wave in the cortex, which can appear in numerous pathophysiological conditions, such as migraine with aura, stroke, and traumatic brain injury. Neurons and glial cells are also depolarized transiently during the phenomena. CSD is followed by a massive increase in glutamate release and by changes in the brain microcirculation. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of two N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, endogenous kynurenic acid (KYNA) and dizocilpine, on CSD and the related blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability in rats. In intact animals, KYNA hardly crosses the BBB but has some positive features as compared with its precursor L-Kynurenine, which is frequently used in animal studies (KYNA cannot be metabolized to excitotoxic agents such as 3-hydroxy-L-kynurenine and quinolinic acid). We therefore investigated the possible effects of peripherally administered KYNA. Repetitive CSD waves were elicited by the application of 1 M KCl solution to the cortex. Direct current-electrocorticograms were measured for 1 hour. Four parameters of the waves were compared. Evans blue dye and fluorescent microscopy were used to study the possible changes in the permeability of the BBB. The results demonstrated that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists can reduce the number of CSD waves and decrease the permeability of the BBB during CSD. These results suggest that KYNA itself or its derivatives may offer a new approach in the therapy of migraines.
Alemtuzumab (previously known as Campath()) is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against the CD52 antigen on mature lymphocytes that results in lymphopenia and subsequent modification of the immune repertoire. Here we explore evidence for its efficacy and safety in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. One Phase II and two Phase III trials of alemtuzumab versus active comparator (interferon beta-1a) have been reported. Two of these rater-blinded randomized studies assessed clinical and radiological outcomes in treatment-nave patients; one explored patients who had relapsed despite first-line therapy. Compared to interferon beta-1a, alemtuzumab reduced the relapse rate by 49%-74% (P &lt; 0.0001), and in two studies it reduced the risk of sustained disability accumulation by 42%-71% (P &lt; 0.01). In one study (Comparison of Alemtuzumab and Rebif Efficacy in Multiple Sclerosis; CARE-MS1), there was no significant difference compared to interferon, perhaps reflecting the surprisingly low frequency of disability events in the comparator group. After alemtuzumab, the Expanded Disability Status Scale score improved by 0.14-1.2 points, culminating in a net advantage with alemtuzumab of 0.41-0.77 points over interferon in the CAMMS223 and CARE-MS2 trials (both P &lt; 0.001). Radiological markers of new lesion formation and brain atrophy following alemtuzumab were significantly improved when compared to interferon in all studies. Adverse events were more common following alemtuzumab than interferon beta-1a (7.2-8.66 versus 4.9-5.7 events per person-year). While infusion reactions are the most common, autoimmunity is the most concerning; within Phase III studies, thyroid disorders (17%-18% versus 5%-6%) and immune thrombocytopenic purpura (1% versus 0%) were reported in patients taking alemtuzumab and interferon beta-1a, respectively. All patients responded to conventional therapy. One patient taking alemtuzumab in the Phase II study suffered a fatal intracranial hemorrhage following immune thrombocytopenic purpura, heralding assiduous monitoring of all patients thereafter. Alemtuzumab has been submitted for licensing in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis in the United States and Europe.

The recent rise in the recreational use of synthetic cannabinoids (e.g. 'K2' and 'Spice') has been accompanied by a corresponding increase in regulation. Besides prohibition of specific compounds and general class bans in over forty states, five synthetic cannabinoids (CB) are federally regulated under a 'temporary' ban and are currently under a formal review to determine whether to permanently schedule them. Whether through explicit prohibition of specific chemicals, or potential de facto bans of unofficially scheduled compounds through the analogue act, scheduling CBs may significantly impede researching their therapeutic utility and elucidating physiological roles of the endogenous CB system. We argue that a review of neuroscience research suggests that synthetic CBs that act like -tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) by directly binding to and stimulating CB receptors (i.e. direct agonists), as well as novel drugs that indirectly stimulate these receptors by increasing levels of endogenous CB neurotransmitters (i.e. indirect agonists) have therapeutic value. Specifically, neurochemical research into how CBs influence mesolimbic dopamine release, a reliable and consistent marker of drugs' rewarding/reinforcing effects, provides the most useful indication of CB abuse liability, and may have implications for the generation of rational drug policy. It demonstrates that direct CB receptor agonists, but not indirect agonists, increase mesolimbic dopamine release. Thus, while direct CB receptor agonists pose an abuse liability, indirect agonists do not. We recommend regulatory agencies revise policies that treat these separate CB classes similarly and to curb regulation aimed at any CB receptor agonists as Schedule I, as this ignores their medicinal properties.
Addiction is a complex disorder with interacting factors, including environmental factors, drug-induced neurobiological changes, comorbidity, personality traits and stress responsivity. Numerous genetic variants that affect these factors may work in concert to affect vulnerability and severity of addiction. Traditionally, abuse of illicit drugs, including cannabis, was considered to be primarily a problem specific to men but the recent focus on drug addiction in women has brought attention to numerous sex differences in the central effects of these drugs, epidemiology of abuse-related disorders, etiologic considerations and psychiatric comorbidity. Gender is now recognised as a major factor in the modulation of the pharmacological effects of drugs of abuse, and sex differences have been reported in various phases of the addiction cycle in both humans and animals. Recently, important gender-dependent differences have been detected in the rates of initiation of marijuana smoking and in the frequency of use. Several animal studies, and in particular self-administration studies, confirmed the crucial role played by sex and gonadal hormones in determining higher sensitivity to marijuana's rewarding properties and vulnerability to cannabis addiction in females than in males. In general, women also show higher rate of relapse to drug use than men, likely due to divergent withdrawal experiences and increased reactivity to internal (emotional) and external (drug-associated) cues. According with this, craving for marijuana smoking and propensity to re-use cannabis after abstinence may also develop differently between the sexes and require distinct treatment approaches, thus highlighting the urgent need for gender-tailored prevention strategies and detoxification treatments.
Retrospective chart review was used to collect data from adolescents seen in a specialized eating disorder program over an 11-year period in order to investigate any association between exposure to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and bone mineral density (BMD). SSRI users were matched with controls based on age (within 1.5 years), gender, eating disorder diagnosis, and percent ideal body weight (within 5%), resulting in a sample of 31 pairs. SSRI users had significantly lower BMD z-scores, compared to controls (-1.094 vs. -0.516, p &lt; .035), suggesting that exposure to SSRIs may be a risk factor for lowered BMD.

In the last 30 years, a converging series of laboratory experiments, clinical trials, and neurocognitive studies have identified several key mechanisms of placebo effects. These studies suggest not only that placebo responses may be ubiquitous across research and clinical settings, but also that they can significantly modulate symptoms across a wide spectrum of highly prevalent conditions such as acute pain, chronic pain, anxiety, depression, Parkinson's disease, and nausea, just to name a few. In order to inform the medical community about the most recent advances in the field of placebo studies, a thematic workshop entitled &quot;The Science of Placebo&quot; was held at the Beth Israel Deaconesses Medical Center (BIDMC), Harvard Medical School, in Boston (MA), on the 19-20 of June 2013. The workshop, sponsored by The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, was organised by the Program in Placebo Studies and the Therapeutic Encounter, a Harvard-wide network of researchers dedicated to the study of the placebo phenomenon hosted by the BIDMC. The event was structured as a series of four public lectures, each delivered by a leading investigator in the field of placebo studies. The four keynote speakers were Fabrizio Benedetti, professor of neurophysiology and human physiology at the University of Turin Medical School and at the National Institute of Neuroscience in Italy; Tor Wager, director of the Cognitive and Affective Control Laboratory and associate professor of psychology and neuroscience at the University of Colorado; Predrag Petrovic, psychiatrist and researcher in the Department of Clinical Neuroscience at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm; and Ted Kaptchuk, director of the Program in Placebo Studies and associate professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School.

The neuropeptide PACAP (pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide) is a cotransmitter of acetylcholine at the adrenomedullary synapse, where autonomic regulation of hormone secretion occurs. We have previously reported that survival of prolonged metabolic stress in mice requires PACAP-dependent biosynthesis and secretion of adrenomedullary catecholamines (CAs). In the present experiments, we show that CA secretion evoked by direct high-frequency stimulation of the splanchnic nerve is abolished in native adrenal slices from male PACAP-deficient mice. Further, we demonstrate that PACAP is both necessary and sufficient for CA secretion ex vivo during stimulation protocols designed to mimic stress. In vivo, up-regulation of transcripts encoding adrenomedullary CA-synthesizing enzymes (tyrosine hydroxylase, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase) in response to both psychogenic and metabolic stressors (restraint and hypoglycemia) is PACAP-dependent. Stressor-induced alteration of the adrenomedullary secretory cocktail also appears to require PACAP, because up-regulation of galanin mRNA is abrogated in male PACAP-deficient mice. We further show that hypoglycemia-induced corticosterone secretion is not PACAP-dependent, ruling out the possibility that glucocorticoids are the main mediators of the aforementioned effects. Instead, experiments with bovine chromaffin cells suggest that PACAP acts directly at the level of the adrenal medulla. By integrating prolonged CA secretion, expression of biosynthetic enzymes and production of modulatory neuropeptides such as galanin, PACAP is crucial for adrenomedullary function. Importantly, our results show that PACAP is the dominant adrenomedullary neurotransmitter during conditions of enhanced secretory demand.
Studying the mechanisms for the complex pathogenesis of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) requires animal models with endocrine, reproductive, and metabolic features of the syndrome. Hyperandrogenism seems to be a central factor in PCOS, leading to anovulation and insulin resistance. In female rats, continuous administration of letrozole, a nonsteroidal inhibitor of P450 aromatase, at 400 g/d starting before puberty induces hyperandrogenemia and reproductive abnormalities similar to those in women with PCOS. However, despite high circulating testosterone levels, these rats do not develop metabolic abnormalities, perhaps because of their supraphysiological testosterone concentrations or because estrogen synthesis is completely blocked in insulin-sensitive tissues. To test the hypothesis that continuous administration of lower doses of letrozole starting before puberty would result in both metabolic and reproductive phenotypes of PCOS, we performed a 12-wk dose-response study. At 21 d of age, 46 female Wistar rats were divided into two letrozole groups (100 or 200 g/d) and a control group (placebo). Both letrozole doses resulted in increased body weight, inguinal fat accumulation, anovulation, larger ovaries with follicular atresia and multiples cysts, endogenous hyperandrogemia, and lower estrogen levels. Moreover, rats that received 200 g/d had insulin resistance and enlarged adipocytes in inguinal and mesenteric fat depots, increased circulating levels of LH, decreased levels of FSH, and increased ovarian expression of Cyp17a1 mRNA. Thus, continuous administration of letrozole, 200 g/d, to female rats for 90 d starting before puberty results in a PCOS model with reproductive and metabolic features of the syndrome.


Cognitive impairment is a significant comorbidity of epilepsy. At present, the molecular/cellular mechanisms that underlie these cognitive impairments remain unknown. It seems likely that a complete understanding at the molecular/cellular level will require the use of rodent models. A number of rodent models of epilepsy are used to study cognition in a variety of behavioral tasks. This review presents a brief overview of two commonly used tasks (the Morris water maze and the radial arm maze) that have been used to assess spatial learning/memory in two chemoconvulsant models of temporal lobe epilepsy.
Triheptanoin is a triglyceride containing heptanoate, an odd-chained medium fatty acid that is metabolized to produce propionyl-CoA and subsequently C4 intermediates of the citric acid cycle and therefore capable of anaplerosis. These metabolic products are believed to underlie triheptanoin's anticonvulsant effects in rodent seizure models. Here we investigate the anticonvulsive effects of oral triheptanoin in a syndrome-specific genetic mouse model of generalized epilepsy based on the GABA(A)2(R43Q) mutation. Mice were fed a diet supplemented with triheptanoin from weaning for three weeks prior to electrocortical recordings. Occurrence and durations of spike and wave discharges (SWDs) were measured. Triheptanoin did not alter body weight or basal blood glucose levels suggesting that it was well tolerated. Triheptanoin supplementation halved the time spent in seizures due to a reduction in both SWD occurrence and duration. An injection of insulin was used to reduce blood glucose, a metabolic stress known to precipitate seizures in the GABA(A)2(R43Q) mouse. The reduction in seizure count was also evident following insulin induced hypoglycemia with the triheptanoin treated group having significantly less SWDs than control animals under similar low blood glucose conditions. In summary, triheptanoin may be an effective and well tolerated dietary therapy for generalized epilepsy.
Our aim was to evaluate the EEG and clinical modifications induced by the new antiepileptic drug lacosamide (LCM) in patients with epilepsy. We evaluated 10 patients affected by focal pharmacoresistant epilepsy in which LCM (mean 250mg/day) was added to the preexisting antiepileptic therapy, which was left unmodified. Morning waking EEG recording was performed before (t0) and at 6 months (t1) after starting LCM. At t0 and t1, patients were also administered questionnaires evaluating mood, anxiety, sleep, sleepiness, and fatigue (Beck Depression Inventory; State-Trait Anxiety Inventory Y1 and Y2; Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index; Epworth Sleepiness Scale; Fatigue Severity Scale). We performed a quantitative analysis of EEG interictal abnormalities and background EEG power spectrum analysis. LCM as an add-on did not significantly affect anxiety, depression, sleepiness, sleep quality, and fatigue scales. Similarly, adding LCM to preexisting therapy did not modify significantly patient EEGs in terms of absolute power, relative power, mean frequency, and interictal abnormalities occurrence. In conclusion, in this small cohort of patients, we confirmed that LCM as an add-on does not affect subjective parameters which play a role, among others, in therapy tolerability, and our clinical impression was further supported by evaluation of EEG spectral analysis.

EEG after sleep deprivation (SD-EEG) is widely used in many epilepsy centers as an important tool in the epilepsy diagnosis process. However, after more than 40 years of use, there are a number of issues which still need to be clarified concerning its features and role. In particular, the many scientific papers addressing its role in epilepsy diagnosis often differ remarkably from each other in terms of the type of patients assessed, their description and study design. Furthermore, also the length and the type of EEG performed after SD, as well as the length of SD itself, vary dramatically from one study to another. In this paper we shortly underscore the abovementioned differences among the different reports, as well as some interpretations of the findings obtained in the different studies. This analysis emphasizes, if needed, how SD-EEG still represents a crucial step in epilepsy diagnosis, and how additional, controlled studies might further shape its precise diagnostic/prognostic role.
Children with epileptic encephalopathy often have global impairment of brain function and frequent intractable seizures, which contribute further to their developmental disability. Many of these children have identifiable brain lesion on neurological imaging. In such cases, epilepsy surgery may be considered as a treatment option despite the lack of localized epileptic pattern on electroencephalogram (EEG). In this paper, we summarize the clinical features of epileptic encephalopathy syndromes and review the reported literature on the surgical approach to some of these disorders.

Postoperative RT is generally recommended for laryngeal carcinomas (LSCCs) at high risk of recurrence after surgery. There are currently no clinicopathological parameters available to predict response to such adjuvant RT in LSCC, and only a few potentially predictive biomarkers have been investigated. Nm23-H1 protein is reportedly related to the tumor cells' metastatic potential, and low Nm23-H1 expression levels in human carcinomas often correlate with a poor prognosis. The novel aim of the present preliminary study was to investigate the prognostic value of Nm23-H1 expression and subcellular localization in a series of patients given postoperative RT for LSCC. A retrospective clinicopathological investigation was conducted at an academic tertiary referral center of 28 consecutive patients given postoperative RT for LSCC. Image analysis of immunohistochemical reactions was performed to measure Nm23-H1 total and nuclear expression levels. Disease-free survival (DFS) was significantly shorter among LSCC patients with total Nm23-H1 levels &lt;50.0 % (p = 0.03); the mean total Nm23-H1 expression was lower in patients with recurrent disease than in patients without it (statistical trend, p = 0.07). The disease recurrence rate was significantly higher (p = 0.021) and the DFS shorter (statistical trend, p = 0.052) among LSCC patients with nuclear Nm23-H1 levels &lt;5.0 %. The locoregional recurrence-risk ratio in LSCC patients with nuclear Nm23-H1 levels &lt;5.0 % was 9.16. Nm23-H1 warrants further investigation of its potential role as a predictive biomarker with a view to providing tailored treatments after surgery, such as combinations of chemotherapy and RT instead of RT alone, in patients whose LSCCs have low or no Nm23-H1 expression.

Vitamin D skews the immune system towards a more tolerogenic state. Therefore, a relatively high vitamin D status, i.e., within the normal physiological range, might result in a lower antibody response to infection and vaccination. We hypothesized, however, that vitamin D is primarily important in establishing immune homeostasis, implying that a relatively high vitamin D status would not hamper an adequate antibody response against pathogens. Our results show that the vitamin D status did not differ between responders and hypo-responders in patients infected with Streptococcus pneumoniae, as well as patients vaccinated against S. pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis type C (MenC), and/or Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). Furthermore, specific IgG titers were not associated with the vitamin D status in patients vaccinated against S. pneumoniae and MenC, while there was a weak inverse association in Hib-vaccinated patients. These data indicate that a relatively high vitamin D status does not seem to hamper an adequate antibody response upon infection or vaccination, suggesting that vitamin D, in this setting, is not immunosuppressive.

Neuroimaging studies of typically developing children and adolescents have provided valuable information on global and regional developmental trajectories of brain development. As these studies become larger and population-based, they are generating an intersection between the fields of developmental neuroscience and epidemiology. However, few of these studies have adequately probed the contribution of multiple environmental and genetic factors on brain development. Studies designed to optimally evaluate the role of multiple environmental and genetic factors on brain development require both large sample sizes and the prospective collection of multiple environmental factors. The Generation R Study is a large, prospective, prenatal-cohort study of nearly 10,000 children that began in 2002 in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. In September of 2009, 6-8 year old children from the Generation R Study were invited to participate in a magnetic resonance imaging component of the study. We provide an overview of the study design and experience for the first 801 children recruited for the neuroimaging component of the study. The protocol includes a 1-h neuropsychological assessment using the NEPSY-II, a mock scanning session, and a neuroimaging session that includes high-resolution structural, diffusion tensor, and resting-state functional MRI sequences. Image quality has been good to excellent in over 80% of the children to date. The infusion of imaging into the Generation R Study will set the stage for evaluating the role of multiple environmental and genetic factors in both typical and atypical neurodevelopment.
A massive hexanucleotide repeat expansion mutation (HREM) in C9ORF72 has recently been linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Here we describe the frequency, origin and stability of this mutation in ALS+/-FTD from five European cohorts (total n=1347). Single-nucleotide polymorphisms defining the risk haplotype in linked kindreds were genotyped in cases (n=434) and controls (n=856). Haplotypes were analysed using PLINK and aged using DMLE+. In a London clinic cohort, the HREM was the most common mutation in familial ALS+/-FTD: C9ORF72 29/112 (26%), SOD1 27/112 (24%), TARDBP 1/112 (1%) and FUS 4/112 (4%) and detected in 13/216 (6%) of unselected sporadic ALS cases but was rare in controls (3/856, 0.3%). HREM prevalence was high for familial ALS+/-FTD throughout Europe: Belgium 19/22 (86%), Sweden 30/41 (73%), the Netherlands 10/27 (37%) and Italy 4/20 (20%). The HREM did not affect the age at onset or survival of ALS patients. Haplotype analysis identified a common founder in all 137 HREM carriers that arose around 6300 years ago. The haplotype from which the HREM arose is intrinsically unstable with an increased number of repeats (average 8, compared with 2 for controls, P&lt;10(-8)). We conclude that the HREM has a single founder and is the most common mutation in familial and sporadic ALS in Europe.
There is considerable evidence implicating the 15q13.3 region in neuropsychiatric disorders, with the 7 nicotinic receptor gene CHRNA7 the most plausible candidate. This region has multiple duplications and many copy number variants (CNVs). A common CNV involves a partial duplication of CHRNA7 (CHRFAM7A), which occurs in either orientation. We examined the distribution of these alternative genomic arrangements in a large cohort of psychiatric patients, their relatives and controls using the 2-bp deletion polymorphism as a marker for the orientation of CHRFAM7A. We investigated three common alleles for association with psychosis and with the P50 sensory gating deficit, which is strongly associated with psychosis and strongly linked to 15q13.3. We found significant within-family association with P50 (empirical P=0.004), which is robust to population stratification. Most of the effect came from the 2-bp deletion allele, which tags the variant of CHRFAM7A in the same orientation as CHRNA7. This allele is associated with the presence of the P50 sensory gating deficit (empirical P=0.0006). Tests comparing within-family and between-family components of association suggest considerable population stratification in the sample. We found no evidence for association with psychosis, but this may reflect lower power using this phenotype. Four out of six previous association studies found association of different psychiatric phenotypes with the same 2-bp deletion allele.
In recent years, new treatments have become available to treat some lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs) and many studies suggest that there is a benefit with starting therapy early. Newborn screening should detect diseases early enough for prompt treatment. Some countries include additional conditions, such as some LSDs, into their newborn screening panels. Mucopolysaccharidosis Type I (MPS I) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by the deficiency of -L-iduronidase (IDUA) activity. Currently, enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) or bone marrow transplantation is available and this has raised a growing interest for the development of a newborn screening test. In 2009, we reported a new fast and simplified tandem mass spectrometry-based method for quantifying five enzyme activities on dried blood spots. Here, we describe the inclusion of IDUA activity determination for the simultaneous detection of six lysosomal storage diseases. We have defined reference normal ranges by testing 680 healthy newborns and 240 adults. The assay was checked through three confirmed MPS I patients whose IDUA activity was below the normal range. Reproducibility of the assays has been established by assessing the intra-day and inter-day assay imprecisions. This quick assay has been devised to be implemented in newborn screening by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.







The cellular mechanisms underlying the exceptional vulnerability of the basal forebrain (BF) cholinergic neurons during pathological aging have remained elusive. Here we employed an adeno-associated viral vector-based RNA interference (AAV-RNAi) strategy to suppress the expression of tropomyosin-related kinase A (trkA) receptors by cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis of Meynert/substantia innominata (nMB/SI) of adult and aged rats. Suppression of trkA receptor expression impaired attentional performance selectively in aged rats. Performance correlated with trkA levels in the nMB/SI. trkA knockdown neither affected nMB/SI cholinergic cell counts nor the decrease in cholinergic cell size observed in aged rats. However, trkA suppression augmented an age-related decrease in the density of cortical cholinergic processes and attenuated the capacity of cholinergic neurons to release acetylcholine (ACh). The capacity of cortical synapses to release ACh in vivo was also lower in aged/trkA-AAV-infused rats than in aged or young controls, and it correlated with their attentional performance. Furthermore, age-related increases in cortical proNGF and p75 receptor levels interacted with the vector-induced loss of trkA receptors to shift NGF signaling toward p75-mediated suppression of the cholinergic phenotype, thereby attenuating cholinergic function and impairing attentional performance. These effects model the abnormal trophic regulation of cholinergic neurons and cognitive impairments in patients with early Alzheimer's disease. This rat model is useful for identifying the mechanisms rendering aging cholinergic neurons vulnerable as well as for studying the neuropathological mechanisms that are triggered by disrupted trophic signaling.
Despite its fundamental relevance for representing the emotional world surrounding us, human affective neuroscience research has widely neglected the auditory system, at least in comparison to the visual domain. Here, we have investigated the spatiotemporal dynamics of human affective auditory processing using time-sensitive whole-head magnetoencephalography. A novel and highly challenging affective associative learning procedure, 'MultiCS conditioning', involving multiple conditioned stimuli (CS) per affective category, was adopted to test whether previous findings from intramodal conditioning of multiple click-tones with an equal number of auditory emotional scenes (Brckelmann et al., 2011 J. Neurosci., 31, 7801) would generalise to crossmodal conditioning of multiple click-tones with an electric shock as single aversive somatosensory unconditioned stimulus (UCS). Event-related magnetic fields were recorded in response to 40 click-tones before and after four contingent pairings of 20 CS with a shock and the other half remaining unpaired. In line with previous findings from intramodal MultiCS conditioning we found an affect-specific modulation of the auditory N1m component 100-150 ms post-stimulus within a distributed frontal-temporal-parietal neural network. Increased activation for shock-associated tones was lateralised to right-hemispheric regions, whereas unpaired safety-signalling tones were preferentially processed in the left hemisphere. Participants did not show explicit awareness of the contingent CS-UCS relationship, yet behavioural conditioning effects were indicated on an indirect measure of stimulus valence. Our findings imply converging evidence for a rapid and highly differentiating affect-specific modulation of the auditory N1m after intramodal as well crossmodal MultiCS conditioning and a correspondence of the modulating impact of emotional attention on early affective processing in vision and audition.
Intracortical axons originating from pyramidal cells in layer 3 of the rat somatosensory cortex are shared between adjacent columns, and receive the presynaptic inhibition that is mediated by the GABA(B) receptor. Synaptic actions by intracortical axons of single layer 3 pyramidal cells covary between the two adjacent columns in response to stimulation of layer 3 of either column. We examined whether GABA(B) receptor-mediated presynaptic inhibition affects the covariability of synaptic actions by intracortical axons between adjacent columns in slice preparations of the rat barrel cortex. Paired stimulations of superficial layer 3 evoked first and second excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) of varying amplitudes, yielding varying paired-pulse depression of EPSCs in layer 3 pyramidal cells that were located in the stimulated column, but not in its adjacent column. The amplitude of the second EPSC was inversely proportional to that of the first EPSC in layer 3 pyramidal cells in the stimulated column, yielding a negative correlation coefficient between the first and second EPSCs. Baclofen and CGP55845 attenuated paired-pulse depression and abolished the inverse relationship. Simultaneous recordings from two layer 3 pyramidal cells in the stimulated and adjacent columns revealed a positive correlation between the paired first EPSC amplitudes and a negative correlation between the paired second EPSC amplitudes, which, respectively, indicate the positive and negative covariability of synaptic actions by intracortical axons between the two adjacent columns. These results suggest that GABA(B) receptor-mediated presynaptic inhibition can reverse the positive covariability of inter-columnar synaptic actions, which may serve as a basis for inter-columnar desynchronisation.
The master circadian clock in mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), is under the entraining influence of the external light cycle. At a mechanistic level, intracellular signaling via the p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway appears to play a central role in light-evoked clock entrainment; however, the precise downstream mechanisms by which this pathway influences clock timing are not known. Within this context, we have previously reported that light stimulates activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase effector mitogen-stress-activated kinase 1 (MSK1) in the SCN. In this study, we utilised MSK1(-/-) mice to further investigate the potential role of MSK1 in circadian clock timing and entrainment. Locomotor activity analysis revealed that MSK1 null mice entrained to a 12 h light/dark cycle and exhibited circadian free-running rhythms in constant darkness. Interestingly, the free-running period in MSK1 null mice was significantly longer than in wild-type control animals, and MSK1 null mice exhibited a significantly greater variance in activity onset. Further, MSK1 null mice exhibited a significant reduction in the phase-delaying response to an early night light pulse (100 lux, 15 min), and, using an 8 h phase-advancing 'jet-lag' experimental paradigm, MSK1 knockout animals exhibited a significantly delayed rate of re-entrainment. At the molecular level, early night light-evoked cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation, histone phosphorylation and Period1 gene expression were markedly attenuated in MSK1(-/-) animals relative to wild-type mice. Together, these data provide key new insights into the molecular mechanisms by which MSK1 affects the SCN clock.
The mechanism of high-frequency stimulation used in deep brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease (PD) has not been completely elucidated. Previously, high-frequency stimulation of the rat entopeduncular nucleus, a basal ganglia output nucleus, elicited an increase in [K(+)](e) to 18 mm, in vitro. In this study, we assessed whether elevated K(+) can elicit DBS-like therapeutic effects in hemiparkinsonian rats by employing the limb-use asymmetry test and the self-adjusting stepping test. We then identified how these effects were meditated with in-vivo and in-vitro electrophysiology. Forelimb akinesia improved in hemiparkinsonian rats undergoing both tests after 20 mm KCl injection into the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) or the subthalamic nucleus. In the SNr, neuronal spiking activity decreased from 38.2  1.2 to 14.6  1.6 Hz and attenuated SNr beta-frequency (12-30 Hz) oscillations after K(+) treatment. These oscillations are commonly associated with akinesia/bradykinesia in patients with PD and animal models of PD. Pressure ejection of 20 mm KCl onto SNr neurons in vitro caused a depolarisation block and sustained quiescence of SNr activity. In conclusion, our data showed that elevated K(+) injection into the hemiparkinsonian rat SNr improved forelimb akinesia, which coincided with a decrease in SNr neuronal spiking activity and desynchronised activity in SNr beta frequency, and subsequently an overall increase in ventral medial thalamic neuronal activity. Moreover, these findings also suggest that elevated K(+) may provide an ionic mechanism that can contribute to the therapeutic effects of DBS for the motor treatment of advanced PD.
Antisaccades are widely used in the study of voluntary behavioural control: a subject told to look in the opposite direction to a stimulus must suppress the automatic response of looking towards it, leading to delays and errors that are commonly believed to be generated by competing decision processes. However, currently we lack a precise model of the details of antisaccade behaviour, or indeed detailed quantitative data in the form of full reaction time distributions by which any such model could be evaluated. We measured subjects' antisaccade latency distributions and error rates, and found that we could account precisely for both distributions and errors with a model having three competing LATER processes racing to threshold. In an even more stringent test, we manipulated subjects' expectation of the stimulus, leading to large changes in behaviour that were nevertheless still accurately predicted. The antisaccade task is widely used in the laboratory and clinic because of the relative complexity and vulnerability of the underlying decision mechanisms: our model, grounded in detailed quantitative data, is a robust way of conceptualizing these processes.
Many neurons in the central auditory pathway, from the inferior colliculus (IC) to the auditory cortex (AC), respond less strongly to a commonly occurring stimulus than one that rarely occurs. The origin of this phenomenon, called stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA), remains uncertain. The AC sends descending projections to the IC that terminate most densely upon the dorsal, lateral and rostral IC cortices - areas where strong SSA has been reported. To investigate whether SSA in the IC is dependent upon the AC for its generation, we recorded the response from single IC neurons to stimuli presented in an oddball paradigm before, during and after reversibly deactivating the ipsilateral AC with a cryoloop. While changes in the basic response properties of the IC neurons were widespread (89%), changes in SSA sensitivity were less common; approximately half of the neurons recorded showed a significant change in SSA, while the other half remained unchanged. Changes in SSA could be in either direction: 18% enhanced their SSA sensitivity, while 34% showed reduced SSA sensitivity. For the majority of this latter group, cortical deactivation reduced, but did not eliminate, significant SSA levels. Only eight neurons seemed to inherit SSA from the AC, as their pre-existing significant level of SSA became non-significant during cortical deactivation. Thus, the presence of SSA in the IC is generally not dependent upon the corticocollicular projection, suggesting the AC is not essential for the generation of subcortical SSA; however, the AC may play a role in the modulation of subcortical SSA.
In contrast to mammals, adult zebrafish recover locomotor functions after spinal cord injury (SCI), in part due to axonal regrowth and regeneration permissivity of the central nervous system. Upregulation of major vault protein (MVP) expression after spinal cord injury in the brainstem of the adult zebrafish prompted us to probe for its contribution to recovery after SCI. MVP is a multifunctional protein expressed not only in many types of tumours but also in the nervous system, where its importance for regeneration is, however, unclear. Using an established zebrafish SCI model, we found that MVP mRNA and protein expression levels were increased in ependymal cells in the spinal cord caudal to the lesion site at 6 and 11 days after SCI. Double immunolabelling showed that MVP was co-localised with Islet-1 or tyrosine hydroxylase around the central canal of the spinal cord in sham-injured control fish and injured fish 11 days after surgery. MVP co-localised with the neural stem cell marker nestin in ependymal cells after injury. By using an in vivo morpholino-based knock-down approach, we found that the distance moved by MVP morpholino-treated fish was reduced at 4, 5 and 6 weeks after SCI when compared to fish treated with standard control morpholino. Knock-down of MVP resulted in reduced regrowth of axons from brainstem neurons into the spinal cord caudal to the lesion site. These results indicate that MVP supports locomotor recovery and axonal regrowth after SCI in adult zebrafish.
Sites within the hippocampus, amygdala and prefrontal cortex may regulate how responses maintained by cues associated with cocaine are extinguished. To test the role of various brain sites in the consolidation of cocaine-cue extinction learning, the dorsal subiculum (dSUB), rostral basolateral amygdala (rBLA) and infralimbic prefrontal cortex (IL) were manipulated in rats. Following cocaine self-administration training (cues present, cocaine available), responding was assessed during 1-h extinction tests (cues present, no cocaine available). To study extinction consolidation specifically, the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin or vehicle was infused bilaterally into the dSUB, rBLA or IL either immediately following or 6 h after the first two of three extinction training sessions. With manipulations made immediately after extinction sessions, infusions of anisomycin into the dSUB or the rBLA deterred extinction. Rats maintained elevated levels of cocaine seeking relative to vehicle despite the absence of cocaine delivery. Manipulations of IL had no effect. Control studies showed that bilateral protein synthesis inhibition in dSUB and rBLA 6 h after the extinction sessions ended was unable to deter extinction. Rats reduced cocaine seeking in the usual manner in the absence of cocaine delivery. Collectively, these findings suggest that the dSUB and rBLA are neural substrates important for consolidation of cocaine-cue extinction learning and have time-dependent roles. Understanding the contribution of individual neural substrates for cocaine-cue extinction consolidation may help guide treatment strategies aimed at enhancing cue exposure therapy in cocaine-dependent people.
The LIM homeodomain transcription factor Lmx1a is a very potent inducer of stem cells towards dopaminergic neurons. Despite several studies on the function of this gene, the exact in vivo role of Lmx1a in mesodiencephalic dopamine (mdDA) neuronal specification is still not understood. To analyse the genes functioning downstream of Lmx1a, we performed expression microarray analysis of LMX1A-overexpressing MN9D dopaminergic cells. Several interesting regulated genes were identified, based on their regulation in other previously generated expression arrays and on their expression pattern in the developing mdDA neuronal field. Post analysis through in vivo expression analysis in Lmx1a mouse mutant (dr/dr) embryos demonstrated a clear decrease in expression of the genes Grb10 and Rgs4, in and adjacent to the rostral and dorsal mdDA neuronal field and within the Lmx1a expression domain. Interestingly, the DA marker Vmat2 was significantly up-regulated as a consequence of increased LMX1A dose, and subsequent analysis on Lmx1a-mutant E14.5 and adult tissue revealed a significant decrease in Vmat2 expression in mdDA neurons. Taken together, microarray analysis of an LMX1A-overexpression cell system resulted in the identification of novel direct or indirect downstream targets of Lmx1a in mdDA neurons: Grb10, Rgs4 and Vmat2.
The human tendency to imitate gestures performed by conspecifics is automatic in nature. However, whether this automatic imitation can be considered as a true imitative phenomenon or only as a special instance of spatial compatibility is still being debated. New evidence suggests that automatic imitation, otherwise known as 'imitative compatibility', shall be considered as a phenomenon that operates independently from spatial compatibility. So far there are only a few investigations directly aimed at identifying the neural structures dedicated to this process. In the present study, we applied double-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the parietal opercula to further investigate the role of these regions in coding imitative compatibility. We found that a temporary disruption of parietal opercula caused the reduction of the imitative compatibility relative to the sham condition. In particular, the TMS interference with the parietal opercula's activity modulated the imitative compatibility but not the spatial compatibility, suggesting that these two processes are likely to be independent.
The polysialylated form of the neuronal cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) is expressed by immature neurons in the amygdala of adult mammals, including non-human primates. In a recent report we have also described the presence of PSA-NCAM-expressing cells in the amygdala of adult humans. Although many of these cells have been classified as mature interneurons, some of them lacked mature neuronal markers, suggesting the presence of immature neurons. We have studied, using immunohistochemistry, the existence and distribution of these immature neurons using post mortem material. We have also analysed the presence of proliferating cells and the association between immature neurons and specialised astrocytes. These parameters have also been studied for comparative purposes in the amygdalae of cats and squirrel monkeys. Our results demonstrate that cells coexpressing doublecortin and PSA-NCAM, but lacking neuronal nuclear antigen expression, were present in the amygdala of adult humans. These cells were organised in elongated clusters, which were located between the white matter of the dorsal hippocampus and the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus. These clusters were not associated with astroglial specialised structures. No cells expressing the proliferative marker Ki67 were observed in the amygdaloid parenchyma, although some of them were found in the vicinity of the lateral ventricle. Immature neurons were also present in the amygdala of squirrel monkeys and cats. These cells also appeared clustered in monkeys, although not as organised as in humans. In cats these cells are scarce, appear isolated and most of the PSA-NCAM-expressing structures corresponded to processes apparently originating from the paleocortical layer II.



Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers is an integral part of neurology. Basic CSF biomarkers, such as CSF/serum albumin ratio and CSF cell counts, have been used to diagnose inflammatory and infectious CNS disorders in adults and children for decades. During recent years, however, numerous biomarkers for neuronal and astroglial injury, as well as disease-specific protein inclusions, have been developed for neurodegenerative disorders in adults. The overall aim of this paper is to give an updated overview of some of these biomarkers with special focus on their possible relevance to neurological disorders in children and adolescents.






Concerning intravenous thrombolysis, only inconclusive data are available for patients older than 90. We retrospectively evaluated 11 such patients whom we treated with thrombolysis from June 2007 through April 2012, comparing them to 41 patients of the same age whom we treated conventionally in the same period. Baseline clinical data were superimposable, except for shorter onset-to-hospital time for thrombolyzed patients. Mortality and hemorrhagic transformation did not differ. Functional status (modified Rankin scale) 3 months after was better in treated patients, even when compared to controls who arrived early in the hospital. Treated patients were more often discharged home or to intensive rehabilitation, less often to a nursing home. We conclude that safety and effectiveness of intravenous thrombolysis in eligible nonagenarians are evident in a setting of everyday practice, and that patients 90 years or older should not be denied thrombolysis solely on the basis of their age.

Since 2009, the (CCSVI) model of multiple sclerosis has drawn much attention, and the associated surgical 'venoplasty' interventions have often been advertised as a novel idea. In fact, it is a new incarnation of various vessel-based therapies attempted for multiple sclerosis in the past, dating back to the 1930s, when Tracy Jackson Putnam (1894-1975) attempted pharmacological anticoagulation. This was followed in the 1940s by Richard M. Brickner's (1896-1959) studies of vasodilatory drugs, which further inspired trials of sympathectomy and ganglionectomy. In the 1950s, Ilya Mark Scheinker (1902-1954) studied vasopressor therapy, while Roy Laver Swank (1909-2008) investigated the effects of a low saturated fat diet in his patients. This paper discusses the longer history of these therapeutic endeavours and the aetiological theories that inspired them.


Lexical priming was examined in patients with Alzheimer's disease and in aphasic patients. Control participants were divided into young and elderly [cf. Arroyo-Anll et al.: Eur J Cogn Psychol 2004;16:535-553]. For lexical priming, a word-stem completion task was used. Normal elderly participants had lexical priming scores that were significantly lower than those of young individuals. Analysis of covariance with age and educational level as covariates showed that the control participants, aphasic and Alzheimer patients did not differ significantly on the lexical priming task. Our results suggest that performance in the lexical priming task diminishes with physiological aging, but is not significantly affected by mild or moderate Alzheimer's disease or by fluent or non-fluent aphasia.
Herophilus (ca. 330 to ca. 260 BC) was one of Hellenistic -Alexandria's renowned scholars, a leading physician, often named the 'Father of Anatomy'. From cadaveric dissections and possibly vivisection Herophilus considered the ventricles to be the seat of the soul, intelligence and mental functions. Herophilus introduced the term rete mirabile found in ungulates but not in man, as opposed to Galen, who erroneously believed it a vital human network. A founder of the principles of observations in science, and an exponent of measurements in medicine, his accurate dissections resulted in original anatomical discoveries. He distinguished nerves that produce voluntary motion from blood vessels, and motor from sensory nerves; the nerves of the spinal cord were directly linked to the brain. He identified at least seven pairs of cranial nerves. Herophilus demonstrated the meninges, and ventricles, regarding the fourth as most important. His name is perpetuated by his accounts of the calamus scriptorius and the confluence of venous sinuses the torcular Herophili.

We examined executive functioning in patients with Parkinson's disease exhibiting, or not, levodopa-resistant freezing of gait (L-FOG). 38 advanced-stage patients with L-FOG were identified in a consecutive series of 400 patients. They were matched with 38 patients without L-FOG. All patients underwent prospective evaluations of cognitive and motor functioning before subthalamic nucleus surgery, and 1 year after. A composite frontal score, a measure of executive functioning, was compared between the two groups. We also examined correlations between the frontal score and the score on the FOG item of the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale II. Results show that after surgery, patients with L-FOG, as a group, were more impaired in executive functioning than control patients. However, individual data analysis showed preserved executive functions in 11 patients with L-FOG. In addition, there was no correlation between L-FOG severity and the degree of executive impairment. Therefore, frontal dysfunction may be one mechanism underlying L-FOG in a number of patients with Parkinson's disease. However, since some patients develop L-FOG despite the preservation of executive functions, lesions or dysfunction of other neuronal structures are likely to be involved.
Hermann von Helmholtz (1821-1894), a great German scientist and philosopher, made his mark during the exciting twilight period from the Enlightenment and Romanticism to the beginnings of modern neuroscience and offered new perspectives through his work. His early inclination was for physics, which he found more attractive than purely geometric and algebraic studies, but his father was not able to make it possible for him to study physics, and so he studied medicine in order to earn a living. His lecture before the Physical Society in Berlin on July 23, 1847, 'about the conservation of the force' marked an epochal turn, even though his intention had been to deliver 'merely, some critical investigations and arrangement of facts in favor of the physiologists' as well as good arguments for the refusal of the theory of 'vitality'. Even though these new concepts were at first dismissed as fantastic speculation by some of the authorities in physics and philosophy of the day, they were enthusiastically welcomed by younger students of philosophy and the older men soon had to allow themselves to be persuaded that the effectiveness of vitality, though great and beautiful, is actually always dependent on some source of energy. Helmholtz critically assessed Goethe as a physical scientist but he did not dispute his great importance as a poet.

Over the past three decades numerous imaging studies have revealed structural and functional brain abnormalities in patients with neuropsychiatric diseases. These structural and functional brain changes are frequently found in multiple, discrete brain areas and may include frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital cortices as well as subcortical brain areas. However, while the structural and functional brain changes in patients are found in anatomically separated areas, these are connected through (long distance) fibers, together forming networks. Thus, instead of representing separate (patho)-physiological entities, these local changes in the brains of patients with psychiatric disorders may in fact represent different parts of the same 'elephant', i.e., the (altered) brain network. Recent developments in quantitative analysis of complex networks, based largely on graph theory, have revealed that the brain's structure and functions have features of complex networks. Here we briefly introduce several recent developments in neural network studies relevant for psychiatry, including from the 2013 special issue on Neural Networks in Psychiatry in European Neuropsychopharmacology. We conclude that new insights will be revealed from the neural network approaches to brain imaging in psychiatry that hold the potential to find causes for psychiatric disorders and (preventive) treatments in the future.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a prevalent psychiatric disorder that has poor long-term outcomes and remains a major public health concern. Recent theories have proposed that ADHD arises from alterations in multiple neural pathways. Alterations in reward circuits are hypothesized as one core dysfunction, leading to altered processing of anticipated rewards. The nucleus accumbens (NAcc) is particularly important for reward processes; task-based fMRI studies have found atypical activation of this region while the participants performed a reward task. Understanding how reward circuits are involved with ADHD may be further enhanced by considering how the NAcc interacts with other brain regions. Here we used the technique of resting-state functional connectivity MRI (rs-fcMRI) to examine the alterations in the NAcc interactions and how they relate to impulsive decision making in ADHD. Using rs-fcMRI, this study: examined differences in functional connectivity of the NAcc between children with ADHD and control children; correlated the functional connectivity of NAcc with impulsivity, as measured by a delay discounting task; and combined these two initial segments to identify the atypical NAcc connections that were associated with impulsive decision making in ADHD. We found that functional connectivity of NAcc was atypical in children with ADHD and the ADHD-related increased connectivity between NAcc and the prefrontal cortex was associated with greater impulsivity (steeper delayed-reward discounting). These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that atypical signaling of the NAcc to the prefrontal cortex in ADHD may lead to excessive approach and failure in estimating future consequences; thus, leading to impulsive behavior.
Early life stress (ELS) is a significant risk factor for psychopathology, although there are few functional imaging studies investigating its effects. Previous literature suggests that ELS is associated with changes in structure and function in the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), which forms the main anterior node of the default network (DN). This study investigated the impact of ELS history on resting state DN connectivity, using seed-based correlation analyses (SCA) involving the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC). Data were analyzed from 22 adult subjects without psychiatric or medical illness (13 with and 9 without ELS); none were taking psychotropic medication. Relative to controls, the ELS group had significant decreases in DN connectivity, observed between the PCC seed and the MPFC and inferior temporal cortex. Further analyses revealed a trend-level increase in connectivity between the amygdala and MPFC associated with ELS history. In conclusion, this study found that subjects with ELS, in the absence of psychiatric illness and medication exposure, demonstrated decreased DN connectivity, and trend-level increases in connectivity between the amygdala and MPFC. These findings suggest that altered resting state connectivity is a correlate of stress exposure, rather than a product of medication or psychiatric morbidity.
In schizophrenia, grey matter deficits have been shown for many regions throughout the brain. These regions do not operate in isolation. Rather, they form a structural network of interconnected grey matter regions. To examine the mutual dependence of brain regions, this study investigated interregional coupling in lobar and regional grey matter volumes obtained from 146 schizophrenia patients and 122 healthy comparison subjects. Compared to healthy controls, schizophrenia patients showed both decreased (e.g. between left frontal and bilateral subcortical, p0.005) and increased (e.g. between left temporal and bilateral subcortical, p0.001) coupling between lobar grey matter volumes. On a regional scale, decreased coupling was most pronounced between fronto-parietal cortical regions and subcortical structures, and between frontal and occipital regions. In addition, an increased association was found among frontal and limbic regions, and for temporo-occipital connexions. Consistent with dysconnectivity theories of schizophrenia, impaired grey matter coupling may be reflective of reduced integrity of the brain's network. Furthermore, as cross-sectional volumetric coupling is indicative of maturational coupling, aberrant grey matter coupling may be a marker of neurodevelopmental abnormalities in schizophrenia.
The human brain is a complex network of interconnected brain regions. In adulthood, the brain's network was recently found to be under genetic influence. However, the extent to which genes influence the functional brain network early in development is not yet known. We report on the heritability of functional brain efficiency during early brain development. Using a twin design, young children underwent resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging brain scans (N=86 from 21MZ and 22DZ twin-pairs, age=12 years). Functional connectivity, defined as the temporal dependency of neuronal activation patterns of anatomically separated brain regions, was explored using graph theory and its heritability was examined using structural equation modeling. Our findings suggest that 'global efficiency of communication' among brain regions is under genetic control (h lambda=42%), irrespectively of the total number of brain connections (connectivity density). In addition, no influence of genes or common environment to local clustering (gamma) was found, suggesting a less pronounced effect of genes on local information segregation. Thus our findings suggest that a set of genes is shaping the underlying architecture of functional brain communication during development.


Background. As distress in society increases, including work environments, individual capacities to compete with stress have to be strengthened. Objective. We examined the impact of a web-based happiness training on psychological and physiological parameters, by self-report and objective means, in an occupational health setting. Methods. Randomized controlled trial with 147 employees. Participants were divided into intervention (happiness training) and control groups (waiting list). The intervention consisted of a seven-week online training. Questionnaires were administered before, after, and four weeks after training. The following scales were included: VAS (happiness and satisfaction), WHO-5 Well-being Index, Stress Warning Signals, Freiburg Mindfulness Inventory, Recovery Experience Questionnaire, and Flourishing Scale. Subgroup samples for saliva cortisol and alpha-amylase determinations were taken, indicating stress, and Attention Network Testing for effects on attention regulation. Results. Happiness (P = 0.000; d = 0.93), satisfaction (P = 0.000; d = 1.17), and quality of life (P = 0.000; d = 1.06) improved; perceived stress was reduced (P = 0.003; d = 0.64); mindfulness (P = 0.006; d = 0.62), flourishing (P = 0.002; d = 0.63), and recovery experience (P = 0.030; d = 0.42) also increased significantly. No significant differences in the Attention Network Tests and saliva results occurred (intergroup), except for one saliva value. Conclusions. The web-based training can be a useful tool for stabilizing health/psychological well-being and work/life balance.
Kai-xin-san (KXS), a Chinese herbal decoction prescribed by Sun Simiao in Beiji Qianjin Yaofang about 1400 years ago, contains Ginseng Radix et Rhizoma, Polygalae Radix, Acori Tatarinowii Rhizoma, and Poria. In China, KXS has been used to treat stress-related psychiatric diseases with the symptoms of depression and forgetfulness. Although animal study has supported the antidepression function of KXS, the mechanism in cellular level is still unknown. Here, a chemically standardized water extract of KXS was applied onto cultured astrocytes in exploring the action mechanisms of KXS treatment, which significantly stimulated the expression and secretion of neurotrophic factors, including NGF, BDNF, and GDNF, in a dose-dependent manner: the stimulation was both in mRNA and protein levels. In addition, the water extracts of four individual herbs did not significantly stimulate the expression of neurotrophic factors, which could explain the optimized effect of KXS in a herbal decoction. The KXS-induced expression of neurotrophic factors did not depend on signaling mediated by estrogen receptor or protein kinase. The results suggested that the antidepressant-like action of KXS might be mediated by an increase of expression of neurotrophic factors in astrocytes, which fully supported the clinical usage of this decoction.

Despite the classical hormonal effect, estrogen has been reported to mediate neuroprotection in the brain, which leads to the searching of estrogen-like substances for treating neurodegenerative diseases. Flavonoids, a group of natural compounds, are well known to possess estrogenic effects and used to substitute estrogen, that is, phytoestrogen. Flavonoid serves as one of the potential targets for the development of natural supplements and therapeutic drugs against different diseases. The neuroprotection activity of flavonoids was chosen for a possible development of anti-Alzheimer's drugs or food supplements. The estrogenic activity of two flavonoids, baicalein and daidzein, were demonstrated by their strong abilities in stimulating estrogen receptor phosphorylation and transcriptional activation of estrogen responsive element in MCF-7 breast cells. The neuroprotection effects of flavonoids against  -amyloid (A  ) were revealed by their inhibition effects on in vitro A  aggregation and A  -induced cytotoxicity in PC12 neuronal cells. More importantly, the estrogenic and neuroprotective activities of individual flavonoid could be further enhanced by the cotreatment in the cultures. Taken together, this synergistic effect of baicalein and daidzein might serve as a method to improve the therapeutic efficacy of different flavonoids against A  , which might be crucial in developing those flavonoidsin treating Alzheimer's disease in the future.
Despite increasing emphasis on the potential of dietary antioxidants in preventing memory loss and on diet as a precursor of neurological health, rigorous studies investigating the cognitive effects of foods and their components are rare. Recent animal studies have reported memory and other cognitive benefits of polyphenols, found abundantly in pomegranate juice. We performed a preliminary, placebo-controlled randomized trial of pomegranate juice in older subjects with age-associated memory complaints using memory testing and functional brain activation (fMRI) as outcome measures. Thirty-two subjects (28 completers) were randomly assigned to drink 8 ounces of either pomegranate juice or a flavor-matched placebo drink for 4 weeks. Subjects received memory testing, fMRI scans during cognitive tasks, and blood draws for peripheral biomarkers before and after the intervention. Investigators and subjects were all blind to group membership. After 4 weeks, only the pomegranate group showed a significant improvement in the Buschke selective reminding test of verbal memory and a significant increase in plasma trolox-equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) and urolithin A-glucuronide. Furthermore, compared to the placebo group, the pomegranate group had increased fMRI activity during verbal and visual memory tasks. While preliminary, these results suggest a role for pomegranate juice in augmenting memory function through task-related increases in functional brain activity.
The modulatory role of allosteric receptor-receptor interactions in the pain pathways of the Central Nervous System and the peripheral nociceptors has become of increasing interest. As integrators of nociceptive and antinociceptive wiring and volume transmission signals, with a major role for the opioid receptor heteromers, they likely have an important role in the pain circuits and may be involved in acupuncture. The delta opioid receptor (DOR) exerts an antagonistic allosteric influence on the mu opioid receptor (MOR) function in a MOR-DOR heteromer. This heteromer contributes to morphine-induced tolerance and dependence, since it becomes abundant and develops a reduced G-protein-coupling with reduced signaling mainly operating via  -arrestin2 upon chronic morphine treatment. A DOR antagonist causes a return of the Gi/o binding and coupling to the heteromer and the biological actions of morphine. The gender- and ovarian steroid-dependent recruitment of spinal cord MOR/kappa opioid receptor (KOR) heterodimers enhances antinociceptive functions and if impaired could contribute to chronic pain states in women. MOR1D heterodimerizes with gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) in the spinal cord, mediating morphine induced itch. Other mechanism for the antinociceptive actions of acupuncture along meridians may be that it enhances the cross-desensitization of the TRPA1 (chemical nociceptor)-TRPV1 (capsaicin receptor) heteromeric channel complexes within the nociceptor terminals located along these meridians. Selective ionotropic cannabinoids may also produce cross-desensitization of the TRPA1-TRPV1 heteromeric nociceptor channels by being negative allosteric modulators of these channels leading to antinociception and antihyperalgesia.
We discuss the emerging translational tools for the study of acupuncture analgesia with a focus on psychophysical methods. The gap between animal mechanistic studies and human clinical trials of acupuncture analgesia calls for effective translational tools that bridge neurophysiological data with meaningful clinical outcomes. Temporal summation (TS) and conditioned pain modulation (CPM) are two promising tools yet to be widely utilized. These psychophysical measures capture the state of the ascending facilitation and the descending inhibition of nociceptive transmission, respectively. We review the basic concepts and current methodologies underlying these measures in clinical pain research, and illustrate their application to research on acupuncture analgesia. Finally, we highlight the strengths and limitations of these research methods and make recommendations on future directions. The appropriate addition of TS and CPM to our current research armamentarium will facilitate our efforts to elucidate the central analgesic mechanisms of acupuncture in clinical populations.
Acupuncture and electroacupuncture (EA) are widely used to treat a variety of diseases including pain. In preclinical research, EA is usually applied by inserting acupuncture needles into the hindlimbs of rats restrained in small tubes or bags. This restrained model of EA not only causes stress-like behaviors but also is limited in stimulating locations and intensities. In 2004, a novel, unrestrained model of EA was introduced. However, these two EA methods have never been directly compared regarding their analgesic effects and other features such as stress. In the present study, we reported similar analgesic effects between restrained and unrestrained EA in rats of acute inflammatory pain induced by intraplantar injection of CFA. In addition, rats receiving unrestrained EA showed less significant stress-like behaviors and tolerated higher current intensity. These advantages suggest that this unrestrained EA method can replace the traditional restrained procedure with similar analgesic effects and allow for more choices of stimulating intensities and locations.
Slow breathing increases cardiac-vagal baroreflex sensitivity (BRS), improves oxygen saturation, lowers blood pressure, and reduces anxiety. Within the yoga tradition slow breathing is often paired with a contraction of the glottis muscles. This resistance breath &quot;ujjayi&quot; is performed at various rates and ratios of inspiration/expiration. To test whether ujjayi had additional positive effects to slow breathing, we compared BRS and ventilatory control under different breathing patterns (equal/unequal inspiration/expiration at 6 breath/min, with/without ujjayi), in 17 yoga-naive young healthy participants. BRS increased with slow breathing techniques with or without expiratory ujjayi (P &lt; 0.05 or higher) except with inspiratory + expiratory ujjayi. The maximal increase in BRS and decrease in blood pressure were found in slow breathing with equal inspiration and expiration. This corresponded with a significant improvement in oxygen saturation without increase in heart rate and ventilation. Ujjayi showed similar increase in oxygen saturation but slightly lesser improvement in baroreflex sensitivity with no change in blood pressure. The slow breathing with equal inspiration and expiration seems the best technique for improving baroreflex sensitivity in yoga-naive subjects. The effects of ujjayi seems dependent on increased intrathoracic pressure that requires greater effort than normal slow breathing.
The traditional antidepressants have a major disadvantage in delayed onset of efficacy, and the emerging fast-acting antidepressant ketamine has adverse behavioral and neurotoxic effects. Yueju pill, an herb medicine formulated eight hundred years ago by Doctor Zhu Danxi, has been popularly prescribed in China for alleviation of depression-like symptoms. Although several clinical outcome studies reported the relative short onset of antidepressant effects of Yueju, this has not been scientifically investigated. We, therefore, examined the rapid antidepressant effect of Yueju in mice and tested the underlying molecular mechanisms. We found that acute administration of ethanol extract of Yueju rapidly attenuated depressive-like symptoms in learned helpless paradigm, and the antidepressant-like effects were sustained for at least 24 hours in tail suspension test in ICR mice. Additionally, Yueju, like ketamine, rapidly increased the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus, whereas the BDNF mRNA expression remained unaltered. Yueju rapidly reduced the phosphorylation of eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2), leading to desuppression of BDNF synthesis. Unlike ketamine, both the BDNF expression and eEF2 phosphorylation were revered at 24 hours after Yueju administration. This study is the first to demonstrate the rapid antidepressant effects of an herb medicine, offering an opportunity to improve therapy of depression.
The present study aimed to investigate how ongoing brain rhythmical oscillations changed during the postoperative pain and whether electroacupuncture (EA) regulated these brain oscillations when it relieved pain. We established a postincisional pain model of rats with plantar incision to mimic the clinical pathological pain state, tested the analgesic effects of EA, and recorded electroencephalography (EEG) activities before and after the EA application. By analysis of power spectrum and bicoherence of EEG, we found that in rats with postincisional pain, ongoing activities at the delta-frequency band decreased, while activities at theta-, alpha-, and beta-frequency bands increased. EA treatment on these postincisional pain rats decreased the power at high-frequency bands especially at the beta-frequency band and reversed the enhancement of the cross-frequency coupling strength between the beta band and low-frequency bands. After searching for the PubMed, our study is the first time to describe that brain oscillations are correlated with the processing of spontaneous pain information in postincisional pain model of rats, and EA could regulate these brain rhythmical frequency oscillations, including the power and cross-frequency couplings.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a reproductive and metabolic disorder associated with obesity and insulin resistance that often precedes the development of type-2 diabetes. Rats continuously exposed to dihydrotestosterone from prepuberty display typical reproductive and metabolic PCOS characteristics including anovulation, polycystic ovaries, insulin resistance, and obesity. Our aim was to investigate if resveratrol improves reproductive and metabolic functions in PCOS rats. The effect was compared to exercise. Control and PCOS rats were treated with vehicle or resveratrol (400mgkg(-1)day(-1)) for 5-6 weeks. Another group of PCOS rats received vehicle treatment and exercised for 5-6 weeks. Insulin sensitivity was determined by euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp. The glucose infusion rate was lower in the PCOS-vehicle group compared to control-vehicle rats (P &lt; 0.05). Exercise increased insulin sensitivity compared with PCOS-vehicle rats (P &lt; 0.05), but resveratrol did not. Resveratrol treatment and exercise resulted in smaller adipocytes, upregulated estrogen-related receptor  gene expression in subcutaneous fat, and improved estrus cyclicity in the previously acyclic PCOS rats. Although resveratrol had positive effects on adiposity and cyclicity in a similar manner to exercise, resveratrol does not seem to be a good candidate for treating insulin resistance associated with PCOS because no improvement in insulin sensitivity was observed in PCOS rats on normal chow.
The function and the role of glucosylceramide have not been well studied in the central nervous system. This study was aimed to investigate the possible roles of glucosylceramide in memory function in aged mice. Glucosylceramide (50mg/kg, p.o.) showed memory enhancing activity after 3-month treatment in the aged mice (C56BL/6, 18-20 months old) through Y-maze, novel objective test, and Morris water maze test. Long-term treatment of glucosylceramide decreased the expression of iNOS and COX-2 in the brain of aged mice. The LPS-induced mRNA level of iNOS, COX-2, IL-1  , and TNF-  was reduced by the acute treatment with glucosylceramide in adult mice. These results suggest that glucosylceramide plays an important role in anti-inflammatory and memory enhancement, and it could be a potential new therapeutic agent for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
To determine the biological activity of Rhodiola rosea, the protein expression of iNOS and proinflammatory cytokines was measured after the activation of murine microglial BV2 cells by LPS under the exposure of constituents of Rhodiola rosea: crude extract, rosin, rosarin, and salidroside (each 1-50  g/mL). The LPS-induced expression of iNOS and cytokines in BV2 cells was suppressed by the constituents of Rhodiola rosea in a concentration-dependent manner. Also the expression of the proinflammatory factors iNOS, IL-1  , and TNF-  in the kidney and prefrontal cortex of brain in mice was suppressed by the oral administration of Rhodiola rosea crude extract (500mg/kg). To determine the neuroprotective effect of constituents of Rhodiola rosea, neuronal cells were activated by L-glutamate, and neurotoxicity was analyzed. The L-glutamate-induced neurotoxicity was suppressed by the treatment with rosin but not by rosarin. The level of phosphorylated MAPK, pJNK, and pp38 was increased by L-glutamate treatment but decreased by the treatment with rosin and salidroside. These results indicate that Rhodiola rosea may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of inflammation and neurodegenerative disease.
Currently, NASA has plans for extended space travel, and previous research indicates that space radiation can have negative effects on cognitive skills as well as physical and mental health. With long-term space travel, astronauts will be exposed to greater radiation levels. Research shows that an antioxidant-enriched diet may offer some protection against the cellular effects of radiation and may provide significant neuroprotection from the effects of radiation-induced cognitive and behavioral skill deficits. Ninety-six C57BL/6 mice (48 pomegranate fed and 48 control) were irradiated with proton radiation (2Gy), and two-month postradiation behaviors were assessed using a battery of behavioral tests to measure cognitive and motor functions. Proton irradiation was associated with depression-like behaviors in the tail suspension test, but this effect was ameliorated by the pomegranate diet. Males, in general, displayed worse coordination and balance than females on the rotarod task, and the pomegranate diet ameliorated this effect. Overall, it appears that proton irradiation, which may be encountered in space, may induce a different pattern of behavioral deficits in males than females and that a pomegranate diet may confer protection against some of those effects.
Lavender is traditionally alleged to have a variety of therapeutic and curative properties, ranging from inducing relaxation to treating parasitic infections, burns, insect bites, and spasm. There is growing evidence suggesting that lavender oil may be an effective medicament in treatment of several neurological disorders. Several animal and human investigations suggest anxiolytic, mood stabilizer, sedative, analgesic, and anticonvulsive and neuroprotective properties for lavender. These studies raised the possibility of revival of lavender therapeutic efficacy in neurological disorders. In this paper, a survey on current experimental and clinical state of knowledge about the effect of lavender on the nervous system is given.
Chinese calligraphy has been scientifically investigated within the contexts and principles of psychology, cognitive science, and the cognitive neuroscience. On the basis of vast amount of research in the last 30 years, we have developed a cybernetic theory of handwriting and calligraphy to account for the intricate interactions of several psychological dimensions involved in the dynamic act of graphic production. Central to this system of writing are the role of sensory, bio-, cognitive, and neurofeedback mechanisms for the initiation, guidance, and regulation of the writing motions vis-a-vis visual-geometric variations of Chinese characters. This experiment provided the first evidence of cortical excitation in EEG theta wave as a neural hub that integrates information coming from changes in the practitioner's body, emotions, and cognition. In addition, it has also confirmed neurofeedback as an essential component of the cybernetic theory of handwriting and calligraphy.


Chronic inflammatory diseases (autoimmunity, allergy and inflammatory bowel diseases) are increasing in prevalence in urban communities in high-income countries. One important factor is reduced exposure to immunoregulation-inducing macro- and microorganisms and microbiota that accompanied mammalian evolution (the hygiene hypothesis or 'Old Friends' mechanism). Reduced exposure to these organisms predisposes to poor regulation of inflammation. But inflammation is equally relevant to psychiatric disorders. Inflammatory mediators modulate brain development, cognition and mood, and accompany low socioeconomic status and some cases of depression in developed countries. The risk of all these conditions (chronic inflammatory and psychiatric) is increased in urban versus rural communities, and increased in immigrants, particularly if they move from a low- to a high-income country during infancy, and often the prevalence increases further in second generation immigrants, suggesting that critical exposures modulating disease risk occur during pregnancy and infancy. Diminished exposure to immunoregulation-inducing Old Friends in the perinatal period may enhance the consequences of psychosocial stressors, which induce increased levels of inflammatory mediators, modulate the microbiota and increase the risk for developing all known psychiatric conditions. In later life, the detrimental effects of psychosocial stressors may be exaggerated when the stress occurs against a background of reduced immunoregulation, so that more inflammation (and therefore more psychiatric symptoms) result from any given level of psychosocial stress. This interaction between immunoregulatory deficits and psychosocial stressors may lead to reduced stress resilience in modern urban communities. This concept suggests novel interpretations of recent epidemiology, and novel approaches to the increasing burden of psychiatric disease.




A model animal showing spontaneous onset is a useful tool for investigating the mechanism of disease. Here, I would like to introduce two aging model animals expected to be useful for neuroscience research: the senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM) and the klotho mouse. The SAM was developed as a mouse showing a senescence-related phenotype such as a short lifespan or rapid advancement of senescence. In particular, SAMP8 and SAMP10 show age-related impairment of learning and memory. SAMP8 has spontaneous spongy degeneration in the brain stem and spinal cord with aging, and immunohistochemical studies reveal excess protein expression of amyloid precursor protein and amyloid  in the brain, indicating that SAMP8 is a model for Alzheimer's disease. SAMP10 also shows age-related impairment of learning and memory, but it does not seem to correspond to Alzheimer's disease because senile plaques primarily composed of amyloid  or neurofibrillary tangles primarily composed of phosphorylated tau were not observed. However, severe atrophy in the frontal cortex, entorhinal cortex, amygdala, and nucleus accumbens can be seen in this strain in an age-dependent manner, indicating that SAMP10 is a model for normal aging. The klotho mouse shows a phenotype, regulated by only one gene named -klotho, similar to human progeria. The -klotho gene is mainly expressed in the kidney and brain, and oxidative stress is involved in the deterioration of cognitive function of the klotho mouse. These animal models are potentially useful for neuroscience research now and in the near future.
Successful interaction with the external environment requires a balance between novel or exploratory and routine or exploitative behaviours. This distinction is often expressed in terms of location or orientation of the body relative to surrounding space: functions in which the vestibular system plays an important role. However, the distinction can also be applied to novel versus repetitive production of any behaviour or symbol. Here, we investigated whether vestibular inputs contribute to the balance between novel and routine behaviours, independently of their effects on spatial orienting, by assessing effects of galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) on a random number generation task. Right-anodal/left-cathodal GVS, which preferentially activates the left cerebral hemisphere decreased the randomness of the sequence, while left-anodal/right-cathodal GVS, which preferentially activates the right hemisphere increased it. GVS did not induce any spatial biases in locations chosen from the number line. Our results suggest that vestibular stimulation of each hemisphere has a specific effect on the balance between novel and routine actions. We found no evidence for effects of non-specific arousal due to GVS on random number generation, and no evidence for effects on number generation consistent with modulation of spatial attention due to GVS.
Healthy persons exhibit relatively small temporal and spatial gait variability when walking unimpeded. In contrast, patients with a sensory deficit (e.g., polyneuropathy) show an increased gait variability that depends on speed and is associated with an increased fall risk. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of vision in gait stabilization by determining the effects of withdrawing visual information (eyes closed) on gait variability at different locomotion speeds. Ten healthy subjects (32.27.9years, 5 women) walked on a treadmill for 5-min periods at their preferred walking speed and at 20, 40, 70, and 80% of maximal walking speed during the conditions of walking with eyes open (EO) and with eyes closed (EC). The coefficient of variation (CV) and fractal dimension () of the fluctuations in stride time, stride length, and base width were computed and analyzed. Withdrawing visual information increased the base width CV for all walking velocities (p&lt;0.001). The effects of absent visual information on CV and  of stride time and stride length were most pronounced during slow locomotion (p&lt;0.001) and declined during fast walking speeds. The results indicate that visual feedback control is used to stabilize the medio-lateral (i.e., base width) gait parameters at all speed sections. In contrast, sensory feedback control in the fore-aft direction (i.e., stride time and stride length) depends on speed. Sensory feedback contributes most to fore-aft gait stabilization during slow locomotion, whereas passive biomechanical mechanisms and an automated central pattern generation appear to control fast locomotion.
It has been proposed that working memory (WM) is updated/manipulated via a fronto-basal-ganglia circuit. One way that this could happen is via the synchronization of neural oscillations. A first step toward testing this hypothesis is to clearly establish a frontal scalp EEG signature of WM manipulation. Although many EEG studies have indeed revealed frontal EEG signatures for WM, especially in the theta frequency band (3-8Hz), few of them required subjects to manipulate WM, and of those that did, none specifically tied the EEG signature to the manipulation process per se. Here we employed a WM manipulation task that has been shown with imaging to engage the prefrontal cortex and the striatum. We adapted this task to titrate the success of WM manipulation to approximately 50%. Using time-frequency analysis of EEG, we showed that theta power increased over frontal cortex for successful versus failed WM manipulation, specifically at the time of the manipulation event. This establishes a clear-cut EEG signature of WM manipulation. Future studies could employ this to test the fronto-basal-ganglia hypothesis of WM updating/manipulation.
Cognitive impairments are observed when learned associations are being acquired or retrieved during a period of circadian disruption. However, the extent of the functional impacts on previously acquired associations following circadian rhythm re-entrainment is unknown. The impacts of repeated photoperiod shifts on learning and memory in male and female rats were examined. For these experiments, rats were trained on a spatial version of the Morris water task (MWT) and a visual discrimination task designed for the 8-arm radial maze. Following asymptotic performance on these tasks, rats experienced a repeating photoperiod shift procedure and were then re-entrained. Following circadian re-entrainment, retention of pre-photoperiod-shift-acquired associations was tested. In addition, an extra-dimensional set shift was performed using the 8-arm radial maze. Impaired retention of the MWT platform location was observed in photoperiod-shifted subjects relative to subjects with stable, unmanipulated photoperiods. Repeated photoperiod shifts negatively impacted retention in males and females compared with subjects with stable photoperiods. Retention and the ability to detect extra-dimensional shifts on the visual discrimination task were also impaired, though not consistently by sex or photoperiod condition. Running wheel availability was also included in the analyses to determine whether exercise influenced the effects of photoperiod shifting. The absence of a running wheel produced significant declines in memory retention on both MWT and the visual discrimination task, but only for male rats. The observed impairments indicate that multiple neural systems supporting different learning and memory functions are susceptible to circadian disruption, even if the association is acquired prior to rhythm fragmentation and tested following rhythm re-entrainment.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and glutamate are critical signaling molecules in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). Central amygdala CRF, acting via the CRF type 1 receptor (CRF-R1), plays an integral role in stress responses and emotional learning, processes that are generally known to involve functional NMDA-type glutamate receptors. There is also evidence that CRF expressing CeA projection neurons to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) play an important role in stress related behaviors. Despite the potentially significant interactions between CRF and NMDA receptors in the CeA, the synaptic organization of these systems is largely unknown. Using dual labeling high resolution immunocytochemical electron microscopy, it was found that individual somata and dendrites displayed immunoreactivity for CRF and the NMDA-NR1 (NR1) subunit in the mouse CeA. In addition, CRF-containing axon terminals contacted postsynaptic targets in the CeA, some of which also expressed NR1. Neuronal profiles expressing the CRF type 1 receptor (CRF-R1), identified by the expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mice, also contained NR1, and GFP immunoreactive terminals formed synapses with NR1 containing dendrites. Although CRF and GFP were only occasionally co-expressed in individual somata and dendritic profiles, contacts between labeled axon terminals and dendrites were frequently observed. A combination of tract tracing and immunocytochemistry revealed that a population of CeA CRF neurons projected to the BNST. It was also found that CRF, or GFP expressing terminals directly contacted CeA-BNST projection neurons. These results indicate that the NMDA receptor is positioned for the postsynaptic regulation of CRF expressing CeA neurons and the modulation of signals conveyed by CRF inputs. Interactions between CRF and NMDA receptor mediated signaling in CeA neurons, including those projecting to the BNST, may provide the synaptic basis for integrating the experience of stress and relevant environmental stimuli with behaviors that may be of particular relevance to stress-related learning and the emergence of psychiatric disorders, including drug addiction.
We have previously shown that intrathecal administration of the adrenomedullin (AM) receptor antagonist AM(22-52) produces a long-lasting anti-hyperalgesia effect. This study examined the hypothesis that AM recruits other pronociceptive mediators in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammation. Injection of CFA in the hindpaw of rat produced an increase in the expression of nNOS in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and the spinal dorsal horn. An intrathecal administration of AM(22-52), but not the CGRP antagonist BIBN4096BS, abolished the CFA-induced increase of nNOS. Moreover, AM-induced increase of CGRP was inhibited by the nNOS inhibitors L-NAME and 7-nitroindazole in cultured ganglion explants. Addition of AM to ganglion cultures induced an increase in nNOS protein, which was attenuated by the PKA inhibitor H-89. Treatment with AM also concentration-dependently increased cAMP content and pPKA protein level, but not its non-phosphorylated form, in cultured ganglia. In addition, nNOS was shown to be co-localized with the AM receptor components calcitonin receptor-like receptor and receptor activity-modifying protein 2- and 3 in DRG neurons. The present study suggests that the enhanced activity of nitric oxide (NO) mediates the biological action of AM at the spinal level and that AM recruits NO-CGRP via cAMP/PKA signaling in a mechanistic pathway underlying CFA-induced hyperalgesia.
Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACIs) alter gene expression epigenetically by interfering with the normal functions of HDAC. Given their ability to decrease A levels, HDACIs are a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, it is unclear how HDACIs alter A levels. We developed two novel HDAC inhibitors with improved pharmacological properties, such as a longer half-life and greater penetration of the blood-brain barrier: mercaptoacetamide-based class II HDACI (coded as W2) and hydroxamide-based class I and IIHDACI (coded as I2) and investigated how they affect A levels and cognition. HDACI W2 decreased A40 and A42 in vitro. HDACI I2 also decreased A40, but not A42. We systematically examined the molecular mechanisms by which HDACIs W2 and I2 can decrease A levels. HDACI W2 decreased gene expression of -secretase components and increased the A degradation enzyme Mmp2. Similarly, HDACI I2 decreased expression of - and -secretase components and increased mRNA levels of A degradation enzymes. HDACI W2 also significantly decreased A levels and rescued learning and memory deficits in aged hAPP 3xTg AD mice. Furthermore, we found that the novel HDACI W2 decreased tau phosphorylation at Thr181, an effect previously unknown for HDACIs. Collectively, these data suggest that class II HDACls may serve as a novel therapeutic strategy for AD.
Clinical studies have provided evidence that the progression of HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) involves alterations in dopamine (DA) systems. Drugs of abuse that act on the brain DA system, such as cocaine (Coc), may exacerbate HIV-1 infection and consequent behavioral and neurological manifestations. In the present study, we used the HIV-1 transgenic (Tg) rat, which constitutively expresses 7 of the 9 HIV-1 genes, to assess potential DA system alterations in three behavioral assays: prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the auditory startle response (ASR), novelty and habituation/retention, and sensitization to Coc across repeated administration. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were tested in each experiment. The HIV-1 Tg animals were hyperreactive to auditory startle stimuli and displayed a leftward shift in the temporal window for maximal PPI, suggesting an alteration in sensorimotor gating. All animals displayed an initial robust locomotor response to a novel environment which dissipated with repeated testing; however, the HIV-1 Tg rats, relative to controls, consistently showed a weaker novelty response across monthly-spaced assessments. The HIV-1 Tg animals also showed decreased intrasession habituation of motor activity across 3-day periods that emerged across monthly-spaced locomotor activity sessions; a pattern consistent with impaired long-term episodic memory. Furthermore, the HIV-1 Tg group displayed differential cocaine-induced sensitization, observed both in initiation across the 10-day cocaine treatment, and in expression following a cocaine rechallenge after a 7-day abstinence. Collectively, the present data implicate that the non-infectious HIV-1 Tg rat, which resembles the complete suppression of infection in HIV-1 positive individuals under CART, displays sustained, if not permanent, alterations in the brain DA system.
In this study we have characterised the locomotor recovery, and temporal profile of cell loss, in a novel thoracic compression spinal cord injury (SCI) in the mouse. We have also shown that treatment with docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is neuroprotective in this model of SCI, strengthening the growing literature demonstrating that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids are neuroprotective after SCI. Compression SCI in C57BL/6 mice was produced by placing a 10 g weight for 5 min onto a 2 mm  1.5 mm platform applied to the dura at vertebral level T12. Mice partly recovered from complete hindlimb paralysis and by 28 days post-surgery had plateaued at an average BMS locomotor score of 4.2, equivalent to weight support with plantar stepping. During the same period, neuronal loss at the epicentre increased from 26% of ventral horn neurons by day 1, to 68% by day 28. Delayed loss of oligodendrocytes was also seen (e.g. 84% by day 28 in the dorsal columns) and microglia/macrophage activation was maximal at 7 days. In contrast, axonal damage, judged by a decrease in the non-phosphorylated form of 200 kD neurofilament, was an early event, as the loss was seen by day 1 and did not change markedly over time. Mice that received an intravenous (i.v.) injection of 500 nmol/kg DHA 30 min after SCI, showed improved locomotor recovery and, at 28 day survival, reduced neuronal, oligodendrocyte and neurofilament loss, and reduced microglia/macrophage activation. For some of these indices of SCI, enrichment of the diet with 400 mg/kg/day DHA led to further improvement. However, dietary DHA supplementation, without the initial i.v. injection, was ineffective.
The expanding number of disease-causing dysfunctions of synaptic proteins illustrates the importance of investigating newly discovered proteins involved in neuronal transmission. The gene Slc10A4 encodes a recently described carrier protein present in pre-synaptic terminals of cholinergic and monoaminergic neurons. The biological significance of this recently described transporter protein is currently unknown. We here investigated whether absence of the Slc10a4 protein has any impact on function of the cholinergic system. We first investigated the sensitivity of Slc10a4 null mice to cholinergic stimulus in vitro. In contrast to wild type mice, gamma oscillations occurred spontaneously in hippocampal slices from Slc10a4 null mice. Furthermore, moderate treatment of Slc10a4 null slices with the cholinergic agonist carbachol induced epileptiform activity. In vivo, 3-channel EEG measurements in freely behaving mice revealed that Slc10a4 null mice had frequent epileptiform spike-activity before treatment, and developed epileptic seizures, detected by EEG and accompanied by observable behavioral components, more rapidly after injection of the cholinergic agonist pilocarpine. Similar results were obtained on non-operated mice, as evaluated by behavioral seizures and post mortem c-Fos immunohistochemistry. Importantly, Slc10a4 null mice and wild type control mice were equally sensitive to the glutamatergic chemoconvulsant kainic acid, demonstrating that absence of Slc10a4 led to a selective cholinergic hypersensitivity. In summary, we report that absence of the recently discovered synaptic vesicle protein Slc10a4 results in increased sensitivity to cholinergic stimulation.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) promotes neural stem/progenitor cell (NSC) proliferation in the adult hippocampus; however, it remains inconclusive whether proliferation of these cells results in newly generated mature neurons, leading to increased neurogenesis. When we traced the fates of proliferating cells labeled with bromodeoxyuridine (5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine, BrdU) we found that the number of BrdU-positive cells increased in the hippocampus of TBI mice compared to the sham control. However, double immunostaining to distinguish their cell types showed that most of these cells were glia, and that only a small subpopulation is newborn granular neurons. There was no significant difference with respect to neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus between the injured and the control mice. These results indicate that TBI promotes cell proliferation including astrocyte activation and NSC proliferation. Nevertheless, the majority of the BrdU-positive cells are glia. The neurogenesis is not increased by TBI. These data suggest that TBI activates through promotion of NSC proliferation an innate repair and/or plasticity mechanism in the brain. However, additional intervention is required to increase neurogenesis for successfully repairing the damaged brain following TBI.
Normal actions and behaviors often require inhibition of unwanted and inadequate movements. Motor inhibition has been studied using the stop signal task, in which participants are instructed to respond to a go signal. Sporadically, a stop signal is also delivered after a short interval following the go signal, prompting participants to inhibit their already started response to the go signal. Functional MRI studies using this paradigm have implicated the activation of the subthalamic nucleus in motor inhibition. We directly recorded subthalamic nucleus activity from bilaterally implanted deep brain stimulation electrodes in a group of 10 patients with Parkinson's disease, during performance of the stop signal task. Response inhibition was associated with specific changes in subthalamic activity in three different frequency bands. Response preparation was associated with a decrease in power and cortico-subthalamic coherence in the beta band (12-30 Hz), which was smaller and shorter when the response was successfully inhibited. In the theta band, we observed an increase in frontal cortico-subthalamic coherence related to the presence of the stop signal, which was highest when response inhibition was unsuccessful. Finally, a specific differential pattern of gamma activity was observed in the &quot;on&quot; motor state. Performance of the response was associated with a significant increase in power and cortico-subthalamic coherence, while successful inhibition of the response was associated with a bilateral decrease in subthalamic power and cortico-subthalamic coherence. Importantly, this inhibition-related decrease in gamma activity was absent in the four patients with dopamine-agonist related impulse-control disorders. Our results provide direct support for the involvement of the subthalamic nucleus in response inhibition and suggest that this function may be mediated by a specific reduction in gamma oscillations in the cortico-subthalamic connection.
Literature on impulsivity regularly claims inhibitory control deficits underlie impulsive behavior. The current study investigated whether taxing inhibitory control will increase reflection (decision making under conditions of uncertainty), temporal (delay of gratification), and motor impulsivity (behavioral disinhibition). Inhibitory control was challenged, via a random letter generation task presented during responding to three impulsivity measures: the Information Sampling Task (IST), Single Key Impulsivity Paradigm, and the Stop Signal Task (SST). Participants (n = 33) were assigned to the inhibitory control challenging (experimental) condition, or to a control condition in which inhibitory control was not challenged. The SST was affected by the inhibitory control challenge: participants in the experimental condition displayed increased motor impulsivity, evidenced in longer stop signal reaction times (SSRTs) compared to the control group. The manipulation did not affect reflection- or temporal- impulsivity measures. These data support the suggestion that the mechanisms underlying the motor subtype of impulsivity are dissociable from the temporal and reflection subtypes, and that engagement of inhibitory control is not necessary to prevent impulsive decision making.
Fingers offer a practical tool to represent and manipulate numbers during the acquisition of arithmetic knowledge, usually with a greater involvement in addition and subtraction than in multiplication. In adults, brain-imaging studies show that mental arithmetic increases activity in areas known for their contribution to finger movements. It is unclear, however, if this truly reflects functional interactions between the processes and/or representations controlling finger movements and those involved in mental arithmetic, or a mere anatomical proximity. In this study we assessed whether finger movements interfere with basic arithmetic problem solving, and whether this interference is specific for the operations that benefit the most from finger-based calculation strategies in childhood. In Experiment 1, we asked participants to solve addition, subtraction, and multiplication problems either with their hands at rest or while moving their right-hand fingers sequentially. The results showed that finger movements induced a selective time cost in solving addition and subtraction but not multiplication problems. In Experiment 2, we asked participants to solve the same problems while performing a sequence of foot movements. The results showed that foot movements produced a nonspecific interference with all three operations. Taken together, these findings demonstrate the specific role of finger-related processes in solving addition and subtraction problems, suggesting that finger movements and mental arithmetic are functionally related.
The hypothesis that retrieval of the prime response is responsible for the negative priming (NP) effect has gained popularity in recent studies of visual identity NP. In the current study we report an experiment in which we aimed to remove the response from the prime memory trace by means of spatio-temporal separation. Compared to an identical experiment without this separation (Ihrke et al., 2011), we find that the response-retrieval-specific interaction is absent indicating that the separation was successful in preventing response-retrieval. Still, both negative and positive priming are present as main effects which show that processes other than response-retrieval can produce NP. In addition, based on recordings of the eye-movements during task processing, we localize the NP effect in a target-selection process while positive priming manifests in facilitated response-selection. Our results are in line with a multiple-route view of NP.
Olfactory neurons in the nasal mucosa have the capacity to regenerate continuously along the lifespan by neurogenesis processes starting with progenitor cells close to the basal lamina. The cellular turnover into olfactory neuroepithelium may be modified by environmental stimuli insofar as nasal mucosa is directly in contact with airborne chemicals. However, few studies have been focused on selective changes, especially those concerning mature olfactory neurons and basal cells during specific inhalation exposure. Among chemicals, solvents are known to induce changes in smell abilities and concomitant histological and cellular modifications related to the type of molecule, concentration and time of exposure. This study was designed to characterize smell sensitivity (using behavioral tests) and immunohistochemical effects on olfactory neuroepithelium induced by pyridine exposure in mice. Olfactory marker protein (OMP) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were used to characterize respectively mature olfactory neurons and basal cells. Results showed that inhalation exposure to pyridine had no impact on smell sensitivity whatever the concentration used and the time of exposure. These findings were in agreement with immunohistochemical measurements showing the same cellular kinetic whatever the condition of exposition to pyridine. Indeed, OMP-positive cells increased and PCNA-positive cells decreased as early as the beginning of exposure and cell amounts remained stable at this level until the end of exposure. These findings suggest that pyridine could have the property to rapidly activate a cellular turnover from basal cell progenitors. Rather than toxic effects, the present findings suggest that the metabolites of pyridine might have cell cycle activation properties.

Henrik Klitgaard, PhD, is currently Vice-President, UCB Fellow, Neurosciences Therapeutic Area and is based in Braine-l'Alleud, Belgium. He received a PhD in Human Physiology in 1989 at the August Krogh Institute at the University of Copenhagen (Denmark). During his university career, Klitgaard worked at the Pasteur Institute in Paris (France) and at Harvard University (MA, USA). Klitgaard is a leading figure in the epilepsy research community, thanks to more than 80 peer-reviewed papers and 15 reviews and book chapters, as well as frequent lectures at top neuroscience and epilepsy science meetings. His memberships and accolades include a position on the US National Institute of Health's epilepsy advisory committee, membership of the Neurobiology Committees of both the International League Against Epilepsy and American Epilepsy Society and a seat on the Scientific Advisory Committee of the patient organization C.U.R.E. (Citizens United for Research in Epilepsy). For more than two decades, Klitgaard has conducted antiepileptic drug discovery in the pharmaceutical industry. He has contributed numerous publications on basic and applied aspects of epilepsy research and has frequently been an invited speaker at epilepsy congresses and meetings. During his career in the pharmaceutical industry, Klitgaard has been involved in the discovery and development of antiepileptic drugs at both Novo Nordisk A/S and UCB Pharma. He is also currently involved in the development of two clinical and several preclinical AED candidates.

Evidence suggests that excitatory transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) may improve performance on a wide variety of cognitive tasks. Due to the non-invasive and inexpensive nature of the method, harnessing its potential could be particularly useful for the treatment of neuropsychiatric illnesses involving cognitive dysfunction. However, questions remain regarding the efficacious stimulation parameters. Here, using a double-blind between-subjects design, we explored whether 1 mA excitatory (anodal) left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex stimulation with a contralateral extracerebral reference electrode, leads to enhanced working memory performance across two days, relative to sham stimulation. Participants performed the 3-back, a test of working memory, at baseline, and during and immediately following stimulation on two days, separated by 24-48 hours. Active stimulation did not significantly enhance performance versus sham over the course of the experiment. However, exploratory comparisons did reveal a significant effect of stimulation group on performance during the first stimulation phase only, with active stimulation recipients performing better than sham. While these results do not support the hypothesis that dorsolateral prefrontal cortex tDCS boosts working memory, they raise the possibility that its effects may be greatest during early learning stages.
The canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC) family of Ca (2+) permeable, non-selective cation channels is abundantly expressed throughout the brain, and plays a pivotal role in modulating cellular excitability. Unlike other TRPC channels, TRPC4 subtype expression in the adult rodent brain is restricted to a network of structures that receive dopaminergic innervation, suggesting an association with motivation- and reward-related behaviors. We hypothesized that these channels may play a critical role in dopamine-dependent drug-seeking behaviors. Here, we gathered data testing trpc4 knockout (KO) rats and wild-type (WT) littermates in the acquisition of a natural sucrose reward (10 days), and cocaine self-administration (13 days) at 0.5 mg/kg/infusion. Rats lacking the trpc4 gene ( trpc4-KO) learned to lever press for sucrose to a similar degree as their WT controls. However, when they were switched to cocaine, the trpc4-KO rats had substantially reduced cocaine-paired lever pressing compared to WT controls. No obvious group differences in inactive lever pressing were observed, for any time, during cocaine self-administration.
Background: The pore-forming subunit of the cardiac sodium channel, Na v1.5, has been previously found to be mutated in genetically determined arrhythmias. Na v1.5 associates with many proteins that regulate its function and cellular localisation. In order to identify more in situ Na v1.5 interacting proteins, genetically-modified mice with a high-affinity epitope in the sequence of Na v1.5 can be generated. Methods: In this short study, we (1) compared the biophysical properties of the sodium current (I Na) generated by the mouse Na v1.5 (mNa v1.5) and human Na v1.5 (hNa v1.5) constructs that were expressed in HEK293 cells, and (2) investigated the possible alterations of the biophysical properties of the human Na v1.5 construct that was modified with specific epitopes. Results: The biophysical properties of mNa v1.5 were similar to the human homolog. Addition of epitopes either up-stream of the N-terminus of hNa v1.5 or in the extracellular loop between the S5 and S6 transmembrane segments of domain 1, significantly decreased the amount of I Na and slightly altered its biophysical properties. Adding green fluorescent protein (GFP) to the N-terminus did not modify any of the measured biophysical properties of hNa v1.5. Conclusions: These findings have to be taken into account when planning to generate genetically-modified mouse models that harbour specific epitopes in the gene encoding mNa v1.5.
How is contextual processing as demonstrated with simplified stimuli, cortically enacted in response to ecologically relevant complex and dynamic stimuli? Using voltage-sensitive dye imaging, we captured mesoscopic population dynamics across several square millimeters of cat primary visual cortex. By presenting natural movies locally through either one or two adjacent apertures, we show that simultaneous presentation leads to mutual facilitation of activity. These synergistic effects were most effective when both movie patches originated from the same natural movie, thus forming a coherent stimulus in which the inherent spatio-temporal structure of natural movies were preserved in accord with Gestalt principles of perceptual organization. These results suggest that natural sensory input triggers cooperative mechanisms that are imprinted into the cortical functional architecture as early as in primary visual cortex.
Using paired-end RNA sequencing, we have quantified the deep transcriptional changes that occur during differentiation of murine embryonic stem cells into a highly enriched population of glutamatergic cortical neurons. These data provide a detailed and nuanced account of longitudinal changes in the transcriptome during neurogenesis and neuronal maturation, starting from mouse embryonic stem cells and progressing through neuroepithelial stem cell induction, radial glial cell formation, neurogenesis, neuronal maturation and cortical patterning. Understanding the transcriptional mechanisms underlying the differentiation of stem cells into mature, glutamatergic neurons of cortical identity has myriad applications, including the elucidation of mechanisms of cortical patterning; identification of neurogenic processes; modeling of disease states; detailing of the host cell response to neurotoxic stimuli; and determination of potential therapeutic targets. In future work we anticipate correlating changes in longitudinal gene expression to other cell parameters, including neuronal function as well as characterizations of the proteome and metabolome. In this data article, we describe the methods used to produce the data and present the raw sequence read data in FASTQ files, sequencing run statistics and a summary flatfile of raw counts for 22,164 genes across 31 samples, representing 3-5 biological replicates at each timepoint. We propose that this data will be a valuable contribution to diverse research efforts in bioinformatics, stem cell research and developmental neuroscience studies.
Polymodal neurons of the trigeminal nerve innervate the nasal cavity, nasopharynx, oral cavity and cornea. Trigeminal nociceptive fibers express a diverse collection of receptors and are stimulated by a wide variety of chemicals. However, the mechanism of stimulation is known only for relatively few of these compounds. Capsaicin, for example, activates transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channels. In the present study, wildtype (C57Bl/6J) and TRPV1 knockout mice were tested in three behavioral assays for irritation to determine if TRPV1 is necessary to detect trigeminal irritants in addition to capsaicin. In one assay mice were presented with a chemical via a cotton swab and their response scored on a 5 level scale. In another assay, a modified two bottle preference test, which avoids the confound of mixing irritants with the animal's drinking water, was used to assess aversion. In the final assay, an air dilution olfactometer was used to administer volatile compounds to mice restrained in a double-chambered plethysmograph where respiratory reflexes were monitored. TRPV1 knockouts showed deficiencies in the detection of benzaldehyde, cyclohexanone and eugenol in at least one assay. However, cyclohexanone was the only substance tested that appears to act solely through TRPV1.
Phenotype analyses, e.g. investigating metabolic processes, tissue formation, or organism behavior, are an important element of most biological and medical research activities. Biomedical researchers are making increased use of ontological standards and methods to capture the results of such analyses, with one focus being the comparison and analysis of phenotype information between species. We have generated a cross-species phenotype ontology for human, mouse and zebrafish that contains classes from the Human Phenotype Ontology, Mammalian Phenotype Ontology, and generated classes for zebrafish phenotypes. We also provide up-to-date annotation data connecting human genes to phenotype classes from the generated ontology. We have included the data generation pipeline into our continuous integration system ensuring stable and up-to-date releases. This article describes the data generation process and is intended to help interested researchers access both the phenotype annotation data and the associated cross-species phenotype ontology. The resource described here can be used in sophisticated semantic similarity and gene set enrichment analyses for phenotype data across species. The stable releases of this resource can be obtained from http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/hp/uberpheno/.
A number of aversive and appetitive unconditioned stimuli (such as shock and food) are known to produce memory enhancement when they occur during the post-training period. Post-training exposure to conditioned aversive stimuli has also been shown to enhance memory consolidation processes. The present study shows for the first time that post-training exposure to conditioned stimuli previously paired with consumption of a sucrose solution also enhances memory consolidation. Male Long Evans rats were trained on a one-session conditioned cue preference (CCP) task on a radial arm maze. Immediately or 2 hours after training, rats consumed a sucrose solution or were exposed to cues previously paired with consumption of sucrose or cues previously paired with water. Twenty-four hours later, the rats were tested for a CCP. Immediate, but not delayed, post-training consumption of sucrose enhanced memory for the CCP. Immediate, but not delayed, post-training exposure to cues previously paired with sucrose, but not with water, also enhanced CCP memory. The possibility that rewarding and aversive conditionedstimuli affect memory by a common physiological process is discussed.
The chorda tympani (CT), which innervates taste buds on the anterior portion of the tongue, is susceptible to damage during inner ear surgeries. Injury to the CT causes a disappearance of taste buds, which is concurrent with significant microglial responses at central nerve terminals in the nucleus of the solitary tract (nTS). The resulting taste disturbances that can occur may persist for months or years, long after the nerve and taste buds have regenerated. These persistent changes in taste sensation suggest alterations in central functioning and may be related to the microglial responses. This is reminiscent of nerve injuries that result in chronic pain, where microglial reactivity is essential in maintaining the altered sensation (i.e., pain). In these models, methods that diminish microglial responses also diminish the corresponding pain behavior. Although the CT nerve does not contain nociceptive pain fibers, the microglial reactivity after CT damage is similar to that described in pain models. Therefore, methods that decrease microglial responses in pain models were used here to test if they could also affect microglial reactivity after CT injury. Treatment with minocycline, an antibiotic that dampens pain responsive microglia, was largely ineffective in diminishing microglial responses after CT injury. In addition, signaling through the toll-like 4 receptor (TLR4) does not seem to be required after CT injury as blocking or deleting TLR4 had no effect on microglial reactivity. These results suggest that microglial responses following CT injury rely on different signaling mechanisms than those described in nerve injuries resulting in chronic pain.
In neurodegenerative conditions and following brain trauma it is not understood why neurons die while astrocytes and microglia survive and adopt pro-inflammatory phenotypes. We show here that the damaged adult brain releases diffusible factors that can kill cortical neurons and we have identified histone H1 as a major extracellular candidate that causes neurotoxicity and activation of the innate immune system. Extracellular core histones H2A, H2B H3 and H4 were not neurotoxic. Innate immunity in the central nervous system is mediated through microglial cells and we show here for the first time that histone H1 promotes their survival, up-regulates MHC class II antigen expression and is a powerful microglial chemoattractant. We propose that when the central nervous system is degenerating, histone H1 drives a positive feedback loop that drives further degeneration and activation of immune defences which can themselves be damaging. We suggest that histone H1 acts as an antimicrobial peptide and kills neurons through mitochondrial damage and apoptosis.
In 1948, Hodgkin delineated different classes of axonal firing. This has been mathematically translated allowing insight and understanding to emerge. As such, the terminology of 'Type I' and 'Type II' neurons is commonplace in the Neuroscience literature today. Theoretical insights have helped us realize that, for example, network synchronization depends on whether neurons are Type I or Type II. Mathematical models are precise with analyses (considering Type I/II aspects), but experimentally, the distinction can be less clear. On the other hand, experiments are becoming more sophisticated in terms of distinguishing and manipulating particular cell types but are limited in terms of being able to consider network aspects simultaneously. Although there is much work going on mathematically and experimentally, in my opinion it is becoming common that models are either superficially linked with experiment or not described in enough detail to appreciate the biological context. Overall, we all suffer in terms of impeding our understanding of brain networks and applying our understanding to neurological disease. I suggest that more modelers become familiar with experimental details and that more experimentalists appreciate modeling assumptions. In other words, we need to move beyond our comfort zones.
Hemispatial neglect ('neglect') is a disabling condition that can follow damage to the right side of the brain, in which patients show difficulty in responding to or orienting towards objects and events that occur on the left side of space. Symptoms of neglect can manifest in both space- and object-based frames of reference. Although patients can show a combination of these two forms of neglect, they are considered separable and have distinct neurological bases. In recent years considerable evidence has emerged to demonstrate that spatial symptoms of neglect can be reduced by an intervention called prism adaptation. Patients point towards objects viewed through prismatic lenses that shift the visual image to the right. Approximately five minutes of repeated pointing results in a leftward recalibration of pointing and improved performance on standard clinical tests for neglect. The understanding of prism adaptation has also been advanced through studies of healthy participants, in whom adaptation to leftward prismatic shifts results in temporary neglect-like performance. Here we examined the effect of prism adaptation on the performance of healthy participants who completed a computerised test of space- and object-based attention. Participants underwent adaptation to leftward- or rightward-shifting prisms, or performed neutral pointing according to a between-groups design. Significant pointing after-effects were found for both prism groups, indicating successful adaptation. In addition, the results of the computerised test revealed larger reaction-time costs associated with shifts of attention between two objects compared to shifts of attention within the same object, replicating previous work. However there were no differences in the performance of the three groups, indicating that prism adaptation did not influence space- or object-based attention for this task. When combined with existing literature, the results are consistent with the proposal that prism adaptation may only perturb cognitive functions for which normal baseline performance is already biased.
In order to parse the causal elements underlying complex behaviors and decision-making processes, appropriate behavioral methods must be developed and used in concurrence with molecular, pharmacological, and electrophysiological approaches. Presented is a protocol for a novel Go/No-Go behavioral paradigm to study the brain attention and motivation/reward circuitry in awake, head-restrained rodents. This experimental setup allows: (1) Pharmacological and viral manipulation of various brain regions via targeted guide cannula; (2) Optogenetic cell-type specific activation and silencing with simultaneous electrophysiological recording and; (3) Repeated electrophysiological single and multiple unit recordings during ongoing behavior. The task consists of three components. The subject first makes an observing response by initiating a trial by lever pressing in response to distinctive Go or No-Go tones. Then, after a variable delay period, the subject is presented with a challenge period cued by white noise during which they must respond with a lever press for the Go condition or withhold from lever pressing for the duration of the cue in the No-Go condition. After correctly responding during the challenge period (Challenge) and a brief delay, a final reward tone of the same frequency as the initiation tone is presented and sucrose reward delivery is available and contingent upon lever pressing. Here, we provide a novel procedure and validating data set that allows researchers to study and manipulate components of behavior such as attention, motivation, impulsivity, and reward-related working memory during an ongoing operant behavioral task while limiting interference from non task-related behaviors.
Mice affected by a spontaneous mutation which arose within our colony exhibited a neuromuscular phenotype involving tremor and characteristic stretching of the rear limbs. The mutant, named stretcher, was used to breed a backcross cohort for genetic mapping studies. The gene responsible for the mutant phenotype was mapped to a small region on mouse chromosome 15, with a LOD score above 20. Candidate genes within the region included the Ndrg1 gene. Examination of this gene in the mutant mouse strain revealed that exons 10 to 14 had been deleted. Mutations in the human orthologue are known to result in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4D (CMT4D) a severe early-onset disorder involving Schwann cell dysfunction and extensive demyelination. The stretcher mutant mouse is more severely affected than mice in which the Ndrg1 gene had been knocked out by homologous recombination. Our results demonstrate that the Ndrg1 (str) mutation provides a new model for CMT4D, and demonstrate that exons 10 to 14 of Ndrg1 encode amino acids crucial to the appropriate function of Ndrg1 in the central nervous system.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is thought to facilitate brain plasticity. However, few studies address anatomical changes following rTMS in relation to behaviour. We delivered 5 weeks of daily pulsed rTMS stimulation to adult ephrin-A2 (-/-) and wildtype (C57BI/6j) mice (n=10 per genotype) undergoing a visual learning task and analysed learning performance, as well as spine density, in the dentate gyrus molecular and CA1 pyramidal cell layers in Golgi-stained brain sections. We found that neither learning behaviour, nor hippocampal spine density was affected by long term rTMS. Our negative results highlight the lack of deleterious side effects in normal subjects and are consistent with previous studies suggesting that rTMS has a bigger effect on abnormal or injured brain substrates than on normal/control structures.
We estimated lifetime prevalence of psychedelic use (lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), psilocybin (magic mushrooms), mescaline, and peyote) by age category using data from a 2010 US population survey of 57,873 individuals aged 12 years and older. There were approximately 32 million lifetime psychedelic users in the US in 2010; including 17% of people aged 21 to 64 years (22% of males and 12% of females). Rate of lifetime psychedelic use was greatest among people aged 30 to 34 (total 20%, including 26% of males and 15% of females).
To date, few studies have focused on the behavioural differences between the learning of multisensory auditory-visual and intra-modal associations. More specifically, the relative benefits of novel auditory-visual and verbal-visual associations for learning have not been directly compared. In Experiment 1, 20 adult volunteers completed three paired associate learning tasks: non-verbal novel auditory-visual (novel-AV), verbal-visual (verbal-AV; using pseudowords), and visual-visual (shape-VV). Participants were directed to make a motor response to matching novel and arbitrarily related stimulus pairs. Feedback was provided to facilitate trial and error learning. The results of Signal Detection Theory analyses suggested a multisensory enhancement of learning, with significantly higher discriminability measures (d-prime) in both the novel-AV and verbal-AV tasks than the shape-VV task. Motor reaction times were also significantly faster during the verbal-AV task than during the non-verbal learning tasks. Experiment 2 (n = 12) used a forced-choice discrimination paradigm to assess whether a difference in unisensory stimulus discriminability could account for the learning trends in Experiment 1. Participants were significantly slower at discriminating unisensory pseudowords than the novel sounds and visual shapes, which was notable given that these stimuli produced superior learning. Together the findings suggest that verbal information has an added enhancing effect on multisensory associative learning in adults.
A major problem facing behavioral neuroscientists is a lack of unified, vendor-distributed data acquisition systems that allow stimulus presentation and behavioral monitoring while recording neural activity. Numerous systems perform one of these tasks well independently, but to our knowledge, a useful package with a straightforward user interface does not exist. Here we describe the development of a flexible, script-based user interface that enables customization for real-time stimulus presentation, behavioral monitoring and data acquisition. The experimental design can also incorporate neural microstimulation paradigms. We used this interface to deliver multimodal, auditory and visual (images or video) stimuli to a nonhuman primate and acquire single-unit data. Our design is cost-effective and works well with commercially available hardware and software. Our design incorporates a script, providing high-level control of data acquisition via a sequencer running on a digital signal processor to enable behaviorally triggered control of the presentation of visual and auditory stimuli. Our experiments were conducted in combination with eye-tracking hardware. The script, however, is designed to be broadly useful to neuroscientists who may want to deliver stimuli of different modalities using any animal model.
Reversible protein phosphorylation plays a pivotal role in intercellular communication. Together with protein tyrosine kinases, protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are involved in the regulation of key cellular processes by controlling the phosphorylation levels of diverse effectors. Among PTPs, receptor-like protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs) are involved in important developmental processes, particularly in the formation of the nervous system. Until recently, few ligands had been identified for RPTPs, making it difficult to grasp the effects these receptors have on cellular processes, as well as the mechanisms through which their functions are mediated. However, several potential RPTP ligands have now been identified to provide us with unparalleled insights into RPTP function. In this review, we focus on the nature and biological outcomes of these extracellular interactions between RPTPs and their associated ligands.
In the present article it was shown that the functional connectivity of brain structures, revealed by factor analysis of resting PET CBF and rCMRglu data, is an adequate tool to study the default mode of the human brain. The identification of neuroanatomic systems of default mode (default mode network) during routine clinical PET investigations is important for further studying the functional organization of the normal brain and its reorganizations in pathological conditions.
Although Neuregulin-1 (Nrg1) and its cognate receptors have been found at the mRNA level in human gastrointestinal (GI) tract and their functional roles have been evaluated in vitro, their morphological distribution in higher mammals are not fully elucidated. The present research focused on morphological distribution of Nrg1 and its receptors, ErbB2 and ErbB4, in main GI tissues of the non-human primate rhesus monkey. The morphological expression of Nrg1 and its ErbB2 and ErbB4 receptors as well as their potential colocalization were determined by double immunofluorescence staining in esophagus, stomach, small intestine and colon tissues derived from the rhesus monkey tissue microarray. The Nrg1 level on each sample was indexed by the fold of integrated fluorescence intensity (IFI) relative to that of one brain cortical tissue from the rhesus monkey. Differential expression of Nrg1 and its receptors ErbB2 and ErbB4 was found in the GI structures, with higher expression levels detected in stomach and small intestine. Co-localization of Nrg1 with ErbB2 and/or ErbB4 receptors was most apparently detected in the stomach, followed by small intestine, colon, and esophagus. This investigation morphologically profiles the differential expression of Nrg1 and its receptors in main GI structures, suggesting an autocrine or paracrine loop-directed Nrg1/ErbB receptor signaling pathway in these organs of higher mammals.
Caveolin-1, a major constituent of caveolae, has been implicated in endocytosis, signal transduction and cholesterol transport in a wide variety of cells. In the present study, the expression of caveolin-1 was examined by immunohistochemistry in rat brain with or without systemic injection of kainic acid (KA). Caveolin-1 immunoreactivity was observed in capillary walls in brains of control rats. From one to seven days after KA injection, caveolin-1 immunoreactivity appeared in activated microglia in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and other brain regions. The strongest immunoreactivity of microglia was seen after 3 days after KA administration. The expression of caveolin-1 was confirmed by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. The induction of caveolin-1 expression in microglia activated in response to kainic acid administration suggests its possible role in a modulation of inflammation.
The concept of reserve is used to explain the observation that some individuals function better than others in the presence of brain pathology. This article reviews the concept of reserve from its theoretical basis to the implication of reserve for clinical practice. A distinction between brain reserve, referring to individual differences in the anatomic substrate, and cognitive reserve, referring to differences in the flexibility or adaptivity of cognitive networks, is useful. Epidemiologic evidence indicates that a set of life exposures including higher educational and occupational attainment, and engaging in leisure activities is associated with a lower risk of incident dementia, suggesting that these life exposures may enhance cognitive reserve. This provides a basis for controlled clinical studies that can test specific exposures that may enhance reserve. The concept of cognitive reserve also has important implications for clinical practice in terms of diagnosis and prognosis.

Ginseng is one of the most widely used medicinal plants, which belongs to the genus Panax. Compared to uncured white ginseng, red ginseng has been generally regarded to produce superior pharmacological effects with lesser side/adverse effects, which made it popular in a variety of formulation from tea to oriental medicine. Using the prenatal valproic acid (VPA)-injection model of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in rats, which produces social impairrment and altered seizure susceptibility as in human ASD patients as well as mild neural tube defects like crooked tail phenotype, we examined whether chronic administration of red ginseng extract may rescue the social impairment and crooked tail phenotype in prenatally VPA-exposed rat offspring. VPA-induced impairment in social interactions tested using sociability and social preference paradigms as well as crooked tail phenotypes were significantly improved by administration of Korean red ginseng (KRG) in a dose dependent manner. Rat offspring prenatally exposed to VPA showed higher sensitivity to electric shock seizure and increased locomotor activity in open-field test. KRG treatment reversed abnormal locomotor activity and sensitivity to electric shock to control level. These results suggest that KRG may modulate neurobehavioral and structural organization of nervous system adversely affected by prenatal exposure to VPA.
Dogs with Canine Cognitive Dysfunction (CCD) accumulate amyloid beta (A) in the brain. As the cognitive decline and neuropathology of these old dogs share features with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the relation between A and cognitive decline in animal models of cognitive decline is of interest to the understanding of AD. However, the sensitivity of the biomarker Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB) to the presence of A in humans and in other mammalian species is in doubt. To test the sensitivity and assess the distribution of A in dog brain, we mapped the brains of dogs with signs of CCD (n=16) and a control group (n=4) of healthy dogs with radioactively labeled PiB ([(11)C]PiB). Structural magnetic resonance imaging brain scans were obtained from each dog. Tracer washout analysis yielded parametric maps of PiB retention in brain. In the CCD group, dogs had significant retention of [(11)C]PiB in the cerebellum, compared to the cerebral cortex. Retention in the cerebellum is at variance with evidence from brains of humans with AD. To confirm the lack of sensitivity, we stained two dog brains with the immunohistochemical marker 6E10, which is sensitive to the presence of both A and A precursor protein (APP). The 6E10 stain revealed intracellular material positive for A or APP, or both, in Purkinje cells. The brains of the two groups of dogs did not have significantly different patterns of [(11)C]PiB binding, suggesting that the material detected with 6E10 is APP rather than A. As the comparison with the histological images revealed no correlation between the [(11)C]PiB and A and APP deposits in post-mortem brain, the marked intracellular staining implies intracellular involvement of amyloid processing in the dog brain. We conclude that PET maps of [(11)C]PiB retention in brain of dogs with CCD fundamentally differ from the images obtained in most humans with AD.
The neurophysiological changes associated with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) include an increase in low frequency activity, as measured with electroencephalography or magnetoencephalography (MEG). A relevant property of spectral measures is the alpha peak, which corresponds to the dominant alpha rhythm. Here we studied the spatial distribution of MEG resting state alpha peak frequency and amplitude values in a sample of 27 MCI patients and 24 age-matched healthy controls. Power spectra were reconstructed in source space with linearly constrained minimum variance beamformer. Then, 88 Regions of Interest (ROIs) were defined and an alpha peak per ROI and subject was identified. Statistical analyses were performed at every ROI, accounting for age, sex and educational level. Peak frequency was significantly decreased (p &lt; 0.05) in MCIs in many posterior ROIs. The average peak frequency over all ROIs was 9.68  0.71 Hz for controls and 9.05  0.90 Hz for MCIs and the average normalized amplitude was (2.57  0.59)10(-2) for controls and (2.70  0.49)10(-2) for MCIs. Age and gender were also found to play a role in the alpha peak, since its frequency was higher in females than in males in posterior ROIs and correlated negatively with age in frontal ROIs. Furthermore, we examined the dependence of peak parameters with hippocampal volume, which is a commonly used marker of early structural AD-related damage. Peak frequency was positively correlated with hippocampal volume in many posterior ROIs. Overall, these findings indicate a pathological alpha slowing in MCI.
A recent genome-wide association meta-analysis showed a suggestive association between alcohol intake in humans and a common single nucleotide polymorphism in the ras-specific guanine nucleotide releasing factor 2 gene. Here, we tested whether this variant - associated with lower alcohol consumption - showed associations with brain structure and longitudinal ventricular expansion over time, across two independent elderly cohorts, totaling 1,032 subjects. We first examined a large sample of 738 elderly participants with neuroimaging and genetic data from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI1). Then, we assessed the generalizability of the findings by testing this polymorphism in a replication sample of 294 elderly subjects from a continuation of the first ADNI project (ADNI2) to minimize the risk of reporting false positive results. The minor allele - previously linked with lower alcohol intake - was associated with larger volumes in various cortical regions, notably the medial prefrontal cortex and cingulate gyrus in both cohorts. Intriguingly, the same allele also predicted faster ventricular expansion rates in the ADNI1 cohort at 1- and 2-year follow up. Despite a lack of alcohol consumption data in this study cohort, these findings, combined with earlier functional imaging investigations of the same gene, suggest the existence of reciprocal interactions between genes, brain, and drinking behavior.
Falls are a common geriatric condition, and while impaired cognitive function has been identified as a key risk factor, the neural correlates that contribute to reduced executive functioning and falls currently remain unknown. In this study, community-dwelling adults aged 65-75 years were divided into two groups based on their recent history of falls (fallers versus non-fallers). All participants completed the Flanker task during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We examined the hemodynamic response of congruent and incongruent trials separately in order to separate the relative contribution of each trial type as a function of falls history. We found that fallers exhibited a smaller difference in functional activation between congruent and incongruent trials relative to non-fallers, as well as an overall reduction in level of blood-oxygen-level dependent response. Of particular note, the medial frontal gyrus - a region implicated in motor planning - demonstrated hypo-activation in fallers, providing evidence that the prefrontal cortex might play a central role in falls risk in older adults.
Improvements in motor sequence learning come about via goal-based learning of the sequence of visual stimuli and muscle-based learning of the sequence of movement responses. In young adults, consolidation of goal-based learning is observed after intervals of sleep but not following wake, whereas consolidation of muscle-based learning is greater following intervals with wake compared to sleep. While the benefit of sleep on motor sequence learning has been shown to decline with age, how sleep contributes to consolidation of goal-based vs. muscle-based learning in older adults (OA) has not been disentangled. We trained young (n = 62) and older (n = 50) adults on a motor sequence learning task and re-tested learning following 12 h intervals containing overnight sleep or daytime wake. To probe consolidation of goal-based learning of the sequence, half of the participants were re-tested in a configuration in which the stimulus sequence was the same but, due to a shift in stimulus-response mapping, the movement response sequence differed. To probe consolidation of muscle-based learning, the remaining participants were tested in a configuration in which the stimulus sequence was novel, but now the sequence of movements used for responding was unchanged. In young adults, there was a significant condition (goal-based vs. muscle-based learning) by interval (sleep vs. wake) interaction, F(1,58) = 6.58, p = 0.013: goal-based learning tended to be greater following sleep compared to wake, t(29) = 1.47, p = 0.072. Conversely, muscle-based learning was greater following wake than sleep, t(29) = 2.11, p = 0.021. Unlike young adults, this interaction was not significant in OA, F(1,46) = 0.04, p = 0.84, nor was there a main effect of interval, F(1,46) = 1.14, p = 0.29. Thus, OA do not preferentially consolidate sequence learning over wake or sleep.
Rapid clearance and disappearance of a tracer from the circulation challenges the determination of the tracer's binding potentials in brain (BP ND) by positron emission tomography (PET). This is the case for the analysis of the binding of radiolabeled [(11)C]Pittsburgh Compound B ([(11)C]PIB) to amyloid- (A) plaques in brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). To resolve the issue of rapid clearance from the circulation, we here introduce the flow-independent Washout Allometric Reference Method (WARM) for the analysis of washout and binding of [(11)C]PIB in two groups of human subjects, healthy aged control subjects (HC), and patients suffering from AD, and we compare the results to the outcome of two conventional analysis methods. We also use the rapid initial clearance to obtain a surrogate measure of the rate of cerebral blood flow (CBF), as well as a method of identifying a suitable reference region directly from the [(11)C]PIB signal. The difference of average absolute CBF values between the AD and HC groups was highly significant (P &lt; 0.003). The CBF measures were not significantly different between the groups when normalized to cerebellar gray matter flow. Thus, when flow differences confound conventional measures of [(11)C]PIB binding, the separate estimates of CBF and BP ND provide additional information about possible AD. The results demonstrate the importance of data-driven estimation of CBF and BP ND, as well as reference region detection from the [(11)C]PIB signal. We conclude that the WARM method yields stable measures of BP ND with relative ease, using only integration for noise reduction and no model regression. The method accounts for relative flow differences in the brain tissue and yields a calibrated measure of absolute CBF directly from the [(11)C]PIB signal. Compared to conventional methods, WARM optimizes the A plaque load discrimination between patients with AD and healthy controls (P = 0.009).
Cockayne syndrome (CS) is an autosomal recessive disease associated with premature aging, progressive multiorgan degeneration, and nervous system abnormalities including cerebral and cerebellar atrophy, brain calcifications, and white matter abnormalities. Although several clinical descriptions of CS patients have reported developmental delay and cognitive impairment with relative preservation of social skills, no previous studies have carried out a comprehensive neuropsychological and social cognition assessment. Furthermore, no previous research in individuals with CS has examined the relationship between brain atrophy and performance on neuropsychological and social cognition tests. This study describes the case of an atypical late-onset type III CS patient who exceeds the mean life expectancy of individuals with this pathology. The patient and a group of healthy controls underwent a comprehensive assessment that included multiple neuropsychological and social cognition (emotion recognition, theory of mind, and empathy) tasks. In addition, we compared the pattern of atrophy in the patient to controls and to its concordance with ERCC8 gene expression in a healthy brain. The results showed memory, language, and executive deficits that contrast with the relative preservation of social cognition skills. The cognitive profile of the patient was consistent with his pattern of global cerebral and cerebellar loss of gray matter volume (frontal structures, bilateral cerebellum, basal ganglia, temporal lobe, and occipito-temporal/occipito-parietal regions), which in turn was anatomically consistent with the ERCC8 gene expression level in a healthy donor's brain. The study of exceptional cases, such as the one described here, is fundamental to elucidating the processes that affect the brain in premature aging diseases, and such studies provide an important source of information for understanding the problems associated with normal and pathological aging.
Age-related cognitive decline is associated with increased risk of disability, dementia, and death. Recent studies suggest improvement in cognitive speed, attention, and executive functioning with physical activity. However, whether such improvements are activity specific is unclear. Therefore, we aimed to study the effect of 1year age-adapted Taekwondo training on several cognitive functions, including reaction/motor time, information processing speed, and working and executive memory, in 24 healthy volunteers over 40. Reaction and motor time decreased with 41.2 and 18.4s (p=0.004, p=0.015), respectively. Digit symbol coding task improved with a mean of 3.7 digits (p=0.017). Digit span, letter fluency, and trail making test task-completion-time all improved, but not statistically significant. The questionnaire reported &quot;better&quot; reaction time in 10 and &quot;unchanged&quot; in 9 of the 19 study compliers. In conclusion, our data suggest that age-adapted Taekwondo training improves various aspects of cognitive function in people over 40, which may, therefore, offer a cheap, safe, and enjoyable way to mitigate age-related cognitive decline.
Subcortical auditory structures in the macaque auditory system increase their densities of neurons expressing the calcium binding protein parvalbumin (PV) with age. However, it is unknown whether these increases occur in the thalamic division of the auditory system, the medial geniculate nucleus (MGN). Furthermore, it is also unclear whether these age-related changes are specific to the macaque auditory system or are generalized to other sensory systems. To address these questions, the PV immunoreactivity of the medial and lateral geniculate nuclei (LGN) from seven rhesus macaques ranging in age from 15 to 35 was assessed. Densities of PV expressing neurons in the three subdivisions of the MGN and the six layers of the LGN were calculated separately using unbiased stereological sampling techniques. We found that the ventral and magnocellular subdivisions of the MGN and all six layers of the LGN increased their expressions of PV with age, although increases in the MGN were greater in magnitude than in the LGN. Together, these results suggest that the MGN shows age-related increases in PV expression as is seen throughout the macaque ascending auditory system, and that the analogous region of the visual system shows smaller increases. We conclude that, while there are some similarities between sensory systems, the age-related neurochemical changes seen throughout the macaque auditory system cannot be fully generalized to other sensory systems.
Background: White matter lesions (WMLs), asymptomatic lacunar infarcts, brain microbleeds (BMBs), and enlarged perivascular spaces (EPVS) have been identified as silent lesions due to cerebral small vessel disease (cSVD). All these markers have been individually linked to cognitive functioning, but are also strongly correlated with each other. The combined effect of these markers on cognitive function has never been studied and would possibly provide more useful information on the effect on cognitive function. Methods: Brain MRI and extensive neuropsychological assessment were performed in 189 patients at risk for cSVD (112 hypertensive patients and 77 first-ever lacunar stroke patients). We rated the presence of any asymptomatic lacunar infarct, extensive WMLs, any deep BMB, and moderate to extensive EPVS in the basal ganglia. The presence of each marker was summed to an ordinal score between 0 and 4. Associations with domains of cognitive function (memory, executive function, information processing speed, and overall cognition) were analyzed with correlation analyses. Results: Correlation analyses revealed significant associations between accumulating cSVD burden and decreased performance on all cognitive domains (all p0.001). Results remained significant for information processing speed (r=-0.181, p=0.013) and overall cognition (r=-0.178, p=0.017), after correction for age and sex. Testing of trend using linear regression analyses revealed the same results. Discussion: We tested a new approach to capture total brain damage resulting from cSVD and found that accumulation of MRI burden of cSVD is associated with decreased performance on tests of information processing speed and overall cognition, implying that accumulating brain damage is accompanied by worse cognitive functioning.
In the labeled form, the Pittsburgh compound B (2-(4'-{N-methyl-[(11)C]}methyl-aminophenyl)-6-hydroxy-benzothiazole, [(11)C]PiB), is used as a biomarker for positron emission tomography (PET) of brain -amyloid deposition in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The permeability of [(11)C]PiB in the blood-brain barrier is held to be high but the permeability-surface area product and extraction fractions in patients or healthy volunteers are not known. We used PET to determine the clearance associated with the unidrectional blood-brain transfer of [(11)C]PiB and the corresponding cerebral blood flow rates in frontal lobe, whole cerebral cortex, and cerebellum of patients with Alzheimer's disease and healthy volunteers. Regional cerebral blood flow rates differed significantly between the two groups. Thus, regional and whole-brain permeability-surface area products were identical, in agreement with the observation that numerically, but insignificantly, unidirectional blood-brain clearances are lower and extraction fractions higher in the patients. The evidence of unchanged permeability-surface area products in the patients implies that blood flow changes can be deduced from the unidirectional blood-brain clearances of [(11)C]PiB in the patients.
Physical fitness has been long associated with maintenance and improvement of motor performance as we age. In particular, measures of psychomotor speed and motor dexterity tend to be higher in physically fit aging adults as compared to their sedentary counterparts. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), we explored the patterns of neural activity that may, in part, account for differences between individuals of varying physical fitness levels. In this study, we enrolled both sedentary and physically fit middle age (40-60) and younger (18-30) adults and measured upper extremity motor performance during behavioral testing. In a follow-up session, we employed TMS and fMRI to assess levels of interhemispheric communication during unimanual tasks. Results show that increased physical fitness is associated with better upper extremity motor performance on distal dexterity assessments and increased levels of interhemispheric inhibition in middle age adults. Further, the functional correlates of changes of ipsilateral activity appears to be restricted to the aging process as younger adults of varying fitness levels do not differ in hemispheric patterns of activity or motor performance. We conclude that sedentary aging confers a loss of interhemispheric inhibition that is deleterious to some aspects of motor function, as early as midlife, but these changes can be mediated by chronic engagement in aerobic exercise.
Healthy aging is accompanied by structural and functional changes in the brain, among which a loss of neural specificity (i.e., dedifferentiation) is one of the most consistent findings. Little is known, however, about changes in interregional integration underlying a dedifferentiation across different functional systems. In a large sample (n = 399) of healthy adults aged from 18 to 85 years, we analyzed age-dependent differences in resting-state (RS) (task-independent) functional connectivity (FC) of a set of brain regions derived from a previous fMRI study. In that study, these regions had shown an age-related loss of activation specificity in visual-attention (superior parietal area 7A and dorsal premotor cortex) or sensorimotor (area OP4 of the parietal operculum) tasks. In addition to these dedifferentiated regions, the FC analysis of the present study included &quot;task-general&quot; regions associated with both attention and sensorimotor systems (rostral supplementary motor area and bilateral anterior insula) as defined via meta-analytical co-activation mapping. Within this network, we observed both selective increases and decreases in RS-FC with age. In line with regional activation changes reported previously, we found diminished anti-correlated FC for inter-system connections (i.e., between sensorimotor-related and visual attention-related regions). Our analysis also revealed reduced FC between system-specific and task-general regions, which might reflect age-related deficits in top-down control possibly leading to dedifferentiation of task-specific brain activity. Together, our results underpin the notion that RS-FC changes concur with regional activity changes in the healthy aging brain, presumably contributing jointly to age-related behavioral changes.
The DBA/2J mouse is a model of pigmentary glaucoma in humans as it shows age-related increases in intraocular pressure (IOP), retinal ganglion cell death and visual impairment. Previously, we showed that visual ability declines from 9 to 12 months of age and visual impairment is correlated with poor learning and memory performance in visuo-spatial tasks but not in tasks that do not depend on visual cues. To test the &quot;sensory impairment&quot; hypothesis of aging, which postulates that sensory impaired individuals are disadvantaged in their performance on psychometric tests as a direct result of difficulties in sensory perception, we treated DBA/2J mice with a conventional glaucoma medication used in humans (Timoptic-XE, 0.00, 0.25, or 0.50%) daily from 9 weeks to 12 months of age to determine whether prevention of vision loss prevented the decline in visuo-spatial learning and memory performance. At all ages tested (3, 6, 9, and 12 months of age), mice treated with Timoptic-XE (0.25 and 0.50%) maintained a high level of performance, while 12 month old control mice (0.00%) exhibited impaired performance in visually-dependent, but not non-visual tasks. These results demonstrate that when sensory function is preserved, cognitive performance is normalized. Thus, as in many aging humans, DBA/2J mice show age-related decrements in performance on visually presented cognitive tests, not because of cognitive impairment but as a direct consequence of poor visual ability. Our results demonstrate that age-related impairment in performance in visuo-spatial tasks in DBA/2J mice can be prevented by the preservation of visual ability.
Early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are characterized by neuropathological changes within the medial temporal lobe cortex (MTLC), which lead to characteristic impairments in episodic memory, i.e., amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). Here, we tested the neural correlates of this memory impairment using event-related potentials (ERPs) and voxel-based morphometry. Twenty-four participants were instructed to encode lists of words and were tested in a yes/no recognition memory task. The dual-process model of recognition memory dissociates between acontextual familiarity and recollection of contextual details. The early frontal ERP old/new effect, which is thought to represent a neural correlate of familiarity-based memory, was absent in aMCI, whereas the control group showed a significant early old/new effect at frontal electrodes. This effect was positively correlated with behavioral episodic memory performance. Analyses of brain morphology revealed a focused gray matter loss in the inferior and medial temporal lobes in aMCI versus healthy controls. Moreover, the positive correlation between gray matter volume in the MTLC and the familiarity-related early frontal old/new effect supports the notion that this effect relies upon the integrity of the MTLC. Thus, the present findings might provide a further functional marker for prodromal AD.
Amylin (islet amyloid polypeptide) and amyloid-beta (A) protein, which are deposited within pancreatic islets of diabetics and brains of Alzheimer's patients respectively, share many biophysical and physiological properties. Emerging evidence indicates that the amylin receptor is a putative target receptor for the actions of human amylin and A in the brain. The amylin receptor consists of the calcitonin receptor dimerized with a receptor activity-modifying protein and is widely distributed within central nervous system. Both amylin and A directly activate this G protein-coupled receptor and trigger multiple common intracellular signal transduction pathways that can culminate in apoptotic cell death. Moreover, amylin receptor antagonists can block both the biological and neurotoxic effects of human amylin and A. Amylin receptors thus appear to be involved in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease and diabetes, and could serve as a molecular link between the two conditions that are associated epidemiologically.
Brain aging is characterized by progressive loss of neurophysiological functions that is often accompanied by age-associated neurodegeneration. Calorie restriction has been linked to extension of lifespan and reduction of the risk of neurodegenerative diseases in experimental model systems. Several signaling pathways have been indicated to underlie the beneficial effects of calorie restriction, among which the sirtuin family has been suggested to play a central role. In mammals, it has been established that sirtuins regulate physiological responses to metabolism and stress, two key factors that affect the process of aging. Sirtuins represent a promising new class of conserved deacetylases that play an important role in regulating metabolism and aging. This review focuses on current understanding of the relation between metabolic pathways involving sirtuins and the brain aging process, with focus on SIRT1 and SIRT3. Identification of therapeutic agents capable of modulating the expression and/or activity of sirtuins is expected to provide promising strategies for ameliorating neurodegeneration. Future investigations regarding the concerted interplay of the different sirtuins will help us understand more about the aging process, and potentially lead to the development of therapeutic approaches for the treatment of age-related neurodegenerative diseases and promotion of successful aging.
Trace elements are required for a variety of normal biological functions. As our understanding of neurodegenerative disease advances we are identifying a number of metalloenzymes involved in disease process. Thus, the future of metals in neurobiology will rely more on detailed information regarding what metalloenzymes are present and how they are involved in the pathophysiology of disease. To gain this detailed information, we will rely less on bulk measures of the amount of a trace elements in a particular tissue and turn to metalloproteomic techniques to help elucidate both metalloprotein structure and function. Recent advances in metalloproteomics will translate to a richer understanding of the mechanism and precise role of metalloenzymes and proteins in the brain.
Iron is the most abundant transition metal within the brain, and is vital for a number of cellular processes including neurotransmitter synthesis, myelination of neurons, and mitochondrial function. Redox cycling between ferrous and ferric iron is utilized in biology for various electron transfer reactions essential to life, yet this same chemistry mediates deleterious reactions with oxygen that induce oxidative stress. Consequently, there is a precise and tightly controlled mechanism to regulate iron in the brain. When iron is dysregulated, both conditions of iron overload and iron deficiencies are harmful to the brain. This review focuses on how iron metabolism is maintained in the brain, and how an alteration to iron and iron metabolism adversely affects neurological function.
Improved registration of gray matter segments in SPM has been achieved with the DARTEL algorithm. Previous work from our group suggested, however, that such improvements may not translate to studies of clinical groups. To address the registration issue in atrophic brains, this paper relaxed the condition of diffeomorphism, central to DARTEL, and made use of a viscous fluid registration model with limited regularization constraints to register the modulated gray matter probability maps to an intra-population template. Quantitative analysis of the registration results after the additional viscous fluid step showed no worsening of co-localization of fiducials compared to DARTEL or unified segmentation methods, and the resulting voxel based morphometry (VBM) analyses were able to better identify atrophic regions and to produce results with fewer apparent false positives. DARTEL showed great sensitivity to atrophy, but the resulting VBM maps presented broad, amorphous regions of significance that are hard to interpret. We propose that the condition of diffeomorphism is not necessary for basic VBM studies in atrophic populations, but also that it has disadvantages that must be taken into consideration before a study. The presented viscous fluid registration method is proposed for VBM studies to enhance sensitivity and localizing power.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) results in significant disability due to cognitive deficits particularly in attention, learning and memory, and higher-order executive functions. The role of TBI in chronic neurodegeneration and the development of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and most recently chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is of particular importance. However, despite significant effort very few therapeutic options exist to prevent or reverse cognitive impairment following TBI. In this review, we present experimental evidence of the known secondary injury mechanisms which contribute to neuronal cell loss, axonal injury, and synaptic dysfunction and hence cognitive impairment both acutely and chronically following TBI. In particular we focus on the mechanisms linking TBI to the development of two forms of dementia: AD and CTE. We provide evidence of potential molecular mechanisms involved in modulating A and Tau following TBI and provide evidence of the role of these mechanisms in AD pathology. Additionally we propose a mechanism by which A generated as a direct result of TBI is capable of exacerbating secondary injury mechanisms thereby establishing a neurotoxic cascade that leads to chronic neurodegeneration.
Working memory is a cognitive process that is particularly vulnerable to decline with age. The current study sought to evaluate the efficacy of a working memory training scheme in improving memory in a group of older adults. A 5-week online training scheme was designed to provide training in the main components of Baddeley's (2000) working memory model, namely auditory and visuospatial short-term and working memory. A group of older adults aged between 64 and 79 were randomly assigned to a trainee (n=19) or control (n=17) group, with trainees engaging in the adaptive training scheme and controls engaging in a non-adaptive version of the program. Before and after training and at 3- and 6-month follow-up sessions, trainees and controls were asked to complete measures of short-term and working memory, long-term episodic memory, subjective ratings of memory, and attention and achievement of goals set at the beginning of training. The results provided evidence of an expansion of auditory short-term memory span, which was maintained 6months later, and transfer to long-term episodic memory but no evidence of improvement in working memory capacity per se. A serendipitous and intriguing finding of a relationship between time spent training, psychological stress, and training gains provided further insight into individual differences in training gains in older adults.
Sirtuins are highly conserved NAD(+)-dependent enzymes that were shown to have beneficial effects against age-related diseases. Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder associated with aging and the effects of sirtuins on AD have been investigated using different mouse and cell culture models. In most of these studies, it has been found that the overexpression of SIRT1 has protective effects against the AD phenotype. Therefore, designing therapeutics based on SIRT1 activity might be important to investigate treatment methods for this disease. In this review, we summarize the recent research regarding the functions of sirtuins and their potential roles in designing therapeutics for AD.
Balance deteriorates with age, and may eventually lead to falling accidents which may threaten independent living. As Taekwondo contains various highly dynamic movement patterns, Taekwondo practice may sustain or improve balance. Therefore, in 24 middle-aged healthy volunteers (40-71year) we investigated effects of age-adapted Taekwondo training of 1h a week during 1year on various balance parameters, such as: motor orientation ability (primary outcome measure), postural and static balance test, single leg stance, one leg hop test, and a questionnaire. Motor orientation ability significantly increased in favor of the antero-posterior direction with a difference of 0.62 toward anterior compared to pre-training measurement, when participants corrected the tilted platform rather toward the posterior direction; female gender being an independent outcome predictor. On postural balance measurements sway path improved in all 19 participants, with a median of 9.3mm/s (range 0.71-45.86), and sway area in 15 participants with 4.2mm(2)/s (range 17.39-1.22). Static balance improved with an average of 5.34s for the right leg, and with almost 4s for the left. Median single leg stance duration increased in 17 participants with 5s (range 1-16), and in 13 participants with 8s (range 1-18). The average one leg hop test distance increased (not statistically significant) with 9.5cm. The questionnaire reported a better &quot;ability to maintain balance&quot; in 16. In conclusion, our data suggest that age-adapted Taekwondo training improves various aspects of balance control in healthy people over the age of 40.
With the accumulation of our knowledge about how memories are formed, consolidated, retrieved, and updated, neuroscience is now reaching a point where discrete memories can be identified and manipulated at rapid timescales. Here, we start with historical studies that lead to the modern memory engram theory. Then, we will review recent advances in memory engram research that combine transgenic and optogenetic approaches to reveal the underlying neuronal substrates sufficient for activating mnemonic processes. We will focus on three concepts: (1) isolating memory engrams at the level of single cells to tag them for subsequent manipulation; (2) testing the sufficiency of these engrams for memory recall by artificially activating them; and (3) presenting new stimuli during the artificial activation of these engrams to induce an association between the two to form a false memory. We propose that hippocampal cells that show activity-dependent changes during learning construct a cellular basis for contextual memory engrams.
In humans, exposure to stress during development is associated with structural and functional alterations of the prefrontal cortex (PFC), amygdala (AMY), and hippocampus (HC) and their circuits of connectivity, and with an increased risk for developing major depressive disorder particularly in carriers of the short (s) variant of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR). Although changes in these regions are found in carriers of the s allele and/or in depressed patients, evidence for a specific genotype  developmental stress effect on brain structure and function is limited. Here, we investigated the effect of repeated stress exposure during adolescence in mice with partial knockout of the 5-HTT gene (HET) vs. wildtype (WT) on early-adulthood behavioral measures and brain structure [using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)] relevant to human major depression. Behaviorally, adolescent stress (AS) increased anxiety and decreased activity and did so to a similar degree in HET and WT. In a probabilistic reversal learning task, HET-AS mice achieved fewer reversals than did HET-No-AS mice. 5-HTT genotype and AS were without effect on corticosterone stress response. In terms of structural brain differences, AS reduced the volume of two long-range white matter tracts, the optic tract (OT) and the cerebral peduncle (CP), in WT mice specifically. In a region-of-interest analysis, AS was associated with increased HC volume and HET genotype with a decreased frontal lobe volume. In conclusion, we found that 5-HTT and AS genotype exerted long-term effects on behavior and development of brain regions relevant to human depression.
Stimuli previously associated with drugs of abuse can become triggers that elicit craving and lead to drug-seeking behavior. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is a key neural structure involved in cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Previous studies have also implicated projections from the BLA directly to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in these behaviors. However, other structures critically involved in cocaine seeking are targets of BLA innervation, including the prelimbic prefrontal cortex (PL). It has been shown that BLA or PL innervation direct to the NAc can modulate reward-related behaviors but the BLA also projects to the PL, and given the importance of the PL projection to the NAc for reinstated drug seeking, we hypothesized the BLA to PL projection may indirectly influence behavior via PL innervation to the NAc. We delivered a virus expressing the inhibitory optogenetic construct ArchT into the BLA and implanted fiber optics above the injection site or axon terminal fields in either the NAc or PL. Rats then went through 12 days of cocaine self-administration followed by extinction training. Following extinction, animals underwent cue-induced reinstatement sessions in the presence or absence of optical inhibition. Inactivation of the BLA and either the BLA core subcompartment of the NAc (BLA-to-NAcore) BLA-to-PL projections inhibited cue-induced reinstatement. These data demonstrate that the BLA projection either directly into the NAc, or indirectly via the PL, is a necessary regulator of drug-seeking behavior.
Neurons may compete against one another for integration into a memory trace. Specifically, neurons in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala with relatively higher levels of cAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein (CREB) seem to be preferentially allocated to a fear memory trace, while neurons with relatively decreased CREB function seem to be excluded from a fear memory trace. CREB is a ubiquitous transcription factor that modulates many diverse cellular processes, raising the question as to which of these CREB-mediated processes underlie memory allocation. CREB is implicated in modulating dendritic spine number and morphology. As dendritic spines are intimately involved in memory formation, we investigated whether manipulations of CREB function alter spine number or morphology of neurons at the time of fear conditioning. We used viral vectors to manipulate CREB function in the lateral amygdala (LA) principal neurons in mice maintained in their homecages. At the time that fear conditioning normally occurs, we observed that neurons with high levels of CREB had more dendritic spines, while neurons with low CREB function had relatively fewer spines compared to control neurons. These results suggest that the modulation of spine density provides a potential mechanism for preferential allocation of a subset of neurons to the memory trace.
Introduction: The aim of our study was to investigate whether a pleasant tactile stimulation which is manually produced is qualitatively comparable to an analogous tactile stimulation produced instead by a mechanical source. Methods: Thirty-one subjects [16 men, 15 women, 24.5  2.6 years, mean, and standard deviation (SD)] were tested under four different conditions in a repeated measurements design. A pleasant caress-like brush stroke on the hairy skin of the forearm was either produced by a robot or by hand with three different velocities (0.3, 3, and 30 cm/s). In two conditions the subjects were informed about the stroke's source, whereas in two different conditions they were not. Subsequent to the stimulation, the subjects were asked to rate both pleasantness and intensity of each tactile sensation. Results: Consistently, pleasantness ratings were very similar in both conditions. This was found across stimulus velocities and regardless of whether the subjects were informed about the source of the on-going stroke or not. In contrast, intensity ratings were significantly higher in the handheld condition for the two slower velocities, but not for the fastest one. Conclusion: As robot and human touch are highly comparable in terms of perceived pleasantness, handheld stimulation may be used in studies of touch hedonia where robot stimulation is not applicable (for instance in children or certain body parts).
Un-myelinated C tactile afferents (CT afferents) are a key finding in affective touch. These fibers, which activate in response to a caress-like touch to hairy skin (CT afferents are not found in palm skin), may have more in common with interoceptive systems encoding body ownership, than afferent systems processing other tactile stimuli. We tested whether subjective embodiment of a rubber hand (measured through questionnaire items) was increased when tactile stimulation was applied to the back of the hand at a rate optimal for CT afferents (3 cm/s) vs. stimulation of glabrous skin (on the palm of the hand) or at a non-optimal rate (30 cm/s), which should not activate these fibers. We also collected ratings of tactile pleasantness and a measure of perceived limb position, proprioceptive drift, which is mediated by different mechanisms of multisensory integration than those responsible for feelings of ownership. The results of a multiple regression analysis revealed that proprioceptive drift was a significant predictor of subjective strength of the illusion when tactile stimuli were applied to the back of the hand, regardless of stroking speed. This relationship was modified by pleasantness, with higher ratings when stimulation was applied to the back of the hand at the slower vs. faster stroking speed. Pleasantness was also a unique predictor of illusion strength when fast stroking was applied to the palm of the hand. However, there were no conditions under which pleasantness was a significant predictor of drift. Since the illusion was demonstrated at a non-optimal stroking speed an integrative role for CT afferents within the illusion cannot be fully supported. Pleasant touch, however, does moderate the subjective aspects of the rubber hand illusion, which under certain tactile conditions may interact with proprioceptive information about the body or have a unique influence on subjective body perception.
Space and shape are distinct perceptual categories. In language, perceptual information can also be used to describe abstract semantic concepts like a &quot;rising income&quot; (space) or a &quot;square personality&quot; (shape). Despite being inherently concrete, co-speech gestures depicting space and shape can accompany concrete or abstract utterances. Here, we investigated the way that abstractness influences the neural processing of the perceptual categories of space and shape in gestures. Thus, we tested the hypothesis that the neural processing of perceptual categories is highly dependent on language context. In a two-factorial design, we investigated the neural basis for the processing of gestures containing shape (SH) and spatial information (SP) when accompanying concrete (c) or abstract (a) verbal utterances. During fMRI data acquisition participants were presented with short video clips of the four conditions (cSP, aSP, cSH, aSH) while performing an independent control task. Abstract (a) as opposed to concrete (c) utterances activated temporal lobes bilaterally and the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) for both shape-related (SH) and space-related (SP) utterances. An interaction of perceptual category and semantic abstractness in a more anterior part of the left IFG and inferior part of the posterior temporal lobe (pTL) indicates that abstractness strongly influenced the neural processing of space and shape information. Despite the concrete visual input of co-speech gestures in all conditions, space and shape information is processed differently depending on the semantic abstractness of its linguistic context.
After fear conditioning, presenting the conditioned stimulus (CS) alone yields a context-specific extinction memory; fear is suppressed in the extinction context, but renews in any other context. The context-dependence of extinction is mediated by a brain circuit consisting of the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex (PFC) and amygdala. In the present work, we sought to determine at what level of this circuit context-dependent representations of the CS emerge. To explore this question, we used cellular compartment analysis of temporal activity by fluorescent in situ hybridization (catFISH). This method exploits the intracellular expression profile of the immediate early gene (IEG), Arc, to visualize neuronal activation patterns to two different behavioral experiences. Rats were fear conditioned in one context and extinguished in another; 24 h later, they were sequentially exposed to the CS in the extinction context and another context. Control rats were also tested in each context, but were never extinguished. We assessed Arc mRNA expression within the basal amygdala (BA), lateral amygdala (LA), ventral hippocampus (VH), prelimbic cortex (PL) and infralimbic cortex (IL). We observed that the sequential retention tests induced context-dependent patterns of Arc expression in the BA, LA, and IL of extinguished rats; this was not observed in non-extinguished controls. In general, non-extinguished animals had proportionately greater numbers of non-selective (double-labeled) neurons than extinguished animals. Collectively, these findings suggest that extinction learning results in pattern separation, particularly within the BA, in which unique neuronal ensembles represent fear memories after extinction.
Although available evidence points to a role of the inferior frontal cortex (IFC) in both emotion processing and autobiographical memory (AM) recollection, it is unclear what the role of this region is in emotional AM recollection. The present study investigated whether IFC activity can be influenced by manipulations of the retrieval focus (emotional vs. non-emotional) and whether this influence is similar for AMs with positive and negative emotional valence. Participants were asked to focus either on emotional (Emotion condition) or on non-emotional contextual (Context condition) details during the elaboration of positive and negative AMs, while fMRI data were collected. The study yielded two main findings: (1) Focusing on Emotion compared to Context during AM recollection was associated with increased activity in bilateral IFC, for positive AMs, whereas negative AMs produced similarly high IFC activity during Emotion and Context conditions; (2) There was a hemispheric dissociation in the IFC linked to the experiencing of emotion and the focus of AM recollection, such that the left IFC activity correlated positively with the subjective re-experience of emotion during the Emotion condition, whereas the right IFC activity correlated negatively with the subjective re-experience of emotion during the Context condition, for both positive and negative AMs. Overall, the present findings suggest that IFC's involvement during the recollection of emotional AMs is susceptible to manipulations of the retrieval focus only in the case of positive AMs, and that this region plays a role in both the enhancement and inhibition of emotional experience during AM recollection.

INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES IN APPETITIVE LEARNING HAVE LONG BEEN REPORTED, AND GENERALLY DIVIDE INTO TWO CLASSES OF RESPONSES: cue- vs. reward-directed. The influence of cue- vs. reward-directed phenotypes on aversive cue processing, is less well understood. In the current study, we first categorized rats based on their predominant cue-directed orienting responses during appetitive Pavlovian conditioning. Then, we investigated the effect of phenotype on the latency to exit a familiar dark environment and enter an unfamiliar illuminated open field. Next, we examined whether the two phenotypes responded differently to a reconsolidation updating manipulation (retrieval+extinction) after fear conditioning. We report that the rats with a cue-directed (&quot;orienting&quot;) phenotype differentially respond to the open field, and also to fear conditioning, depending on US-intensity. In addition, our findings suggest that, regardless of appetitive phenotype or shock intensity, extinction within the reconsolidation window prevents spontaneous recovery of fear.


Adult male mice emit large number of complex ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) when interacting with adult females. Call numbers and call categories differ greatly among inbred mouse strains. Little is known about USV emissions when the social partner departs. To investigate whether call repertoires and call rates are different when the male is interacting with a female and after the removal of the female, we designed a novel male-female social interaction test in which vocalizations were recorded across three phases. During phase 1, the male subject freely interacts with an unfamiliar estrus female mouse in a clean cage for 5 min. During phase 2, the female is removed while the male remains in the cage for 3 min. During phase 3, the same female is returned to the cage to rejoin the male subject mouse for 3 min. C57BL/6J (B6), FVB.129P2-Pde6b(+) Tyr(c-ch)/Ant (FVB), and BTBR T+ tf/J (BTBR) male subject mice were tested in this paradigm. All three strains emitted USVs during their initial interaction with the female partner. When the female was reintroduced in phase 3, numbers of USVs were similar to the initial introductory phase 1. Strain comparisons indicated fewer calls in pairs of BTBR males and stimulus females than in pairs of B6 males and stimulus females and pairs of FVB males and stimulus females. In the absence of the female, all FVB males vocalized, while only one third of B6 males and one third of BTBR males vocalized. In all three strains, changes in call category repertoires were detected after the female was removed. Call categories reverted to the phase 1 pattern when the female was returned in phase 3. Present findings indicate that males of commonly used inbred strains emit USVs when a partner female leaves the testing arena, suggesting that removing a salient social stimulus may be a unique approach to elicit USVs from mice. Our three-phase paradigm may also be useful for studying attention to social cues, and qualitative differences in vocalizations when a social partner is present vs. suddenly absent.

Pavlovian conditioned stimuli can influence instrumental responding, an effect called Pavlovian-instrumental transfer (PIT). During the last decade, PIT has been subdivided into two types: specific PIT and general PIT, each having its own neural substrates. Specific PIT happens when a conditioned stimulus (CS) associated with a reward enhances an instrumental response directed to the same reward. Under general PIT, instead, the CS enhances a response directed to a different reward. While important progress has been made into identifying the neural substrates, the function of specific and general PIT and how they interact with instrumental responses are still not clear. In the experimental paradigm that distinguishes specific and general PIT an effect of PIT inhibition has also been observed and is waiting for an explanation. Here we propose an hypothesis that links these three PIT effects (specific PIT, general PIT and PIT inhibition) to three aspects of action evaluation. These three aspects, which we call &quot;principles of action&quot;, are: context, efficacy, and utility. In goal-directed behavior, an agent has to evaluate if the context is suitable to accomplish the goal, the efficacy of his action in getting the goal, and the utility of the goal itself: we suggest that each of the three PIT effects is related to one of these aspects of action evaluation. In particular, we link specific PIT with the estimation of efficacy, general PIT with the evaluation of utility, and PIT inhibition with the adequacy of context. We also provide a latent cause Bayesian computational model that exemplifies this hypothesis. This hypothesis and the model provide a new framework and new predictions to advance knowledge about PIT functioning and its role in animal adaptation.
We come to understand other people's physical and mental states by re-mapping their bodily states onto our sensorimotor system. This process, also called somatosensory resonance, is an essential ability for social cognition and is stronger when observing ingroup than outgroup members. Here we investigated, first, whether implicit racial bias constrains somatosensory resonance, and second, whether increasing the ingroup/outgroup perceived physical similarity results in an increase in the somatosensory resonance for outgroup members. We used the Visual Remapping of Touch effect as an index of individuals' ability in resonating with the others, and the Implicit Association Test to measure racial bias. In Experiment 1, participants were asked to detect near-threshold tactile stimuli delivered to their own face while viewing either an ingroup or an outgroup face receiving a similar stimulation. Our results showed that individuals' tactile accuracy when viewing an outgroup face being touched was negatively correlated to their implicit racial bias. In Experiment 2, participants received the interpersonal multisensory stimulation (IMS) while observing an outgroup member. IMS has been found to increase the perceived physical similarity between the observer's and the observed body. We tested whether such increase in ingroup/outgroup perceived physical similarity increased the remapping ability for outgroup members. We found that after sharing IMS experience with an outgroup member, tactile accuracy when viewing touch on outgroup faces increased. Interestingly, participants with stronger implicit bias against the outgroup showed larger positive change in the remapping. We conclude that shared multisensory experiences might represent one key way to improve our ability to resonate with others by overcoming the boundaries between ingroup and outgroup categories.
Deficits in executive control have frequently been associated with alcohol use disorder. Here we investigated to what extent pre-existing genetically encoded levels of impulsive/inattentive behavior associate with motivation to take alcohol and vulnerability to cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking in an operant self-administration paradigm. We took advantage of BXD16, a recombinant inbred strain previously shown to have enhanced impulsivity and poor attentional control. We compared BXD16 with C57BL/6J mice in a simple choice reaction time task (SCRTT) and confirmed its impulsive/inattentive phenotype. BXD16 mice were less active in a novel open field (OF), and were equally active in an automated home cage environment, showing that increased impulsive responding of BXD16 mice could not be explained by enhanced general activity compared to C57BL/6J mice. After training in a sucrose/alcohol fading self-administration procedure, BXD16 showed increased motivation to earn 10% alcohol solution, both under fixed ratio (FR1) and progressive ratio (PR2) schedules of reinforcement. Responding on the active lever readily decreased during extinction training with no apparent differences between strains. However, upon re-exposure to alcohol-associated cues, alcohol seeking was reinstated to a larger extent in BXD16 than in C57BL/6J mice. Although further studies are needed to determine whether impulsivity/inattention and alcohol seeking depend on common or separate genetic loci, these data show that in mice enhanced impulsivity coincides with increased motivation to take alcohol, as well as relapse vulnerability.
Goal-directed behavior is a fundamental means by which animals can flexibly solve the challenges posed by variable external and internal conditions. Recently, the processes and brain mechanisms underlying such behavior have been extensively studied from behavioral, neuroscientific and computational perspectives. This research has highlighted the processes underlying goal-directed behavior and associated brain systems including prefrontal cortex, basal ganglia and, in particular therein, the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). This paper focusses on one particular process at the core of goal-directed behavior: how motivational value is assigned to goals on the basis of internal states and environmental stimuli, and how this supports goal selection processes. Various biological and computational accounts have been given of this problem and of related multiple neural and behavior phenomena, but we still lack an integrated hypothesis on the generation and use of value for goal selection. This paper proposes an hypothesis that aims to solve this problem and is based on this key elements: (a) amygdala and hippocampus establish the motivational value of stimuli and goals; (b) prefrontal cortex encodes various types of action outcomes; (c) NAcc integrates different sources of value, representing them in terms of a common currency with the aid of dopamine, and thereby plays a major role in selecting action outcomes within prefrontal cortex. The &quot;goals&quot; pursued by the organism are the outcomes selected by these processes. The hypothesis is developed in the context of a critical review of relevant biological and computational literature which offer it support. The paper shows how the hypothesis has the potential to integrate existing interpretations of motivational value and goal selection.
Reduced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling has been shown in the frontal cortex and hippocampus in schizophrenia. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether a BDNF deficit would modulate effects of chronic cannabis intake, a well-described risk factor for schizophrenia development. BDNF heterozygous mice (HET) and wild-type controls were chronically treated during weeks 6, 7, and 8 of life with the cannabinoid receptor agonist, CP55,940 (CP). After a 2-week delay, there were no CP-induced deficits in any of the groups in short-term spatial memory in a Y-maze task or novel object recognition memory. Baseline prepulse inhibition (PPI) was lower but average startle was increased in BDNF HET compared to wild-type controls. Acute CP administration before the PPI session caused a marked increase in PPI in male HET mice pre-treated with CP but not in any of the other male groups. In females, there were small increases of PPI in all groups upon acute CP administration. Acute CP administration furthermore reduced startle and this effect was greater in HET mice irrespective of chronic CP pre-treatment. Analysis of the levels of [(3)H]CP55,940 binding by autoradiography revealed a significant increase in the nucleus accumbens of male BDNF HET mice previously treated with CP but not in any of the other groups or in the caudate nucleus. These results show that BDNF deficiency and chronic young-adult cannabinoid receptor stimulation do not interact in this model on learning and memory later in life. In contrast, male &quot;two hit&quot; mice, but not females, were hypersensitive to the effect of acute CP on sensorimotor gating. These effects may be related to a selective increase of [(3)H]CP55,940 binding in the nucleus accumbens, reflecting up-regulation of CB1 receptor density in this region. These data could be of relevance to our understanding of differential &quot;two hit&quot; neurodevelopmental mechanisms in schizophrenia.

Huntington's disease (HD) is characterized by triad of motor, cognitive, and emotional symptoms along with neuropathology in fronto-striatal circuit and limbic system including amygdala. Emotional alterations, which have a negative impact on patient well-being, represent some of the earliest symptoms of HD and might be related to the onset of the neurodegenerative process. In the transgenic rat model (tgHD rats), evidence suggest emotional alterations at the symptomatic stage along with neuropathology of the central nucleus of amygdala (CE). Studies in humans and animals demonstrate that emotion can modulate time perception. The impact of emotion on time perception has never been tested in HD, nor is it known if that impact could be part of the presymptomatic emotional phenotype of the pathology. The aim of this paper was to characterize the effect of emotion on temporal discrimination in presymptomatic tgHD animals. In the first experiment, we characterized the acute effect of an emotion (fear) conditioned stimulus on temporal discrimination using a bisection procedure, and tested its dependency upon an intact central amygdala. The second experiment was aimed at comparing presymptomatic homozygous transgenic animals at 7-months of age and their wild-type littermates (WT) in their performance on the modulation of temporal discrimination by emotion. Our principal findings show that (1) a fear cue produces a short-lived decrease of temporal precision after its termination, and (2) animals with medial CE lesion and presymptomatic tgHD animals demonstrate an alteration of this emotion-evoked temporal distortion. The results contribute to our knowledge about the presymptomatic phenotype of this HD rat model, showing susceptibility to emotion that may be related to dysfunction of the central nucleus of amygdala.
Recent studies have shown that acute stress can lead to riskier decision making. Yet, the underlying mechanisms of the stress effects on decisions under risk remain poorly understood. To gain a better understanding of decision-making processes and potential strategy application under stress, we investigated decision making in pure gain and loss domains with unequal expected values (EVs) across alternatives. We conducted an experimental study with a 2  2 design (stress vs. no stress and gain domain vs. loss domain). The Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) was utilized to induce acute stress. Controls performed the placebo-TSST (p-TSST). To validate the stress response we measured salivary cortisol and alpha-amylase concentrations. We used a modified version of the Game of Dice Task (GDT) to assess decision-making performance in a gain and a loss domain. Results showed that non-stressed participants made less risky decisions in the gain domain compared to those of the loss domain. This behavior is in accordance with previous studies and indicates the stability of the framing effect in even more complex tasks with changing EVs across alternatives. Stress did not alter risk taking behavior in the gain domain. Yet, in the loss domain stressed participants made less risky decisions compared to controls. Additionally, the data support earlier findings of longer reaction times in loss compared to gain domains due to higher cognitive effort for loss-framed decisions. It is discussed that stress may lead to reduced amygdala activation, which has been found to reduce riskier decisions in a loss domain. With respect to earlier results of riskier decisions in tasks that unite both gain and loss domains, it is discussed whether stress leads to a stronger evaluation of high gains and a neglect of losses.
Gambling is characterized by cognitive distortions in the processing of chance and skill that are exacerbated in pathological gambling. Opioid and dopamine dysregulation is implicated in pathological gambling, but it is unclear whether these neurotransmitters modulate gambling distortions. The objective of the current study was to assess the effects of the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone and the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol on gambling behavior. Male recreational gamblers (n = 62) were assigned to receive single oral doses of naltrexone 50 mg, haloperidol 2 mg or placebo, in a parallel-groups design. At 2.5 h post-dosing, participants completed a slot machine task to elicit monetary wins, &quot;near-misses,&quot; and a manipulation of personal choice, and a roulette game to elicit two biases in sequential processing, the gambler's fallacy and the hot hand belief. Psychophysiological responses (electrodermal activity and heart rate) were taken during the slot machine task, and plasma prolactin increase was assessed. The tasks successfully induced the gambling effects of interest. Some of these effects differed across treatment groups, although the direction of effect was not in line with our predictions. Differences were driven by the naltrexone group, which displayed a greater physiological response to wins, and marginally higher confidence ratings on winning streaks. Prolactin levels increased in the naltrexone group, but did not differ between haloperidol and placebo, implying that naltrexone but not haloperidol may have been functionally active at these doses. Our results support opioid modulation of cognition during gambling-like tasks, but did not support the more specific hypothesis that naltrexone may act to ameliorate cognitive distortions.
Time perception is crucial to goal attainment in humans and other animals, and interval timing also guides fundamental animal behaviors. Accumulating evidence has made it clear that in associative learning, temporal relations between events are encoded, and a few studies suggest this temporal learning occurs very rapidly. Most of these studies, however, have used methodologies that do not permit investigating the emergence of this temporal learning. In the present study we monitored respiration, ultrasonic vocalization (USV) and freezing behavior in rats in order to perform fine-grain analysis of fear responses during odor fear conditioning. In this paradigm an initially neutral odor (the conditioned stimulus, CS) predicted the arrival of an aversive unconditioned stimulus (US, footshock) at a fixed 20-s time interval. We first investigated the development of a temporal pattern of responding related to CS-US interval duration. The data showed that during acquisition with odor-shock pairings, a temporal response pattern of respiration rate was observed. Changing the CS-US interval duration from 20-s to 30-s resulted in a shift of the temporal response pattern appropriate to the new duration thus demonstrating that the pattern reflected the learning of the CS-US interval. A temporal pattern was also observed during a retention test 24 h later for both respiration and freezing measures, suggesting that the animals had stored the interval duration in long-term memory. We then investigated the role of intra-amygdalar dopaminergic transmission in interval timing. For this purpose, the D1 dopaminergic receptors antagonist SCH23390 was infused in the basolateral amygdala before conditioning. This resulted in an alteration of timing behavior, as reflected in differential temporal patterns between groups observed in a 24 h retention test off drug. The present data suggest that D1 receptor dopaminergic transmission within the amygdala is involved in temporal processing.
Individuals with a repressive coping style self-report low anxiety, but show high defensiveness and high physiological arousal. Repressors have impoverished negative autobiographical memories and are better able to suppress memory for negatively valenced and self-related laboratory materials when asked to do so. Research on spontaneous forgetting of negative information in repressors suggests that they show significant forgetting of negative items, but only after a delay. Unknown is whether increased forgetting after a delay is potentiated by self-relevance. Here we asked in three experiments whether repressors would show reduced episodic memories for negative self-relevant information when tested immediately versus after a 2-day delay. We predicted that repressors would show an exaggerated reduction in recall of negative self-relevant memories after a delay, at least without anew priming of this information. We tested a total of 300 participants (experiment 1: N=95, experiment 2: N=106; experiment 3: N=99) of four types: repressors, high-anxious (HA), low-anxious, and defensive HA individuals. Participants judged positive and negative adjectives with regard to self-descriptiveness, serving as incidental encoding. Surprise free-recall was conducted immediately after encoding (experiment 1), after a 2-day delay (experiment 2), or after a 2-day delay following priming via a lexical decision task (experiment 3). In experiment 1, repressors showed a bias against negative self-relevant words in immediate recall. Such a bias was neither observed in delayed recall without priming nor in delayed recall with priming. Thus, counter to our hypothesis, negative information that was initially judged as self-relevant was not forgotten at a higher rate after a delay in repressors. We suggest that repressors may reinterpret initially negative information in a more positive light after a delay, and therefore no longer experience the need to bias their recall after a delay.
