


























































































































































Mechanisms, whether man-made or morphological, are boundary conditions harnessing the laws of inanimate nature, being themselves irreducible to those laws. The pattern of organic bases in DNA which functions as a genetic code is a boundary condition irreducible to physics and chemistry. Further controlling principles of life may be represented as a hierarchy of boundary conditions extending, in the case of man, to consciousness and responsibility.


1. The plasmalogenase activity of brain was found to be associated with the white matter but was absent from myelin fractions. 2. Increased enzyme activity was found in demyelinating spinal cords from vitamin B(12)-deficient monkeys and in white matter from a patient with multiple sclerosis.























































































1. Recording the summated electrical response from the human chorda tympani in the middle ear provides data for a quantitative study of the relation between the neural activity and the strength of the stimulus applied to the tongue which can be compared with the relation between the subjective estimation and the stimulus strength.2. Full comparative data obtained from two patients showed a very high correlation between the functions describing the subjective and the neural response in relation to the strength of citric acid and sucrose solutions applied to the tongue. In a third patient the same high correlation was obtained for NaCl and citric acid.3. The good agreement between the individual neurophysiological experiments and the psychophysical group experiment favours the view that a fundamental congruity is found between neural activity and perceptual intensity.























The (+/-) reference is defined as the result of alternate addition and subtraction and division by N (the number of sample functions). Under suitable conditions both the (+/-) reference and the variable component (noise) of the usual average tend to be derived from the same Gaussian process, and the former can be used as a measure of the latter. This property is most easily applied when the noise is derived from a stationary process. Application of the (+/-) reference and the average of the square of the voltage in studies of evoked response is discussed.













The nerve-impuilse-blocking actions of derivatives of tetrodotoxin have been tested on lobster and squid axons. The block produced by deoxytetrodotoxin was similar to that produced by tetrodotoxin and was probably caused by tetrodotoxin contamination. Tetrodaminotoxin and anhydrotetrodotoxin also produced a similar block but at such high concentrations that tetrodotoxin contamination cannot be ruled out. The hydroxyl group of C(4) and the hemilactal oxygen links play an important role for the nerve-blocking action.











































































A pair of thermistors forming part of a direct current bridge circuit was mounted in the wake of a moth in stationary flight. Differential changes in the thermistors' resistance provided a sensitive index of changes in the direction of the airstream as the insect made attempts to turn away from a source of ultrasonic pulses.



































1. The main left coronary artery of the cat was perfused through its own common carotid artery. Changes in perfusion pressure were produced from a pressurized reservoir.2. In cats anaesthetized with pentobarbital, increased coronary artery pressure always caused a reflex reduction of the discharge in sympathetic nerves. A reflex fall in blood pressure occurred less frequently. In cats anaesthetized with chloralose, increased coronary artery pressure caused a reflex bradycardia without any primary change in sympathetic activity.3. The afferent fibres of the coronary depressor reflex are in the vagus nerves. The efferent fibres were both sympathetic and vagal.4. It seems likely that the coronary depressor reflex is initiated by excitation of the coronary mechanoreceptors. It also seems likely that the reflex response to the intracoronary injection of 1 mug veratridine (Bezold-Jarisch effect) was initiated at least in part by excitation of these same receptors.
















Ganglionic responses to electrical stimulation, acetylcholine, and potassium ions were studied in superior cervical ganglia of. cats perfused with media containing lithium chloride instead of sodium chloride. In lithium-Locke, ganglionic transmission and depolarization evoked by acetylcholine were blocked completely but reversibly, while the depolarization produced by potassium ions was unaltered.
Voltage-clamizped giant axons of squid, internally perfused with potassiumt chloride solutions, showed reduced initial transient memnbrane conductance to voltage and increased overall (leakage) conductance. Unclamtped axons showed reduced action and resting potentials. Ionic conductances and memtbrane potentials were maintained or restored by perfusion with potassiuwn fluoride solutions. As much as 90 percent of internal fluoride could be replaced with chloride without alterationt of normal properties of membrane.
The menmbrane potential of myelinated axons in the resting state shows fluctuations for which the power per cycle of bandwidth is inversely proportional to frequency between I and 10,000 radians per second. Reduction of potassiulm ion flux leads to a decrease in noise power.






Some implications of a mathematical theory relating neuronal geometry to the parameters of excitation in unconditioned response of planarians to electric shock are experimentally verified. The regions and patterns of primary neural excitation depend on the relation between the distribution of neural sizes and the wave form of the electric stimulus.












































































Rats were given a single electroconvulsive shock at varying intervals after receiving a punishing shock to the feet immediately after stepping into a compartment. Significant amounts of retrograde amnesia for the memory of the punishment was shown when electroconvulsive shock was administered up to and including 30 seconds after the punishment but not at 60 seconds. This brief temporal gradient cannot be explained in ternis of changed stimulus cues or learned interference analogouS to retroactive inhibition.







Sodium, potassium, and chloride concentrations were determined in the sheath cells and axoplasm of the nerve fiber of the squid Sepioteuthis sepioidea. The sheaths were obtained by slitting the nerve fiber, the extracellular electrolytes were washed out in isotonic sucrose solution, and the concentrations in the cells were determined after different soaking times in the sucrose solution. Values for the Schwann cell were calculated by extrapolation to zero time from the plots of the logarithms of the concentrations in the cells as a function of soaking time in sucrose solution. The Schwann cells made up 84 per cent of the sheath's total cellular volume. The Schwann cell concentrations in millimols per liter, are: 312 (404-241) for sodium, 220 (308-157) for potassium, and 167 (208-138) for chloride. The concentrations in the axoplasm (mean +/- SE), in millimols per liter are: 52 +/- 10 for sodium, 335 +/- 25 for potassium, and 135 +/- 14 for chloride. The possibility that some fraction of the Schwann cell electrolytes, especially of sodium, is bound, cannot be discarded.











1. The occurrence of haemoglobin in invertebrate nerves is surveyed. Haemoglobin was observed in the nerves and ganglia of the marine nematode Amphiporus sp. and of the polychaet annelid Halosydna sp. 2. Haemoglobins from the nerve and ganglia of the polychaet annelid Aphrodite aculeata L. and from the nerve of the gastropod mollusc Aplysia californica have been partially purified. The haem in each case was identified as iron protoporphyrin IX. 3. The minimum molecular weight of Aphrodite nerve haemoglobin deduced from the haem content and amino acid analysis is 17090, in agreement with the molecular weight 15600+/-1000 determined by sedimentation equilibrium. 4. The molecular weight of Aplysia nerve haemoglobin was determined by sedimentation equilibrium to be 16400+/-1000. 5. The oxygen dissociation curves are hyperbolic. Half-saturation is achieved at 1.1mm. Hg for Aphrodite nerve haemoglobin and at 4.0mm. Hg for Aplysia nerve haemoglobin. The coefficients for partition between carbon monoxide and oxygen are: Aphrodite nerve haemoglobin, 167; Aplysia nerve haemoglobin, 116. 6. The ferrous haemoglobins combine with cyanide. 7. We conclude that the intracellular haemoglobins of muscle and nerve are similar.
























Voltage clamp measurements on squid giant axons show that externally applied puffer fish poison, tetrodotoxin, eliminates only the initial inward current component of spike electrogenesis and does not affect the subsequent outward current. The selective effect on Na activation, which is reversible, confirms the view that the movements of Na and K during spike electrogenesis occur at structurally different sites on the membrane. Spike electrogenesis is also blocked when tetrodotoxin is injected into the axon, but the interior of the membrane appears to be somewhat less sensitive to the poison. Differences in reactivity of various electrogenic membrane components to tetrodotoxin are discussed as signifying differences in chemical structures.
The effects of ten cations and fifteen anions on the excitability of the squid giant axon were studied. The method of intracellular perfusion used in these investigations is described in detail. Empirical criteria were established for evaluating the relative favorability of any salt solution for maintaining the normal excitability of the membrane of the axon. It was found that both cations and anions could be ordered in sequences of relative favorability, which are directly related to the classic lyotropic sequences found for protein macromolecules and in colloid chemistry in general. The effects of concentration, salt mixtures, non-electrolyte carriers, enzymes, metabolic inhibitors, pH, and external media were also studied. The results are interpreted in terms of current concepts of the interactions between water structure, charged macromolecules, and their ionic environments. A macromolecular approach is given to the physicochemical nature of the &quot;two stable states&quot; of the excitable membrane, to describe the time-dependent potential changes observed.
The relationship between retinula and eccentric cells in the lateral eye of Limulus polyphemus was studied using a double electrode technique which permitted simultaneous recording of light-initiated responses in two sense cells and the labeling of the cells for subsequent histological examination and identification. The following results were obtained: (a) light-initiated slow responses with and without superimposed spike potentials were recorded from retinula cells and from eccentric cells (only one eccentric cell yielded responses without superimposed spike potentials); (b) spike potentials recorded in different cells within the same ommatidium were always synchronous; (c) a complete absence of spike potentials was observed in two experiments in which no eccentric cells could be found in the ommatidia containing the labeled retinula cells; (d) the greatest differences in the characteristics of responses recorded simultaneously occurred in those recorded from retinula-eccentric combinations. The results indicate that there is only one source of spike potential activity within an ommatidium (presumably the eccentric cell) and that the light-initiated response of retinula cells may be independent of the eccentric cell response. The suggestion is advanced that the response of the retinula cell may &quot;trigger&quot; the eccentric cell response.
Potential differences between normal nodes of Ranvier (single fiber from the sciatic nerve of the frog, air-gap method) and a node exposed to 1 to 2.5 x 10(-6) gm veratridine per ml were measured. Negative after-potentials occurred immediately after application of the alkaloid when spike configuration and resting potential were virtually unchanged. The after-potentials decreased in magnitude and their time constant increased as the resting membrane was depolarized either by outward currents or by a train of impulses. Increase of (Na)(o) markedly increased the amplitude of the after-potential. After prolonged application of veratridine or with higher concentrations, a large slow depolarization (rate of potential change about 7 mv per second) could be triggered by a train of impulses or even a single spike. This depolarization could promptly be terminated by withdrawing Na. It is concluded that, once the nodal membrane has become permeable to Na (as during a spike), veratridine prevents the normal return of P(Na) to its resting value.













The experimental system described above has been in full-scale operation now for about one year. It has been possible in this short period only to begin the exploration of the potentialities of the system for aiding nervous system research. The most intensively developed programs have been those on the insect (3) and on human vision and eye movements (5). In both of these programs the facility has permitted new research techniques which have provided answers to important questions, answers which would have been unobtainable without such a data-processing and control system.

Cerebral responses to stimulation of the median nerve were recorded in 89 healthy subjects, aged 15 to 80 years. Relationships between response characteristics, age, sex, and Maudsley Personality Inventory variables were determined. Amplitudes increased significantly with age. Age interacted with &quot;extraversion&quot; so that more &quot;extraverted&quot; subjects under 20 and fewer &quot;extraverted&quot; subjects over 40 had larger responses.


































The local electroretinogram of the monkey retina is recorded by intraretinal microelectrodes. Observations of the late receptor potential, isolated by selective clamping of the retinal circulation, show that when the retina is light-adapted by repetitive stimulation, the amplitude of the receptor potential is only slightly reduced over a slow time course. The reduction in amplitude of the b-wave is much greater and occurs much more rapidly. Thus there is a neural stage of adaptation between the late receptor potential and the generation of the b-wave by cells of the inner nuclear layer.




















































Evoked potentials recorded at the cochlear nucleus of unanesthetized cats show that auditory habituation is a process with a rapid onset and a slower rate of dissipation, and that the habituation is a direct function of the rate of stimulation. Neither the middle ear muscles nor the reticular formation appear to participate in this process. It is suggested that auditory habituation might be a function of the interaction of the olivocochlear bundle and some intrinsic property of higher synaptic areas.
Isolated retinas from frogs' eyes were preserved in a circulating medium; transretinal electrical potential and ultraviolet absorbancy were monitored. In response to visible stimulation, changes in absorbancy were observed which correlate with the c-wave of the electroretinogram. They are tentatively identified as cyclic oxidations of pyridine nucleotides reflecting the energy expenditure associated with evoked neuronal activity.

In the cat with intact sinoaortic reflexes, episodes of deep sleep are accompanied by marked falls in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure. The falls are much larger after bilateral sino-aortic deafferentation: to such low pressures during deep sleep that episodes of transient cerebral ischemia (electroencephalographic flattening and seizures) sometimes occur.
Cortical evoked responses to flashes and clicks were recorded from human subjects performing visual or auditory tasks under three conditions of selective attentiveness. The subjects were required to attend to the flashes and to ignore alternating clicks, or vice versa. Responses to flashes recorded from the occipital area were larger when attention was directed toward visual stimuli, and responses to click stimuli recorded from the temporal area were larger when attention was directed toward auditory stimuli.
Electrodes and cannulea can be permanently implanted in the horseshoe crab, Limulus polyphemus. Recordings of electrical activity can be obtained from the optic nerve, heart, and abdominal ganglia and the cannulae are effective routes for introducing isotopes into the nervous system. The animals survive for at least 13 days and are not behaviorally impaired.




Auditory perceptions produced in a person deaf to acoustic stimulation were studied by electrically exciting the auditory nerve through permanently implanted electrodes. Pulsed current as small as 1 microampere peak-to-peak could be perceived. Pitch, as reported by the subject, varied with electrode selection, current amplitude, and pulse repetition rate from about 70 to at least 300 pulses per second. Loudness increased with amplitude and duration of pulse stimuli, and to a lesser extent with repetition rate. The total range in amplitude of the stimulus, from threshold to an uncomfortable loudness, was 15 to 20 decibels. Simultaneous stimulation in separate electrodes produced a number of complex effects.


























































Recordings from chick and duck fetuses inside the egg revealed an increase in the rate of bill-clapping and vocalization when the fetuses were aurally stimulated by the maternal call of their species on the day before hatching.
Certain ganglion cells from the central region of dark-adapted retina of the rhesus monkey respond to stimulation of both rod and cone receptors. With dim stimuli the function of these ganglion cells is determined entirely by the rods; with brighter stimuli that affect both dark-adapted rods and cones, little evidence of rod function is detectable because a cone mechanism appears to determine both the latency and frequency of ganglion-cell firing.
In dogs subjected to hemorrhagic shock, a marked decrease in the noradrenaline content of the sympathetic nerve terminals in the normally innervated spleen is revealed by means of a histochemical fluorescence method. Deprivation of the sympathetic impulse-flow to the tissue immediately before the animals are subjected to shock prevents this depletion. The results support the hypothesis that the vasoconstriction which occurs during shock is due to the effect of noradrenaline released locally in the tissues, and not to circulating noradrenaline.






The hypothetical questions which were asked earlier may now be answered as follows. Myelin lipids do possess characteristics which could lead to a tightly organized, closely packed, highly stable membrane structure, while lipids in adjacent neurons and glial cells do possess characteristics which could give rise to a more loosely organized, less stable membrane structure. The greater degree of metabolic inertness of myelin lipids may be explained on this basis. The stability of myelin itself may also be based largely on the intermolecular cohesion between lipid molecules, since the lipid content of myelin is extraordinarily high. Physiological and clinical studies tend to support the concept that a surfeit of polyunsaturated lipids or a deficiency of long-chain sphingolipids can result in a more easily disrupted membrane. The most important prediction to be drawn from these speculations is that myelin may be rendered unstable in disease if its lipid composition is altered so that higher proportions of lipids containing polyunsaturated fatty acids and lower proportions of lipids containing very-long-chain fatty acids are present.





















Randomly connected networks can be made adaptive, and thus able to &quot;learn.&quot; Signal-to-noise considerations are shown to limit the maximum initial complexity which can learn. A higher order of complexity may be possible in multilayered structures which learn layer-by-layer; or if learning is possible during construction. Perception-like devices would appear not to be operative if of a high order of complexity.
A simple neuronal model is assumed in which, after a refractory period, excitatory and inhibitory exponentially decaying inputs of constant size occur at random intervals and sum until a threshold is reached. The distribution of time intervals between successive neuronal firings (interresponse time histogram), the firing rate as a function of input frequency, the variability in the time course of depolarization from trial to trial, and the strength-duration curve are derived for this model. The predictions are compared with data from the literature and good qualitative agreement is found. All parameters are experimentally measurable and a direct test of the theory is possible with present techniques. The assumptions of the model are relaxed and the effects of such experimentally found phenomena as relative refractory and supernormal periods, adaptation, potentiation, and rhythmic slow potentials are discussed. Implications for gross behavior studies are considered briefly.
This paper employs new statistical techniques to further analyze the flight control system of grasshoppers. The quantitative results confirm some hypotheses which arise from previous studies of this system. After decapitation and ablation of wing proprioceptors, stimulation of the nerve cord at random intervals can elicit a coordinated response closely resembling the normal flight motor output pattern. The coordinated response begins only after many stimuli and there are usually many cycles of after-discharge. The frequency of the cyclic output is rather low and may be increased only slightly by large increases in stimulus frequency. Input from the stretch receptors is necessary to attain normal wingstroke frequency. Frequency of wingbeat rises with a time constant of about 2 seconds (or about 25 wingbeats) when stretch receptor stimulation is initiated. Frequency decay after cessation of stimulation has about the same time constant. No special phase relationship between stimulation and output is necessary for the increase in frequency or maintenance of normal pattern. When input frequency is adjusted as closely as possible to output frequency it is still not possible to force the output to maintain a particular phase with respect to the stimulation, all phase relationships still occur. In some animals all phases occurred with equal probability; in others a particular phase was preferred. When there was a strong phase preference the normal output pattern was disrupted.
















































Itch produced by application of cowage to the wrist was reduced in intensity by vibration of the stimulated area. Application of vibration to the opposite wrist also reduced intensity. The results may be attributed to physiological activities occurring at the early stages of information transmission.
The small raised tactile areas on the skin surface of the cat which evoke action potentials that convey both temporal and spatial information to the central nervous system are Haarscheiben or tylotrich pads. Each pad is an integral part of a tylotrich follicle, a skin appendage that is highly specialized for sensory function.










The radio frequency induction technique is now an important tool in physiological experiments and in the treatment of certain diseases. It has come to play an important role in the treatment of heart block in human patients, where medication has been ineffective. In the case of bladder stimulation, work with animals has shown that the voiding of urine can be induced by electrical stimulation. The successful use of this technique on human patients has yet to be consistently achieved, but there is reason to be optimistic.



























































































1. Lipids were extracted from neurons isolated from the lateral vestibular nucleus of ox (Bos taurus L.) and the ganglia of Aplysia punctata Cuvier. 2. Thin-layer chromatography of ox-neuron lipid revealed three major fractions corresponding to neutral lipid, phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylserine. Part of the phosphatidylethanolamine was present as the plasmalogen. 3. Aplysia-neuron lipid contained neutral lipid, phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylserine. Both phospholipids appeared to be present predominantly as the plasmalogen form. 4. The fatty acids of alkali-labile lipids of ox neurons were examined by gas-liquid chromatography. The major fatty acids were oleic acid, stearic acid and palmitic acid.










































Excitatory and inhibitory processes which result in the generation of output impulses were analyzed in single crayfish interneurons by using intracellular recording and membrane polarizing techniques. Individual spikes which are initiated orthodromically in axon branches summate temporally and spatially to generate a main axon spike; temporally dispersed branch spikes often pace repetitive discharge of the main axon. Hyperpolarizing IPSP's sometimes suppress axonal discharge to most of these inputs, but in other cases may interact selectively with some of them. The IPSP's reverse their polarity at a hyperpolarized level of membrane potential; they sometimes exhibit two discrete time courses indicating two different input sources. Outward direct current at the main axon near branches causes repetitive discharges which may last, with optimal current intensities, for 1 to 15 seconds. The relation of discharge frequency to current intensity is linear for an early spike interval, but above 100 to 200 impulses/sec. it begins to show saturation. In one unit the current-frequency curve exhibited two linear portions, suggesting the presence of two spike-generating sites in the axon. Current threshold measurements, using test stimuli of different durations, showed that both accommodation and &quot;early&quot; or &quot;residual&quot; refractoriness contribute to the determination of discharge rate at different frequencies.


















































