Neuropathic pain accompanies peripheral nerve injury following a variety of insults including metabolic disorders, traumatic injury, and exposure to neurotoxins such as vincristine and taxol. Vincristine, a microtubule depolymerizing drug, produces a peripheral neuropathy in humans that is accompanied by painful paresthesias and dysesthesias (Sandler et al., [1969] Neurology 19:367-374; Holland et al. [1973] Cancer Res. 33:1258-1264). The recent development of an animal model of vincristine-induced neuropathy provides an opportunity to investigate mechanisms underlying this form of neuropathic pain. Systemic vincristine (100 microg/kg) produces hyperalgesia to mechanical stimuli during the second week of administration, which persists for more than a week (Aley et al. [1996] Neuroscience 73:259-265). To test the hypothesis that changes in microtubule structure in nociceptive sensory neurons accompany vincristine-induced hyperalgesia, we analyzed unmyelinated axons in saphenous nerves of vincristine-treated rats. This study constitutes the first quantitative ultrastructural analysis of the cytoskeleton of unmyelinated axons in peripheral nerve during neuropathic hyperalgesia. There was no evidence of unmyelinated fiber loss or a decrease in the number of microtubules per axons. There was, however, a significant decrease in microtubule density in unmyelinated axons from vincristine-treated rats. This decrease in microtubule density was due to a significant increase in the cross-sectional area of unmyelinated axons, suggesting swelling of axons. In addition, vincristine-treated axons had significantly fewer microtubules cut in cross-section and significantly more tangentially oriented microtubules per axon compared to controls. These results suggest that vincristine causes disorganization of the axonal microtubule cytoskeleton, as well as an increase in the caliber of unmyelinated sensory axons.
The central nervous systems of the marine molluscs Pleurobranchaea californica (Opisthobranchia: Notaspidea) and Tritonia diomedea (Opisthobranchia: Nudibranchia) were examined for serotonin-immunoreactive (5-HT-IR) neurons and processes. Bilaterally paired clusters of 5-HT-IR neuron somata were distributed similarly in ganglia of the two species. In the cerebropleural ganglion complex, these were the metacerebral giant neurons (both species), a dorsal anterior cluster (Pleurobranchaea only), a dorsal medial cluster including identified neurons of the escape swimming network (both species), and a dorsal lateral cluster in the cerebropleural ganglion (Pleurobranchaea only). A ventral anterior cluster (both species) adjoined the metacerebral giant somata at the anterior ganglion edge. Pedal ganglia had the greatest number of 5-HT-IR somata, the majority located near the roots of the pedal commissure in both species. Most 5-HT-IR neurons were on the dorsal surface of the pedal ganglia in Pleurobranchaea and were ventral in Tritonia. Neither the buccal ganglion of both species nor the visceral ganglion of Pleurobranchaea had 5-HT-IR somata. Afew asymmetrical 5-HT-IR somata were found in cerebropleural and pedal ganglia in both species, always on the left side. The clustering of 5-HT-IR neurons, their diverse axon pathways, and the known physiologic properties of their identified members are consistent with a loosely organized arousal system of serotonergic neurons whose components can be generally or differentially active in expression of diverse behaviors.
CEP-1347, also known as KT7515, a derivative of a natural product indolocarbazole, inhibited motor neuronal death in vitro, inhibited activation of the stress-activated kinase JNK1 (c-jun NH terminal kinase) in cultured spinal motor neurons, but had no effect on the mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK1 in these cells. Results reported here profile the functional activity of CEP-1347/KT7515 in vivo in models of motor neuronal death or dedifferentiation. Application of CEP-1347/KT7515 to the chorioallantoic membrane of embryonic chicks rescued 40% of the lumbar motor neurons that normally die during the developmental period assessed. Peripheral administration of low doses (0.5 and 1 mg/kg daily) of CEP-1347/KT7515 reduced death of motor neurons of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus in postnatal female rats, with efficacy comparable to testosterone. Strikingly, daily administration of CEP-1347/KT7515 during the 4-day postnatal window of motor neuronal death resulted in persistent long-term motor neuronal survival in adult animals that received no additional CEP-1347/KT7515. In a model of adult motor neuronal dedifferentiation following axotomy, local application of CEP-1347/KT7515 to the transected hypoglossal nerve substantially reduced the loss of choline acetyl transferase immunoreactivity observed 7 days postaxotomy compared to untreated animals. Results from these experiments demonstrate that a small organic molecule that inhibits a signaling pathway associated with stress and injury also reduces neuronal death and degeneration in vivo.
Tachykinin immunoreactivity is found in a ventromedial spinal plexus in the lamprey. Neurons in this plexus project bilaterally and are thus in a position to modulate locomotor networks on both sides of the spinal cord. We have examined the effects of the tachykinin substance P on NMDA-evoked locomotor activity. Brief (10 min) application of tachykinin neuropeptides results in a prolonged concentration-dependent (&gt;24 hr) modulation of locomotor activity, shown by the increased burst frequency and more regular burst activity. These effects are blocked by the tachykinin antagonist spantide II. There are at least two phases to the burst frequency modulation. An initial phase (approximately 2 hr) is associated with the protein kinase C-dependent potentiation of cellular responses to NMDA. The long-lasting phase (&gt;2 hr) appears to be protein synthesis-dependent, with protein synthesis inhibitors causing the increased burst frequency to recover after washing for 2-3 hr. The modulation of the burst regularity is caused by a separate effect of tachykinins, because unlike the burst frequency modulation it does not require the modulation of NMDA receptors for its induction and is blocked by H8, an inhibitor of cAMP- and cGMP-dependent protein kinases. The effects of substance P were mimicked by the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist eticlopride. The effects of eticlopride were blocked by the tachykinin antagonist spantide II, suggesting that eticlopride may endogenously release tachykinins. Because locomotor activity in vitro corresponds to that during swimming in intact animals, we suggest that endogenously released tachykinins will result in prolonged modulation of locomotor behavior.
In the 6-hydroxydopamine model of Parkinson's disease in the rat, there is a significant reduction in the number of dendritic spines on the principal projection neurons in the neostriatum, presumably attributable to loss of the nigrostriatal dopamine input. These spines invariably receive input from terminals forming asymmetric synapses that originate mainly from the cortex. The object of the present study was to determine the fate of those terminals after the loss of dendritic spines. Unbiased estimates of synaptic density and absolute numbers of synapses in a defined volume of the neostriatum were made using the &quot;disector&quot; and Cavalieri techniques. Numerical synaptic density of asymmetric synaptic contacts was 17% lower in the neostriatum deprived of dopamine innervation and, in absolute terms, there were 3 billion (19%) fewer contacts. The numerical density of a subpopulation of asymmetric contacts on dendritic spines that have complex or perforated synaptic specializations and normally make up 9% of the asymmetric population was 44% higher on the experimental side. Asymmetric synapses were found to be enriched in glutamate using postembedding immunogold labeling. The present observations demonstrate that the loss of spines previously reported after 6-hydroxydopamine lesions is accompanied by a loss of asymmetric synapses rather than by the movement of synapses from spines to other postsynaptic targets. The study also demonstrates that there is an increase in complex synaptic interactions that have been implicated in synaptic plasticity in other regions of the CNS after experimental manipulations.
The tuberomammillary nucleus (TMN) is the major source of histaminergic innervation of the mammalian brain and is thought to play a major role in regulating wake-sleep states. We recently found that sleep-active neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO) provide a major input to the TMN, but the specificity of this projection and the neurotransmitters involved remain unknown. In this study, we examined the relationship of VLPO efferents to the TMN using both retrograde and anterograde tracing, combined with immunocytochemistry. We found that the descending projection from the VLPO selectively targets the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of the histaminergic TMN. In addition, VLPO axons could be traced into the brainstem, where they provided terminals in the the serotoninergic dorsal and median raphe nuclei, and the core of the noradrenergic locus coeruleus. Approximately 80% of the VLPO neurons that were retrogradely labeled by tracer injections including the TMN were immunoreactive either for galanin or for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the synthetic enzyme for GABA. Virtually all of the galaninergic neurons in the VLPO were also GAD positive. Our results indicate that the VLPO may provide inhibitory GABAergic and galaninergic inputs to the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of the TMN and other components of the ascending monoaminergic arousal system. Because these cell groups are simultaneously inhibited during sleep, the VLPO sleep-active neurons may play a key role in silencing the ascending monoaminergic arousal system during sleep.
Information about odorant stimuli is thought to be represented in spatial and temporal patterns of activity across neurons in the olfactory epithelium and the olfactory bulb (OB). Previous studies suggest that olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) distributed in the nasal cavity project to localized regions in the glomerular layer of the OB. However, the functional significance of this convergence is not yet known, and in no studies have the odorant response properties of individual ORNs projecting to defined OB regions been measured directly. We have retrogradely labeled mouse ORNs connecting to different glomeruli in the dorsal OB and tested single cells for responses to odorants using fura-2 calcium imaging. ORNs that project to clusters of dorsomedial (DM) glomeruli exhibit different odorant response profiles from those that project to dorsolateral (DL) glomeruli. DL-projecting ORNs showed responses to compounds with widely different structures, including carvone, eugenol, cinnamaldehyde, and acetophenone. In contrast, DM-projecting neurons exhibited responses to a more structurally restricted set of compounds and responded preferentially to organic acids. These data demonstrate that ORN afferents segregate by odorant responsiveness and that the homogeneity of ORN and glomerular input varies with different OB regions. The data also demonstrate that a subpopulation of ORNs projecting to DM glomeruli is functionally similar.
The lateral eyes of the horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus undergo dramatic daily changes in structure and function that lead to enhanced retinal sensitivity and responsiveness to light at night. These changes are controlled by a circadian neural input that alters photoreceptor and pigment cell shape, pigment migration, and phototransduction. Clock input to the eyes also regulates photomechanical movements within photoreceptors, including membrane shedding. The biochemical mechanisms underlying these diverse effects of the clock on the retina are unknown, but a major biochemical consequence of activating clock input to the eyes is a rise in the concentration of cAMP in photoreceptors and the phosphorylation of a 122 kDa visual system-specific protein. We have cloned and sequenced cDNA encoding the clock-regulated 122 kDa phosphoprotein and show here that it is a new member of the myosin III family. We report that Limulus myosin III is similar to other unconventional myosins in that it binds to calmodulin in the absence of Ca2+; it is novel in that it is phosphorylated within its myosin globular head, probably by cAMP-dependent protein kinase. The protein is present throughout the photoreceptor, including the region occupied by the photosensitive rhabdom. We propose that the phosphorylation of Limulus myosin III is involved in one or more of the structural and functional changes that occur in Limulus eyes in response to clock input.
The senile plaques of Alzheimer's disease are foci of local inflammatory responses, as evidenced by the presence of acute phase proteins and oxidative damage. Fibrillar forms of beta-amyloid (Abeta), which are the primary constituents of senile plaques, have been shown to activate tyrosine kinase-dependent signal transduction cascades, resulting in inflammatory responses in microglia. However, the downstream signaling pathways mediating Abeta-induced inflammatory events are not well characterized. We report that exposure of primary rat microglia and human THP1 monocytes to fibrillar Abeta results in the tyrosine kinase-dependent activation of two parallel signal transduction cascades involving members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) superfamily. Abeta stimulated the rapid, transient activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 (ERK1) and ERK2 in microglia and ERK2 in THP1 monocytes. A second superfamily member, p38 MAPK, was also activated with similar kinetics. Scavenger receptor and receptor for advanced glycated end products (RAGE) ligands failed to activate ERK and p38 MAPK in the absence of significant increases in protein tyrosine phosphorylation, demonstrating that scavenger receptors and RAGE are not linked to these pathways. Importantly, the stress-activated protein kinases (SAPKs) were not significantly activated in response to Abeta. Downstream effectors of the MAPK signal transduction cascades include MAPKAP kinases, such as RSK1 and RSK2, as well as transcription factors. Exposure of microglia and THP1 monocytes to Abeta resulted in the activation of RSK1 and RSK2 and phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein at Ser133, providing a mechanism for Abeta-induced changes in gene expression.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that septohippocampal neurons in the rat septal complex have substantial glial coverage and have a number of synaptic associations with catecholaminergic terminals. While similar ultrastructural characteristics are observed for septal cholinergic neurons, the morphology and synaptic relations of catecholaminergic terminals with septal GABAergic neurons is largely unknown. Since the GABAergic septohippocampal neurons colocalize the calcium-binding protein, parvalbumin (PVA), the present study examined the ultrastructural relations of PVA neurons with catecholaminergic terminals in the septal complex. Single sections were dually labeled with antibodies to PVA and either tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH). By light microscopy, processes with TH- and DBH- (TH/DBH) immunoreactivity were near PVA-labeled neurons. By electron microscopy, PVA-labeled perikarya had an average diameter of 14.9+/-6 microm and were ovoid or elongated. PVA-labeled perikarya (n = 124) had a large amount of astrocytic coverage (75+/-14%) and a low amount of terminal coverage (15+/-12%). PVA-labeled perikarya and dendrites mostly were contacted by terminals lacking immunoreactivity for either PVA or TH/DBH (82% of 1,663). Of the TH/DBH terminals or axons near PVA somata and dendrites, few (3% of 1,663) directly contacted them while the majority abutted adjacent glial or neuronal profiles. Some TH/DBH- and PVA-labeled terminals contacted the same dendrites; a few of these contained immunoreactivity for PVA. The results demonstrate that PVA-containing GABAergic septal neurons, like cholinergic neurons, are mostly surrounded by astrocytes and have very little terminal coverage. However, in contrast to cholinergic neurons, PVA-containing neurons are contacted primarily by non-catecholaminergic terminals suggesting that any functional interactions would be indirect. These findings further support the functional diversity of subpopulations of septohippocampal neurons.
1. Motor units were characterized in partially denervated or completely denervated and reinnervated cat medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscles where the number of innervating motor axons was severely reduced to determine (1) to what extent the nerve and muscle properties are rematched in enlarged motor units, (2) whether the normal size relationships between axon size, unit tetanic force and contractile speed are re-established, and (3) whether the type of nerve injury and/or repair affects the re-establishment of nerve and muscle properties. 2. Single MG units were sampled in (1) partially denervated muscles and in reinnervated muscles after either (2) crushing or (3) transecting the nerve and suturing its proximal end to either the distal nerve stump (N-N), or (4) directly to the muscle fascia (N-M). 3. The majority (75-88 %) of motor units in all muscles were classified as S (slow), FR (fast fatigue resistant), FI (fast fatigue intermediate) and FF (fast fatigable). However, there was an increased number of FI and unclassifiable motor units compared to normal. These results suggest that motor unit properties are not entirely regulated by the reinnervating motoneurone. 4. Despite more overlap in the range of unit force between different motor unit types the tetanic force of each type increased in all muscles when reinnervated by few (&lt; 50 %) motor axons. This increase in unit force was due to an expansion in motor unit innervation ratio. 5. The normal relationships between axon size, unit tetanic force, and contractile speed were re-established in all muscles except when reinnervated by &lt; 50 % of their normal complement of motor units after N-M suture. This lack of correlation was due to the reduced fast glycolytic (FG) fibre size and the proportionately greater increase in force of the S units. 6. After reinnervation the ranges in fibre cross-sectional area within single FF units were very similar to those found within the entire FG fibre population. 7. These results show that when few axons make functional connections in partially denervated or reinnervated muscles the normal relationships between axon size and motor unit contractile properties are re-established provided the nerves regenerate within the distal nerve sheath. This rematching of motoneurone size and motor unit contractile properties occurs primarily because the size of the motor axon governs the number of muscle fibres it supplies.
1. The reflex changes in the inotropic state of the left ventricle, measured as the dP/dt max (maximum rate of change of pressure), occurring in response to selective stimulation of the carotid and aortic body chemoreceptors by sodium cyanide, were studied in the cat anaesthetized with a mixture of chloralose and urethane. 2. The animals were artificially ventilated with an open pneumothorax. The heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure were maintained constant. 3. With on-going central respiratory activity, stimulation of the carotid bodies caused an increase in respiratory movements. Variable changes in left ventricular dP/dt max occurred, the predominant response being an increase. The mean change was 8.3 +/- 2.9 % from a control value of 6850 +/- 450 mmHg s-1. Stimulation of the aortic bodies resulted in a smaller increase in respiration or no effect, but a significant increase occurred in left ventricular dP/dt max of 19.6 +/- 2.9 % from a control value of 6136 +/- 228 mmHg s-1. No significant changes in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure occurred in response to stimulation of either group of chemoreceptors. 4. Tests of chemoreceptor stimulations were repeated during temporary suppression of the secondary respiratory mechanisms: the central respiratory drive was suppressed reflexly by electrical stimulation of the central cut ends of both superior laryngeal nerves and lung stretch afferent activity was minimized by stopping artificial respiration. Carotid body stimulation again evoked variable responses, the predominant now being a reduction in left ventricular dP/dt max of 3.1 % from a control value of 5720 +/- 320 mmHg s-1, which was significantly different to that occurring during on-going spontaneous respiration. Aortic body stimulation caused an increase in left ventricular dP/dt max similar to the response during on-going spontaneous respiration. 5. The positive inotropic responses were mediated via the sympathetic nervous system, as indicated by their abolition as a result of intravenous injections of the beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent, propranolol. 6. It is concluded that the carotid bodies exert a small variable effect on left ventricular dP/dt max, the predominant positive inotropic response being due to the concomitant neurogenic effects of the increase in respiration. In contrast, the positive inotropic response to excitation of the aortic chemoreceptors is not respiratory modulated.
1. Albumin causes calcium signals and mitosis in cultured astrocytes, but it has not been established whether astrocytes in intact brain also respond to albumin. The effect of albumin on intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in single cells was therefore studied in acutely isolated cortical brain slices from the neonatal rat. 2. Physiological concentrations of albumin from plasma and from serum produced an increase in [Ca2+]i in a subpopulation of cortical cells. Trains of transient elevations in [Ca2+]i (Ca2+ spikes) were seen in 41 % of these cells. 3. The cells responding to albumin are identified as astrocytes because the neurone-specific agonist NMDA caused much smaller and slower responses in these cells. On the other hand NMDA-responsive cells, which are probably neurones, exhibited only small and slow responses to albumin. The residual responses of astrocytes to NMDA and neurones to albumin are likely to be due to crosstalk with adjacent neurones and astrocytes, respectively. 4. Methanol extraction of albumin removes a polar lipid and abolishes the ability of albumin to increase intracellular calcium. 5. Astrocyte calcium signalling caused by albumin may have important physiological consequences when the blood-brain barrier breaks down and allows albumin to enter the CNS.
1. Recordings were made from a total of sixty-four vagal preganglionic neurones in the dorsal vagal motor nucleus (DVMN) of pentobarbitone sodium anaesthetized rats. The effects of ionophoretic administration of Mg2+ and Cd2+, inhibitors of neurotransmitter release, and the selective NMDA and non-NMDA receptor antagonists (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphono-pentanoic acid (AP5) and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) on the excitatory actions of the 5-HT3 receptor agonist 1-phenylbiguanide (PBG) were studied. 2. In extracellular recording experiments, PBG (0-40 nA) increased the firing rate of thirty-five of the thirty-nine neurones tested. The PBG-evoked excitation was attenuated by application of Mg2+ (1-10 nA) in sixteen of seventeen neurones or Cd2+ (2-10 nA) in seven of eight neurones tested. At these low ejection currents neither Mg2+ nor Cd2+ altered baseline firing rates and Mg2+ had no effect on the excitations evoked by DL-homocysteic acid (n = 4), NMDA (n = 4) or (AMPA; n = 2). 3. Ionophoresis of AP5 (2-10 nA), at currents which selectively inhibited NMDA-evoked excitations, attenuated PBG-evoked excitations in all eight neurones tested. DNQX (5-20 nA), at currents which selectively inhibited AMPA-evoked excitations, also attenuated PBG-evoked excitations (n = 3). 4. Intracellular activity was recorded in nine DVMN neurones. In six neurones ionophoretic application of PBG (10-200 nA) depolarized the membrane and increased firing rate whilst in the other three neurones, PBG had no effect on membrane potential though it increased synaptic noise (n = 3) and firing rate (n = 2). In all six neurones tested, ionophoresis of Mg2+ (10-120 nA) attenuated the PBG-evoked increases in synaptic noise and firing rate. 5. In conclusion, the data are consistent with the hypothesis that 5-HT3 receptor agonists activate DVMN neurones partly by acting on receptors located at sites presynaptic to the neurones. Activation of these receptors appears to facilitate release of glutamate, which, in turn, acts on postsynaptic NMDA and non-NMDA receptors to activate the neurones.
The vomeronasal organ (VNO) originates from the medial wall of the olfactory pit shortly after the middle of the embryonic period in mammals. The Anlage stage consists of a cellular bud that grows dorsally, caudally, and towards the midline leaving a groove. The following stage, Early Morphogenesis, includes the closure of the vomeronasal groove to form a parasagittal blind-ended tube in the nasal septum, which opens into the nasal and/or oral cavities. The lumen adopts a crescent shape while the epithelial lining differentiates into an increasingly wider epithelium on the concave side and a gradually thinner epithelium on the convex side. The former goes on to occupy a medial position and develops neuroblasts among supporting and undifferentiated cells, with supporting cell nuclei tending to align in the upper rows. The lateral &quot;non-sensory&quot; epithelium furrows, giving a kidney-shaped appearance to the VNO cross section. The next stage, Late Morphogenesis is extended up to a difference in thickness between both epithelia becomes similar to the adult, generally by birth. An increasing number of ciliary generation complexes, larger and more abundant microvilli, and an evident glycocalyx are observed in the neuroepithelium at the luminal surface, while enzymatic activities become more intense. The non-sensory epithelium appears quite mature save for its luminal surface, which is still devoid of cilia. Blood capillaries penetrate the most basal region of the neuroepithelium and vomeronasal glands are very few and immature. At birth, some neurons appear well developed to support certain functionality; however, persistence of architectural, histochemical, and ultrastructural signs of immaturity, suggests that full performance of the VNO does not occur in newborn mammals, but in prepubertal ages.
In order to determine the effectiveness of gamma knife (GK) radiosurgery in patients with malignant melanoma metastases, the authors conducted a prospective multicenter study. Forty-five patients with a total of 96 lesions were treated and followed to measure survival time, tumor control rate, and Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) score. The mean survival time was 8.7 months (median 4.2 months), and tumor control was achieved in 86% of lesions. When obtained, the median preoperative KPS of 80 was maintained at a median of 80 post-GK treatment. The authors found GK treatment for metastases of malignant melanoma to be highly effective in controlling tumor growth. Survival rates obtained after GK treatment were found to be superior to historically obtained data concerning external beam radiotherapy follow up. Radiosurgery with the GK can therefore be considered a good primary treatment option for metastatic brain disease of malignant melanoma.
The effects of sustained stress on acquisition and performance of a delayed alternation task were studied in male rats. Rats lived 24 h per day in operant cages where they earned all of their food via lever pressing. During the stress portion of each experiment, one group of rats was able to avoid or escape signaled intermittent footshock (Avoidance/Escape group), a second group (Yoked) did not have control over shock termination, a third group never received shock (Control). Shock trials were presented around-the-clock at approximately 5-min intervals and the stress portion of each study lasted 1 week. We have previously reported that rats tolerate this paradigm well and avoid/escape 99% of the shock trials. Three experiments were conducted. In Experiment 1, rats learned the delayed alternation task prior to stress onset; in Experiment 2, rats were exposed to stress and the alternation task concurrently; in Experiment 3, rats were stressed for 14 days prior to being required to perform the delayed alternation task. In the first experiment, stress decreased both food intake and the accuracy of responding during the first days of stress. In the second experiment (acquisition), stressed rats required more days to reach asymptotic performance on the alternation task. In Experiment 3, rats stressed for 14 days prior to acquisition of the delayed alternation task performed similarly to controls.
We have previously described impairments of cognitive executive functions in 17 patients with OSAS in comparison with 17 normal controls, as assessed by various frontal-lobe-related tests. In the present study, 10 of these OSAS patients treated with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) were reevaluated after 4-6 months of treatment. Neuropsychological tasks explored attention, short-term memory span, learning abilities, planning capacities, categorizing activities, and verbal fluency. Patients were found to have normalized most of their cognitive executive and learning disabilities, but all the short-term memory tests remained unchanged. These findings are discussed in light of the contribution of the frontal-lobe-related systems to short-term memory functions, and the eventual pathogenic role played by sleep fragmentation and nocturnal hypoxemia, which are related to the occurrence of apneic and hypopneic events. In conclusion, short-term memory impairment was persistent in OSAS patients despite CPAP treatment for 4-6 months.
We have investigated the Ca2+ permeability of native kainate- and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate- (AMPA) receptors in cultured rat cerebellar granule cells. Intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) increases and Mn2+ quench of fura-2 (a measure of Ca2+ entry) mediated by kainate receptors were completely dependent on the presence of extracellular Na+. Kainate receptor-mediated [Ca2+]i rises were reduced 37% by the L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channel blocker nifedipine (1 microM). AMPA receptor-mediated [Ca2+]i rises observed in Na+-free buffer were sensitive to Joro spider toxin (500 nM) blockade showing a 65% reduction, while kainate receptor-mediated [Ca2+]i responses were largely insensitive. These results suggest that a component of AMPA receptor-mediated [Ca2+]i increases occurs through Ca2+ permeable receptors which lack the GluR2 subunit and are Joro spider toxin sensitive. In contrast, kainate receptors do not appear to directly gate significant Ca2+ but raise [Ca2+]i through activation of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and seem largely insensitive to Joro spider toxin.
Monoamine oxidase B (MAO B) catalyzes the oxidative deamination of biogenic and xenobiotic amines. The oxidative step is coupled to the reduction of an obligatory cofactor, FAD, which is covalently linked to the apoenzyme at Cys397. Our previous studies identified two noncovalent flavin-binding regions in MAO B (residues 6-34 and 39-46) (Kwan, S.-W., Lewis, D. A., Zhou, B. P., and Abell, C. W. (1995) Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 316, 385-391; Zhou, B. P., Lewis, D. A., Kwan, S.-W., Kirksey, T. J., and Abell, C. W. (1995) Biochemistry 34, 9526-9531). In these regions, Glu34 and Tyr44 were found to be required for the initial binding of FAD. By comparing sequences with enzymes in the oxidoreductase family, we now have found an additional FAD-binding site in MAO B (residues 222-227), which is highly conserved across species (human, bovine, and rat). This conserved sequence contains adjacent glycine and aspartate residues (Gly226 and Asp227). Based on the x-ray crystal structures of several oxidoreductases (Eggink, G., Engel, H., Vriend, G., Terpstra, P., and Witholt, B. (1990) J. Mol. Biol. 212, 135-142; Van Driessche, G., Kol, M., Chen, Z.-W., Mathews, F. S., Meyer, T. E., Bartsch, R. G., Cusanovich, M. A., and Van Beeumen, J. J. (1996) Protein Sci. 5, 1753-1764), the Gly residue at the end of a beta-strand facilitates a sharp turn and extends the beta-carbonyl group of Asp to interact with the 3'-hydroxyl group of the ribityl chain of FAD. To assess the hypothesis that Gly226 and Asp227 are involved in FAD binding in MAO B, site-specific mutants that encode substitutions at these positions were prepared and expressed in mammalian COS-7 cells. Our results indicate that Gly226 and the beta-carbonyl group of Asp227 are required for covalent flavinylation and catalytic activity of MAO B, but not for noncovalent binding of FAD. Our studies also reveal that mutagenesis at Glu34 and Tyr44 not only interferes with covalent flavinylation and catalytic activity of MAO B, but also with noncovalent binding of FAD. Based on these collective results, we propose that the coupling of FAD to the MAO B apoenzyme is a multistep process.
Amputation of a newt limb causes stump cells to organize the reformation of the missing structures. The phenomenon is remarkably precise in that the regeneration is perfect. During the first few days following amputation, the tissue proximal to the plane of amputation gives rise to the blastema, an area of growth composed of mesenchymal cells covered by a single epithelium. The blastema possesses a morphogenetic potential characteristic of the structures that have been amputated. Looking for control genes putatively involved in regeneration, we cloned the newt version of the mouse and human Emx-2. Its expression is restricted to the skin of the regeneration territories and is graded along the proximal-distal axis of both forelimb and hindlimb, with higher levels in distal regions. The regeneration blastema also show this proximal-distal graded level of expression with distal blastemas (mid-radius and ulna) showing higher levels of expression when compared to blastemas of more proximal origin (mid-humerus). Finally, retinoic acid proximalizes both the level of Emx-2 expression and the positional memory of the blastema suggesting Emx-2 may participate in pattern formation by specifying positional information.
The firing properties of the second-order neurons of the slowly-adapting pulmonary stretch receptors called pump neurons (P-cells), were studied in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially-ventilated rats. Extracellular recording was made from single P-cells which were monosynaptically activated by electrical stimulation of the vagal afferents and fired in phase with lung inflations. In the majority of the P-cells examined (49/52), the firing was suppressed to various extents in the inspiratory phase: in effect, their firing was accentuated at the time of the inspiratory off-switch. This issue has never been reported in cat P-cells, on which relatively rich data have been accumulated. The present results suggest that rat P-cells do not only relay information from the lung stretch receptors but also integrate the central respiratory inputs.
The effect of prenatal ethanol exposure on the number of parvalbumin-immunoreactive (PA+) GABAergic neurons in the adult rat anterior cingulate cortex was determined. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were maintained on one of three diets throughout gestation: an ethanol-containing liquid diet, a similar, control liquid diet with the isocaloric substitution of sucrose for ethanol, or a lab chow control diet. Offspring were euthanized on postnatal day 60 and brains were prepared for parvalbumin immunocytochemistry. Rats exposed to the ethanol-containing diet contained 45% fewer PA+ neurons in the anterior cingulate cortex compared with sucrose and chow controls. This reduction occurred in the absence of changes in structure volume, and occurred in the absence of changes in PA+ neuronal size.
The cause of neuronal loss in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease is unknown. Oxidative stress and complex I deficiency have both been identified in the substantia nigra in Parkinson's disease but their place in the sequence of events resulting in dopaminergic cell death is uncertain. We have analysed respiratory chain activity, iron and reduced glutathione concentrations in Parkinson's disease substantia innominata and in the cingulate cortex of patients with Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies to investigate their association with neuronal death and Lewy body formation. No abnormalities of mitochondrial function, iron or reduced glutathione levels were identified in Parkinson's disease substantia innominata or cingulate cortex. Mitochondrial function also appeared to be unchanged in cingulate cortex from patients with Alzheimer's disease and from patients with dementia with Lewy bodies, however, iron concentrations were mildly increased in both, and reduced glutathione decreased only in Alzheimer's disease. These results confirm the anatomic specificity of the complex I deficiency and decreased levels of reduced glutathione within the Parkinson's disease brain and suggest that these parameters are not associated with cholinergic cell loss in Parkinson's disease nor with Lewy body formation in this or other diseases. We propose that our data support a 'two-hit' hypothesis for the cause of neuronal death in Parkinson's disease.
The aim of the present study was to describe the deep muscular plexus of the pig duodenum and to characterize its cellular components. Numerous nerve varicosities have been detected in the deep muscular plexus using anti-synaptophysin antibodies. Nerve fibres were also detected here in the outer circular muscle layer, whereas no nerve fibres were observed in the inner circular muscle layer. In the deep muscular plexus, nerve fibres projected to interstitial cells which were characterized at the ultrastructural level. The interstitial cells were of two kinds: the interstitial fibroblastic-like cells (FLC) and the interstitial dense cells (IDC), both of which were interposed between nerve fibres and smooth muscle cells. The FLC were characterized by their elongated bipolar shape, the lack of basal lamina, a well-developed endoplasmic reticulum, a Golgi apparatus, and intermediate filaments. They were closely apposed to axon terminals containing small clear synaptic vesicles and/or dense-cored vesicles. They were frequently connected to each other and to smooth muscle cells of the inner and outer circular layer by desmosomes and more rarely by gap junctions. The IDC are myoid-like cells. They had a stellate appearance and were characterized by a dense cell body, numerous caveolae, and a discontinuous basal lamina. The IDC were always closely apposed to nerve fibres and were connected to smooth muscle cells by desmosomes and small gap junctions. The present results show the unique pattern of cellular organization of the deep muscular plexus of the pig small intestine. They suggest that the interstitial cells in the deep muscular plexus are involved in the integration and transmission of nervous inputs from myenteric neurons to the inner and outer circular muscle layers. The clear-cut distinction observed here between the two types of interstitial cells (fibroblastic and myoid-like) suggests that the interstitial cells of each type may also be involved in some other specific activity, which still remains to be determined.
Aurintricarboxylic acid (ATA), an inhibitor of endonuclease activity and other protein-nucleic acid interactions, blocks apoptosis in several cell types and prevents delayed death of hippocampal pyramidal CA1 neurons induced by transient global ischemia. Global ischemia in rats and gerbils induces down-regulation of GluR2 mRNA and increased alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-induced Ca2+ influx in CA1 before neurodegeneration. This result and neuroprotection by antagonists of AMPA receptors suggests that formation of AMPA receptors lacking GluR2, and therefore Ca2+ permeable, leads to excessive Ca2+ influx in response to endogenous glutamate; the resulting delayed neuronal death in CA1 exhibits many characteristics of apoptosis. In this study, we examined the effects of ATA on expression of mRNAs encoding glutamate receptor subunits in gerbil hippocampus after global ischemia. Administration of ATA by injection into the right cerebral ventricle 1 h before (but not 6 h after) bilateral carotid occlusion prevented the ischemia-induced decrease in GluR2 mRNA expression and the delayed neurodegeneration. These findings suggest that ATA is neuroprotective in ischemia by blocking the transcriptional changes leading to down-regulation of GluR2, rather than by simply blocking endonucleases, which presumably act later after Ca2+ influx initiates apoptosis. Maintaining formation of Ca2+ impermeable, GluR2 containing AMPA receptors could prevent delayed death of CA1 neurons after transient global ischemia, and block of GluR2 down-regulation may provide a further strategy for neuroprotection.
Glutamate carboxypeptidase II may modulate excitatory neurotransmission through the catabolism of the neuropeptide N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) and possibly other endogenous peptide substrates. To investigate the molecular properties of cloned human GCP II (hGCP II), we analyzed the NAAG-hydrolytic activity conveyed by transfection of a full-length hGCP II cDNA into PC3 cells, which do not express GCP II endogenously. Membrane fractions from these cells demonstrated activity with an apparent Km of 73 nM and Vmax of 35 pmol/(mg protein*min). Activity was inhibited by EDTA and stimulated by the addition of CoCl2. Addition of GCP II inhibitors beta-NAAG, quisqualic acid and 2-(phosphonomethyl)pentanedioic acid (PMPA) inhibited hydrolysis of 2.5 nM NAAG with IC50s of 201 nM, 155 nM and 98 pM, respectively. In competition experiments designed to infer aspects of hGCP II substrate selectivity, NAAG was the most potent alpha peptide tested, with an IC50 of 26 nM. Folate derivatives and some other gamma-glutamyl peptides showed comparable affinity to that of NAAG, also displaying IC50s in the low nM range. Taken together with previous evidence demonstrating their presence in GCP II-expressing tissues, these data suggest that both NAAG and folates are good candidate substrates for GCP II in vivo.
Activation of muscarinic m1 receptors which are coupled to the phosphoinositide (PI) second messenger transduction system is the initial objective of cholinergic replacement therapy in Alzheimer's disease. Thus, we evaluated the ability of the selective muscarinic receptor agonist (SMRA) xanomeline to stimulate in vivo phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis and compared it to a number of direct acting muscarinic agonists, two cholinesterase inhibitors and a putative m1 agonist/muscarinic m2 antagonist. Using a radiometric technique, it was determined that administration of xanomeline robustly stimulated in vivo PI hydrolysis and the effect was blocked by muscarinic antagonists, demonstrating mediation by muscarinic receptors. The non-selective muscarinic agonists pilocarpine, oxotremorine, RS-86, S-aceclidine, but not the less active isomer R-aceclidine, also effectively stimulated PI hydrolysis in mice. Amongst the putative m1 agonists, thiopilocarpine, hexylthio-TZTP as well as xanomeline effectively stimulated PI hydrolysis, but milameline, WAL 2014, SKB 202026 and PD 142505 did not significantly alter PI hydrolysis. Furthermore, WAL 2014 and SKB 202026 inhibited agonist-induced PI stimulation, suggesting that they act as antagonists at PI-coupled receptors in vivo. The cholinesterase inhibitors, tacrine and physostigmine, and the mixed muscarinic m1 agonist/m2 antagonist LU25-109 did not activate in vivo PI hydrolysis. Xanomeline, hexylthio-TZTP and thiopilocarpine were relatively free of cholinergic side effects, whereas milameline, WAL 2014 and SKB 202026 produced non-selective effects. Therefore, these data demonstrate that xanomeline selectively activates in vivo PI hydrolysis, consistent with activation of biochemical processes involved in memory and cognition and xanomeline's beneficial clinical effects on cognition in Alzheimers patients.
Subcortical damage in neonates often has more severe consequences than in adults. Unilateral electrolytic hippocampal lesions in adult rats typically result in transient memory deficits, whereas neonatal lesions cause lasting memory impairments. We hypothesized that unilateral lesions made at birth may affect synaptic physiology in the contralateral hippocampus. Consequently, the ability to sustain long-term potentiation (LTP), a form of synaptic plasticity believed to underlie certain forms of memory, was compared between slices from the remaining hippocampus of rats lesioned as newborns and as adults. Initial studies showed that a train of 10 stimulation bursts patterned after the hippocampal theta rhythm produced robust and stable LTP both in slices from controls and rats lesioned at birth. However, a theta burst pattern of stimulation closer to intrinsic physiology (five burst pairs separated by 30 s each), induced significantly less LTP in slices from rats lesioned at birth compared to those from controls and rats lesioned as adults. To investigate possible mechanisms underlying the deficit, the degree of paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) as well as the amount of depolarization occurring between two successive theta bursts were analyzed. The lesion did not detectably change PPF characteristics, suggesting that presynaptic mechanisms are normal. However, the extent to which a burst response was increased by a prior burst was significantly diminished in slices from rats lesioned at birth compared to those from controls and rats lesioned as adults, indicating that postsynaptic factors involved in the initial triggering events of LTP are affected by the lesion. Reduced ability to sustain LTP in the remaining hippocampus may contribute to impaired memory function after unilateral neonatal hippocampal lesion.
To define the anatomic substrates subserving the inhibitory actions of alpha2-adrenergic receptors (alpha2-ARs) in the locus coeruleus (LC), we used dual-label immunoelectron microscopy with antibodies directed against the A-subtype of alpha2-AR (alpha2A-AR) and the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Of the profiles containing peroxidase labeling for alpha2A-AR (alpha2A-AR-IR) in the LC (n=735), most were dendrites ( approximately 50%), glial processes ( approximately 30%), and axon terminals ( approximately 15%). alpha2A-AR-IR was also observed in unmyelinated axons and perikarya. Within dendrites, alpha2A-AR-IR was associated with nonsynaptic regions of the plasma membrane and subsurface cisternae. Approximately 60% of dendrites with alpha2A-AR-IR were dually labeled for TH. Fifty percent of the axon terminals contacting alpha2A-AR-immunoreactive dendrites formed asymmetric (excitatory) synaptic contacts. Axon terminals with alpha2A-AR-IR were not dually labeled for TH and generally formed asymmetric synapses with TH-immunoreactive dendrites that contained or lacked alpha2A-AR-IR. Astrocytic processes exhibiting alpha2A-AR-IR were closely apposed to TH-labeled dendrites. These results extend previous ultrastructural observations of alpha2A-ARs in the LC and suggest that the inhibitory actions of norepinephrine and epinephrine in this region may be mediated by postsynaptic alpha2A-ARs on catecholaminergic dendrites and presynaptic alpha2A-ARs on excitatory inputs to catecholaminergic dendrites. In addition, the localization of alpha2A-AR-IR in astrocytic processes apposed to TH-immunoreactive dendrites suggests a role for alpha2A-ARs in functional interactions between catecholaminergic dendrites and neighboring astrocytes.
This study examined the temporal appearance of c-fos expression in rat cerebella from birth to postnatal day 21 (P21) and following systemic kainic acid administration in adults. During development, Fos positive granule cells appeared first at P3 in caudal lobules and extended to all folia by P9. These reactive cells occurred in clusters throughout the granular layer and reached their highest reactivity by P15. In addition, Fos positive basket and stellate cells were seen in the molecular layer at this time. A steep decline in Fos protein labeling of the cerebellum began by P18 and was barely detectable in adulthood. In adult rats, systemic injection of kainic acid induced c-fos expression in granule cells and stellate/basket interneurons within 1 h of treatment. Fos reactive granule cells appeared in clusters with some forming distinct parasagittal bands in caudal folia. One day after unilateral cerebellar lesioning, a limited number of reactive cells were found on the lesion margins. A combination of lesioning and systemic kainic acid produced a strong, c-fos expression throughout the ipsilateral granular layer as well as in Purkinje cell nuclei. Contralateral to the lesion, the pattern of granule cell reactivity appeared the same but slightly stronger than those with kainate alone. We conclude that c-fos gene expression occurs transiently in granule cells during postnatal development and can be rapidly re-induced in the adult following systemic injection of glutamate agonists. The c-fos expression patterns suggest that subpopulations of granule cells are clustered and related to the parasagittal compartments of Purkinje cells.
Neurotoxic injury of the caudate-putamen and lateral globus pallidus unilaterally initiated transneuronal degeneration of neurons in the ipsilateral substantia nigra reticulata (SNR). Quantification of SNR neurons using unbiased stereology demonstrated that neuron loss began 4 days after the initial striatal lesion, followed by significant loss (50%) at 6 days and a plateau at 8 days. Analysis at the light and ultrastructural levels revealed morphological changes consistent with a type of programmed cell death. These temporal and histological results refine an in vivo model in which to explore mechanisms of delayed neuronal degeneration.
The lobula giant movement detector (LGMD) neuron in the locust visual system is part of a motion-sensitive pathway that detects objects approaching on a collision course. Here we show that the retinotopic units presynaptic to the LGMD make synapses directly with each other and these synapses are immediately adjacent to their outputs onto the LGMD. Synapses occur along the fine dendrites of the LGMD in the distal lobula, often in large numbers and completely covering the LGMD processes. Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) was eliminated as a possible neurotransmitter at these synapses when immunogold-tagged monoclonal GABA antibody did not specifically label the afferent processes. We used a histochemical method to demonstrate that acetylcholine esterase, the enzyme that hydrolyses acetylcholine at cholinergic synapses, was present in the synaptic clefts between the retinotopic units and along the membrane of the LGMD. It is well established that acetylcholine has both excitatory and inhibitory effects and we propose that these retinotopic units excite the LGMD, but inhibit each other; and that the synapses form the substrate for a critical race between excitation caused by edges moving out over successive photoreceptors, and inhibition spreading laterally. This results in the selective response to objects approaching on a collision course.
Alpha-adrenergic receptor, subtype 2A (alpha2A-AR), activation is one of the primary modes of action for norepinephrine (NE) in the rat hippocampal formation. In this study, alpha2A-AR immunoreactivity (alpha2A-AR-I) was localized by light and electron microscopy in the rat hippocampus and dentate gyrus by using a previously characterized antibody to the rat alpha2A-AR. By light microscopy, dense alpha2A-AR-I was observed in the pyramidal and granule cell layers. Diffuse and slightly granular alpha2A-AR-I was found in the neuropil in all other laminae, notably stratum lacunosum-moleculare. Ultrastructurally, alpha2A-AR-I was found in neuronal cytoplasm associated with large multivesicular-like organelles and with clusters adjacent to endoplasmic reticula and/or plasmalemma. The distribution of alpha2A-AR-I in the strata oriens, radiatum, and lacunosum-moleculare of hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions and in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus was remarkably similar (n &gt; 2,000 profiles examined): alpha2A-AR-I was found in axons and terminals (approximately 40%), glia (approximately 30%), dendritic spines (approximately 25%), and dendritic shafts (approximately 5%). This mixed pre- and postsynaptic distribution was not seen in the stratum lucidum of the CA3 region and the dentate hilar region, where most alpha2A-AR-I was found in axons (approximately 60%) and glia (approximately 30%). Alpha-2A-AR-labeled axons were small and unmyelinated; labeled terminals usually formed asymmetric synapses on unlabeled spines; and labeled dendritic spines were morphologically similar to pyramidal or granule cells. Dual labeling studies demonstrated that some axons contained alpha2A-AR-I and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the catecholaminergic synthesizing enzyme, and that some TH-labeled terminals were in close proximity to alpha2A-AR-labeled spines and glia. These studies demonstrate that hippocampal alpha2A-AR-I is localized (1) presynaptically in both noncatecholaminergic and catecholaminergic terminals, (2) postsynaptically in the dendritic spines of pyramidal and granule cells near catecholaminergic terminals, and (3) in some glial processes. These results suggest several sites for NE to exert its effects on hippocampal alpha2A-ARs.
Electron microscopic anterograde autoradiography has been used to analyze the morphology and postsynaptic relationships of area 17 cortical terminals in the lateral division of the lateral posterior nucleus (LPl) of the cat and medial division of the inferior pulvinar nucleus (IPm) of the owl monkey. Such terminals are thought to arise exclusively from layer 5 in the cat and primate (Lund et al. [1975] J. Comp. Neurol. 164:287-304; Abramson and Chalupa [1985] Neuroscience 15:81-95). All labeled terminals in both nuclei exhibited the morphology of ascending &quot;lemniscal&quot; afferents. That is, they contained round vesicles, were large, made asymmetrical synaptic and filamentous nonsynaptic contacts, and were classified as RLs. These cortical RLs also exhibited the postsynaptic relationships of lemniscal afferents. Thus, they were presynaptic to large dendrites within glial encapsulated glomeruli, where a majority was involved in complex synaptic arrangements called triads. They also were found adjacent to terminal profiles with pleomorphic vesicles but never adjacent to small terminals containing round vesicles. Our results suggest that the layer 5 projection from area 17 provides a functional &quot;drive&quot; for some LPl and IPm neurons. Information carried over this &quot;re-entrant&quot; pathway (Guillery [1995] J. Anat. 187:583-592) could be modified within the LPl and IPm by both cortical and subcortical pathways and subsequently conveyed to higher visual cortical areas, where it could be integrated with messages carried through the well-documented corticocortical pathways (Casagrande and Kaas [1994] Cerebral cortex New York: Plenum Press).
In this study, we assessed the effects of the acute administration of various 5-HT receptor agonists on hippocampal partial seizures generated by low-frequency electrical stimulation in male Wistar rats. The seizure threshold and severity were determined by measuring the pulse number threshold and primary and secondary afterdischarges and the latency of secondary discharge was also determined. The administration (0.1-1 mg/kg, i.p.) of either the 5-HT1A receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-aminopropyl)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), or the selective 5-HT3 receptor agonist, 4-amino-(6-chloro-2-pyridyl)-1-piperidine (SR 57227A, 0.3-3 mg/kg, i.p.), did not alter any of the seizure parameters compared to those in vehicle-treated animals. Similarly, the administration of 0.3 and 1 mg/kg, i.p., of the 5-HT2A,C receptor agonist, (+/-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl-2-aminopropane (DOI), did not alter any of the seizure parameters, whereas 3 mg/kg significantly decreased the latency of the secondary afterdischarge compared to that in vehicle-treated animals. The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, (+/-)-fluoxetine (2 mg/kg, i.p.), significantly increased the pulse number threshold and decreased the primary afterdischarge duration compared to those in vehicle-treated animals. In contrast, higher doses (6 or 20 mg/kg, i.p.) of fluoxetine did not significantly alter any of the seizure parameters measured. These results suggest that, in this model, stimulation of 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A,C and 5-HT3 receptors does not alter seizure threshold or severity and that the blockade of 5-HT uptake produced by a low dose of fluoxetine appears to increase seizure threshold and decrease seizure severity.
The effects of conditioned fear on gross activity, heart rate, PQ interval, noradrenaline and adrenaline were studied in freely moving rats. Subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of atropine methyl nitrate (0.5 mg/kg) during rest resulted in a significant shortening of the PQ interval, indicating that the PQ interval can be used as a measure of vagal activity. Conditioned fear was induced by 10-min forced exposure to a cage in which the rat had previously experienced footshocks (5 x 0.5 mA x 3 s). In non-shocked controls, an increase in gross activity was found and a pronounced tachycardia, without changes in PQ interval. Conditioned fear rats showed immobility behaviour, associated with a less pronounced tachycardia and an increase in PQ interval. Noradrenaline was similarly increased in both groups, whereas adrenaline was increased in conditioned fear rats only. To further evaluate the role of the vagus, rats were exposed to conditioned fear after pre-treatment with atropine methyl nitrate (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.). Again, immobility was observed with a concomitant tachycardia, but without an increase in PQ interval. These results indicate that the autonomic nervous system is differentially involved in heart rate regulation in conditioned fear rats and in non-shocked controls: in non-shocked controls a predominant sympathetic nervous system activation results in an increase in heart rate, whereas in conditioned fear rats the tachycardiac response is attenuated by a simultaneous activation of sympathetic nervous system and parasympathetic nervous system.
The present study describes how the medullary respiratory generators (mRGs) can be driven by periodic electrical stimulations applied to the ventral part of the spinal grey matter at the C5 level. The general effect of an electrical stimulus (5 pulses at 200 Hz and between 50 and 80 microA) was either to delay or to advance the occurrence of the medullary respiratory burst via a resetting process, depending on its time of application within the corresponding cycle. Compared to the spontaneous medullary periods, the phase-response curves show that the non-spontaneous medullary period increased progressively when the electrical stimulus was applied within the first two-thirds of the corresponding medullary cycle and decreased when it was applied within the last third of the latter one. These curves were constructed in order to predict the limits of a stable 1:1 entrainment. As predicted, the 1:1 entrainment was obtained when we stimulated repetitively at resetting intensity within the frequency limits determined by the phase-response curves. The entrainment became harmonic (2:1, 3:1, 4:1) when the stimulation frequency increased near submultiples of the fundamental mRGs frequency. From these data, we conclude on the presence of ascending connections from the C5 segment of the spinal cord which might be involved in the realisation of the locomotor-respiratory coupling.
Monkeys trained to distinguish touch stimuli that 'flutter' with different frequencies can similarly distinguish electrical stimulation of the somatosensory cortex according to its frequency; the implication is that the electrically-evoked patterns of cortical activity cause flutter sensations similar to those induced by touch.
We measured plasma neopterin at baseline and after oCRH and ACTH(1-24) stimulation tests in 35 unmedicated, adult major-depressive patients (mean age = 41 +/- 12 years) and in 35 normal control subjects individually matched to the patients. Neopterin is released by gamma-interferon-stimulated macrophages; because gamma-interferon is secreted by activated T-lymphocytes, elevated circulating neopterin is considered to reflect activation of the cell-mediated immune system. Plasma ACTH(1-39) and cortisol also were measured as indicators of pituitary-adrenal axis activity. Baseline plasma neopterin did not differ significantly between patients and controls (medians = 6.25 and 6.57 microg/l, respectively), but the baseline neopterin:creatinine ratio showed a trend toward lower values in the patients (P &lt; 0.07). There was no apparent plasma neopterin change from baseline (area under the curve-AUC) following oCRH or ACTH(1-24) administration in either group of subjects. As with baseline neopterin, there was no significant patient-control difference in neopterin AUC following either hormone challenge, but there were trends toward lower neopterin:creatinine ratios in the patients following both challenges. In the patients, neither baseline neopterin nor neopterin AUCs following hormone challenge were significantly correlated with age, duration of depressive episode, lifetime number of episodes, melancholic subtype, Hamilton Depression Scale total score, Hamilton factor scores, or the Hamilton suicidality item score.
Concentrations of monoamine metabolites (MM) in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) have been used extensively as indirect estimates of monoamine turnover in the brain. We investigated the possible relationships between DNA polymorphisms in the dopamine transporter (DAT), serotonin transporter (SERT), and norepinephrine transporter (NET) genes and CSF concentrations of homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) in healthy volunteers (n = 66). The DAT polymorphism was not significantly associated with any of the monoamine metabolites, but a tendency for relationship with 5-HIAA was found in women. For both of the two SERT polymorphisms investigated, a functional promoter polymorphism and an intronic polymorphism without known function, significant relationships were found with CSF MHPG levels. No relationship was found between the SERT polymorphisms and CSF HVA and 5-HIAA. The NET polymorphism was associated with CSF MHPG levels but not HVA and 5-HIAA concentrations. The results suggest that SERT and NET genotypes may participate differentially in the regulation of the norepinephrine turnover rate under presumed steady-state conditions in the central nervous system. As only limited data so far indicate interactions between the serotonin and norepinephrine systems in the brain, and the NET polymorphism investigated is not known to be of functional significance, the results should be interpreted with caution until replicated.



Recent scientific advances in understanding the function and plasticity of the central nervous system have opened fundamental insights into the pathophysiology of various mental disorders. This chapter reviews the basic physiology of the central nervous system, and further focuses on the applications of the new knowledge to clinical psychiatry.
The views about autonomy in medical treatment of people with HIV infection (who had acquired it via the injection of drugs) and their professional carers were investigated using a standardized self-report instrument. Forty-two patients and 61 staff were entered in the study. Patients and staff reported strong endorsement of patient autonomy, but there were important differences between groups. Staff as a group reported higher preference for patients' involvement in decision-making than the patients themselves, while the opposite was true for information-seeking, where patients wanted more information than staff had anticipated. The practical implications of the findings are discussed.
Although HIV is still seen by many as a disease affecting younger adults, it is known that at least 11% of individuals with AIDS in Britain are over the age of 50. It is likely that this older age representation will continue and increase and whilst much is known about the psychological wellbeing of younger individuals with HIV, it is crucial that we consider the differing experiences and needs of older adults with the disease. Fifty-two adults with HIV over the age of 54 were referred to the Department of Psychological Medicine between June 1990 and December 1996. Data for these patients were compared with corresponding information for a random sample of younger patients with HIV. The older adults were found to differ significantly from the younger individuals on a variety of social, psychological and medical variables including social isolation, employment worries, sexuality, previous psychiatric history and stage of HIV at referral. It seems that current HIV services may actually alienate a significant proportion of potential users through not being sensitive to the needs and views of these older individuals. This must be addressed by policy makers and practitioners to ensure that psychiatric and psychological services become more acceptable and accessible to the older adult.
We have applied a steady-state theory of microdialysis to characterize the diffusion of ethanol through a microdialysis membrane and through rat striatum. Quantitative characterization required measurement of in vitro and in vivo extraction fractions for ethanol and determination of the clearance of ethanol from brain tissue during steady-state perfusion through a microdialysis probe. Extraction fraction of ethanol was determined in vitro by perfusing a known concentration of ethanol through probes immersed in water at 37 degrees C with stirring. The in vitro extraction fraction yielded a probe permeability value of 0.046 +/- 0.004 cm/min that is comparable with an estimate from published measurements for similar dialysis membranes. The in vivo extraction fraction was determined for probes placed in the striatum. Clearance of ethanol and a brain slice concentration profile of ethanol were determined by measurement of the amount of ethanol remaining in the brain tissue during steady-state perfusion of the probe. Steady state was achieved within 10 min after beginning the ethanol perfusion in vivo, and the extraction fraction was not altered by sedation of the rat with pentobarbital. The tissue concentration profile was symmetrical around the probe track, and ethanol was detected 1 mm from the probe. The experimental clearance rate constant value obtained for ethanol (2.0 +/- 0.3 min(-1)) was higher than that expected for removal solely by loss to the blood. The tissue diffusivity for ethanol, Dt, derived from the experimental measurements was 1.2 +/- 0.2 x 10(-5) cm2/sec. This value is greater than expected for interstitial diffusion, suggesting a substantial contribution by transcellular diffusion of ethanol as well. The predicted tissue concentration profile had a higher peak value and did not extend into the tissue (0.5 mm) as much as the experimental profile (1 mm), although there was reasonable agreement between experiment and theory. Our quantitative characterization of the microdialysis behavior of ethanol in brain provides a framework for interpretation of brain microdialysis experiments using ethanol by supplying, inter alia, a means for estimating the ethanol concentration achieved in the tissue volume being sampled by the probe.
In patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), an irregular day-night rhythm with behavioral restlessness during the night makes a strong demand on caregivers and is among the most important reasons for institutionalization. A dysfunctioning circadian timing system is supposed to underlie the disturbance or at least to contribute to it. The disturbance improves with increased environmental light, which, through the retinohypothalamic tract, activates the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the biological clock of the brain. Because recent studies have indicated both direct and indirect spinal projections to the SCN, we investigated whether excitation of spinal neurons by means of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) could also improve circadian rhythm disturbances in AD patients. The actigraphically obtained rest-activity rhythm of 14 AD patients showed an improvement in its coupling to Zeitgeber after TENS treatment but not after placebo treatment.
Some forms of behavioral perseveration may reflect the disruption of specific neurotransmitter systems including mesencephalic dopaminergic projection. We present an open-labeled trial of a dopamine agonist for treating perseveration in dementia. Eight patients with ischemic vascular or degenerative dementia completed a 25-day trial of bromocriptine with a maximum daily dose of 10 mg. Patients were assessed with neuropsychological scales and a test battery for detecting perseveration. Recurrent and stuck-in-set types of perseveration significantly improved during the treatment, whereas measures for general attention and overall cognitive function showed no significant changes. We assume that bromocriptine supplemented the mesolimbocortical or ventral mesostriatal dopamine system ameliorated a certain frontal lobe function such as focused attention or working memory and improved the patients' perseverations. Although this study is preliminary because of the small sample size and open-labeled design, the results underline the possibility of pharmacotherapy for perseveration and recommend a double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and neuritic plaques (NPs) are the classic neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer disease (AD). It is generally assumed that the pathogenic process of AD could start by local neurotoxicity induced by the beta-amyloid core of plaques, followed by the appearance of NFTs and eventually cell death. To determine whether or not local neurotoxicity around NPs is indeed a major pathogenetic mechanism, we used an image analysis system to measure the neuronal density around Bodian-stained NPs in the hippocampal CA1 area of eight AD patients. Neuronal density, as measured within two arbitrary concentric circles around NPs with a radius of 74 and 123.5 microm, respectively, was on average 19% and 16% lower than the density in similar control circles without NPs in the same section. Furthermore, neuronal density around NPs was inversely related to their size. To investigate the impact of such a local reduction in cell density around NPs on the entire CA1 area, we also determined the proportion of the CA1 covered by the NPs and the arbitrary concentric circles around them. This appeared to be 16.3% of the total CA1 area, which means that the negative effect of NPs on the cell density can only explain 2.6% of cell death in the entire CA area. In conclusion, this study suggests that although NPs have a local negative effect on neighboring neurons, their contribution to the strong decrease in CA1 cell numbers is limited.
A focal infarction produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO) in spontaneously hypertensive rats induced expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA, measured by competitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The mRNA appeared simultaneously in the ischemic core and penumbra at 8 h, peaked between 14 and 24 h, and disappeared by 48 h. At 24 h, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)-like immunoreactivity was present in the endothelium of cerebral microvessels and in scattered cells, probably representing leukocytes or activated microglia. Electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) for 1 h, 48 h before MCAO, reduced infarct volumes by 45% by decreasing cellular death in the ischemic penumbra. It also reduced by &gt;90% the expression of iNOS mRNA and protein in the penumbra, but not core, and decreased by 44% the iNOS enzyme activity. We conclude that excitation of neuronal networks represented in the cerebellum elicits a conditioned central neurogenic neuroprotection associated with the downregulation of iNOS mRNA and protein. This neuroimmune interaction may, by blocking the expression of iNOS, contribute to neuroprotection.



Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an archetype of a class of diseases characterized by abnormal protein deposition. In each case, deposition manifests itself in the form of amyloid deposits composed of fibrils of otherwise normal, soluble proteins or peptides. An ever-increasing body of genetic, physiologic, and biochemical data supports the hypothesis that fibrillogenesis of the amyloid beta-protein is a seminal event in Alzheimer's disease. Inhibiting A beta fibrillogenesis is thus an important strategy for AD therapy. However, before this strategy can be implemented, a mechanistic understanding of the fibrillogenesis process must be achieved and appropriate steps selected as therapeutic targets. Following a brief introduction to AD, I review here the current state of knowledge of A beta fibrillogenesis. Special emphasis is placed on the morphologic, structural, and kinetic aspects of this complex process.
Chronic low-level lead exposure is toxic to the developing nervous system. The amyloid beta precursor protein (A beta PP) plays a pivotal role in this developmental process, both as a neurotrophic/neuroprotective factor and as a mediator of cell adhesion. In this study, we have used an in vitro system to examine the interaction between chronic low-level lead and the expression and function of A beta PP. Chronic exposure of the HN9 mouse hippocampal cell line to lead chloride (10(-14) M to 10(-6) M) for 96 hours resulted in a 50% increase in the levels of the particulate form of the protein with a parallel decrease in the soluble form (A beta PP). This effect of lead was reversible following the removal of the toxin. This increase in membrane-bound A beta PP was also paralleled by an increase in cell adhesivity to a fibronectin substrate. In addition, A beta PP also acted to attenuate lead toxicity. Cells which secreted high levels of the protein were resistant to lead toxicity when compared with control cells suggesting that the protein may be acting to chelate the metal and thus attenuating its toxic action within the cell.

Rhesus monkeys, Macaca mulatta, on the island of Cayo Santiago, Puerto Rico produce one or more of five acoustically distinctive calls when they find food. Three of these calls ('warbles', 'harmonic arches' and 'chirps') are produced by individuals finding high-quality, rare food items, whereas the other two calls ('coos' and 'grunts') are produced upon encountering lower-quality, common food items, and in non-food contexts as well. To determine how rhesus classify such acoustic variation, I conducted habituation experiments using a subset of the five call types. I designed experiments to reveal whether classification is based primarily on acoustic features or on the basis of a call's functional referent; caller identity was held constant within sessions. Habituation to 'warbles' transferred to 'harmonic arches', and vice versa. Thus, although these two calls are acoustically distinctive, they appeared to be perceptually clustered into one category based on referential similarities. In contrast, habituation to 'grunts' was followed by dishabituation to 'warbles' or 'harmonic arches', and habituation to 'warbles' or 'harmonic arches' was followed by dishabituation to 'grunts'. Dishabituation could be due to acoustic or referential differences. Significantly, the magnitude of the dishabituating response was asymmetric and depended upon the call type used in the habituation series. Thus, when subjects were habituated to 'grunts', they responded significantly more to tests of 'warbles' or 'harmonic arches' than when the sequence was reversed. These results suggest that for rhesus monkey food-associated calls, referential differences carry more weight during perceptual classification than do acoustical differences. Copyright 1998 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour. Copyright 1998 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.
Serial monthly magnetization transfer (MT) imaging was performed to evaluate whether a change of the normal appearing white matter (NAWM), which precedes the appearance of enhancing lesions, is seen in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Every 4 weeks for 3 months, 10 patients with relapsing-remitting MS were scanned with a T1-weighted sequence, 20 minutes after injection with 0.3 mmol/kg gadolinium-DTPA (Gd-DTPA). During each of the monthly sessions, MT and dual echo scans were also performed before Gd-DTPA injection. On coregistered images, the MT ratio (MTR) was measured in NAWM subsequently involved by enhancing lesions, in NAWM areas on the same slices but outside any present or future MR abnormality, and in enhancing lesions at the time of their appearance. Forty-eight new enhancing lesions with no corresponding abnormalities on previous scans were identified. Their average MTR was 33.1% (+/-8.4%). Three, 2, and 1 month before enhancement appearance, the mean MTR in NAWM, measured from areas corresponding to future enhancing lesions, was significantly lower than the mean MTR in NAWM outside enhancing areas; the MTR decreased steadily as the time when the enhanced lesion approached. These results suggest that changes in the NAWM of patients with MS occur before lesions become evident on conventional MRI scans.
Cyclooxygenase (COX) catalyzes synthesis of prostanoids after liberation of arachidonic acid, an important biochemical sequela of cerebral ischemia that aggravates brain injury. We investigated expression of inducible COX-2 in infarcted human brains (symptom duration, 15 hours to 18 days) and found that COX-2 protein was present in both neuronal and glial cells throughout the brain in accord with infarct topography and duration. These results emphasize the global yet temporally regulated nature of COX-2 induction during focal ischemia in humans, clearly different from the circumscribed acute expression reported in experimental animal models. We speculate that early induction of COX-2 may fuel tissue damage through prostanoids and free radicals, and delayed induction in remote brain areas may promote reconstitutive processes in the face of tissue scarring and remodeling of the surviving neural networks.

The pyramidal tract and red nucleus send prominent projections to the spinal cord and are thought to co-operate in producing skilled movements. In the present study, skilled reaching for food located on a shelf and spontaneous grasping, handling and eating pieces of pasta were video-recorded and analyzed in control rats, rats with unilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the red nucleus (RN), unilateral pyramidal tract lesions (PT) and combined lesions. The behavioral results suggest that skilled movements are organized as action patterns, easily recognizable and distinctive for each task. In both skilled and spontaneous reaching, PT lesions reduced success more than RN lesions, suggesting a greater role for the PT in guiding limb movements. Both lesions impaired rotatory movements including limb aiming, pronation and supination. RN lesions additionally abolished the arpeggio movement by which the paw is oriented for searching and grasping. Combined lesions were additive as rats lost both rotatory movements and arpeggio. Nevertheless, even after combined lesions, the rats were able to advance the limb, grasp food and withdraw the limb. The sparing following combined lesions suggests that other neural systems as well as compensatory adjustments assist the impaired limb. The results are discussed in relation to the possible distinctive contributions of the rubrospinal and corticospinal tract to the action patterns that comprise skilled movements in rats.
Evidence for structural modifications in the brain following environmental changes have been provided during the last decades. The most pronounced alterations following environmental manipulations have been found in the visual cortex. These plastic changes are supposed to reflect reorganization of neuronal connections involved in postnatal development and adult adjustments of connections involved in sensori-perceptual processing and learning. Potential candidates to mediate these changes are neurotrophins. Nerve growth factor (NGF) has been associated with cognitive functions and shown to improve the performance of aged rats in spatial learning and memory task. In the central nervous system, NGF is of importance for development and maintenance of cholinergic neurons and atrophy of cholinergic neurons is strongly correlated with learning and memory impairments. Exposure to enriched environmental conditions improves learning and problem-solving ability and results in plastic changes in the brain. This study examined the effect of environmental enrichment on expression of NGF mRNA in the rat visual cortex and hippocampus. Rats housed in groups in a stimulus-rich environment for 30 days had significantly higher levels of NGF mRNA than rats housed individually in single cages without stimulus-enrichment. We have recently presented results showing higher levels of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) mRNA and improved spatial learning following environmental enrichment, and suggest that an interplay involving the neurotrophins NGF and NT-3 may be mediating experience-induced structural changes.
Adult male Wistar rats were implanted bilateraly with bipolar electrodes in substantia nigra-ventral tegmental area (SN-VTA) to experience intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) for 15 min per day over a period of 10 days. These rats were then assessed for the acquisition and performance of the operant and the spatial learning tasks. ICSS experienced rats showed rapid acquisition of both the operant and the spatial learning tasks. Both the lever press performance for 7 sessions in the operant learning task and mean number of alternations per session in the spatial learning task were significantly higher (p &lt; .001) in ICSS experienced rats compared with controls. The results suggest that prior ICSS experience facilitates the acquisition and performance in both the operant and the spatial learning tasks, which may be due to the structural and neurochemical alterations in the hippocampus induced by ICSS experience.
Conditioned eyeblink responses (CRs), sensitization, and spontaneous eyeblinks were studied in C57BL/6J and BALB/c mice. Both strains of mice acquired CRs during 10 days of classical delay eyeblink conditioning. The BALB/c mice reached a higher asymptotic CR level than the C57BL/6J mice. The CRs were extinguished and recovered in both strains following conditioned stimulus-alone and paired conditioned stimulus-unconditioned stimulus training. During 10 days of explicitly unpaired training, the control groups showed no signs of sensitization and low incidence of spontaneous eyeblinks. When switched to paired training, the unpaired groups exhibited significant conditioned inhibition. These results suggest that strain differences must be considered in experimental design and data interpretation for these basic aspects of associative learning and memory.
Mice from 15 standard inbred strains were tested for sensitivity to several effects of acute diazepam (DZ). Strains differed in sensitivity to DZ-induced: low-dose stimulation and high-dose depression of locomotor activity, hypothermia, and ataxia assessed on a rotarod. Correlations among strain means indicated that sensitivity to a particular effect of DZ generalized well across doses. Sensitivities to some of the different behavioral responses also were significantly correlated. For example, strains sensitive to DZ-induced increases in activity were significantly less sensitive to the drug's hypothermic effects. These results suggest that there are multiple genetic determinants of behavioral sensitivity to DZ effects. That is, genetically influenced sensitivity to DZ is not monolithic but is somewhat specific to the particular response variable studied, a result that also characterizes genetic control of responses to other drugs.
The authors investigated the contribution of experience to development and maintenance of pulmonary respiration in Lymnaea stagnalis. Respiration in L. stagnalis is bimodal via both the skin and the lung. Rearing snails from eggs to adulthood while preventing lung respiration (differentially reared snails) showed that L. stagnalis can develop and survive without pulmonary respiration. These snails were able to open and close their pneumostome when given the opportunity as adults. However, quantitative aspects of their respiratory behavior were significantly altered. Prevention of pulmonary respiration in adult, normally reared snails also induced behavioral changes. Comparison of these changes with those in differentially reared snails revealed specific developmental effects, which were reversible. Thus, this is a suitable model system for studying questions related to behavioral plasticity.
Rats with bilateral electrolytic or ibotenic acid lesions that were centred in perirhinal cortex displayed a significant delay-dependent deficit on a delayed nonmatch to position task in the T maze. Although the removal of prominent extramaze visual cues did not affect the performance of these rats, rotating the maze between the sample and test phases did, indicating that rats were using a spatial strategy. Interestingly, a further group of rats with hippocampal and perirhinal damage displayed deficits that may reflect a dysfunction in the use of inertial cues. These results suggest that both electrolytic and excitotoxic lesions of perirhinal cortex produce spatial memory impairments but that these impairments are qualitatively different than those exhibited following hippocampal damage.
Electrophysiological and molecular biology techniques have widely expanded our knowledge of the diverse functions where K+ channels are implicated as potential and proven pharmacological targets. The aim of the present commentary is to review the recent progress in the understanding of the functional role of the K+ channels encoded by the human ether-a-gogo related gene (HERG), with particular emphasis on their direct pharmacological modulation by drugs, or on their regulation by pharmacologically relevant phenomena. About 3 years have passed since the cloning, expression, and description of the pathophysiological role of HERG K+ channels in human cardiac repolarization. Despite this short lapse of time, these K+ channels have already gained considerable attention as pharmacological targets. In fact, interference with HERG K+ channels seems to be the main mechanism explaining both the therapeutic actions of the class III antiarrhythmics and the potential cardiotoxicity of second-generation H1 receptor antagonists such as terfenadine and astemizole, as well as of psychotropic drugs such as some antidepressants and neuroleptics. It seems possible to anticipate that the main tasks for future investigation will be, on the one side, the better understanding of the intimate mechanism of action of HERG K+ channel-blocking drugs in order to elucidate the conditions regulating the delicate balance between antiarrhythmic and proarrhythmic potential and, on the other, to unravel the pathophysiological role of this K+ channel in the function of the brain and of other excitable tissues.
3-(4-Piperidinyl)-5-arylpyrazoles, such as 1, were selective for the cloned human dopamine D4 receptor (hD4), but also showed affinity at voltage sensitive calcium, sodium and potassium ion channels. A combination of substituent changes to reduce the basicity of the piperidine nitrogen and conformational restriction to give 4,5-dihydro-1H-benzo[g]indazoles reduced this ion channel affinity at the expense of selectivity for hD4 over other dopamine receptors. Incorporation of piperazine into the 4,5-dihydro-1H-benzo[g]indazoles in place of piperidine gave a novel series of high affinity, selective, orally bioavailable hD4 ligands, such as 16, with improved selectivity over ion channels.
The biophysical properties and cellular distribution of ion channels largely determine the input/output relationships of electrically excitable cells. A variety of patch pipette voltage clamp techniques are available to characterize ionic currents. However, when used by themselves, such techniques are not well suited to the task of mapping low-density channel distributions. We describe here a new voltage clamp method (the whole cell loose patch (WCLP) method) that combines whole-cell recording through a tight-seal pipette with focal extracellular stimulation through a loose-seal pipette. By moving the stimulation pipette across the cell surface and using a stationary whole-cell pipette to record the evoked patch currents, this method should be suitable for mapping channel distributions, even on large cells possessing low channel densities. When we applied this method to the study of currents in cultured chick myotubes, we found that the cell cable properties and the series resistance of the recording pipette caused significant filtering of the membrane currents, and that the filter characteristics depended in part upon the distance between the stimulating and recording pipettes. We describe here how we determined the filter impulse response for each loose-seal pipette placement and subsequently recovered accurate estimates of patch membrane current through deconvolution.
A new nonlinear dynamical analysis is applied to complex behavior from neuronal systems. The conceptual foundation of this analysis is the abstraction of observed neuronal activities into a dynamical landscape characterized by a hierarchy of &quot;unstable periodic orbits&quot; (UPOs). UPOs are rigorously identified in data sets representative of three different levels of organization in mammalian brain. An analysis based on UPOs affords a novel alternative method of decoding, predicting, and controlling these neuronal systems.
Symptomatic pineal apoplexy unlike pituitary apoplexy is uncommon. A patient with an apoplectic pineal cyst, identified preoperatively using MRI and confirmed histologically presented with episodic syncope, and features of raised intracranial pressure, but no localizing neuro-ophthalmological signs. This case prompted a review of the clinicopathological features of pineal apoplexy. There are no diagnostic clinical features and the neuropathological associations of pineal region haemorrhage are diverse. There is no consistent clinicopathological syndrome of pineal apoplexy.
The strain-gauge Codman MicroSensor intracranial pressure (ICP) transducer has shown consistently good laboratory performance. To assess the practical performance of the system in patients following acute brain injury, 10 patients were fitted with a MicroSensor and a second ICP monitor. In five cases this was a fibre-optic transducer and in five cases an intraventricular fluid-filled device. Paired ICP values were recorded every 5 min. ICP values ranged from 0 to 31 mmHg. Altman-Bland plots showed that individual readings could differ by as much as 9 mmHg. Further analysis showed that much of this disagreement could be explained by a constant offset on each occasion. Comparison traces of ICP in individual patients show high agreement in timing and size of changes. The unexplained constant offset leads to uncertainty about the true ICP. Treatment decisions are often based upon absolute levels of ICP and patient care may therefore differ depending upon the monitor used.
1. When perfused with a medium containing no added magnesium and 4-aminopyridine (4AP) (50 microM) hippocampal slices generated epileptiform bursts of an interictal nature. We have shown in a previous study that adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) depressed epileptiform activity and that this effect was blocked by the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist cyclopentyltheophylline but was not affected by adenosine deaminase. This implied that ATP might act indirectly at P1 receptors or at a xanthine-sensitive P2 receptor. The aim of the present study was to investigate further the action of ATP on epileptiform activity. 2. ATP can be metabolized by ecto-nucleotidases to adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP), adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP) and adenosine, respectively. Each of these metabolites can activate receptors in its own right: P2 receptors for ADP and P1 receptors for AMP and adenosine. 3. We now show that both AMP and ATP (50 microM) significantly decrease epileptiform discharge rate in a rapid and reversible manner. 5'Adenylic acid deaminase (AMP deaminase, AMPase) (0.2 u ml(-1)), when perfused alone did not significantly alter the discharge rate over the 10 min superfusion period used for drug application. When perfused concurrently with AMP (50 microM), AMP deaminase prevented the depressant effect of AMP on discharge rate. 4. AMP deaminase, at a concentration of 0.2 u ml(-1) which annulled the effect of AMP (50 microM), prevented the inhibitory activity of ATP (50 microM). A higher concentration of ATP (200 microM) depressed the frequency of spontaneous bursts to approximately 30% control and this response was also prevented by AMP deaminase. 5. Superfusion of the slices with 5'-nucleotidase also prevented the inhibitory activity of ATP on epileptiform discharges. 6. The results suggest that AMP mediates the inhibitory effects of ATP on epileptiform activity, a conclusion which can explain the earlier finding that cyclopentyltheophylline but not adenosine deaminase inhibited the effect of ATP. A corollary to this is that, when examining the pharmacology of ATP, care must be taken to inactivate AMP with AMP deaminase, as well as adenosine with adenosine deaminase, before a direct action of ATP on P1 receptors can be postulated. Failure to do so may have led to erroneous conclusions in some previous studies of nucleotide activity on nucleotide receptors.
1. Extracellular single-unit recording and iontophoresis were used to examine the effects of different cholinoceptor agonists and antagonists on the firing rate and firing pattern of A9 and A10 presumed dopaminergic neurones in the anaesthetized rat. 2. Administration of low currents (1-5 nA) of the selective muscarinic agonists oxotremorine M (Oxo M) and muscarine and of the non-selective muscarinic/nicotinic agonist carbamylcholine (CCh) produced a dose-dependent increase in firing rate in most of the A9 and A10 presumed dopaminergic neurones tested. Oxo M-induced activation could be completely blocked by iontophoretic application of the muscarinic antagonist butyl-scopolamine or systemic administration of the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (300 microg kg(-1), i.v.). 3. Iontophoretic application of the selective nicotinic agonist methylcarbamylcholine (MCCh), but not nicotine, induced a consistent increase in firing rate. Surprisingly, the excitatory effect of MCCh was significantly reduced by the selective muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (300 microg kg(-1), i.v.), but not by the selective nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (2.2 mg kg(-1), i.v.). Mecamylamine (3 mg kg(-1), i.v.) was also ineffective in reducing the CCh-induced activation of presumed dopamine neurones, suggesting that both CCh and MCCh increased the activity of dopamine neurones via an interaction with muscarinic receptors. 4. Iontophoretic application of the endogenous agonist acetylcholine (ACh) had no or little effect on the firing activity of A10 presumed dopaminergic neurones. However, concomitant application of neostigmine, a potent cholinesterase inhibitor, with acetylcholine induced a substantial activation of these neurones. This activation consisted of two components; one, which was prevalent, was scopolamine (300 microg kg(-1), i.v.)-sensitive, and the other was mecamylamine (2 mg kg(-1), i.v.)-sensitive. 5. In addition to their effect on firing activity, Oxo M, muscarine and concomitant neostigmine/ACh caused a significant increase in burst firing of A10 neurones, but not of A9 neurones. 6. These data suggest that dopamine cells, both in the A9 and A10 regions, possess functional muscarinic receptors, the activation of which can increase their firing rate and, for A10 neurones, their amount of burst activity. These cholinoceptors would be able to influence the activity of the midbrain dopamine system greatly and may play a role in, and/or be a therapeutic target for, brain disorders in which dopamine is involved (e.g., Parkinson's disease, drug addiction and schizophrenia).
The purpose of this study was to assess the feasibility of using a microwave oven to produce denatured muscle grafts for the repair of 1 cm deficits in the rabbit peroneal nerve. Recovery of function was assessed after 6 months by electrophysiological and histological examination of the peroneal nerve and target muscles. The results were compared to normal rabbits and to a group whose nerves were repaired with freeze-thawed muscle grafts (FTMG). The results of this study showed that heating muscle in a microwave oven does produce a graft which may be used as an alternative to the FTMG. However, the technical difficulties in preparing a microwave muscle graft make the use of this technique in the clinical setting unlikely.
By means of a double-labeling technique, we have investigated the organization of the bilateral thalamo-Wulst and tecto-rotundal projections in 2-day old chicks. After injecting fluorogold (FG) into one side of the visual Wulst and rhodamine B isothiocyanate (RITC) into the other side of the visual Wulst, the labeled neurons in the nucleus geniculatus lateralis pars dorsalis (GLd) were examined. Although the distribution areas of ipsilaterally and contralaterally labeled neurons overlap partly, very few double-labeled neurons were found (only 0.01% double-labeled neurons). This suggests that the ipsilateral and contralateral projections to the Wulst come from different neuronal populations of the thalamus. The FG and RITC were also injected into the rotundal nuclei (Rt) on each side of the thalamus and the labeled neurons in the optic tectum (TeO) were examined. In the TeO, the distribution areas of the neurons labeled ipsilaterally and contralaterally to Rt overlap completely and we found that up to 45% of the tectal cells were double-labeled by both FG and RITC. Therefore, many tectal neurons have axon collaterals so that they project to the Rt on both sides of the thalamus and must send information simultaneously to both sides of the brain. The differences in the structural organization of the two visual pathways are discussed with reference to the transmission of information to higher centers on both sides of the brain.
Axonal injury following cerebral ischaemia has attracted less attention than damage in grey matter. However, it is becoming increasingly recognised that axons are highly vulnerable to focal ischaemia [D. Dewar, D.A. Dawson, Changes of cytoskeletal protein immunostaining in myelinated fibre tracts after focal cerebral ischaemia in the rat, Acta. Neuropathol., 93 (1997) 71-77] [2]; [L. Pantoni, J.H. Garcia, J.A. Gutierrez, Cerebral white matter is highly vulnerable to ischemia, Stroke, 27 (1996) 1641-1647] [10]; [P. S. Yam, T. Takasago, D. Dewar, D.I. Graham, J. McCulloch, Amyloid precursor protein accumulates in white matter at the margin of a focal ischaemic lesion, Brain Res., 760 (1997) 150-157] [15]. Since white matter does not contain neuronal cell bodies or synapses it is likely that the mechanisms of injury and strategies for its protection are different from those in grey matter. In order that the effect of therapeutic intervention on the protection of axons can be assessed, a method by which axonal injury can be mapped and quantified is required. For this purpose, we investigated immunocytochemical methods using amyloid precursor protein (APP) following permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. APP is transported by fast anterograde axonal transport [E.H. Koo, S.S. Sisodia, D.R. Archer, L.J. Martin, A. Weidemann, K. Beyreuther, P. Fischer, C.L. Masters, D.L. Price, Precursor of amyloid protein in Alzheimer disease undergoes fast anterograde axonal transport, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 87 (1990) 1561-1565] [7] and has been shown to accumulate following a variety of insults to axons, indicative of dysfunction of axonal transport [R.N. Kalaria, S.U. Bhatti, E.A. Palatinsky, D.H. Pennington, E.R. Shelton, H.W. Chan, G. Perry, W.D. Lust, Accumulation of the beta amyloid precursor protein at sites of ischemic injury in rat brain, Neuroreport, 4 (1993) 211-214] [4]; [T. Kawarabayashi, M. Shoji, Y. Harigaya, H. Yamaguchi, S. Hirai, Expression of APP in the early stage of brain damage, Brain Res., 563 (1991) 334-338] [5]; [N. Otsuka, M. Tomonaga, K. Ikeda, Rapid appearance of beta-amyloid precursor protein immunoreactivity in damaged axons and reactive glial cells in rat brain following needle stab injury, Brain Res., 568 (1991) 335-338] [9]; [K. Shigematsu, P. L. McGeer, Accumulation of amyloid precursor protein in neurons after intraventricular injection of colchicine, Am. J. Pathol., 140 (1992) 787-794] [12]. We have been able to map the topographical relationship between APP accumulation and region of infarction using immunocytochemistry and image analysis techniques. Additionally, using a semi-quantitative scoring system, we have demonstrated that there is a relationship between the amount of APP accumulation and the volume of infarction following middle cerebral artery occlusion. These methods will be useful in the future for the assessment of therapeutic interventions on the protection of axons following ischaemic injury.
In principle, digital acquisition of cell-count data from serially-sectioned immunocytochemical material is a straightforward enterprise. First, a serial brain section is magnified by use of a microscope interfaced to a computer. Then, using appropriate hardware and software, a digital image is captured, and cellular profiles of interest are segmented from background objects according to mean grayscale intensity and pixel area. Ideally, the cells of interest would be uniformly distinguishable from other objects or areas of the image, with respect to grayscale intensity and size. However, due to non-uniformity in background staining of neuropil, immunocytochemical material often departs markedly from this ideal situation. As a consequence, determining grayscale intensity and cell size cutoff values which separate cells of interest from background becomes laborious and arbitrary. This problem can be diminished by increasing the magnification of the digitized image, which increases the figure-ground resolution of the image. However, high-magnification images make tissue navigation difficult and require that multiple images be captured. This paper describes a two focal plane procedure for obtaining cell counts from nuclear-stained immunocytochemistry material. This procedure allows the capturing and cell counting of relatively low-magnification images with high digital figure-ground resolution.
The immunolocalization of substance P (SP) receptors was compared in the rat spinal cord using either a direct anti-substance P NK1-receptor antibody (anti-SPR) or an anti-complementary peptide antibody (anti-CP). The first antibody recognizes an intracellular epitope, the C-terminal tail of the NK1-receptor. The second antibody recognizes an extracellular epitope located at or near the ligand-binding domain because anti-CP antibody and SP were previously shown to compete for binding to the receptor. At the light microscope level, it was observed that anti-CP antibody labels both laminae I and II of the dorsal horn, while anti-SPR antibody labels exclusively lamina I, except at the lumbar level. This could suggest that spinal NK1 receptors are heterogeneous. Anti-SPR antibodies may recognize an NK1 receptor subclass confined to lamina I. Conversely, anti-CP antibody may recognize either another receptor subclass or two different subclasses present in laminae I and II. At the electron microscope level, labeling was localized either on the intracellular or the extracellular face of the plasma membrane depending on the location of the epitope recognized by both antibodies on the transmembrane receptor. However, using either antibody, the ultrastructural labeling was found at non-junctional sites, suggesting that SP may act in a non-synaptic manner on all putative receptor subclasses.
myo-Inositol is accumulated into cells by means of the Na+/myo-inositol cotransporter (SMIT), which is of interest because its activity is upregulated by hyperosmotic stress. We investigated the effects of hyperglycemia on the expression of SMIT mRNA mainly in rat hippocampus. In normal control rats, SMIT mRNA signals were predominantly located in the hippocampus, cerebellum and choroid plexus. Interestingly, massive induction in the hippocampus was observed on the acute stage of induced hyperglycemia in the CA3/CA4, the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, and the hippocampal fissure. The perivascular cells along the hippocampal fissure also expressed prominent signals. In the cerebral cortex, heterogeneous induction was observed from layers 2 to 6. Furthermore, these changes immediately returned to baseline levels after normalization of glucose levels. These results suggest that regional specificity of permeability of the blood-brain barrier and/or cellular differences in sensitivity to hyperglycemic stress would exist in the brain.
Recent cloning studies have isolated receptors which confer specific responsiveness to calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and the related peptide adrenomedullin. Using in situ hybridisation, we demonstrate the heterogenous distribution of the mRNAs of two proposed CGRP1 receptors (RDC-1 and calcitonin receptor-like receptor, CRLR) in the rat brain. Adrenomedullin receptor mRNA was weakly expressed, principally in the cerebellum. These findings may assist in the determination of the function of these largely uncharacterised receptors.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are a heterogeneous family of G protein coupled receptors that are linked to multiple second messenger systems to regulate neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. To characterise the protein expression of the two mGluR7 receptor splice variants in human and rat cerebellar cortex, antibodies specific to mGluR7 were generated. Antibodies were raised against a glutathione-S-transferase fusion protein containing amino acid residues located in the extracellular domain common to both the human and rat mGluR7 splice variants. These antibodies specifically detected human mGluR7a in mammalian cells transfected with this receptor. In agreement with mGluR7 in situ hybridisation studies, immunohistochemistry performed at the light microscope level revealed that mGluR7 protein expression occurred most prominently in a particular population of nerve cells common to both the human and rat, located within the cerebellar cortex of gray matter contained within transverse folia. Moreover, strong mGluR7-like immunoreactivity was seen in Purkinje cell body cytoplasm of the Purkinje cell layer. In the most superficial cerebellar cortical layer, the molecular layer, immunostaining was observed in Purkinje cell associated proximal and distal dendritic trees. No detectable labelling was evident in intrinsic deep cerebellar nuclei known to contain GABAergic terminals of projecting Purkinje cell axons. These data are suggestive of a post-synaptic location of mGluR7 in this central nervous system structure. In the rodent, additional non-Purkinje cells thought to represent inhibitory interneurones were labelled at all levels in the molecular layer. mGluR7-like immunoreactivity was not associated with glial cells.
The PC12 cell line may be used as a model of NGF-induced neuronal differentiation. Exposure to NGF is accompanied by extension of neurites, cessation of growth and differentiation into cells resembling sympathetic neurons. In this study neurite outgrowth from PC12 cells was induced in serum-free, NGF-free medium conditions. Neurite outgrowth in serum-free conditions was abolished by exposure to anti-NGF antisera. Reverse transcription combined with polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and in situ hybridization of PC12 cells in serum-free medium conditions revealed NGF transcripts. Western blot analysis of these cells revealed tyrosine phosphorylation of the high affinity NGF receptor (TrkA/gp140) and activation of a downstream signal cascade element, ERK-1/MAP kinase. NGF was also detected by a specific enzyme-linked immunoabsorbant assay (ELISA) revealing picogram levels of protein in conditioned medium and cell lysates. Survival of embryonic rat dorsal root ganglion neurons was maintained in cultures grown in this serum-free conditioned medium. This demonstrated that NGF may act as an autocrine or paracrine growth factor for PC12 cell differentiation.
A variety of adult, non-neural tissues respond to injury by increasing expression of the gene which encodes for insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). This response is thought to be a key component in the regenerative capacity of these tissues. In contrast, the central nervous system (CNS) has relatively little regenerative capacity following injury. Interestingly, compared to many non-neuronal tissues, little IGF-1 mRNA can be detected in the adult CNS, raising the possibility that its lack of regenerative capacity is related its relative lack of IGF-1 expression. However, in the 2-week-old adolescent CNS IGF-1 mRNA can be detected in numerous brain regions. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the responsiveness of the IGF-1 gene to injury in adolescent CNS tissue, a period in which expression of this gene is relatively abundant. Expression of IGF-1 mRNA was measured by means of a sensitive solution hybridization/RNase protection assay in the parieto-occipital lobes of 2-week-old and adult mice following penetrating injury. Levels of IGF-1 transcript in the injured brains were significantly increased above those of controls in both 2-week-old and adult brains 3-day post injury and remained elevated for 1 week after injury. These observations demonstrate that the adult CNS, like other tissues, can respond to injury by increasing expression of IGF-1 mRNA.
Glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) biosynthetic pathway, and is coded for by two mRNAs, GAD65 and GAD67. Using in situ hybridization, we examine the distribution pattern of both GAD mRNAs in the hypothalamus and thalamus of prepubertal and adult male rhesus macaques. Qualitatively, GAD65 and GAD67 mRNAs showed a similar wide, but highly specific distribution pattern, supporting the view that GABAergic neurons play an important role in modulating neuroendocrine function. However, no quantitative difference in the intensity of hybridization signal was detected between prepubertal and adult animals in any of the hypothalamic or thalamic nuclei. Therefore, although GABAergic neurons are anatomically well-placed to control the secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) in primates, it is unlikely that the onset of puberty and the associated increase in GnRH secretion is triggered by a change in GAD gene transcription.
The beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is deposited in neuritic plaques which are characteristic features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Prominent neurodegeneration and glial activation occurs around these plaques leading to the hypothesis that Abeta may play a causative role in the neuronal loss and the inflammatory response associated with AD. Here we show that Abeta-induced toxicity of cultured fetal rat cortical neurons is associated with internucleosomal DNA fragmentation beginning just 6 h after neurons are exposed to Abeta. Additionally, constitutive NF-kappaB activity readily measured in fetal rat cortical neurons decreases in a concentration- and time-dependent fashion following exposure to Abeta, but there is no corresponding decrease in NF-kappaB mRNA or protein (p65). An upregulation of both IkappaB alpha protein and mRNA which occurs in cortical neurons exposed to Abeta may be responsible for retaining NF-kappaB in the cytoplasm accounting for the observed decrease in activated NF-kappaB. The latter is supported by the observation that pretreatment of cortical cultures with an antisense oligonucleotide to IkappaBalpha mRNA is neuroprotective. In contrast to cortical neurons, exposure of rat primary astroglial cultures to Abeta results in a concentration- and time-dependent activation of NF-kappaB with subsequent upregulation of IL-1beta and IL-6. Our data suggest that Abeta-induced neurotoxicity as well as astrocyte activation may be medicated by the NF-kappaB/Rel family of proteins, and thus alterations in NF-kappaB-directed gene expression may contribute to both the neurodegeneration and inflammatory response which occur in AD.
Recently it has been shown that mRNA of Iba1 (ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1), which was a novel calcium binding protein cDNA-cloned by our group, is specifically expressed in microglia in cultures of rat brain cells [Imai et al. Biophys. Biochem. Res. Commun., 224 (1996) 855-862]. In the present study, immunocytochemical and immunohistochemical examinations demonstrated that Iba1 protein is expressed in microglia alone both in cultured brain cells and in the brain, respectively. In a mixed cell culture of embryonic rat brain, immunocytochemically positive for Iba1 protein were the microglia but it was not detectable in neurons, astroglia, or oligodendroglia. Immunohistochemical staining of adult rat brain sections showed Iba1 protein to be specifically localised in ramified microglia. In addition, immunohistochemical staining and immunoblot analysis of activated microglia in the facial nucleus after facial nerve axotomy shows that expression of Iba1 protein was upregulated and peaked at 7 days. These results indicated that localisation of Iba1 protein is restricted to microglia both in vitro and in vivo, and that Iba1 protein plays a role in regulating the function of microglia, especially in the activated microglia.

The characteristics and properties of the increase in cytosolic [Ca2+] that occurs in bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cells on exposure to histamine have been investigated. Specifically, these experiments were conducted to determine how much external Ca2+ enters the cell through a (capacitative) Ca2+ entry pathway activated as a consequence of intracellular Ca2+ store mobilization, relative to that which enters independently of store depletion via other channels activated by histamine. In Fura-2 loaded cells continued exposure to histamine (10 microM) caused a rapid but transient increase in cytosolic [Ca2+] followed by a lower plateau that was sustained as long as external Ca2+ was present. In the absence of external Ca2+, only the initial brief transient was observed. In cells previously treated with thapsigargin (100 nM) in Ca(2+)-free medium to deplete the internal Ca2+ stores, histamine caused no increase in cytosolic [Ca2+] when external Ca2+ was absent. Re-introduction of external Ca2+ to thapsigargin-treated store-depleted cells caused a sustained increase in cytosolic [Ca2+] that was further increased (P &lt; 0.0002) upon exposure to histamine. The histamine-evoked increase was prevented by the H1-receptor antagonist, mepyramine (2 microM). A comparison was made between store-dependent Ca2+ entry consequent upon store mobilization with histamine in Ca(2+)-free medium and plateau phase Ca2+ entry resulting from stimulation with histamine in Ca(2+)-containing medium. The latter was found to be approximately 3 times greater in magnitude than the former (P &lt; 0.0001) at the same concentration of histamine (10 microM). It is concluded that histamine causes Ca2+ entry not only via a capacitative entry pathway secondary to internal store mobilization, but also causes substantial Ca2+ entry through other pathways.
While brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) messenger RNA (mRNA) has been localized in the developing gustatory epithelium, little information is available about neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) mRNA expression pattern in the prenatal developing gustatory and lingual epithelium. In the present study, using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we report on NT-3 mRNA expression in the tongue of rats. At embryonic day (E) 13-17, NT-3 mRNA was expressed subepithelially in the periphery of the developing tongue, as well as among developing muscle. At E19, there was a shift in the expression of NT-3 mRNA. It was then expressed in the surface epithelium of the developing tongue in the developing filiform papillae and, in higher concentrations, in top-surface and fringe epithelium of the developing circumvallate papillae, and top- and lateral-surface epithelium of the developing fungiform papillae. NT-3 mRNA expression in areas rich in somatosensory innervation of the tongue, as well as its specific expression in defined regions compared with BDNF, and the decreased labeling noted from prenatal and early postnatal animals to adults indicate a specific role for NT-3 in the development of lingual somatosensory innervation, as well as for maintenance of this innervation.
Adrenal chromaffin cells have been characterized by the ability to change the phenotype in response to neurotrophic factor stimulation. The adrenal gland expresses numerous trophic factors endogenously, but there is still a lack of knowledge as to how the adrenal medullary cells respond to these factors. Accordingly, we evaluated nerve fiber outgrowth and cell morphology, and measured catecholamine content in adult rat adrenal medullary tissue transplanted to the anterior chamber of the eye after exposure to neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), or glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) compared with the effects after exposure to recombinant human nerve growth factor (rhNGF). The results show that rhNGF was the most potent factor in inducing neurite outgrowth from the grafted chromaffin cells. CNTF was also a powerful inducer of nerve fiber formation, while NT-4/5, GDNF, and bFGF were less potent. NT-3 did not produce neurite outgrowth above that seen in vehicle-treated eyes. Combining two neurotrophins, rhNGF and NT-3, reduced nerve fiber formation. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry revealed good cell survival in all grafts, and no morphological differences were detected with the different treatments. The adrenaline: noradrenaline: dopamine ratio was approximately 49%: 49%: 2%, independent of treatment, and the catecholamine content was equal irrespective of treatment. In conclusion, all neurotrophic factors used, except for NT-3, promoted neurite outgrowth from adult rat chromaffin transplants. Differences in outgrowth induced by the various trophic factors did not, however, change the catecholamine content in grafts when analyzed together with the graft-derived nerve plexus.
S-fluoxetine is the long-acting enantiomer of the racemic antidepressant serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Sixty-five patients needing migraine prophylaxis were recruited into a phase II, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. After a 1-month placebo run-in, 53 patients met entry criteria with regard to attack frequency and were randomized, 27 to S-fluoxetine and 26 to matching placebo. Three failed to start treatment and there were 17 early discontinuations, 9 from S-fluoxetine, 8 from placebo, at similar times and for similar reasons. The primary efficacy variable was attack frequency and analysis compared decline-from-baseline in the two groups. This was earlier and greater (1.7 attacks/28 days, or 52%) on active therapy than on placebo (1.1 attacks/28 days, or 27%), and statistically significant in month 2 (F = 4.93; p = 0.033) and month 4 (F = 4.55; p = 0.041). As secondary measures of efficacy, migraine-days per month and Patient's Global Impression of Disease Severity coherently reflected the changes in attack frequency. Mean attack severity and acute medication use (doses per attack) were unaltered by either treatment. There were no serious adverse events. Withdrawals for adverse events were four from each group but none was considered causally related. The finding of greater efficacy of S-fluoxetine than of placebo should be interpreted conservatively, since the analysis in the final month was made on only half of the entered patients. It supports progression to phase III evaluation, which was the purpose of the study.
The ability of organisms to categorize diverse and often novel stimuli depends on ongoing interactions with their environment. In a modality such as vision, categorization requires the generation of both selective and invariant responses of cortical neurons to complex visual stimuli. How does behavior contribute to shaping the responses of these neurons? Analysis of this question is made difficult by the complex multilevel interactions between many neural and behavioral variables. To mitigate this difficulty, we studied the development and ongoing plasticity of pattern-selective neuronal responses by means of synthetic neural modeling. For this purpose, we constructed Darwin V, which consists of a simulated neuronal model embedded in a real-world device that is capable of motion and autonomous behavior. The neuronal model consists of four major components: a visual system (containing cortical and subcortical networks); a taste system based on conductance; sets of motor neurons capable of triggering behavior; and a diffuse ascending (value) system. The modeled visual cortex consists of two areas: a topographic map responsive to elementary features connected to a higher-order map composed of initially non-selective neuronal units. During behavior over time in its environment, Darwin V encounters numerous objects consisting of black metal cubes displaying different patterns of white blobs and stripes. Initially, the lack of specific higher-order visual responses does not allow visual pattern discrimination, and appetitive and aversive behaviors are triggered by the 'taste' (surface conductivity of objects) alone. In the course of sensory experience, however, changes occur in visual and sensorimotor connection strengths, with two major consequences. First, units within the higher visual area acquire responses that are both pattern selective and translation invariant. Second, as a result of the operation of the value system, these responses become linked to appropriate behaviors. Analysis of Darwin V after such changes indicates that the continuity of self-generated movements is essential for the development of pattern-selective and translation-invariant responses. The concomitant development of a preference for foveal over parafoveal objects was found to be due to increased behavioral interactions with object cubes gripped by the centrally mounted effector (snout) of Darwin V. Finally, even after development of higher-order visual responses, visual responses to more frequently encountered objects continued to be enhanced, while other responses were diminished. Overall, the detailed study of Darwin V over multiple levels of organization provides a heuristically revealing example of the crucial role played by behavioral and environmental interactions in the development of complex responses by specialized neurons.
We propose a model that draws together experimental evidence from anatomical, electrophysiological and imaging experiments in order to understand better the neural substrate of human imaging studies using positron electron tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). First, we define a simple local circuit that reflects the major role that local connectivity plays in producing PET and fMRI data, which are thought to mainly reflect synaptic activity. Second, in order to account for the role of varying behaviors during the course of a typical imaging experiment, we propose a local circuit that can perform a delayed match-to-sample task. The elements of this circuit behave very much like neurons that have been found in the prefrontal cortex during similar tasks in monkeys. One subpopulation responds selectively only when stimuli are present. Two different populations show the two types of delay-period activity that have been identified, one with high activity both during the cue and the delay period, the other with a rise during the delay period only. Last, a subpopulation shows a brief response only if the second stimulus matches the first, thus mediating the decision about whether the stimuli match. We show that in addition to performing the task, the integrated summed synaptic activities of the model are similar to experimental PET data.
Medulloblastoma is a highly malignant cerebellar tumor of children and, less frequently, of adults, with a tendency to early recurrence and dissemination through the cerebrospinal fluid. The prognosis has improved significantly in recent decades, in parallel with the improvement in neurosurgical techniques and the use of postoperative radiotherapy. An overview is given of the prognostic role of clinical and pathological features of individual cases as reported in the literature. Apart from the presence or absence of metastases at diagnosis and the radiotherapy modality, none of the factors studied was generally thought to have a definite significant prognostic role. The extent of surgical excision seems to influence survival more in pediatric cases than in adults. Ongoing cytogenetic studies and molecular biology investigations are aimed at better categorization of medulloblastomas and individualized postoperative treatment.
Among the diseases due to cerebral parasitism, those caused by sparganum mansoni, the larval form of Spirometra mansoni, are very rare. We report two cases, one involving the frontoparietal area in a 38-year-old male and presenting as a mass lesion and another in a 10-year-old girl, presenting with paraparesis due to mid-thoracic compressive mass lesion. Pathological examination of the resected lesion revealed the characteristic plerocercoid larva, spargana, enclosed in acute inflammatory exudate, resembling an abscess. Postoperative recovery was good, suggesting that the best treatment for cerebral or spinal sparganosis mansoni is surgical excision. Serological tests for diagnosis were not carried out in these cases, since parasitic infection was not suspected. Although generally the role of immunodiagnosis is limited due to rarity of the condition, in endemic areas such tests may be useful in preoperative diagnosis.
We studied the reproducibility of measurement of carotid stenosis and assessment of plaque surface morphology on 1001 angiograms from a consecutive series of patients entered into the European Carotid Surgery Trial. Inter-observer agreement (Kappa statistic, 95% confidence interval (CI)) for categorization of carotid stenosis, as 0-29%, 30-69% or 70-99% was good (0.68, 0.63-0.73) on 789 conventional or digitally subtracted selective angiograms, and good (0.64, 0.54-0.75) on 174 conventionally and digitally subtracted aortic arch injection angiograms, but was poor (0.29, 0.02-0.80) on 29 intravenous digital subtraction angiograms. Inter-observer agreement did not vary with the method of image acquisition of arterial angiograms, but was dependent on the quality of visualization of the stenosis: kappa = 0.73 (0.67-0.79) for good quality angiograms vs. 0.54 (0.44-0.64) for poor quality angiograms. Inter-observer agreement for assessment of plaque surface morphology was moderate (kappa 0.4-0.6) and did not vary with type of angiography or method of image acquisition. However, ulceration was reported most frequently on selective angiograms and on those angiograms on which the quality of visualization of the stenosis was good. We conclude that the reproducibility of measurement of carotid stenosis and the assessment of plaque surface morphology vary depending on the type of angiography and the quality of visualization of the stenosis. This should be taken into account when validating non-invasive methods of imaging the carotid bifurcation.
Cerebral responses to alternating periods of a control task and a selective letter generation paradigm were investigated with functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI). Subjects selectively generated letters from four designated sets of six letters from the English language alphabet, with the instruction that they were not to produce letters in alphabetical order either forward or backward, repeat or alternate letters. Performance during this condition was compared with that of a control condition in which subjects recited the same letters in alphabetical order. Analyses revealed significant and extensive foci of activation in a number of cerebral regions including mid-dorsolateral frontal cortex, inferior frontal gyrus, precuneus, supramarginal gyrus, and cerebellum during the selective letter generation condition. These findings are discussed with respect to recent positron emission tomography (PET) and fMRI studies of verbal working memory and encoding/retrieval in episodic memory.


The targeting of AMPA- and NMDA-type glutamate receptors to synapses in the central nervous system is essential for efficient excitatory synaptic transmission. Recent studies have indicated that protein-protein interactions of these receptors with synaptic proteins that contain PDZ domains are crucial for receptor targeting. NMDA receptors have been found to bind to the PSD-95 family of proteins, whereas AMPA receptors interact with the PDZ-domain-containing protein GRIP (glutamate receptor interacting protein). PSD-95 and GRIP contain multiple PDZ domains as well as other protein-protein interaction motifs that help to form large macromolecular complexes that may be important for the formation and plasticity of synapses.
The cytokine interleukin 1 (IL-1) plays an important role in the activation of the hypothalamus-pituary-adrenal (HPA)-axis and interleukin 6 (IL-6) production during infection or inflammation. Which of the interleukin-1 receptor types mediates these effects is not known. To investigate this issue a pharmacological approach was chosen by using recently developed IL-1 receptor type selective ligands. Rats were given one of various doses of recombinant human IL-1beta (rhIL-1beta; 1 and 10 microg/kg) and of several IL-1beta mutants (DeltaSND, DeltaQGE and DeltaI; 1, 10 and 100 microg/kg), that differ in their affinities for the IL-1 type I receptor but have similar affinities for the IL-1 type II receptor. One hour after intravenous administration of rhIL-1beta or IL-1beta mutants, plasma levels of ACTH, corticosterone (cort) and IL-6 were measured. Doses of 1 and 10 microg/kg rhIL-1beta markedly elevated plasma levels of ACTH, cort and IL-6. However, 10-100-fold higher doses of IL-1beta mutants DeltaSND and DeltaQGE and at least 100-fold higher doses of DeltaI have to be administered to increase plasma levels of ACTH, cort and IL-6. The potency differences correlate with their respective affinity for the type I receptor but not with that of the IL-1 type II receptor. It is concluded that IL-1beta induced ACTH, cort and IL-6 production is mediated by interleukin 1 type I receptors.
The impact of the nerve growth factor (NGF) family of neurotrophins and their receptors was examined on the cutaneous innervation in the mystacial pads of mice. Ten sets of unmyelinated and thinly myelinated sensory and autonomic innervation were evaluated that terminated in the epidermis, upper dermis, and upper part of the intervibrissal hair follicles. Mystacial pads were analyzed from newborn to 4-week-old mice that had homozygous functional deletions of the genes for NGF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), neurotrophin-4 (NT-4), tyrosine kinase (trk) A, trkB, trkC, or p75. Mystacial pads were also analyzed in adult transgenic mice that had overproduction of NGF, BDNF, or NT-3 driven by a keratin promoter gene. The innervation was revealed by using immunofluorescence and immunocytochemistry with antibodies for protein gene product (PGP) 9.5, calcitonin gene-related product (CGRP), substance P (SP), galanin (GAL), neuropeptide Y (NPY), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and a neurofilament protein. The cumulative results indicated that NGF/trkA signaling plays a major role in the outgrowth and proliferation of sensory axons, whereas NT-3/ trkA signaling plays a major role in the formation of sensory endings. TrkC is also essential for the development of three sets of trkA-dependent sensory innervation that coexpress CGRP, SP, and GAL. Another set of sensory innervation that only coexpressed CGRP and SP was solely dependent upon NGF and trkA. Surprisingly, most sets of trkA-dependent sensory innervation are suppressed by trkB perhaps interacting with p75. BDNF and NT-4 appear to mediate this suppressing effect in the upper dermis and NT-4 in the epidermis. In contrast to sensory innervation, sympathetic innervation to the necks of intervibrissal hair follicles depends upon NGF/trkA signaling interacting with p75 for both the axon outgrowth and ending formation. Although NT-3/trkA signaling is essential for the full complement of sympathetic neurons, NT-3 is detrimental to the formation of sympathetic terminations to the necks of hair follicles. TrkB signaling mediated by BDNF but not NT-4 also suppresses these sympathetic terminations. One sparse set of innervation, perhaps parasympathetic, terminating at the necks of hair follicles is dependent solely upon NT-3 and trkC. Taken together, our results indicate that the innervation of the epidermis, upper dermis, and the upper portion of hair follicles is regulated by a competitive balance between promoting and suppressing effects of the various neurotrophins.




Spectral features of EEG background activity were studied in patients with localized symptomatic epilepsy (LSE), with origin in the frontal or temporal lobes. Z-values of high resolution spectra and measures of the parametric (xi alpha) model of the EEG were obtained for all 10/20 System leads and were compared with those obtained in a control group. Comparisons were performed between syndromic variants of LSE and between subgroups of patients with or without paroxysmal activity in their digital EEGs (dEEG). Marked reduction of the energy in the alpha range and a mild increase in the theta range were found in the patients, unrelated to the syndromic variant of the epilepsy. These deviations from normality were widespread on the scalp and were not related to antiepileptic medication. Non-parametric testing showed a positive correlation between the magnitude of the quantitative EEG abnormalities and the amount of paroxysmal activity in the dEEG. Slowing of the mean frequency of alpha components of the spectra, an actual decrease of power in the alpha range and an increase in the theta range explained the results. The most striking finding of this paper is that focal epileptogenesis may have a generalized impact in the frequency composition of EEG.
In this study, we used mice lacking the G11alpha [G11 knockout (KO)] or Gqalpha gene (Gq KO) to examine LH release in response to a metabolically stable GnRH agonist (Buserelin). Mice homozygous for the absence of G11alpha and Gqalpha appear to breed normally. Treatment of (5 wk old) female KO mice with the GnRH agonist Buserelin (2 microg/100 microl, sc) resulted in a rapid increase of serum LH levels (reaching 328 +/- 58 pg/25 microl for G11 KO; 739 +/- 95 pg/25 microl for Gq KO) at 75 min. Similar treatment of the control strain, 129SvEvTacfBr for G11 KO or the heterozygous mice for Gq KO, resulted in an increase in serum LH levels (428 +/- 57 pg/25 microl for G11 KO; 884 +/- 31 pg/25 microl for Gq KO) at 75 min. Both G11 KO and Gq KO male mice released LH in response to Buserelin (2 microg/100 microl of vehicle; 363 +/- 53 pg/25 microl and 749 +/- 50 pg/25 microl 1 h after treatment, respectively). These values were not significantly different from the control strain. In a long-term experiment, Buserelin was administered every 12 h, and LH release was assayed 1 h later. In female G11 KO mice and control strain, serum LH levels reached approximately 500 pg/25 microl within the first hour, then subsided to a steady level (approximately 100 pg/25 microl) for 109 h. In male G11 KO mice and in control strain, elevated LH release lasted for 13 h; however, LH levels in the G11 KO male mice did not reach control levels for approximately 49 h. In a similar experimental protocol, the Gq KO male mice released less LH (531 +/- 95 pg/25 microl) after 13 h from the start of treatment than the heterozygous male mice (865 +/- 57 pg/25 microl), but the female KO mice released more LH (634 +/- 56 pg/25 microl) after 1 h from the start of treatment than the heterozygous female mice (346 +/- 63 pg/25 microl). However, after the initial LH flare, the LH levels in the heterozygous mice never reached the basal levels achieved by the KO mice. G11 KO mice were less sensitive to low doses (5 ng/per animal) of Buserelin than the respective control mice. Male G11 KO mice produced more testosterone than the control mice after 1 h of stimulation by 2 microg of Buserelin, whereas there was no significant difference in Buserelin stimulated testosterone levels between Gq KO and heterozygous control mice. There was no significant difference in Buserelin stimulated estradiol production in the female Gq KO mice compared with control groups of mice. However, female G11 KO mice produced less estradiol in response to Buserelin (2 microg) compared with control strain. Although there were differences in the dynamics of LH release and steroid production in response to Buserelin treatment compared with control groups of mice, the lack of complete abolition of these processes, such as stimulated LH release, and steroid production, suggests that these G proteins are either not absolutely required or are able to functionally compensate for each other.
It is not yet known the extent to which the environment adversely affects the health of the developing individual. Difficulties in this determination are the problems of a) the assessment of exposure, b) the long latency of many diseases induced by the environment, c) the number of confounding exposures, and d) the extrapolation of animal models to critical stages of human development. Biomarkers have the potential to be quantitative dosimeters of exposure and biologic effective dose, as well as early warning signals of biologic effect. Biomarkers may document interindividual susceptibilities, as well as defining critical windows of exposure. To be useful, biomarkers need to be validated in terms of their specificity and sensitivity. Biomarkers are useful across all disciplines including asthma and respiratory problems, developmental neurotoxicity, childhood cancer, and endocrine disruptors. Biomarkers have not been developed nor used widely in pediatric environmental health. Research by our group and others has documented the validity of biomarkers in pediatric environmental health. Advances in the field of biomarkers may have important implications for the detection, prevention, and treatment of environmentally induced diseases in children. Ongoing validation of promising biomarkers should be a research priority.
Murine neocortical tissue blocks 450 microm in diameter displayed prolonged epileptiform bursts when exposed to magnesium-free medium in vitro; no evidence was found for a correlation between the ability to generate paroxysmal bursts and barrels, the specialized cortical modules or 'columns' found in rodent primary sensorimotor cortex. While previous reports suggested that preferential locations for the generation of epileptiform bursts exist within the six-layered structure of the neocortex, we find that cortical sections only containing either the supragranular or infragranular layers and an estimated 2000 neurones are capable of displaying epileptiform bursting. The subdivided blocks are markedly more sensitive to the inhibitory effects of bath-applied adenosine (100 microM) than intact blocks from the same animal. A similar enhancement of adenosine sensitivity is seen when the tissue is superfused with hypotonic ACSF (a model for injury-induced brain swelling), which by itself increases excitability. The increase in sensitivity to adenosine is a transient effect and may be related to its role as acute neuroprotective agent.
This work investigated maximal voluntary lateral hand pulling force in 18 healthy, habitually active men. Measurements were made in standing at different static angles of lateral trunk flexion, as well as at different constant lifting and lowering velocities. Movement was constrained to the frontal plane, velocity was controlled by an isokinetic dynamometer, pulling force was measured with a strain gauge and overall lateral angular displacement of the trunk by an electrogoniometer. Mean peak pulling force values ranged from 478 to 658 N (static), 291 to 528 N (lifting), and 801 to 911 N (lowering), respectively. The static pulling forces were the highest in flexed positions to the loaded side (10 degrees and 20 degrees trunk angles). In lifting, peak and position-specific pulling force decreased with increasing velocity. Peak lifting force occurred in a flexed trunk position of 7 to 9 degrees to the loaded side. In lowering, pulling forces were significantly higher than during lifting at corresponding velocities and showed less changes with velocity. Peak lowering force occurred at a trunk angle of -7 to -11 degrees, that is towards the unloaded side. In conclusion, maximal voluntary pulling force in the frontal plane was found to be task dependent. Lowering was accompanied by higher forces and a different velocity and position dependency than lifting which, in addition to the fact that the trunk muscles act predominantly eccentrically during the lowering task, may impose an increased risk of injury.
Cells from major types of gliomas, i.e. oligodendrogliomas and glioblastomas, are able to generate action potentials upon a current injection similar to neurons (Patt et al. (1996) Neuroscience, 71, 601-611; Labrakakis et al. (1997b) J. Neuropath. Exp. Neurol., 56, 243-254. Here, we report that activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors by the selective agonist, kainate, or by glutamate itself, depolarized the tumour cells in culture and living slices from tumour tissue, and can elicit volleys of action potentials, as recorded with the patch-clamp technique. Sixty-six percent of the glioblastoma cells, 44% of the astocytoma and 86% of the oligodendroglioma cells responded to glutamate and the specific agonist of AMPA/kainate receptors, kainate. The involvement of non-NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors is further supported by the observation that both kainate and glutamate currents were blocked by CNQX (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione). The receptor activation was accompanied by an increase in cytosolic Ca2+, as recorded with a fura-2 microfluorometric system. The Ca2+ elevation was mediated by the activation of Ca2+ channels due to membrane depolarization. The presence of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels was confirmed by patch-clamp experiments. Taken together, these findings imply that the electrophysiological properties of glioma cells are more reminiscent of those of neurons than of glial cells.
The objective of the present study was to explore whether grafted immortalized neural stem cells, genetically modified to secrete nerve growth factor (NGF), can ameliorate neuronal death in the adult rat striatum following transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). One week after cell implantation in the striatum, animals were subjected to 30 min of MCAO. Striatal damage was evaluated at the cellular level after 48 h of recirculation using immunocytochemical and stereological techniques. The ischaemic insult caused an extensive degeneration of projection neurons, immunoreactive for dopamine- and adenosine 3': 5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein with a molecular weight of 32 kilodaltons (DARPP-32). 3H-Thymidine autoradiography demonstrated surviving grafted cells in the lesioned striatum in all transplanted rats. The loss of striatal projection neurons was significantly reduced (by an average of 45%) in animals with NGF-secreting grafts, whereas control cells, not producing NGF, had no effect. The neuroprotective action of NGF-secreting grafts was also observed when the total number of striatal neurons immunopositive for the neuronal marker NeuN was quantified, as well as in cresyl violet-stained sections. The present findings indicate that administration of NGF by ex vivo gene transfer and grafting of neural stem cells can ameliorate death of striatal projection neurons caused by transient focal ischaemia.
Male rats put in the presence of a receptive female rat that they can see, hear and smell, but cannot touch, show penile erection episodes. These non-contact erections occur concomitantly with an increase in nitric oxide production in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, as detected by the increase in the NO2- and NO3- concentration in the paraventricular dialysate obtained from these males by in vivo microdialysis. NO2- concentration increased from 0.81+/-0.12 to 2.51+/-0.43 microM and that of NO3- from 4.50+/-0.73 to 8.31+/-2.3 microM. The NO2- increase was prevented by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methylester (20 microg) given unilaterally in the paraventricular nucleus, which also prevented non-contact erections. In contrast, the nitric oxide scavenger haemoglobin (20 microg) prevented the NO2- increase, but not non-contact erections; while the guanylate cyclase inhibitor methylene blue (20 microg) was ineffective on either response. NO2-and NO3- concentration was also increased in the paraventricular dialysate of male rats during in copula penile erections, that is, when sexual activity was allowed with the receptive females. As found with non-contact erections, NG-nitro-L-arginine methylester prevented NO2- increase and impaired copulatory behaviour; haemoglobin prevented NO2- increase only; and methylene blue was ineffective on either response. The present results confirm that nitric oxide is a physiological mediator of penile erection at the level of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus.
The AS/AGU mutant rat is characterized by a wide staggering gait and a movement disorder of the hindlimbs. Local cerebral glucose utilization in the brain was investigated using the [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic technique to map any functional alterations in the mutant AS/AGU (agu/agu) compared with Albino Swiss controls (+/+). Locomotor tests were also performed to confirm the phenotypic assignment of the animals. Statistically significant reductions in glucose utilization were apparent in 12 of the 44 regions examined in the AS/AGU animals. The regions showing the most significant differences (P &lt; 0.01) from the control AS strain were the substantia nigra pars compacta (-23%) and medial geniculate body (-17%). Statistically significant decreases (P &lt; 0.05 and P &lt; 0.02) in glucose utilization ranging from -15 to -26% were also displayed in the superior colliculus superficial layer, auditory cortex, ventroposterior nucleus of the thalamus, molecular layer of the hippocampus, dentate gyrus, medial amygdaloid nucleus, median raphe nucleus, subthalamic nucleus, medial preoptic area of the hypothalamus and anterior hypothalamus. In no region studied was the mean value of glucose use in the AS/AGU rat greater than in the control animals. The results of this study complement previous behavioural and neurochemical characterization studies of this mutant, confirm that the disorder involves functional disturbances of the basal ganglia, and demonstrate the involvement of the limbic system and some sensory systems.
We recorded the signals of firing Retzius neurons from Hirudo medicinalis by field-effect transistors. The axon stump of dissociated cells was attached to an open gate coated with concanavalin A. We observed a new type of neuron-transistor coupling: the extracellular voltage transients beneath the neuron were dominated by a negative peak during the rising phase of the action potential with a weaker positive transient in the falling phase. The biphasic response was opposite to the signal of capacitive coupling. We simulated the junction on the basis of the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. We found that the negative transient corresponded to an inward flow of sodium and the positive response to an outward flow of potassium. The field-effect transistors are able to probe the local flow of ionic currents in a membrane which is hidden in the region of cell adhesion. They may become a novel tool in neuroscience.
In adults, visual inputs do not appear to contribute significantly to automatic postural muscle responses (90-100 ms latency) activated by transient support surface displacements causing threats to standing balance, but are activated through slow pathways with latencies of more than 200 ms. However, it has been shown that the postural sway behavior of early walking infants is strongly influenced by visual flow cues that falsely signal self-movement. To determine whether there also are significant contributions of vision to automatic postural muscle responses in this age group, two groups of infants were tested on a moveable platform; pre-walkers (n=6) and early walkers (n=6). Pre-walkers did not show any measurable effect of visual condition (vision vs no vision) on muscle response characteristics. However, the integrated gastrocnemius activity of early walkers increased significantly in vision versus no vision conditions (P&lt;0.05). These results show that visual cues contribute to, or modulate, the automatic postural responses in children who are in the developmental transition to independent walking.
To study the effects of pronounced hypoglycemia on brain osmolality and brain edema formation, fasted rats were rendered hypoglycemic by injection of insulin, and subjected to 30 min of hypoglycemic coma. Recovery was accomplished by glucose administration. The change in water content in different brain regions was measured as a change in specific gravity after 30 min of hypoglycemic coma, or 30, 60, and 180 min after glucose administration. Plasma and brain tissue osmolality were measured in separate animals. The results show a significant decrease in specific gravity (increase in water content) in all structures measured (caudoputamen, neocortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum) at the end of the period of coma, as well as after 30 min and 60 min of recovery. At 180 min of recovery, brain water was normalized. The edema affected all structures to the same degree regardless of their vulnerability to hypoglycemic damage. Brain tissue osmolality showed a tendency to decrease with decreasing tissue glucose content. The decrease was significant (P&lt;0.01) at 30 min of isoelectric coma. In the recovery phase, normal brain osmolality was restored within 30 min. Measurements of blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability after 30 min of hypoglycemic coma showed no extravasation of Evan's blue, though a small but significant increase in the permeability for aminoisobutyric acid (AIB) in caudoputamen and in cerebellum was found. To analyze the importance of tissue acidosis for formation of edema, hypoglycemic animals were made acidotic by increasing the CO2 concentration in inspired air to produce an arterial plasma pH of 6.8-6.9. In these animals the edema was of a similar degree to the normocapnic animals, and the permeability for AIB was normal. We conclude that osmolytic mechanisms are not the primary cause of the selective neuronal vulnerability in hypoglycemic coma. Furthermore, the BBB is largely intact during a hypoglycemic insult.
The present study characterizes a previously reported adaptive phenomenon in a somatosensory-motor system involved in directional control of locomotor trajectory through foot contact with the floor. We call this the &quot;podokinetic&quot; (PK) system. Podokinetic adaptation was induced in six subjects by stepping in-place over the axis of a horizontally rotating disc over a range of disc angular velocities (11.25-90 degrees/s) and durations (7.5-60 min). After adaptation, subjects were blindfolded and attempted to step in-place on the floor without turning. Instead they all rotated relative to space. The rate of the &quot;podokinetic afterrotation&quot; (PKAR) was linearly related to stimulus amplitude up to 45 degrees/s, and the ratio of initial PKAR velocity to that of the adaptive stimulus was approximately 1:3. PKAR exhibited exponential decay, which was composed of &quot;short-&quot; and &quot;long-term&quot; components with &quot;discharging&quot; time constants on the order of 6-12 min and 1-2 h, respectively. The effect of stimulus duration on PKAR revealed a &quot;charging&quot; time constant that approximated that of the short-term component. A significant suppression of PKAR occurred during the 1 st min of the postadaptive response, suggesting functional interaction between the PK and vestibular systems during the period of vestibular stimulation. During PKAR subjects perceived no self-rotation, indicating that perception as well as locomotor control of spatial orientation were remodeled by adaptation of the PK system.
Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease with dopamine-replacing agents such as L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is compromised by many side-effects, most notably involuntary movements, L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Acute challenge with dopamine-replacing drugs elicits a rotational response in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease. This rotation is contraversive to the lesion and is considered to represent an antiparkinsonian effect. More recently, it has become clear that the rotational response shows plasticity and that repeated L-DOPA or apomorphine therapy is accompanied by a marked enhancement in this response. In this study, we demonstrate that the enhanced behavioral response to repeated dopamine-replacement therapy seen in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat has pharmacological characteristics similar to L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia seen in MPTP-lesioned primates and man. Thus, the magnitude and rate of development of the enhanced response to L-DOPA treatment is related to both the number of doses and the size of the dose of L-DOPA administered. In contrast, de novo administration of dopaminergic drugs that are associated with a lower incidence of dyskinesia, e.g., bromocriptine or lisuride, does not lead to an enhanced behavioral response following repeated treatment. However, following a single &quot;priming&quot; administration of apomorphine, the rotational response elicited by subsequent bromocriptine administrations is enhanced with repeated treatment. Once established, the enhanced behavioral response to repeated L-DOPA-administration (6.5 mg/kg, twice daily) can, like L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in man and MPTP-treated monkeys, be selectively reduced by coadministration of L-DOPA with the alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine (10 mg/kg, -95%), the 5-HT uptake inhibitor 5-MDOT (2 mg/kg, -90%), or the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranalol (10 mg/kg, -35%). While these rats do not exhibit symptoms of dyskinesia per se, this rodent model does exhibit behaviors, the underlying mechanism of which is likely to be similar to that underlying L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and may prove useful in studying the molecular and cellular mechanisms of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.

Genes essential for vertebrate body plan specification, organ development, and organ function are likely to be shared between mammals and zebrafish, but only in zebrafish have large-scale, genome-wide mutagenesis screens been conducted to isolate embryonic lethal mutations. Discovering the roles played by these disrupted genes requires their molecular characterization, which would be facilitated by assaying large cloned genomic DNAs for their potential to rescue mutant phenotypes. Here we demonstrate that bacterial artificial chromosomes can rescue the phenotype of floating head (flh) mutants. Homozygous flh embryos lack a differentiated notochord and have a reduced, discontinuous floor plate. Mutant embryos injected with genomic clones containing the flh+ gene often had stretches of several to many notochord cells overlaid by a row of floor-plate cells. In contrast, control mutant embryos injected with artificial chromosomes lacking the flh+ gene failed to form notochord. We conclude that the injection of large-insert genomic clones will speed the isolation of zebrafish genes disrupted by mutation and hence the identification of gene functions necessary for development of vertebrate embryos.

The tricyclic antidepressant, amitriptyline, is an effective drug for the treatment of chronic tension-type headache and for other chronic pain syndromes, but it is also effective in the prophylaxis of an episodic type of headache such as migraine. However, its efficacy in episodic tension-type headache has not yet been clarified. We compared the efficacy of amitriptyline (25 mg/day) in 82 nondepressed patients with either chronic or episodic tension-type headache in an open-label study. Amitriptyline significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.05) frequency and duration of headache as well as analgesic consumption in chronic, but not in episodic, tension-type headache. Further placebo-controlled trials, possibly with higher doses of amitriptyline, might confirm if the different pattern of response to amitriptyline can be explained in terms of different involvement of central nociception and of peripheral myofascial factors in the chronic and in the episodic forms of tension-type headache.
To better understand the genetic mechanisms that regulate the formation of the temporal bone, we have characterized the developmental expression pattern of the mouse gene, Brn4/Pou3f4, which plays a central role in bony labyrinth formation. Expression of this gene is initially detected in the ventral aspect of the otic capsule at 10.5 days post coitus (dpc), and correlates with the onset of mesenchymal condensation in the otic capsule. As the otic capsule condenses further and surrounds the entire otic vesicle, the Brn4 gene product is detected throughout the inner ear in the mesenchyme of both the cochlear and vestibular aspects. Early in otic embryogenesis, the Brn4 gene product is localized to the nucleus of the vast majority of cells in which it is expressed. The Brn4 gene product remains nuclear in those regions of the otic capsule that eventually give rise to the mature bony labyrinth. However, the subcellular localization of the Brn4 gene product shifts from strictly nuclear to perinuclear in those regions of the otic capsule that will cavitate to form acellular regions in the temporal bone, such as the scala tympani, scala vestibuli, and the internal auditory meatus. These data provide a detailed analysis of the expression pattern of the Brn4 gene, and provide insight into the role of the Brn4 gene product and its regulation during otic capsule formation.

In recent studies, we analyzed effects of a large series of mAbs submitted to T-cell and adhesion structure sections of 6th International Workshop on Human Leukocyte Differentiation Antigens, on proliferative responses of a human CD4+ T cell clone. We found that certain mAbs to CD27, CD28, CD29, CD43 and CD44 markedly restore T cell responsiveness, only in the presence of the natural peptide ligand at low concentrations and even in the absence IL-2. To set up efficient strategies for developing T cell lines and clones reactive with self-peptides in vitro, we stimulated PBMC with a K-ras-derived peptide in the presence of these mAbs and found that: (a) anti-CD29 mAb MAR4 is effective for in vitro expansion of K-ras (residue 3-20)-reactive T cells from PBMC; (b) indeed, DR8 (DRB*0802)-restricted and DR51 (DRB5*0102)-restricted CD4+ T cell clones were established from the T cell lines; (c) MAR4 inhibits anti-CD3-induced apoptosis of PBMC; and (d) MAR4 is effective in enhancing anti-CD3- and antigen-induced proliferative responses of PBMC. Therefore, mAb MAR4 increased efficiency in establishing T cell clones from PBMC, both by suppressing antigen-driven activation-induced cell death and by enhancing the T cell proliferation, only in the presence of TCR/CD3-mediated stimulation. Possible application of MAR4 for establishing self-reactive T cell lines and expanding T cells ex vivo for anti-cancer immunotherapy, is discussed.
AN-100226 (Antegren), a humanized monoclonal antibody (MAb) directed against the alpha4beta1 integrin (VLA-4) expressed on leukocytes, is under development by Athena Neurosciences as a potential treatment of exacerbations in multiple sclerosis (MS). VLA-4 specifically binds to VCAM-1, a ligand present on brain endothelial cells which is a potential mediator of autoimmune disorders, leading to MS [222518]. Phase II trials in 70 patients with MS in the UK were assessed over a 12-week period. Antegren significantly reduced new brain lesions [275424]. In two separate pilot studies involving a total of 40 patients suffering from Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, treatment with Antegrin was well-tolerated and efficacious. Interim analysis of phase II data has indicated promising results [179966,276967]. Antegren is claimed in the associated patent, WO-09519790. VLA-4 itself and monoclonal antibodies for the integrin were first described in a patent (EP-00330506) by the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. In April 1998, Protein Design Labs (PDL) granted a worldwide, non-exclusive license for Antegren under its antibody humanization patents, to a subsidiary of Elan [286198].
A new method is presented for computing the electric lead field of a realistic head shape model which has piecewise homogeneous conductivity. The basic formulae are derived using the well-known reciprocity theorem. Previously described methods are also based upon this theorem, but these first calculate the electric potential inside the head by a scalar boundary element method (BEM), and then approximate the ohmic current density by some sort of gradient. In contrast, this paper proposes the direct evaluation of the ohmic current density by discretizing the vector Green's second identity which leads to a vector version of BEM. This approach also allows the derivation of the same equations for the three concentric spheres model as obtained by Rush and Driscoll [8]. The results of simulations on a spherical head model indicate that the use of a vector BEM leads to an improvement of accuracy in the computation of the ohmic current density with respect to those reported previously, in term of different measures of error.
The extremum stack, as proposed by Koenderink, is a multiresolution image description and segmentation scheme which examines intensity extrema (minima and maxima) as they move and merge through a series of progressively isotropically diffused images known as scale space. Such a data-driven approach is attractive because it is claimed to be a generally applicable and natural method of image segmentation. The performance of the extremum stack is evaluated here using the case of neurological magnetic resonance imaging data as a specific example, and means of improving its performance proposed. It is confirmed experimentally that the extremum stack has the desirable property of being shift-, scale-, and rotation-invariant, and produces natural results for many compact regions of anatomy. It handles elongated objects poorly, however, and subsections of regions may merge prematurely before each region is represented as a single node. It is shown that this premature merging can often be avoided by the application of either a variable conductance-diffusing preprocessing step, or more effectively, the use of an adaptive variable conductance diffusion method within the extremum stack itself in place of the isotropic Gaussian diffusion proposed by Koenderink.


Vulnerability-stress models of schizophrenia assert that the disorder results from an interaction between genetic or biologically acquired vulnerability and unfavourable environmental conditions. As our knowledge of early environmental factors for schizophrenia evolves, the question of links between early factors and a development of schizophrenia becomes more important. In this article, we analyse the relationship between obstetrical complications (OCs) and adult schizophrenia and methodological concerns in the search for pre- and perinatal risk factors. We review findings of aberrant electrodermal activity in schizophrenic patients and suggest that OCs may induce insults to cerebral structures that are critically involved in the control of orienting and of autonomic responses.
A transient increase in brain polyamine metabolism, termed the polyamine-stress-response is a common response to stressful stimuli. Previous studies have implicated an over-reactive polyamine response as a component of the maladaptive brain response to stressful events, and as a novel molecular mechanism involved in the pathophysiology of affective disorders. Ample evidence indicates that stressful experiences during early life can alter normal developmental processes and may result in pathophysiological and behavioral changes in the adult. Additionally, an important characteristic of affective disorders is their age dependency, a phenomenon that may be correlated with a maladaptive regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) neuroendocrine system. In the present study we measured the activities of the enzymes ornithine decarboxylase and S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase as markers of polyamine synthesis and found that unlike adults, immature rats do not show the characteristic brain polyamine-stress-response. Instead of the characteristic increase observed in adults, ornithine decarboxylase activity in immature animals was reduced or remained unchanged (for up to 16 days of age) after a dexamethasone injection or restraint stress application. The ontogenesis of this ornithine decarboxylase response was brain region-specific, indicating its dependence on the stage of neuronal maturation. Animals treated with dexamethasone at 7 days of age, showed increased behavioral reactivity in the open-field test as adults and an attenuated increase in ornithine decarboxylase activity after a re-challenge with dexamethasone at age 60 days. The results indicate that: (1) the brain polyamine-stress-response is developmentally regulated and its ontogenesis is brain region-specific, indicating dependence on the stage of neuronal maturation; (2) the switch to a mature polyamine-stress-response pattern coincides with the cessation of the stress hyporesponsive period in the HPA system: (3) activation of the polyamine-stress-response, as in the mature brain, appears to be a constructive reaction, while its down-regulation, as in the developing brain, may be implicated in neuronal cell death; (4) an attenuated dexamethasone-induced increase in ornithine decarboxylase activity implicates an altered polyamine-stress-response in the maladaptive response of the brain to stressful events.
Repeated isolation of neonatal rats produces persistent changes in physiology and behavior. In Experiment 1, we examined changes in plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels as a possible mechanism for the effects of isolation. Pups that were isolated from their mother and the nest for 1 h per day on postnatal days (PND) 2-9 were compared to control litters of pups that were either nonhandled or handled but not isolated. On PND 2, compared to nonhandled pups, handled pups had elevated CORT levels that returned to baseline levels within 30 to 60 min of return to the home cage. No significant elevation of CORT levels were found in handled pups on PND 9. The CORT levels of isolated pups were over twice those of nonhandled pups on PND 2 and four times those of nonhandled pups on PND 9. In Experiment 2, we investigated whether the increased CORT release in response to isolation on PND 9 was the result of the pups' treatment on the previous six days as against an effect of maturation. Plasma CORT levels were measured in rat pups that were either isolated, handled or nonhandled on PNDs 2-8 during the conditions of isolation, handling and nonhandling on PND 9. There were no differences among the groups in basal plasma levels of CORT. Handling on PND 9 did not result in elevated CORT levels in any of the groups. All three groups showed a significant increase in plasma CORT levels after isolation on PND 9. However, the CORT response to isolation of pups previously isolated on PND 2-8 were significantly higher than pups that were either handled or nonhandled on PNDs 2-8. Thus, daily episodes of isolation potentiate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal response to stress.
Early-life stimulation (e.g., brief handling) attenuates the behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to stressors encountered in adulthood, particularly with respect to activation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity. In contrast, if neonates were subjected to a more severe stressor, such as protracted separation from the dam or exposure to an endotoxin, then the adult response to a stressor was exaggerated. These early-life experiences program HPA functioning, including negative feedback derived from stimulation of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors, and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) coexpression in PVN neurons, to modify the response to subsequent stressor experiences. The persistent variations of HPA activity observed in handled/stimulated animals may stem from alterations in dam-pup interactions (e.g. increased arched-back feeding, licking, grooming). In addition genetic makeup is critical in determining stress reactivity. For instance, BALB/cByJ mice are more reactive to stressors than C57BL/6ByJ mice, exhibiting greater HPA hormonal alterations and behavioral disturbances. BALB/cByJ also fail to acquire a spatial learning response in a Morris water-maze paradigm, which has been shown to be correlated with hippocampal cell loss associated with aging. Early-life handling of BALB/cByJ mice prevented these performance deficits and attenuated the hypersecretion of ACTH and corticosterone elicited by stressors. The stressor reactivity may have been related to maternal and genetic factors. When BALB/cByJ mice were raised by a C57BL/6ByJ dam, the excessive stress-elicited HPA activity was reduced, as were the behavioral impairments. However, cross-fostering the more resilient C57BL/6ByJ mice to a BALB/cByJ dam failed to elicit the behavioral disturbances. It is suggested that genetic factors may influence dam-pup interactive styles and may thus proactively influence the response to subsequent stressors among vulnerable animals. In contrast, in relatively hardy animals the early-life manipulations may have less obvious effects.

We investigated the effects of repeated hypercapnic episodes (inspired CO2 fraction = 0.10) on posthypercapnic respiratory nerve discharge. Anesthetized (urethan), vagotomized, and artificially ventilated rats were presented with three consecutive 5-min episodes of hyperoxic hypercapnia, separated by 5 min of hyperoxic normocapnia (inspired O2 fraction = 0.5). Respiratory nerve discharge and blood gases were recorded before and 30 and 60 min after the final hypercapnic episode. Posthypercapnia, arterial PCO2 was maintained within 1 Torr of initial baseline values. Integrated phrenic and hypoglossal burst amplitudes decreased posthypercapnia by up to 46 +/- 17 and 55 +/- 13% of baseline values, respectively, and remained reduced for at least 1 h [long-term depression (LTD)]. The protocol was repeated in rats pretreated with the alpha2-adrenergic antagonists yohimbine HCl (0.5 mg/kg; n = 7) or 2-[2-(2-methoxy-1,4-benzodioanyl)]imidazoline (RX-821002) HCl (0.25 mg/kg; n = 3). Both drugs attenuated LTD in the phrenic and hypoglossal neurograms. Results indicate that episodic hypercapnia elicits a yohimbine- and RX-821002-sensitive LTD of respiratory nerve activity in rats, suggesting that LTD requires alpha2-receptor activation.
The primary hypothesis of this study was that the cough motor pattern is produced, at least in part, by the medullary respiratory neuronal network in response to inputs from &quot;cough&quot; and pulmonary stretch receptor relay neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii. Computer simulations of a distributed network model with proposed connections from the nucleus tractus solitarii to ventrolateral medullary respiratory neurons produced coughlike inspiratory and expiratory motor patterns. Predicted responses of various &quot;types&quot; of neurons (I-DRIVER, I-AUG, I-DEC, E-AUG, and E-DEC) derived from the simulations were tested in vivo. Parallel and sequential responses of functionally characterized respiratory-modulated neurons were monitored during fictive cough in decerebrate, paralyzed, ventilated cats. Coughlike patterns in phrenic and lumbar nerves were elicited by mechanical stimulation of the intrathoracic trachea. Altered discharge patterns were measured in most types of respiratory neurons during fictive cough. The results supported many of the specific predictions of our cough generation model and suggested several revisions. The two main conclusions were as follows: 1) The Btzinger/rostral ventral respiratory group neurons implicated in the generation of the eupneic pattern of breathing also participate in the configuration of the cough motor pattern. 2) This altered activity of Btzinger/rostral ventral respiratory group neurons is transmitted to phrenic, intercostal, and abdominal motoneurons via the same bulbospinal neurons that provide descending drive during eupnea.
The aim of the study was to compare social initiatives and gaze behavior in low-functioning children with a pervasive developmental disorder (PDD), high-functioning children with a PDD, children with a language disorder, and normally developing children. Behavior of the children was observed while they watched television and performed a playful task with a parent. Compared to the high-functioning children, the low-functioning children with a PDD showed fewer social initiatives. The high-functioning children with a PDD did not differ from the non-PDD control children in the number of social initiatives and gazes. However, in children with PDD, timing of social gaze proved to be different in that they had lower levels of visual checking before but not after a declarative pointing gesture. Furthermore, they had lower levels of returning gaze.
Circadian rhythms in mammals are synchronized to environmental light-dark cycles through a direct retinal projection to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), a circadian clock. This process is thought to be modulated by other afferents to the SCN, including a dense serotonergic projection from the midbrain raphe. Previous work from this laboratory demonstrated that a systemically administered 5-hydroxytryptamine1A/7 (5-HT1A/7) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) dose dependently attenuates light-induced phase shifts of the circadian activity rhythm of the Syrian hamster. In this study, we demonstrate that local injections (1-100 microM) of the 5-HT1A/7 agonists 8-OH-DPAT or 5-carboxamidotryptamine into the region of the SCN inhibit light-induced phase advances of the circadian wheel-running rhythm. In addition, the inhibitory effects of systemically administered 8-OH-DPAT were unaffected by either radiofrequency-induced lesions of the intergeniculate leaflet or 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-induced lesions of serotonergic projections to the SCN. These findings support a modulatory role of serotonin in photic regulation of circadian phase through an action at the level of the SCN.
Acute exposure of human saphenous vein or internal thoracic artery endothelium to either morphine [27.4 +/- 3.7 and 35.4 +/- 4.1 nM nitric oxide (NO), respectively] or anandamide (18.3 +/- 2.2 and 24.3 +/- 3.0 nM, respectively) results in NO release, whereas exposure to the human immunodeficiency virus envelope protein gp120 does not. After the short-term exposure of the vessel endothelium, monocyte adherence is diminished with morphine and anandamide treatment (jointly by -80%), whereas it is enhanced with that of gp120 (approximately 40%), indicating that gp120 enhances the ability of the endothelium to adhere monocytes. Long-term or continuous exposure of the endothelia to all agents results in a significant enhancement of monocyte adherence (p &lt; 0.05), which is further increased when exposed to either morphine and anandamide plus gp120. This is caused by a desensitization of the endothelium to further NO release after the initial exposure to either anandamide or morphine. The results serve to indicate that in individuals abusing opiates and or cannabinoids, a tissue [i.e., central nervous system (CNS)] viral load may be higher, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) may progress more rapidly because monocyte adherence and mobility is significantly increased, indicating a higher level of transmembrane migration.
Nitric oxide (NO) production regulates vasodilation in many blood vessels. Additionally, constitutive NO release is being associated with positive biomedical phenomena, whereas inducible NO synthase (iNOS)-associated NO release with detrimental consequences in regard to endothelial inflammatory activities. As yet, an important link demonstrating why one is activated over the other is not available. Previous studies have demonstrated that morphine and anandamide effector processes are coupled to NO release in human endothelial cells (ECs). This study now extends this observation in that these endogenous signaling molecules may use NO directly to inhibit adenylate cyclase activity. Activation of human ECs, obtained from the saphenous vein, with morphine- or anandamide-stimulated NO release (35 nM and 28 nM, respectively) that peaked within 5 min and returned to basal levels within 10 min of agonist stimulation, consistent with constitutive NO synthase (cNOS) activation. Significant release of NO from ECs stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) occurred after 2 h after exposure and remained significantly increased over basal levels for 24-48 h (28 nM), consistent with iNOS activation. Preincubation of ECs with morphine or anandamide before, but not after, the addition of LPS + IFN, blocked iNOS activity. Exposure of ECs to the NO donor, SNAP, before the addition of LPS + IFN, blocked iNOS induction, whereas preincubation of ECs with inhibitors of NOS, before morphine or anandamide exposure, restored LPS + IFN induction of iNOS, suggesting a direct impact of NO on the regulation of iNOS activity. Morphine and anandamide stimulation of ECs did not stimulate cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation, whereas a marked increase in cAMP was observed in ECs treated with LPS + IFN (8.2 to 33 pmol/mg protein). Treatment of ECs with LPS + IFN did not induce cAMP accumulation in ECs treated with morphine, anandamide, or SNAP before LPS + IFN exposure. These data suggest that cAMP is required for the induction of iNOS in ECs and that NO may directly impair adenylate cyclase activity, preventing iNOS activation.

The circadian melatonin rhythm with high levels in the dark period is important for the synchronization of reproductive response to appropriate environmental conditions in animals. The target sites of melatonin action on reproductive functions remain to be clarified. Using autoradiography (ARG) and radioreceptor binding assays with 2[125I]iodomelatonin, a melatonin agonist, as the radioligand, studies on the sites of melatonin action have increased significantly in the last ten years. The recent cloning of melatonin receptor subtypes also allowed the characterization of receptor(s) to the molecular level. Earlier reports have documented that the hypothalamic-pituitary axis plays a vital role in the regulation of reproduction by melatonin. This is supported in part by the demonstration of melatonin receptors in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) in the brain and pars tuberalis (PT) in the pituitary. However, the nature of SCN and PT involvement in the reproductive action of melatonin remains unknown. In addition to the hypothalamus and pituitary, the two classical sites of melatonin action, other targets have been identified. The recent demonstration of 2[125I]iodomelatonin binding sites or melatonin receptors in the testis, epididymis, vas deferens, prostate, ovary and mammary gland suggest the concept of multiple sites of melatonin action on the reproductive system. The presence of melatonin receptors in the said tissues is consistent with earlier reports of direct melatonin actions on different levels of the reproductive system. This multiple levels of melatonin action, from the hypothalamus, pituitary, gonads to other reproductive tissues form a robust system of photoperiodic control in animal reproduction. This would guarantee successful gestation and delivery of the offspring at a time with optimum food availability and ultimately favourable for the survival of species. Molecular and cellular studies of melatonin signaling system(s), its regulation and effects on downstream functional events in the future may provide new insights and directions for the study of the physiology and pharmacology of fertility and contraception in animals and humans.

This study examined whether the high sensitivity of plasma free metanephrines for diagnosis of pheochromocytoma may result from production of free metanephrines within tumors. Presence in pheochromocytomas of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), the enzyme responsible for conversion of catecholamines to metanephrines, was confirmed by Western blot analysis, enzyme assay, and immunohistochemistry. Western blot analysis and enzyme assay indicated that membrane-bound and not soluble COMT was the predominant form of the enzyme in pheochromocytoma. Immunohistochemistry revealed colocalization of COMT in the same chromaffin cells where catecholamines are translocated into storage vesicles by the vesicular monoamine transporter. Levels of free metanephrines in pheochromocytoma over 10,000 times higher than plasma concentrations in the same patients before removal of tumors indicated production of metanephrines within tumors. Comparisons of the production of metanephrines in patients with pheochromocytoma with production from catecholamines released or infused into the circulation indicated that more than 93% of the consistently elevated levels of circulating free metanephrines in patients with pheochromocytoma are derived from metabolism before and not after release of catecholamines into the circulation. The data indicate that the elevated plasma levels of free metanephrines in patients with pheochromocytoma are derived from catecholamines produced and metabolized within tumors. Some tumors do not secrete catecholamines, but all appear to metabolize catecholamines to free metanephrines, thus explaining the better sensitivity of plasma free metanephrines over other tests for diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
Glucocorticoids are widely used in clinical practice in a variety of immune-mediated and neoplastic diseases, mostly for their immunosuppressive, leukopenic, antiedematous, or malignancy-suppressive actions. However, their usage is limited because of serious and sometimes life-threatening side-effects. Endogenous glucocorticoids are secreted by the adrenal cortex under the control of the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland. This hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, in turn, is under the negative feedback control of glucocorticoids. Although the suppression of adrenocortical and pituitary gland functions by glucocorticoids has been shown in humans, a feedback effect at the level of the hypothalamus, as shown in rat, has not been reported to date. The present study shows for the first time that glucocorticoids suppress both CRH and vasopressin (AVP) in the human hypothalamus. We studied immunocytochemically the postmortem hypothalami of nine corticosteroid-exposed subjects and eight controls. The number of CRH-expressing cells in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus of glucocorticoid-exposed patients was only 3.3% of that in the controls, and the total immunoreactivities for AVP were 31% and 33% of that in the controls in the supraoptic nucleus and the paraventricular nucleus, respectively, whereas the immunoreactivity for oxytocin did not differ between the two groups. Suppression of hypothalamic CRH and AVP neurons by glucocorticoids may have important consequences for neuroendocrinological mechanisms such as the disturbance of water balance during the treatment as well as the immunological processes in the brain and the pathogenesis of the withdrawal syndrome after discontinuation of corticosteroid treatment. In addition, as both AVP and CRH neurons also project to other brain structures and influence memory, mood, and behavior, their suppression by glucocorticoids may be responsible for at least part of the central nervous system side-effects of glucocorticoids.
This study examined whether verbal and visual memory impairments in multiple sclerosis (MS) are attributable to deficits in acquisition, storage, or retrieval. Volunteers with MS (n = 40) and healthy controls (n = 20) rehearsed a word list and a checkerboard pattern using a selective reminding procedure until two consecutive error-free trials were attained. Recall and recognition were assessed after 30 min and 90 min (and 1 week for verbal material) delays. The MS group required significantly more trials to attain criterion on both learning tests. Once equated for acquisition, both groups performed similarly on verbal recall and recognition. However the MS group performed significantly worse on measures of visual recall and recognition. The results suggest that the verbal memory impairment in MS is due to deficient acquisition, while the visual memory impairment in MS is attributable to deficits in acquisition and storage.


The effect of electrode placement on cardiovascular responses was studied. Rate pressure product and diastolic blood pressure before anesthesia and 30 s after electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) seizure were recorded. Recordings were made at the first (threshold ECT) session in 124 bilateral ECT (BLECT) and 95 unilateral ECT (ULECT) consenting patients. Postictal rate pressure product (RPP) was significantly higher after BLECT than ULECT. Mean increase in RPP from pre- to postictal phase was 31% in the former. The corresponding change with ULECT (20%) was significantly smaller. In the stepwise, multiple regression model, pre-ECT RPP, age, and stimulus laterality significantly contributed to postictal RPP. No cardiovascular complications occurred in any of the 219 ECT sessions.
The aim of this study was to assess the changes which occurred in the rat in target muscles after the injury and repair of a specific peripheral nerve, using several clinically-appropriate surgical techniques. There were alterations in the size, shape, morphology and cytochemical architecture of the fibres of the target muscles. These changes were marked when transection and repair of the nerve was compared with the less-severe crush injury. The method of repair did not correlate significantly with the occurrence of changes in muscle cytoarchitecture. The results suggest that the extent of cell loss and the changes in muscle fibre architecture were influenced by the type of injury, rather than by the method of repair.
Six sheep underwent repair of the median nerve in the forearm using freeze-thawed muscle autografts, along with the establishment and repair of a &quot;fracture&quot; adjacent to the site of nerve injury. The &quot;fracture&quot; was created by making a transverse osteotomy of the radius. It was repaired using an 8-hole dynamic compression plate. A further six sheep underwent similar treatment with the repair of the nerve delayed for 30 days after the establishment of the long-bone injury. Six months after the nerve repair, each group of sheep was assessed using electrophysiological and morphometric methods in order to establish objective indices of nerve recovery and regeneration. It was found that delay of the nerve repair and the presence of a complicating long-bone injury, both separately and additively, contributed to a poorer outcome in recovery of nerve function and maturation.
&gt; Objective: This paper describes the deliberations of an interdisciplinary group of clinical and basic scientists who met at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development to discuss the potential role of fetal behavior in assessing fetal well being and predicting neonatal outcome. The conference focused on three aspects of fetal behavior: 1) habituation; 2) state transitions; and 3) movement. Methods: The participants consisted of 25 leaders in the fields of obstetrics, perinatal medicine, neonatology, developmental psychobiology, developmental neuroscience, developmental psychology, ethology, and mathematics. The meeting was divided into three parts. In each of these a plenary speaker (a recognized expert in his field) began the session with an overview of the scientific theme. Two respondents, with research expertise in fetal research (animal models or human fetuses) followed with remarks on the plenary talk and comments based on their own studies. At the conclusion of these comments, the participants met in small groups to discuss the plenary proceedings and their implications for assessing human fetal well being and predicting outcome. At the conclusion of the small group deliberations all of the participants reconvened in a plenary session. During this part of the meeting a rapporteur from each small group summarized their discussions. Results and Conclusions: 1) Fetal habituation: there was a general consensus that research on this aspect of fetal behavior may have a high payoff for assessing human fetal well being and predicting neonatal outcome. 2) Behavioral state transitions: participants agreed that transitions afford investigators with an indication of when (timing) and how (models) behavior changes within and between developmental periods. Knowledge of transitions during development allows for tracking of behaviors that may be necessary for the fetus to adapt to its in utero environment or prepare for its postnatal life. 3) Chaos theory and fetal movement: participants concluded that non-linear dynamics systems analysis models could be useful to analyze &quot;noise&quot; within a measurement system; better define time scales; and increase resolution and thereby better identify &quot;signals.&quot;
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit mRNA expression in the rat substantia nigra (SN) was assayed by semiquantitative RT-PCR following 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Six months after unilateral injection of 6-OHDA or saline into the SN, total RNA was isolated from ipsilateral and contralateral tissue samples. RT-PCR amplifications were performed with template titration using primers specific for sequences encoding 1. nAChR alpha 2-alpha 7 and beta 2-beta 4 subunits 2. Glutamic acid decarboxylase 3. Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase for normalization of template mass. PCR products specific for alpha 3, alpha 4, alpha 5, alpha 6, alpha 7, beta 2, beta 3, and glutamic acid decarboxylase were detected in the reactions containing SN RNA. This is the first evidence that alpha 7 may be expressed in the SN. alpha 2 and beta 4 PCR products were not detected in SN reactions, although they were observed in hippocampus and thalamus control reactions. A comparison of ipsilateral and contralateral SN RT-PCR reaction products showed substantial decreases in alpha 5, alpha 6, and beta 3 product yields following 6-OHDA, but not sham treatment. Neither the SN of sham-lesioned rats nor the thalamus of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats yielded similar results, indicating that the effects observed in 6-OHDA-treated SN were not caused by local mechanical damage or a nonspecific response, respectively. Effects of 6-OHDA treatment on alpha 3, alpha 4, alpha 7, beta 2, or glutamic acid decarboxylase product yields from SN samples were small or undetectable. The results suggest that alpha 5, alpha 6, and beta 3 subunit-encoding mRNAs are expressed at substantially higher levels in dopaminergic than in nondopaminergic cell bodies in the SN.
Chronic administration of antidepressants produces region-specific adaptive changes in the radioligand binding properties of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. We hypothesized that this effect of chronic antidepressant administration was owing to an alteration in NMDA receptor subunit composition. This hypothesis was examined using in situ hybridization with [35S]-labeled riboprobes to quantify the impact of chronic (16 d) injection with either imipramine (15 mg/kg) or citalopram (20 mg/kg) on the levels of transcripts encoding NMDA receptor subunits in mouse brain. These antidepressants altered the levels of mRNA encoding the zeta-subunit in a parallel fashion, with both drugs either reducing transcript levels (e.g., in the cortex, cerebellum, thalamus, and striatum) or producing no substantial effects (e.g., hippocampus). In contrast, these antidepressants often produced distinct, region-specific effects on mRNA levels encoding the epsilon family of subunits. For example, citalopram treatment produced widespread reductions in epsilon 1-subunit mRNA levels (e.g., in frontal cortex, CA2 of hippocampus, and amygdala), whereas imipramine reduced levels of this transcript only in the amygdala. Conversely, imipramine treatment produced widespread reductions in epsilon 2-subunit mRNA levels (e.g., in cortex, CA1-4 of hippocampus, and amygdala), whereas the effects of citalopram on levels of this transcript were largely restricted to amygdala. These findings indicate that long-term antidepressant treatment produces region-specific changes in expression of transcripts for NMDA receptor subunits, presumably altering NMDA receptor composition. Because subunit composition determines the physiological and pharmacological properties of NMDA receptors, these changes may play a critical role in the therapeutic actions of structurally diverse antidepressants.
The neurotransmitter serotonin has been implicated in numerous physiological functions and pathophysiological disorders. The hydroxylation of the aromatic amino acid tryptophan is rate-limiting in the synthesis of serotonin. Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), as the rate-limiting enzyme, determines the concentrations of serotonin in vivo. Relative serotonin concentrations are clearly important in neural transmission, but serotonin has also been reported to function as a local antioxidant. Identification of the mechanisms regulating TPH activity has been hindered by its low levels in tissues and the instability of the enzyme. Several TPH expression systems have been developed to circumvent these problems. In addition, eukaryotic expressions systems are currently being developed and represent a new avenue of research for identifying TPH regulatory mechanisms. Recombinant DNA technology has enabled the synthesis of TPH deletions, chimeras, and point mutations that have served as tools for identifying structural and functional domains within TPH. Notably, the experiments have proven long-held hypotheses that TPH is organized into N-terminal regulatory and C-terminal catalytic domains, that serine-58 is a site for PKA-mediated phosphorylation, and that a C-terminal leucine zipper is involved in formation of the tetrameric holoenzyme. Several new findings have also emerged regarding regulation of TPH activity by posttranslational phosphorylation, kinetic inhibition, and covalent modification. Inhibition of TPH by L-DOPA may have implications for depression in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. In addition, TPH inactivation by nitric oxide may be involved in amphetamine-induced toxicity. These regulatory concepts, in conjunction with new systems for studying TPH activity, are the focus of this article.
The polycations spermine, neomycin and polylysine potentiated Ca(2+)-activated force in beta-escin permeabilized guinea-pig ileum strips. The effect was inhibited by the calmodulin antagonists trifluoperazine, mastoparan and W13. Potentiation was slow or absent in chi-toxin permeabilized strips, indicating dependence on penetration of the polycations into cells. The effects of spermine and neomycin were maintained after extensive permeabilization by beta-escin, which eliminated the contractile effect of GTPgammaS. Replacement of ATP by CTP, which is not a substrate for myosin light chain kinase, inhibited contractile potentiation. Potentiation of Ca(2+)-activated contractions was associated with increased phosphorylation of the myosin regulatory light chains (LC20). A contractile effect of polylysine and neomycin was also seen in Ca(2+)-free medium and after partial LC20 thiophosphorylation, indicating that phosphorylation-independent processes may contribute to the response. Although spermine does not cause contraction in Ca(2+)-free medium at physiological [MgATP], it did so when [MgATP] was lowered to 40 micron. Similar to high-[Mg2+], the rate of contraction on addition of ATP to strips incubated with microcystin-LR in inhibit phosphatase activity was increased by the polycations, but only at [Ca2+] &lt; 0.3 micron. The results suggest that polycations increase Ca(2+)-activated force by inhibiting myosin phosphatase activity, thereby increasing myosin LC20 phosphorylation. However, additional activation mechanisms, evident at low [Ca2+] and at low [ATP] and possibly involving direct activation of myosin, contribute to their effect.
Ecdysteroid hormones trigger the programmed cell death (PCD) of a segmental subset of accessory planta retractor (APR) motoneurons at pupation in the moth, Manduca sexta. APRs from abdominal segment four [APR (4)s] survive through the pupal stage, whereas homologous APR(6)s die 24-48 h after pupal ecdysis (PE) (the shedding of the larval cuticle), in response to the prepupal peak of ecdysteroids. Following retrograde labeling with the vital fluorescent dye, DiI, the morphology of APR(4)s and APR(6)s in vivo was examined at PE and 24-48 h later. During this period, APR(4) somata remained large and ovoid while APR(6)s somata became shrunken and rounded. Similar phenotypes were observed when DiI-labeled APRs were cultured at PE and examined 24 h to 1 week later. During initial shrinkage and rounding of APR(6)s, the plasma membrane remained intact but DNA condensation occurred and mitochondrial activity was lost. The requirements for ecdysteroids and new protein synthesis for APR(6) death were tested by culturing cells with ecdysteroids and cycloheximide (CHX). When cultured at PE, the death of APR(6)s was independent of further exposure to ecdysteroids and could not be blocked by CHX. In contrast, APR(6)s cultured 24 h earlier required additional exposure to ecdysteroids to die and their death was inhibited by CHX. Thus, the final 24 h of larval life represents an important transition period in the commitment of APR(6)s to undergo PCD, and is of interest for pursuing underlying mechanisms of steroid-induced PCD.
Neuronogenesis during posthatching development of the procerebrum of the terrestrial snail Helix lucorum was analyzed using bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry to label proliferating cells. Comparison of the distribution of labeled cells in a series of animals which differed in age at the time of incubation with bromodeoxyuridine, in survival time after incubation, and in age at sacrifice reveals a clear pattern and developmental sequence in neuron origin. First, the proliferating cells are located only at the apical portion of the procerebrum. Second, cells which are produced at any particular age remain, for the most part, confined to a single layer in the procerebrum. Third, as development proceeds, each layer of previously produced neurons is displaced toward the basal part of the procerebrum by the production of additional neurons. Our results suggest that the vast majority of the neurons (probably about 70-80%) of the snail procerebrum are produced during the first 1-2 months of posthatching development.
In the olfactory bulb, muscarinic receptors exert a bimodal control on cyclic AMP, enhancing basal and Gs-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities and inhibiting the Ca2+/calmodulin- and forskolin-stimulated enzyme activities. In the present study, we investigated the involvement of G protein betagamma subunits by examining whether the muscarinic responses were reproduced by the addition of betagamma subunits of transducin (betagamma(t)) and blocked by putative betagamma scavengers. Membrane incubation with betagamma(t) caused a stimulation of basal adenylyl cyclase activity that was not additive with that produced by carbachol. Like carbachol, betagamma(t) potentiated the enzyme stimulations elicited by vasoactive intestinal peptide and corticotropin-releasing hormone. RT-PCR analysis revealed the expression of mRNAs encoding both type II and type IV adenylyl cyclase, two isoforms stimulated by betagamma synergistically with activated Gs. In addition, betagamma(t) inhibited the Ca2+/calmodulin- and forskolin-stimulated enzyme activities, and this effect was not additive with that elicited by carbachol. Membrane incubation with either one of two betagamma scavengers, the GDP-bound form of the alpha subunit of transducin and the QEHA fragment of type II adenylyl cyclase, reduced both the stimulatory and inhibitory effects of carbachol. These data provide evidence that in rat olfactory bulb the dual regulation of cyclic AMP by muscarinic receptors is mediated by betagamma subunits likely acting on distinct isoforms of adenylyl cyclase.
The normal stability of the cell membrane bilayer depends on its lipid composition being appropriate to the ambient (physiological) temperature, Tp. Membrane lipid composition may be altered by disease such that the bilayer is only stable at a new critical temperature, T*, which may differ from Tp. In Alzheimer's disease (AD) temporal cortex, a defect of lipid composition has previously been identified, namely, a decrease in the ratio of plasmalogen to nonplasmalogen ethanolamine glycerophospholipids. Furthermore, for AD temporal cortex neural membranes, T* &lt; Tp, a finding confirmed in the present study in a larger series than previously, using a new method for obtaining T*. This inequality between T* and Tp has been proposed as a putative contributory pathogenetic mechanism leading to membrane destabilisation in AD brain. The plasmalogen deficiency could account for the change in T* in AD, as shown by experiments where T* was measured for artificial lipid mixtures simulating brain membranes with varying plasmalogen/nonplasmalogen ratios. The critical temperature was found to be very sensitive to small alterations in plasmalogen content.
Quantitative alpha-[3H]amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid ([3H]AMPA) binding autoradiography was performed on frozen-thawed sections from rat brain after preincubation at 0 or 35 degrees C for 1 h. Preincubation at 35 degrees C instead of 0 degrees C resulted in a selective decrease of [3H]AMPA binding assayed at a low concentration of [3H]AMPA (50 nM) and an enhancement of binding at a high concentration (500 nM). The decrease in [3H]AMPA binding after preincubation at 35 degrees C was accompanied with the loss of the lighter organelles of P3 (microsomal) fractions. These organelles were found to contain a small subpopulation of AMPA/GluR receptors exhibiting a high affinity for [3H]AMPA (K(D) approximately 14 nM), whereas heavier organelles exhibited lower affinity for AMPA (K(D) approximately 190 nM). This small subpopulation of AMPA/GluR receptors contained almost exclusively a structurally distinct species of GluR2/3 subunits with an apparent molecular mass of 103.5 kDa (assessed with anti-GluR2/3, C-terminal antibodies). Experiments using two deglycosylating enzymes, N-glycopeptidase F and endoglycosidase H, clearly indicated that the 103.5-kDa species represented a partially unglycosylated form of GluR2/3 subunits containing the high-mannose type of oligosaccharide moiety, whereas receptors present in synaptosomal fractions were composed of subunits with complex oligosaccharides. A similar result was obtained by using an antibody recognizing the N-terminal domain of GluR2(4). The same enzymatic treatment indicated that GluR1 subunits also exhibited a partially glycosylated form. These data indicate that high-affinity [3H]AMPA binding sites represent nonsynaptic, intracellular membrane-bound AMPA receptors that differ from synaptic receptors by at least the glycosylation state of GluR2 (and GluR1) subunits. In addition, our results provide a relatively simple way of assessing changes in two spatially and structurally distinct [3H]AMPA binding/GluR sites.
The peptides of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) family transduce their signal through ligand-induced heteromeric complexes that consist of type I and type II serine/threonine kinases. Both TGF-beta receptors are abundant in many peripheral tissues, but clear evidence of their expression in cortical astrocytes and neurons has not been published so far. In this study, we investigated the expression of type I and type II TGF-beta receptors and their potential ligands (TGF-beta1, TGF-beta2, and TGF-beta3) in the CNS by using RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. Moreover, to further the study of those cell types that exhibit TGF-beta isoforms and related receptors, we examined through the use of RT-PCR whether cortical neurons and astrocytes in culture express the mRNAs for TGF-betas and their receptors. We show that the three TGF-beta isoform mRNAs are present in the CNS. However, although astrocytes in culture display all three isoforms, neurons in culture express only TGF-beta2. We have demonstrated that both type I and type II TGF-beta receptor mRNAs and proteins are present in the CNS and in cultures of cortical neurons and astrocytes. Thus, TGF-betas may act as autocrine and paracrine signals in the CNS between both neurons and astrocytes via the same receptor systems as those found in peripheral tissues. TGF-beta1 has been shown to be induced following hypoxic-ischemic brain injury and may play a critical role in the pathophysiology of degenerative processes in the CNS. In the present investigation, we confirmed that the expression of TGF-beta1 was increased markedly up until 24 h and thereafter was stable over the first 3 days following permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in mice. However, whereas the expression of the type I TGF-beta receptor was not altered by the ischemic insult, the pattern of the type II TGF-beta receptors was modified dramatically in the ischemic area 3 days after the occlusion. These data show that, even if ligands are present, they may not be able to transduce their signal. Finally, the present study clearly demonstrates that a knowledge of the expression of ligand-specific receptors following brain injury is a fundamental step in clarifying the involvement of cytokines in neurodegenerative diseases.
The norepinephrine (NE) transporter (NET), a target of many clinically prescribed antidepressants, regulates noradrenergic neurotransmission by efficiently clearing NE from synaptic spaces after release. To advance our understanding of NET gene structure, regulation, and potential associations with complex behavioral trait loci, we amplified a mouse norepinephrine transporter (mNET) cDNA from placenta total RNA and utilized mNET probes to isolate and characterize the mNET gene. Inferred translation of the major open reading frame of the mNET cDNA predicts a 617-amino acid protein with 12 putative membrane-spanning regions and 94% identity to human NET. The coding exons of the mNET cDNA were found to be spread across &gt;36 kb of 129/Svj genomic DNA, with exon-intron boundaries bearing consensus gt/ag splice sites. Sequence upstream (202 bp) of the inferred translation initiation site matched the sequence of 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends products from brain mRNA with no evidence for intervening introns and is preceded by a TATA box and canonical transcriptional regulatory elements that may play a role in mNET expression in vivo. Probes derived from mNET cDNA identified species-specific MspI restriction fragment length variations within the mNET gene that were utilized to position the gene (Slc6a5) to murine chromosome 8, one recombinant distal to D8Mit15. This site is within a recently defined quantitative trait locus defined for ethanol sensitivity in LSXSS recombinant inbred mice, Lore4. The status of Slc6a5 as a candidate gene for alcohol sensitivity is discussed with respect to studies noting ethanol-induced alterations in brain NE receptors, NE receptor-linked adenylate cyclase, and NE transport.
Messenger RNAs and the cognate gene(s) encoding choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) have been cloned from mammals and several other animal classes in the last decade. These have provided molecular tools for investigating acetylcholine synthesis and packaging into synaptic vesicles, the genesis of cholinergic vesicles, and the development and senescence of the cholinergic nervous system. VAChT and ChAT have been found to share a common gene locus and regulatory elements for gene transcription. The cholinergic gene locus represents a previously undiscovered type of neuronal transcriptional unit controlling chemically coded neurotransmission. In vitro assays for the transport function of VAChT have shed light on the bioenergetics of amine accumulation in secretory vesicles. Manipulation of VAChT expression in vivo has demonstrated unequivocally the primacy of vesicular exocytosis as the mode of transmitting quanta of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction, as in vivo manipulation of acetylcholinesterase levels has demonstrated the importance of acetylcholine metabolism in the regulation of complex functions such as cognition. Light and electron microscopic visualization of VAChT, complementing previous ChAT immunohistochemistry, has improved understanding of the genesis and function of the cholinergic vesicle, neuron, and synapse. These advances should accelerate the development of &quot;cholinergic&quot; pharmacological and gene therapeutic approaches to treatment of human diseases that are associated with cholinergic surfeit and insufficiency.
Unipolar brush cells (UBCs) are a class of small neurons that are densely concentrated in the granular layers of the vestibulocerebellar cortex and dorsal cochlear nucleus. The UBCs form giant synapses with individual mossy fibre rosettes on the dendrioles which make up their brush formations and are provided with numerous, unusual non-synaptic appendages. In accord with the glutamatergic nature of mossy fibres, our previous post-embedding immunocytochemical studies indicated that various ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits are localized at the post-synaptic densities of the giant synapses, whereas the non-synaptic appendages are immunonegative. On the contrary, the metabotropic glutamate receptors mGluR1alpha and mGluR2/3 are situated at the non-synaptic appendages and are lacking at the post-synaptic densities. Other authors, however, have shown that antibodies to these metabotropic receptors stain both appendages and post-synaptic densities. In the present study, we have re-evaluated the distribution of metabotropic glutamate receptors in the UBCs of the cerebellum and the cochlear nuclear complex by light and electron microscopic pre-embedding immunocytochemistry with subtype-specific antibodies. We confirm that UBCs dendritic brushes are densely immunostained by antibody to mGluR1alpha particularly in the cerebellum and that antibody to mGluR2/3 labels at least a percentage of the UBC brushes in both the cerebellum and cochlear nuclei. At the ultrastructural level, it appears that mGluR1alpha and mGluR2/3 immunoreactivities are not associated with the post-synaptic densities of the giant mossy fibre-UBC synapses, but instead are concentrated on the non-synaptic appendages of the cerebellar UBCs. The non-synaptic appendages, therefore, may be an important avenue for regulating the excitability of UBCs and mediating glutamate effects on their still unknown intracellular signal transduction cascades. We also show that the pre-synaptic densities of UBC dendrodendritic junctions are mGluR2/3 positive. As previously demonstrated, antibodies to mGluR1alpha and mGluR2/3 label subsets of Golgi cells. Antibody to mGluR5 does not stain UBCs in the cerebellum and cochlear nucleus and reveals the somatodendritic compartment of Golgi cells situated in the core of the cerebellar granular layer, whilst cochlear nucleus Golgi cells are mGluR5 negative.
Non-professional antigen-presenting cells (APC) have a limited ability to activate T lymphocytes during normal and auto-immune responses. Myoblasts could play an important role as APC in the etiology of autoimmune myasthenia gravis and polymyositis, as well as during muscle graft rejection. We examined the role of different component cell subsets in the response of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) to allogeneic myoblasts. Treatment of myoblasts with TNFalpha or IFNgamma led to the expression of a range of immunostimulatory molecules including MHC class I and II, and CD95 (Fas), but not B7 family molecules. Whole PBMC, cultured with allogeneic myoblasts, proliferated, secreted IFNgamma, and were cytotoxic. Proliferation and IFNgamma secretion were largely dependent on the presence of CD4+ lymphocytes, but neither CD4+ nor CD8+ T cells were responsible for cytotoxicity, which was mediated by MHC class II+ non-T mononuclear cells. However, purified CD4+ lymphocytes co-cultured with allogeneic myoblasts required co-stimulation with anti-CD28 antibodies for proliferation and IFNgamma secretion, which only induced a low level of IFNgamma secretion by CD8+ lymphocytes and did not induce cytotoxic function. These results suggest that human myoblasts can act as antigen-presenting cells for naive T lymphocytes, but only with additional co-stimulation.


Normal development and hypoxic-ischemic changes of glutamate-aspartate transporters (GLAST) and excitatory amino acid transporter type 4 (EAAT4) were demonstrated in the human cerebellum. GLAST-immunoreactive Bergmann's glia and EAAT4-positive Purkinje cells showed a specific distribution and localization, and developed with age in the molecular and Purkinje cell layers. The dendrites and cell bodies of Purkinje cells, which showed EAAT4 immunoreactivity, were ensheathed by GLAST processes. In neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE), GLAST immunoreactivity decreased in the molecular layer and increased in the inner granule cell layer at an early stage, and markedly increased in the Purkinje and inner granule cell layers at a late stage. EAAT4 immunoreactivity decreased with post-ischemic changes of Purkinje cells. GLAST reactivity changed more rapidly than EAAT4 in cases of HIE. These changes of GLAST and EAAT4 may be closely related to the vulnerability of Purkinje cells in hypoxia-ischemia. The glutamate transporter of Bergmann glia may play a more important role in the regulation of the extracellular glutamate concentration in hypoxia and/or ischemia.
Field potential recording was used to investigate properties of synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation (LTP) at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in both hippocampal slices of mutant mice in which the alpha-subunit of the olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated channel (alpha3/OCNC)1 was rendered null and also in slices prepared from their wild-type (Wt) littermates. Several measures of basal synaptic transmission were unaltered in the OCNC1 knockout (KO), including maximum field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) slope, maximum fEPSP and fiber volley amplitude, and the function relating fiber volley amplitude to fEPSP slope and paired-pulse facilitation. When a high-frequency stimulation protocol was used to induce LTP, similar responses were seen in both groups [KO: 1 min, 299 +/- 50% (mean +/- SE), 60 min, 123 +/- 10%; Wt: 1 min, 287 +/- 63%; 60 min, 132 +/- 19%). However, on theta-burst stimulation, the initial amplitude of LTP was smaller (1 min after induction, 147 +/- 16% of baseline) and the response decayed faster in the OCNC1 KO (60 min, 127 +/- 18%) than in Wt (1 min, 200 +/- 14%; 60 min, 169 +/- 19%). Analysis of waveforms evoked by LTP-inducing tetanic stimuli revealed a similar difference between groups. The development of potentiation throughout the tetanic stimulus was similar in OCNC1 KO and Wt mice when high-frequency stimulation was used, but OCNC1 KO mice showed a significant decrease when compared with Wt mice receiving theta-burst stimulation. These results suggest that activation of cyclic nucleotide-gated channels may contribute to the induction of LTP by weaker, more physiological stimuli, possibly via Ca2+ influx.
We tested the ability of an identified interneuron from the mollusk, Lymnaea stagnalis, to reestablish appropriate synapses in vitro. In the CNS, the giant dopaminergic neuron, designated as right pedal dorsal one (RPeD1), makes an excitatory, chemical synapse with a pair of essentially identical postsynaptic cells known as visceral dorsal two and three (VD2/3). When the somata of the pre- and postsynaptic neurons were juxtaposed and cultured in vitro in defined medium, i.e. , a soma-soma synapse, only an inappropriate electrical synapse was observed. The postsynaptic cell still responded to applied dopamine, the presynaptic transmitter, indicating that the lack of chemical synapse formation was not due to lack of dopamine receptors. When the somata were cultured apart in conditioned medium (medium previously incubated with Lymnaea CNS, thereby deriving trophic factors), the cells exhibited overlapping neurite outgrowth that resulted in an appropriate excitatory, chemical synapse from RPeD1 to VD2/3. On the other hand, when the cell pair was cultured in a soma-soma configuration, but in conditioned medium, a mixed chemical-electrical synapse was observed. Because conditioned medium could partially overcome the limitations of the soma-soma configuration and initiate chemical synapse formation, this data suggests that conditioned medium contains a factor(s) that supports synaptogenesis.
Trimming all but two whiskers in adult rats produces a predictable change in cortical cell-evoked responses characterized by increased responsiveness to the two intact whiskers and decreased responsiveness to the trimmed whiskers. This type of synaptic plasticity in rat somatic sensory cortex, called &quot;whisker pairing plasticity,&quot; first appears in cells above and below the layer IV barrels. These are also the cortical layers that receive the densest cholinergic inputs from the nucleus basalis. The present study assesses whether the cholinergic inputs to cortex have a role in regulating whisker pairing plasticity. To do this, cholinergic basal forebrain fibers were eliminated using an immunotoxin specific for these fibers. A monoclonal antibody to the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor 192 IgG, conjugated to the cytotoxin saporin, was injected into cortex to eliminate cholinergic fibers in the barrel field. The immunotoxin reduces acetylcholine esterase (AChE)-positive fibers in S1 cortex by &gt;90% by 3 wk after injection. Sham-depleted animals in which either saporin alone or saporin unconjugated to 192 IgG is injected into the cortex produces no decrease in AChE-positive fibers in cortex. Sham-depleted animals show the expected plasticity in barrel column neurons. In contrast, no plasticity develops in the ACh-depleted, 7-day whisker-paired animals. These results support the conclusion that the basal forebrain cholinergic projection to cortex is an important facilitator of synaptic plasticity in mature cortex.
Cerebellar long-term potentiation (LTP) is a use-dependent increase in the strength of the granule cell-Purkinje neuron synapse that occurs after brief stimulation of granule cell axons at 2-8 Hz. Previous work has shown that cerebellar LTP also may be seen when synaptic currents are evoked in granule cell-glial cell pairs in culture. This finding suggests a model in which cerebellar LTP is expressed presynaptically and therefore may be detected by either neuronal or glial postsynaptic cells. However, synaptic currents evoked in both granule cell-glial cell pairs and granule cell-Purkinje neuron pairs in culture are mediated primarily by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptors, raising the possibility that cerebellar LTP might be expressed postsynaptically in both glial cells and Purkinje neurons in a similar manner. To address this question, glutamate transport currents were recorded in granule cell-glial cell pairs in culture by pharmacological isolation. These currents were increased by substitution of internal Cl with NO3 and were blocked by -pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate, both characteristics of the major cloned Bergmann glial cell glutamate transporter, EAAT1. After acquisition of baseline responses, LTP of isolated transport current was evoked by stimulation at 4 Hz (100 pulses) and could be blocked by removal of external Ca during this stimulation. The expression of LTP was associated with a decrease in the rate of synaptic failures and a decrease in the degree of paired-pulse facilitation. These findings, when taken together with the previous observation that both Purkinje neuron and glial AMPA/kainate responses can be used to detect cerebellar LTP, strongly suggest that the expression of cerebellar LTP is, at least in part, presynaptic. This strategy should also be useful in illuminating the locus of expression of other model systems of information storage such as hippocampal LTP/long-term depression.
We used a behavioral appetitive learning paradigm followed by electrophysiological analysis to investigate the neuronal expression of appetitive conditioning in Lymnaea. We first established the levels of unconditioned and conditioned feeding responses in intact animals. We then demonstrated that neuronal correlates of both unconditioned responses to touch and food and a conditioned response to touch could be found in semi-intact preparations of the same animals that had been subjected to behavioral tests and conditioning trials. In the conditioning experiments, the experimental animals received 15 trials in which touch to the lips, the conditioned stimulus (CS), was paired with sucrose, the unconditioned food stimulus (US). Control animals received 15 presentations of either CS or US, or both, applied in a random manner. After training, a strong conditioned response to touch was established in the experimental but not in the control groups. For subsequent electrophysiological analysis of posttraining neuronal responses to the touch CS, semi-intact preparations were set up from the same animals that had been behaviorally conditioned or subjected to control procedures. Intracellular recordings, made from previously identified motoneurons of the feeding system, allowed the fictive feeding response to the CS to be monitored. In experimental preparations, touch applied to the lips evoked significantly more fictive feeding cycles than in controls, and this demonstrated the existence of a neurophysiological correlate of the appetitively conditioned response observed in the whole animals.
Pilocarpine, a muscarinic agonist, produces status epilepticus that is associated with the later development of chronic recurrent seizures. When applied to rat hippocampal slices, pilocarpine (10 microM) produced brief (&lt;200 ms) epileptiform discharges that resembled interictal activity that occurs between seizures, as well as more prolonged synchronous neuronal activation that lasted seconds (3-20 s), and was comparable to ictal or seizures-like discharges. We assessed the factors that favored ictal patterns of activity and determined the biophysical properties of the ictal discharge. The probability of observing ictal discharges was increased when extracellular potassium ([K+]o) was increased from 5 to 7.5 mM. Raising [K+]o to 10 mM resulted in loss of ictal patterns and, in 20 of 34 slices, desynchronization of epileptiform activity. Making the artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) hyposmotic favored ictal discharges at 5 mM [K+]o, but shifted 7.5 mM [K+]o ACSF patterns to interictal discharges or desynchronized activity. Conversely, increasing osmolality suppressed ictal patterns. The pilocarpine-induced ictal discharges were blocked by atropine (1 microM, n = 5), a muscarinic antagonist, and pirenzepine (1 microM, n = 6), a selective M1 receptor antagonist. Kainate/alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid receptor blockade stopped all epileptiform activity (n = 8). The N-methyl--aspartate antagonist ,-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (100 microM, n = 34) did not change the pattern of epileptiform activity but significantly increased the rate of interictal discharges and prolonged the duration of ictal discharges. The ictal discharge was characterized intracellularly by a depolarization that was associated with action potential generation and persisted as a membrane oscillation of 4-10 Hz. The ictal oscillations reversed in polarity at -22.7 +/- 2.2 mV (n = 11) with current-clamp recordings and -20.9 +/- 3.1 mV (n = 7) with voltage-clamp recordings. The reversal potential of the ictal discharge in the presence of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-A blocker bicuculline (10 microM, n = 6) was -2.2 +/- 2.6 mV and was significantly different from that measured without bicuculline. Bicuculline added to 7.5 mM [K+]o and 10 microM pilocarpine did not cause epileptiform activity to change pattern but significantly increased the rate of interictal discharges and prolonged the ictal discharge duration. Both synaptic and nonsynaptic mechanisms are important for the generation of ictal patterns of epileptiform activity. Although the synchronous epileptiform activity produced by pilocarpine required fast glutamate-mediated synaptic transmission, the transition from an interictal to ictal pattern of activity depended on [K+]o and could be influenced by extracellular space.
The effect of external calcium concentration ([Ca2+]o) on membrane potential-dependent calcium signals in isolated tiger salamander rod and cone photoreceptor inner segments was investigated with patch-clamp and calcium imaging techniques. Mild depolarizations led to increases in intracellular Ca2+ levels ([Ca2+]i) that were smaller when [Ca2+]o was elevated to 10 mM than when it was 3 mM, even though maximum Ca2+ conductance increased 30% with the increase in [Ca2+]o. When external calcium was lowered to 1 mM [Ca2+]o, maximum Ca2+ conductance was reduced, as expected, but the mild depolarization-induced increase in [Ca2+]i was larger than in 3 mM [Ca2+]o. In contrast, when photoreceptors were strongly depolarized, the increase in [Ca2+]i was less when [Ca2+]o was reduced. An explanation for these observations comes from an assessment of Ca2+ channel gating in voltage-clamped photoreceptors under changing conditions of [Ca2+]o. Although Ca2+ conductance increased with increasing [Ca2+]o, surface charge effects dictated large shifts in the voltage dependence of Ca2+ channel gating. Relative to the control condition (3 mM [Ca2+]o), 10 mM [Ca2+]o shifted Ca2+ channel activation 8 mV positive, reducing channel open probability over a broad range of potentials. Reducing [Ca2+]o to 1 mM reduced Ca2+ conductance but shifted Ca2+ channel activation negative by 6 mV. Thus the intracellular calcium signals reflect a balance between competing changes in gating and permeation of Ca2+ channels mediated by [Ca2+]o. In mildly depolarized cells, the [Ca2+]o-induced changes in Ca2+ channel activation proved stronger than the [Ca2+]o-induced changes in conductance. In response to the larger depolarizations caused by 80 mM [K+]o, the opposite is true, with conductance changes dominating the effects on channel activation.
In primary somatosensory cortex (S1), the transition from one representation to the next is typically abrupt when assayed physiologically. However, the extent of anatomical projections to and within the cortex do not strictly respect these physiologically defined transitions. Physiological properties, such as synaptic strengths or intracortical inhibition, have been hypothesized to account for the functionally defined precision of these representational borders. Because these representational borders can be translocated across the cortex by manipulations or behaviors that change the activity patterns of inputs to the cortex, understanding the physiological mechanisms that delimit representations is also an important starting point for understanding cortical plasticity. A novel in vivo and in vitro preparation has been developed to examine the cellular and synaptic mechanisms that underlie representational borders in the rat. In vivo, a short segment of the border between the forepaw-lower jaw representations in rat S1 was mapped using standard electrophysiological methods and was visibly marked using iontophoresis of pontamine sky blue dye. Slices were then obtained from this marked region and maintained in vitro. Intracellularly recorded responses to electrical stimulation of supragranular cortex were obtained from single neurons near the border in response to stimulation within the representational zone or across the border. Both excitatory and inhibitory responses were smaller when evoked by stimuli that activated projections that crossed borders, as compared with stimuli to projections that did not. These findings indicate that intracortical network properties are contributing to the expressions of representational discontinuities in the cortex.
A great many animal models for audiogenic seizures have been described. The extent to which these models may provide insight into neuroscience fields such as abnormal locomotor behavior (wild running), seizures and anticonvulsants, and neuroinsults and neuroprotectors is examined here by our study of magnesium deficiency-dependent audiogenic seizures (MDDASs) in adult mice. MDDASs were induced in all of the eight tested adult murine strains and are presented as a sequence of four successive components (latency, wild running, convulsion, and recovery phase periods). Compared with several classic seizure tests, the nutritional MDDAS model responded to low doses of prototype antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including phenytoin (PHT), carbamazepine (CBZ), phenobarbital (PB), valproic acid (VPA), ethosuximide (ESM), and diazepam (DZP). Modulation by AEDs of the four components of MDDAS indicated that this seizure test was discriminatory, distinguishing between phenytoinergic (PHT, CBZ), GABAergic (PB, VPA, DZP), and ethosuximide (ESM) compounds. Suitability of the MDDAS test for evaluation of neuroprotective compounds was also examined: it showed partial (melatonin) and complete (WEB2170, an anti-PAF agent) reduction of recovery phase by non-anticonvulsant doses of test compounds. These neuroprotective responses were compared with neuroprotective potentials determined in a model of neonatal cerebral injury induced by focal injection of ibotenate (a glutamate analog). WEB2170 and melatonin reduced the size of lesions in white matter, but only WEB2170 protected cortical plate against ibotenate-induced lesions. In addition to the original neuroprotective behavior of WEB2170, studies on the neuroprotectors also supported GABAergic anticonvulsant activity of melatonin in the MDDAS test.
We tested the hypothesis that the neural networks for walking in the mudpuppy can be divided into a flexor and an extensor center, each of which contains collections of interneurons localized in the vicinity of their motoneuron pools. Combining a battery of techniques, we identified and localized the elbow flexor center and its motoneuron pool in the C2 segment and the elbow extensor center and its motoneuron pool in the C3 segment. Rhythmic flexion or extension of the limb in isolation could be induced by continuous trains of current pulses of the C2 or C3 segments, respectively. Independent activation could also occur after application of glutamate receptor agonist NMDA. Part of segment C2 in isolation generated rhythmic elbow flexor bursts, whereas part of segment C3 in isolation generated rhythmic elbow extensor bursts. An isolated region spanning the C3 roots generated both flexor and extensor bursts. The step cycle was modulated in a phase-dependent manner by stimulation of the dorsal roots, the ventral roots, or either of the two centers. The effects of ventral root stimulation were removed by deafferentation to block reafferent input attributable to muscle contraction induced by the stimulation. We conclude that the neural networks for walking contain at least a flexor and an extensor generator that are localized in close apposition to the motoneuron pools, that the two centers can work independently despite the fact that there are reciprocal inhibitory interconnections between them, and that sensory input interacts with the spinal neural networks to reset the ongoing walking rhythm in a phase-dependent manner.
We measured the movements of the external ear, or pinna, using the magnetic search coil technique in cats trained to look at auditory and visual targets for a food reward. No behavioral contingencies were placed on pinna movements. Prominent pinna movements accompany eye movements when the animal orients to either auditory or visual stimuli. In visual trials the pinna movements are coordinated with eye movements, suggesting that they are part of the general orientation response of the animal. In auditory trials the pinna response was composed of two movements: short- and long-latency components. Whereas the long-latency component seemed to occur with the eye movement to the target, the short-latency component was coupled to the onset of the stimulus. The short-latency component ( approximately 25 msec) was highly asymmetrical, being largest in the pinna ipsilateral to the stimuli. In one animal it persisted after &gt;10(5) trials.
The inherited retinal dystrophies represent a large and heterogenous group of hereditary neurodegenerations, for many of which, the molecular defect has been defined. However, the mechanism of cell death has not been determined for any form of retinal degeneration. The retinal degeneration slow (rds-/-) mutation of mice is associated with nondevelopment of photoreceptor outer segments and gradual death of photoreceptor cell bodies, attributed to the absence of the outer segment protein rds/peripherin. Here, we examined the effects of a transgene encoding normal rds/peripherin that had integrated into the X-chromosome in male and female rds-/- mutant retinas. In 2-month-old transgenic males and homozygous-transgenic females on rds-/-, we observed virtually complete rescue of both the outer segment nondevelopment and photoreceptor degeneration. In contrast, hemizygous-transgenic rds-/- female littermates showed patchy distributions of the transgene mRNA, by in situ hybridization analysis, and of photoreceptor cells that contain outer segments. This pattern is consistent with random inactivation of the X-chromosome and mosaic expression of the transgene. Surprisingly, we observed significant photoreceptor cell loss in both transgene-expressing and nonexpressing patches in hemizygous female retinas. These observations were supported by nuclease protection analysis, which showed notably lower than predicted levels of transgene mRNA in retinas from hemizygous females compared with male and homozygous female littermates. This phenotype suggests an important component of non-cell-autonomous photoreceptor death in rds-/- mutant mice. These results have significance to both the etiology and potential treatment of human inherited retinal degenerations.
Acute ischemic stroke is a complex, heterogeneous and debilitating disorder, which leads to death or disability. Recent research into the mechanism of stroke has identified a relatively short window of opportunity, during which a population of neurons surrounding the ischemic core remain viable for a number of hours following stroke onset. These penumbral neurons can be salvaged if treatment is begun within 3-6 hours following the onset of ischemia. This understanding of stroke mechanisms has lead to the development of promising new therapies currently under study. To maximize the potential benefits of these new therapies, neurologists, neuroscience nurses and other healthcare professionals need to assume the responsibility of effectively implementing treatment and to educate their peers and the public about the symptoms of stroke and the need to seek immediate medical assistance.
A highly specific antibody against sulfatide, a myelin-associated glycolipid, has been investigated using indirect double immunocytochemistry in rat primary astroglial cultures from cerebral cortex. Sulfatide was expressed in a selected subpopulation of astrocytes (2-3%) and was found to be exclusively located intracellularly. The sulfatide-positive cells appeared in two different morphologies: flat and stellate. Immunolabeling of the astroglial cultures showed that sulfatide always co-existed with GFAP or S-100, and in some cells with GD3 (flat 90% and stellate 50%) or A2B5 (1%) antibody. The sulfatide-positive cells did not bind the O1 antibody, which is used as a marker for oligodendrocytes. Glial cultures from other regions and mixed cultures, with both neurons and glial cells, were examined and showed similar results. Biochemical analysis by TLC-ELISA verified the presence of sulfatide in the astroglial culture and showed decreasing amounts of sulfatide with days in vitro; 0.05 nmol/mg protein at day 10 and 0.01 nmol/mg protein at day 17. This analysis also showed that neither sulpholactosylceramide nor seminolipid was present, each of which also has affinity for the sulfatide antibody. This selective and intracellular expression encourages further identification of the astrocytes expressing sulfatide and the biological role of sulfatide in these cells.

Although much progress has been made, current treatments of peripheral nerve damage mostly result in only partial recovery. Local production of neurite outgrowth-promoting molecules, such as neurotrophins and/or cell adhesion molecules, at the site of damage may be used as a new means to promote the regeneration process. We have now explored the ability of an adenoviral vector encoding the reporter gene LacZ (Ad-LacZ) to direct the expression of a foreign gene to Schwann cells of intact and crushed rat sciatic nerves. Infusion of 8 x 10(7) PFU Ad-LacZ in the intact sciatic nerve resulted in the transduction of many Schwann cells with high levels of transgene expression lasting at least up to 12 days following viral vector administration. The efficacy of adenoviral vector delivery to a crushed nerve was investigated using three strategies. Injection of the adenoviral vector at the time of, or immediately after, a crush resulted in the transduction of only a few Schwann cells. Administration of the adenoviral vector the day after the crush resulted in the transduction of a similar number of Schwann cells 5 days after administration, as observed in uncrushed nerves. Regenerating nerve fibers were closely associated with beta-galactosidase-positive Schwann cells, indicating that the capacity of transduced Schwann cells to guide regenerating fibers was not altered. These results imply that the expression of growth-promoting proteins through adenoviral vector-mediated gene transfer may be a realistic option to promote peripheral nerve regeneration.

Gene transfer by intramuscular injection of plasmid DNA has potential application in gene therapy. We examined factors affecting the number of expressing fibers, in contrast to total expression, following injection of plasmid DNA. Barium chloride proved effective in inducing muscle necrosis and regeneration in mice, and this increased the number of fibers expressing a reporter gene. Coinjection of ion-channel modulators did not increase the number of positive fibers, but increasing dose and repeated administration of plasmid did. Importantly, the plasmid size (7-16 kb) did not affect the number of fibers expressing the transgene, in both normal and regenerating muscle.
The globus pallidus and ventral pallidum receive dense enkephalinergic innervation from the dorsal and ventral striatum, respectively. A previous study demonstrated peripheral morphine administration to increase pallidal enkephalin release. To determine whether such opioid stimulatory effects may be mediated directly in the pallidum, in vivo microdialysis was used to study the effects of local administration of several concentrations of the mu receptor agonists morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G) as well as the the delta receptor agonist SNC80 on pallidal enkephalin release in freely moving rats. Low concentrations of morphine or M6G (1-10 nM) enhanced the release of enkephalins, an effect that was reversed by coadministration of the mu receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine (beta-FNA). A similar stimulatory effect was observed with a low concentration of SNC80 (50 nM), an effect that was blocked by the delta antagonist naltrindole (NTD). High concentrations of morphine (100 nM to 100 microM) had little or no effect, whereas M6G (10 microM) suppressed enkephalin release, an effect that was reversed by beta-FNA. Similarly, a high concentration (5 microM) of SNC80 suppressed enkephalin release. However, this effect was not blocked by NTD but was attenuated by beta-FNA, suggesting a mu receptor-mediated action. These results offer in vivo evidence of bimodal (i.e., stimulatory and inhibitory) effects of mu and delta opioid agonists on enkephalin release in the pallidum.
Our study examines the role of central and peripheral neurokinin1 (NK1) receptors in diabetes-induced mechanical hypersensitivity. Glycine, N, N-dimethyl-, 2-[[2-[[(2-benzofuranylmethoxy)carbonyl]amino]-3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2 -me thyl-1-oxopropyl] amino]-2-phenylethylester, bisulfate, [R-(R*,R*)] (PD 156982) is a selective NK1 receptor antagonist with nanomolar affinity for the human (IC50 = 1.4 nM) and guinea pig (IC50 = 9.6 nM) NK1 receptors. However, it has approximately two orders of magnitude lower affinity for the rodent NK1 receptor (IC50 = 820 nM). In electrophysiological studies, PD 156982 inhibited NK1 receptor-mediated responses in the guinea pig locus ceruleus, in a competitive manner, with an equilibrium constant of 13.9 nM. The intracerebroventricular (10-100 microg/animal) but not systemic administration of PD 156982 (1-100 mg/kg, s.c.) blocked the [Sar9, Met(O2)11] substance P-induced gerbil foot tapping response. This indicates that PD 156982 is unable to penetrate into the central nervous system. However, PD 156982 (10-100 mg/kg, s.c.) blocked the mechanical hypersensitivity induced by administration of substance P into the plantar surface of a rat paw. This suggests that PD 156982 can effectively antagonize peripheral NK1 receptors in vivo. The chemically related compound carbamic acid, [1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)-1-methyl-2-oxo-2-[(1-phenylethyl)amino]et hyl ]-, 2-benzofuranylmethyl ester, [R-(R*,S*)] (CI-1021) is also a selective NK1 receptor antagonist but can penetrate into the central nervous system. PD 156982 (10-100 mg/kg, s.c.) failed to block streptozocin (75 mg/kg, i.p.) induced mechanical hypersensitivity. In contrast, CI-1021 dose-dependently (3-100 mg/kg, s.c.) blocked this hypersensitivity state with a minimum effective dose of 10 mg/kg. At these doses CI-1021 also antagonized mechanical hypersensitivity mediated by central NK1 but not NK2 receptors in the rat. It is suggested that the central NK1 receptor may play an important role in diabetes-induced hypersensitivity.
The behavioral profile of a range of adenosine receptor ligands was examined in rats using a locomotor activity model. Adenosine receptor agonists, including the selective A1 receptor agonist, N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) and the A2A agonist, 2-[(2-aminoethylamino)carbonylethyl-phenylethylamino]- 5'-ethylcarboxa midoadenosine (APEC), reduced spontaneous motor activity in a dose-dependent manner. CPA-induced locomotor depression was attenuated by adenosine A1 receptor selective antagonists, such as 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), (R)-1-[(E)-3-(2-phenylpyrazolo[1, 5-a]pyridin-3-yl)-acryloyl]-2-piperidine ethanol (FK453), and (R)-1-[(E)-3-(2-phenylpyrazolo[1, 5-a]pyridin-3-yl)-acryloyl]-piperidin-2-yl acetic acid (FK352), but not by the A2A receptor antagonist, (E)-1,3-dipropyl-8-(3, 4-dimethoxystyryl)-7-methylxanthine (KF17837). By contrast, APEC-induced hypolocomotion was attenuated by KF17837 but not by DPCPX, confirming that adenosine A1 and A2A receptor activation mediates locomotor output independently. It was found that two peripheral adenosine receptor antagonists, 8-(p-sulphophenyl)-1, 3-dipropylxanthine (DPSPX) and 8-(p-sulphophenyl)-1, 3-dimethylxanthine (8-PST), did not alter CPA-induced hypolocomotion. This confirmed that pharmacological reversal of the adenosine A1 receptor-mediated response involved a central site of drug action. The relationship between occupancy of central adenosine A1 receptors and behavioral effect was therefore assessed. Regression analysis on log transformed data confirmed associations between antagonist affinity for brain [3H]DPCPX binding sites and, in order of increasing significance, the equivalent behavioral dose (EBD) for reversal of CPA-induced hypolocomotion (r2 = 0.32), the serum concentration of drug (r2 = 0.65), and most significantly with the brain concentration of drug detected 20 min after administration of the (EBD) (r2 = 0.95). These data suggest that competition between agonists and antagonists, for occupancy of central adenosine A1 receptors, is intrinsic to the pharmacological reversal of CPA-induced hypolocomotion. The validity of the model as a simple predictive screen for the blood/brain barrier permeability of adenosine A1 receptor antagonists was thereby confirmed.
Intoxication with the alcohol-aversive drug disulfiram (Antabuse) and related dithiocarbamates may provoke neuropathies and, in some cases, damage the basal ganglia. Rats received a single administration of disulfiram (7 and 500 mg kg-1 i.p.) and equimolar doses (4 and 290 mg kg-1 i.p.) of its metabolite diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC), roughly corresponding to the daily maximum dose in alcohol abusers or to an estimated nonlethal overdose, respectively. The striatal, extracellular levels of glutamate in freely moving rats previously implanted with a microdialysis probe increased after low and intoxicating doses of disulfiram (126 +/- 3% and 154 +/- 10% of basal values, respectively) and DDC as well (135 +/- 10% and 215 +/- 14%, respectively), a partially Ca++-dependent effect. The prolonged (&gt;7 hr) disulfiram-induced increase in glutamate observed in vivo may reflect the in vitro disulfiram-evoked release of glutamate from striato-cortical synaptic vesicles, where the drug nonspecifically inhibited (Ki approximately 4 microM) the uptake function and abolished the transmembrane proton gradient (DeltapH). In contrast, DDC did not seem to affect DeltapH. The prompt DDC-provoked increase in extracellular levels of glutamate was prevented by 7-nitroindazole, an in vivo specific inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, which suggests that the thiol metabolite also acts via the nitric oxide synthesis. At variance, the short-acting 7-nitroindazole did not prevent the sustained in vivo effects of disulfiram and of DDC putatively formed with time. These findings provide new evidence for differential mechanisms underlying disulfiram- and DDC-induced increases in striatal glutamate release. Present glutamatergic changes, although not appearing dramatic enough to represent the only cause for neuronal damage from disulfiram overdose, might contribute to the drug neurotoxicity.
1. To define the role of environmental oxygen in regulating postnatal maturation of the carotid body afferent pathway, light and electron microscopic methods were used to compare chemoafferent neurone survival and carotid body development in newborn rats reared from birth in normoxia (21 % O2) or chronic hyperoxia (60 % O2). 2. Four weeks of chronic hyperoxia resulted in a significant 41 % decrease in the number of unmyelinated axons in the carotid sinus nerve, compared with age-matched normoxic controls. In contrast, the number of myelinated axons was unaffected by hyperoxic exposure. 3. Chemoafferent neurones, located in the glossopharyngeal petrosal ganglion, already exhibited degenerative changes following 1 week of hyperoxia from birth, indicating that even a relatively short hyperoxic exposure was sufficient to derange normal chemoafferent development. In contrast, no such changes were observed in the vagal nodose ganglion, demonstrating that the effect of high oxygen levels was specific to sensory neurones in the carotid body afferent pathway. Moreover, petrosal ganglion neurones were sensitive to hyperoxic exposure only during the early postnatal period. 4. Chemoafferent degeneration in chronically hyperoxic animals was accompanied by marked hypoplasia of the carotid body. In view of previous findings from our laboratory that chemoafferent neurones require trophic support from the carotid body for survival after birth, we propose that chemoafferent degeneration following chronic hyperoxia is due specifically to the loss of target tissue in the carotid body.
1. In paired-pulse cortical stimulation experiments, conditioning subthreshold stimuli suppress the electromyographic (EMG) responses of relaxed muscles to suprathreshold magnetic test stimuli at short interstimulus intervals (ISIs) (1-5 ms) and facilitate them at long ISIs (8-15 ms). 2. We made paired-pulse magnetic stimulation studies on the response of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (FDI) produced by I1 or I3 waves using our previously reported method which preferentially elicits one group of I waves when subjects make a slight voluntary contraction. In some experiments the conditioning and test stimuli were oppositely directed, in the others they were oriented in the same direction. Single motor unit responses were recorded with a concentric needle electrode, and surface EMG responses with cup electrodes. 3. In post-stimulus time histograms (PSTHs) of the firing probability of motor units, the peaks produced by I3 waves were decreased by a subthreshold conditioning stimulus that preferentially elicited I1 or I3 waves at an ISI of 4 ms. The amount of decrement depended on the intensity of the conditioning stimulus. The stronger the conditioning stimulus, the greater the suppression. In contrast, the peaks produced by I1 waves were little affected by any type of subthreshold conditioning stimulus, given 4 ms prior to the test stimulus. At an ISI of 10 ms, a subthreshold conditioning stimulus slightly decreased the size of the peak produced by the I3 waves, but did not affect the peaks evoked by I1 waves. 4. Surface EMGs showed that a subthreshold conditioning stimulus suppressed the responses produced by I3 waves irrespective of its current direction (anterior or posterior). Both the amount and duration of suppression depended on the intensity of the conditioning stimulus, but not on its current direction. Both parameters increased when the intensity increased. At a high intensity conditioning stimulus, suppression was evoked at ISIs of 1-20 ms, compatible with the duration of GABA-mediated inhibition found in animal experiments. Responses produced by I1 waves were little affected by any type of subthreshold conditioning stimulus. 5. We conclude that a subthreshold conditioning stimulus given over the motor cortex moderately suppresses I3 waves but does not affect I1 waves. The duration of suppression of the I3 waves supports the idea that this is an effect of GABAergic inhibition within the motor cortex.
While trying to mimic the dose and time course of nicotine as it is obtained by a smoker, we found the following results. The initial arrival of even a low concentration of nicotine increased the firing rate of dopaminergic neurons from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and increased the spontaneous vesicular release of GABA from hippocampal neurons. Longer exposure to nicotine caused variable, but dramatic, desensitization of nicotinic receptors and diminished the effects of nicotine. The addictive properties of nicotine as well as its diverse effects on cognitive function could be mediated through differences in activation and desensitization of nicotinic receptors in various areas of the brain.
The work of Hildegard Peplau represents the most significant influence, worldwide, on the development of psychiatric nursing practice. Her use of the Theory of Interpersonal Relations created the basis for defining the potential significance of the psychiatric nurse's role as a therapeutic agent. Forty years later she has indicated the means by which nurses might sharpen their focus on the person often overshadowed by the 'patient' label. Peplau's writings have, over this 40-year period, helped clarify the broad range of roles required of the nurse in general and in particular, within psychotherapeutic nursing.
A new method for ordering the phase-encoding gradient is proposed, and an application for short effective TE gradient- and spin-echo (GRASE) imaging is demonstrated. The proposed method calculates the phase-encoding order from the signal decay of a template scan (hence &quot;template interactive phase-encoding&quot; or TIPE). Computer simulations are used to compare the point spread functions of different phase-encoding orders giving short effective echo times (kb centric GRASE, centric GRASE, centric TIPE). The conventional centric phase-encoding order is also considered for GRASE. The conventional centric method is sensitive to both amplitude and phase modulation of the signal in k-space. The centric TIPE method gives the least amplitude modulation artifacts but is vulnerable to phase artifacts. The TIPE experiment was implemented on a 3 Tesla system. To the best of our knowledge, we present the first in vivo GRASE images at this field strength.
Strategies aimed at the lowering of blood ammonia remain the treatment of choice in portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE). L-ornithine-L-aspartate (OA) has recently been shown to be effective in the prevention of ammonia-precipitated coma in humans with PSE. These findings prompted the study of mechanisms of the protective effect of OA in portacaval-shunted rats in which reversible coma was precipitated by ammonium acetate administration (3.85 mmol/kg i.p.). OA infusions (300 mg/kg/h, i.v) offered complete protection in 12/12 animals compared to 0/12 saline-infused controls. This protective effect was accompanied by significant reductions of blood ammonia, concomitant increases of urea production and significant increases in blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glutamate and glutamine. Increased CSF concentrations of leucine and alanine also accompanied the protective effect of OA. These findings demonstrate the therapeutic efficacy of OA in the prevention of ammonia-precipitated coma in portacaval-shunted rats and suggest that this protective effect is both peripherally-mediated (increased urea and glutamine synthesis) and centrally-mediated (increased glutamine synthesis).
Wernicke's Encephalopathy (WE) is a serious neurological disorder resulting from thiamine deficiency, encountered in chronic alcoholics and in patients with grossly impaired nutritional status. Neuropathologic studies as well as Magnetic Resonance Imaging reveal selective diencephalic and brainstem lesions in patients with WE. The last decade has witnessed major advances in the understanding of pathophysiologic mechanisms linking thiamine deficiency to the selective brain lesions characteristic of WE. Activities of the thiamine-dependent enzyme alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, a rate-limiting tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme are significantly reduced in autopsied brain tissue from patients with WE and from rats treated with the central thiamine antagonist, pyrithiamine. In the animal studies, evidence suggests that such enzyme deficits result in focal lactic acidosis, cerebral energy impairment and depolarization resulting from increased release of glutamate in vulnerable brain structures. It has been proposed that this depolarization may result in N-Methyl-D-Aspartate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity as well as increased expression of immediate early genes such as c-fos and c-jun resulting in apoptotic cell death. Other mechanisms involved in thiamine deficiency-induced cell loss may involve free radicals and alterations of the blood-brain barrier. Additional studies are still required to identify the site of the initial cellular insult and to explain the predilection of diencephalic and brainstem structures due to thiamine deficiency.

Several contradictory papers concerning the effects of microwaves on living organisms and on in vitro cell suspensions have been published through the years. These papers are difficult to interpret, because temperature measurement data are often lacking. Reliable temperature measurements are important, because they enable one to determine whether the observed microwave effects are thermal or nonthermal. Therefore, a method was developed to investigate microwave effects on cellular processes, in which the temperature was precisely monitored during microwave treatment using a fiberoptic thermometer. This method involved the processes required for in vitro production of monoclonal antibodies. Monoclonal antibodies are vital ingredients in (microwave-stimulated) immunostaining techniques and ELISAs, which have become important techniques in neuroscience. The effects of 2.45-GHz microwaves on mouse myeloma and (neural) hybridoma cell replication rates and on antibody production were investigated. In addition, the effects on the cell fusion abilities of spleen lymphocytes and myeloma cells and on in vitro immunization were studied. The results of this study show no effects of microwaves on either of the processes mentioned using exposure times up to 5 h a day at a physiologically normal temperature of 37 degrees C. It was concluded that the effects of 2.45-GHz microwaves detected at higher temperatures are thermal effects and that no indications for nonthermal 2.45-GHz microwave effects exist under the exposure conditions used in the present study.
Microwave-stimulated antigen retrieval has become a widely accepted method in both pathology and research laboratories. Since the introduction of the method in 1991, many groups have tried to optimize and standardize it. This review describes the present state of the art. A standard method for microwave-stimulated antigen retrieval in formaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded and nonembedded tissue is presented that results, in general, in very good staining for antibodies used in neuroscience. However, there are still a few antigens that are retrieved not at all or not in an optimal manner. Factors of importance for microwave antigen retrieval are the pH of the retrieval solution and, related to the pH, the temperature and duration of heating. These factors are discussed.
Microwaving artifacts in histoprocessing and staining arise from the acceleration of diffusional and reactive processes. Because such accelerations provide the advantages of microwaving, and because microwave ovens cannot distinguish desirable from undesirable accelerations, artifacts are inevitable. Such microwaving problems can be categorized as follows: histoprocessing and staining reagents may be lost or altered; staining targets may move away from their in vivo sites, may be totally lost from the specimen, or may be altered; physical characteristics such as permeability of specimens or embedding resins may be changed; and staining processes themselves are sometimes different at elevated temperatures. The most general tips for detecting and/or avoiding such problems are to monitor and control the temperature of the reagents and the specimen, to standardize the procedures, and to observe the specimen and reagents carefully during microwaving when a new procedure is being introduced to the laboratory.
In science, the introduction of a new method is never easy, not even if it concerns the use of a simple microwave oven. Most scientists do not realize the numerous applications of microwave techniques. This paper gives a broad overview of the application of microwave techniques in neuromorphology and neurochemistry, starting with a historical overview ranging from the introduction of microwave techniques as a scientific method in the 1970s to present. Organizations and publication rules are highlighted in the next part. The effect of microwave irradiation is discussed in two sections relating to microwave effects on the whole organism and on the neuron. The main body of the paper discusses the application of microwave techniques in the fields of neuromorphology and neuropathology. The paper then presents aspects of microwave irradiation as applied to ELISA techniques. In addition, cell fusion and cell reproduction under microwave irradiation are discussed.
Oligodendrocytes are responsible for myelin formation in the vertebrate central nervous system. While in vitro analysis have provided critical information on the cellular properties of oligodendrocyte precursors, they provide limited information on the morphological development of these cells in the intact CNS. Recent studies have begun to provide insights into when and where oligodendrocyte precursors arise in the neural tube. In the chick CNS, the monoclonal antibody O4 selectively labels oligodendrocyte lineage cells both in vitro and in vivo and here we discuss the characteristics of O4+ oligodendrocyte precursors during development of the chick CNS. The earliest oligodendrocytes initially develop in restricted locations in the CNS. In the spinal cord, for example, oligodendrocyte precursors arise in the ventral ventricular zone dorsal to the floor plate. These early oligodendrocyte precursors are integral components of the lining of the central canal and have an embryonic neuroepithelial cell morphology, suggesting that commitment to the oligodendrocyte lineage occurs in the ventricular zone. With maturation these early oligodendrocyte precursors lose their ventricular connection, adopt a uni- or-bipolar morphology, and migrate throughout the CNS. When these cells reach presumptive white matter, they stop migrating, become multiprocessed, and differentiate into immature oligodendrocytes. The maturation of these newly formed oligodendrocytes results in the upregulation of expression of a variety of myelin specific genes such as MBP and PLP and the subsequent elaboration of the myelin organelle. In the developing optic nerve, the onset of myelination occurs several days after oligodendrocyte precursors populate the nerve, suggesting that additional signals are required to induce myelin formation.
Among the most abundant components of myelin are the galactolipids galactocerebroside (GalC) and sulfatide. In spite of this abundance, the roles that these molecules play in the myelin sheath are not well understood. Until recently, our concept of GalC and sulfatide functions had been principally defined by immunological and chemical perturbation studies that implicate these lipids in oligodendrocyte differentiation, myelin formation, and myelin stability. Recently, however, genetic studies have allowed us to re-analyze the functions of these lipids. Two laboratories have independently generated mice that are incapable of synthesizing either GalC or sulfatide by inactivating the gene encoding the enzyme UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyltransferase (CGT), which is required for myelin galactolipid synthesis. These galactolipid-deficient animals exhibit a severe tremor, hindlimb paralysis, and display electrophysiological deficits in both the central and peripheral nervous systems. In addition, ultrastructural studies have revealed hypomyelinated white matter tracts with unstable myelin sheaths and a variety of myelin abnormalities including altered node length, reversed lateral loops, and compromised axo-oligodendrocytic junctions. Collectively, these observations indicate that cell-cell interactions, which are essential in the formation and maintenance of a properly functioning myelin sheath, are compromised in these galactolipid-deficient mice.
In vitro, epidermal growth factor (EGF)-responsive neural progenitor cells exhibit multipotent properties and can differentiate into both neurons and glia. Using an in utero xenotransplantation approach we examined the developmental potential of EGF-responsive cells derived from E14 mouse ganglionic eminences, cortical primordium, and ventral mesencephalon, after injection into the E15 rat forebrain ventricle. Cell cultures were established from control mice or from mice carrying the lacZ transgene under control of the promoters for nestin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), or myelin basic protein (MBP). The grafted cells, visualized with mouse-specific markers or staining for the reporter gene product, displayed widespread incorporation into distinct forebrain and midbrain structures and differentiated predominantly into glial cells. The patterns of incorporation of cells from all three regions were very similar without preference for the homotopic brain areas. These results suggest that EGF-responsive progenitor cells can respond to host derived environmental cues, differentiate into cells with glial-like features, and become integrated in the developing recipient brain.
The effect of transient cerebral ischemia on phosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein (MAP) tau was investigated using the rat four-vessel occlusion model. Phosphorylation of tau is proposed to regulate its binding to microtubules, influencing the dynamics of microtubule assembly necessary for axonal growth and neurite plasticity. In this study, tau was rapidly dephosphorylated during ischemia in the hippocampus, neocortex, and striatum. Dephosphorylation of tau was observed within 5 min of occlusion and increased after 15 min in all three brain regions, regardless of their relative vulnerability to the insult. Thus, dephosphorylation of tau is an early marker of ischemia and precedes the occlusion time required to cause extensive neuronal cell death in this model. On restoration of blood flow for a little as 15 min, tau was phosphorylated at a site(s) that causes a reduction in its electrophoretic mobility. The dephosphorylation/phosphorylation of tau may alter its distribution between axon and cell body, and affect its susceptibility to proteolysis. These changes would be expected to influence microtubule stability, possibly contributing to disruption of axonal transport, but also allowing neurite remodeling in a regenerative response.
We investigated the molecular nature of the interaction between the functionally selective M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) agonist xanomeline and the human M1 mAChR expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. In contrast to the non-subtype-selective agonist carbachol, xanomeline demonstrated M1 mAChR binding that was resistant to extensive washout, resulting in a significant reduction in apparent N-[3H]methylscopolamine saturation binding affinity in intact cells. Functional assays, using both M1 mAChR-mediated phosphoinositide hydrolysis and activation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, confirmed that this persistent binding resulted in elevated basal levels of system activity. Furthermore, this phenomenon could be reversed by the addition of the antagonist atropine. However, pharmacological analysis of the inhibition by atropine of xanomeline-mediated functional responses indicated a possible element of noncompetitive behavior that was not evident in several kinetic and equilibrium binding experimental paradigms. Taken together, our findings indicate for the first time a novel mode of interaction between an mAChR agonist and the M1 mAChR, which may involve unusually avid binding of xanomeline to the receptor. This yields a fraction of added agonist that is retained at the level of the receptor compartment to persistently bind to and activate the receptor subsequent to washout. The results of the current study suggest that elucidation of the mechanism or mechanisms of interaction of xanomeline with the M1 mAChR is particularly important in relation to the potential therapeutic use of this agent in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Chronic lithium administration decreases the turnover of arachidonic acid (AA) in several brain phospholipids. This suggests that lithium may attenuate phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activity in brain. We now report effects of chronic lithium treatment on PLA2 activity in postnuclear supernatant from rat brain: Enzyme activity was determined by two assay methods, radiometric and fluorometric, and measured the release of the fatty acid on the second acyl position (sn2) from choline and ethanolamine phospholipids. PLA2 activity in brain postnuclear supernatant from rats chronically treated with lithium in the diet was significantly decreased (20-50%) when compared with controls. In vehicle or lithium-treated rats, PLA2 activity was not significantly augmented or attenuated by the addition of calcium chelators, divalent cations or LiCl supplementation (1.0 mM) to postnuclear supernatant. These results suggest that a major therapeutic effect of lithium is to attenuate brain PLA2 activity involved in signal transduction.

A 30-year-old woman presented with a progressive neurologic disorder characterized by seizures, buccolingual dyskinesias, orofacial tics, choreiform movements, atrophy, and areflexia. Investigations revealed normal lipid profile except for aprebetalipoproteinemia. Phase-contrast and electron microscopy showed 35 to 40% acanthocytes. MRI and 18fluorodeoxyglucose-PET studies showed caudate atrophy and hypometabolism. The phenotype of this patient is neuroacanthocytosis and its association with aprebetalipoproteinemia may represent a new subentity of the disorder.
The gene for facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) has been mapped to chromosome 4q35. In most patients with FSHD, a deletion of 3.3 kb tandemly repeated units within the EcoRI fragment that can be detected by probe p13E-11 is associated with the disease. To elucidate the relation between the phenotype and the genotype in FSHD, we examined 91 Japanese unrelated families with a clinical diagnosis of FSHD (140 patients, 205 healthy individuals). Of these, 78 families (86%) had 4q35-FSHD (127 patients), in which 20 patients (20/127, 16%) were classified as early onset FSHD. We found that all nine patients with the smallest EcoRI fragments (10 to 11 kb) were classified among the early onset group (9/20, 45%), and these patients showed a high frequency of both epilepsy (4/9, 44%) and mental retardation (8/9, 89%). In contrast, none of the remaining patients with 4q35-FSHD had epilepsy or mental retardation. We conclude that FSHD patients with a large gene deletion in the FSHD gene region tend to have a higher chance of showing severe clinical phenotypes with CNS abnormalities. This finding may have practical implications for genetic counseling, although the molecular genetic background remains unclear.




Almost since the introduction of levodopa for Parkinson's disease (PD), its side effects have concerned clinicians. One strategy to avoid side effects has been to delay levodopa therapy; an alternative has been to use early therapy but to avoid fluctuations in plasma levodopa levels. This latter strategy led to the development of sustained-release carbidopa-levodopa, which was compared with immediate-release carbidopa-levodopa in the CR Five-Year International Response Fluctuation Study (FIRST), a 5-year multicenter study of early, levodopa-naive PD patients. The incidence of motor fluctuations was lower than expected for both groups, and patients receiving sustained-release carbidopa-levodopa fared better on the activities of daily living portion of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and on portions of the Nottingham Health Profile. The trial demonstrated the value of low-dose therapy, the lack of toxicity of this low-dose approach over 5 years in early PD.
Miyoshi myopathy (MM) is a rare autosomal recessive distal myopathy linked to chromosome 2p12-14 that has not been described in Saudi Arabia. A Saudi family with five siblings aged 3-25 years, an unrelated 18-year-old woman and a 40-year-old man with MM were identified. All patients underwent a neurological examination, serum chemistry, electromyography and MRI of the legs. Four patients underwent a muscle biopsy that was processed for routine enzyme histochemistry and immunocytochemical analyses for dystrophin and adhalin (alpha-sarcoglycan). The two sporadic and two familial cases showed classic findings of MM, including early adult onset, preferential involvement of gastrocnemius muscles, markedly elevated serum creatine kinase levels and dystrophic-appearing muscle without vacuoles. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed selective involvement of the posterior compartment muscles and myoedema by STIR sequences. The remaining three familial cases had elevated serum creatine kinase levels and two also had early myopathic findings by EMG suggestive of MM.
In bovine chromaffin cells, the Ca2+ channels involved in exocytosis are effectively inhibited by ATP and opioids that are coreleased with catecholamines during cell activity. This autocrine loop causes a delay in Ca2+ channel activation that is quickly removed by preceding depolarizations. Changes in Ca2+ channel gating by secreted products thus make it possible to correlate Ca2+ channel activity to secretory events. Here, using cell-attached patch recordings, we found a remarkable correlation between delayed Ca2+ channel openings and neurotransmitter secretion induced by either local or whole-cell Ba2+ stimulation. The action is specific for N- and P/Q-type channels and largely prevented by PTX and mixtures of purinergic and opioid receptor antagonists. Overall, our data provide evidence that exocytosis, viewed through the autocrine inhibition of non-L-type channels, is detectable in membrane patches of approximately 1 microm2 distributed over 30%-40% of the total cell surface, while Ca2+ channels and autoreceptors are uniformly distributed over most of the cell membrane.

Isochromosome 17q (i[17q]) is the most frequent chromosomal abnormality in medulloblastoma, occurring in 30-60% of cases by karyotype analysis. In the present study i[17q] was demonstrated in routinely processed tissue sections of 20 medulloblastomas by in situ hybridization (ISH), using a chromosome 17 centromeric alpha satellite DNA probe. All medulloblastomas showed the i[17q] specific signal, i.e. two hybridization spots slightly apart from each other. The specific hybridization signal was not observed in ependymomas, cerebellar astrocytomas, haemangioblastomas, supratentorial neuroblastomas and ependymoblastomas. The constant finding of i[17q] in medulloblastoma depends on the much higher number of nuclei which can be analysed by ISH compared with cytogenetic techniques. Molecular data on medulloblastoma are consistent with the present results. The number of cells with i[17q] in medulloblastoma cases ranged from 3% to 9%; these figures are underestimated because of nuclear truncation in tissue sections. The percentage was not linked to patients' age, location of tumour, MIB-1 labelling index and histological type (classical vs desmoplastic). The present results indicate that i[17q] is a key event in the pathogenesis of medulloblastoma, and suggest a genetic difference between medulloblastoma and other primitive neuroectodermal tumours.
Peripheral neurons begin to express galanin after axotomy. When neurons in the superior cervical ganglion were axotomized near (about 2 mm) from the ganglion, galanin-like immunoreactivity (IR) was maximal within 72 h. Axotomy of neurons in the middle and inferior cervical ganglion complex (MICG), which could be performed 2 cm from the ganglia, led to an additional galanin increase 7 and 14 days later. This second increase was not accompanied by changes in galanin mRNA or the number of galanin-immunostained neurons. Galanin-IR was detectable in a postganglionic trunk of the MICG 2 days after axotomy. At this time, immunoreactive fibers were only seen near the lesion site, while later they were found throughout the trunk. The data suggest that galanin is actively transported toward the site of nerve crush/transection and that the second increase in galanin-IR found in the MICG may be due to a saturation of the axonal transport system.
Young male rats, trained in a spatial three-choice test, showed improved task acquisition after chronic treatment with piracetam (250 mg kg(-1)). After reaching a learning criterion, one group of animals was observed during Pavlovian extinction of the task skill and another group was assigned to reversal learning. The rate of extinction was slowed down in piracetam treated specimens compared to control animals. During reversal training, a new choice had to be learned while the previously acquired choice was no longer reinforced. Acquisition of the new skill was significantly impeded by piracetam in contrast to acquisition of the first skill, which was facilitated. Also during reversal learning, the piracetam treated group persevered longer than the control group in repeating the first acquired choice at the expense of learning the new choice. It is therefore suggested, that the impediment of reversal learning was caused by inhibition of extinction. In an open-field test, the time spent exploring in motion was increased by piracetam while the velocity of locomotion was unaffected by the drug. In a novelty test, piracetam increased the rate of loss of interactions with the novel object.
The putative D3 receptor agonist, (+)-PD 128907, is widely used to study the functional relevance of D3 receptors in vivo. Given that non-selective D2/3/4 receptor agonists serve as effective discriminative stimuli in rats we have trained animals to discriminate (+)-PD 128907 (30 microg kg(-1), s.c.) from saline and examined the pharmacological specificity of the response. Consistent with a D3 receptor mediated response, the non-selective D2/3 receptor agonist apomorphine and the D3 preferring agonists 7-OH-DPAT and (-) quinpirole generalised to the cue whilst the D2/3 receptor antagonists haloperidol, raclopride, spiperone and (+)-butaclamol antagonised drug lever responding. In contrast, the D1 selective agonist (+/-)-SKF 81297 and D1/5 selective antagonist, R-(+)-SCH 23390 had no effect. Results also suggest that presynaptic dopamine receptors are involved. Thus the dopamine depleting agent alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine potentiated the effects of a submaximal dose of (+)-PD 128907 whereas amphetamine failed to generalise per se and blocked (+)-PD 128907 lever selection. However, studies using subtype selective antagonists argue against a role for the D3 receptor. Thus the 10-fold selective D2 receptor antagonist L-741,626 blocked the (+)-PD 128907 discriminative stimulus whereas L-745,829 and GR 103,691, antagonists &gt; 40 and &gt; 100-fold selective for D3 receptors, failed to modify the response. These results suggest that presynaptic D2 receptors mediate the discriminative stimulus properties of (+)-PD 128907 and highlight the lack of selectivity of (+)-PD 128907 for D3 receptors in vivo.
The sensitivity of quantitative electroencephalogram (EEG) was compared with that of conventional EEG in patients with acute ischaemic stroke. In addition, a correlation between quantitative EEG data and computerized tomography (CT) scan findings was carried out for all the areas of lesion in order to reassess the actual role of EEG in the evaluation of stroke. Sixty-five patients were tested with conventional and quantitative EEG within 24 h from the onset of neurological symptoms, whereas CT scan was performed within 4 days from the onset of stroke. EEG was recorded from 19 electrodes placed upon the scalp according to the International 10-20 System. Spectral analysis was carried out on 30 artefact-free 4-sec epochs. For each channel absolute and relative power were calculated for the delta, theta, alpha and beta frequency bands and such data were successively represented in colour-coded maps. Ten patients with extensive lesions documented by CT scan were excluded. The results indicated that conventional EEG revealed abnormalities in 40 of 55 cases, while EEG mapping showed abnormalities in 46 of 55 cases: it showed focal abnormalities in five cases and nonfocal abnormalities in one of six cases which had appeared to be normal according to visual inspection of EEG. In a further 11 cases, where the conventional EEG revealed abnormalities in one hemisphere, the quantitative EEG and maps allowed to further localize abnormal activity in a more localized way. The sensitivity of both methods was higher for frontocentral, temporal and parieto-occipital cortical-subcortical infarctions than for basal ganglia and internal capsule lesions; however, quantitative EEG was more efficient for all areas of lesion in detecting cases that had appeared normal by visual inspection and was clearly superior in revealing focal abnormalities. When we considered the electrode related to which the maximum power of the delta frequency band is recorded, a fairly close correlation was found between the localization of the maximum delta power and the position of lesions documented by CT scan for all areas of lesion excepting those located in the striatocapsular area.
Creating false memories has become an important tool to investigate the processes underlying true memories. In the course of investigating the constructive and/or reconstructive processes underlying the formation of false memories, it has become clear that paradigms are needed that can create false memories reliably in a variety of laboratory settings. In particular, neuroimaging techniques present certain constraints in terms of subject response and timing of stimuli that a false memory paradigm needs to comply with. We have developed a picture paradigm which results in the false recognition of items of a scene which did not occur almost as often as the true recognition of items that did occur. It uses a single presentation of pictures with thematic, stereotypical scenes (e.g. a beach scene). Some of the exemplars from the scene were removed (e.g. a beach ball) and used as lures during an auditory recognition test. Subjects' performance on this paradigm was compared with their performance on the word paradigm reintroduced by Roediger and McDermott. The word paradigm has been useful in creating false memories in several neuroimaging studies because of the high frequency of false recognition for critical lures (words not presented but closely associated with lists of words that were presented) and the strong subjective sense of remembering accompanying these false recognitions. However, it has several limitations including small numbers of lures and a particular source confusion. The picture paradigm avoids these limitations and produces identical effects on normal subjects.
The present study was designed to investigate the effects of infusions into reticular nucleus of thalamus (NRT) or intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusions of muscarinic M1 and M2 receptor subtype selective drugs on thalamocortically generated neocortical high voltage spindles (HVSs) in awake immobile rats. NRT administration of 2.0 and 20.0 microg McN-A-343, a muscarinic M1 agonist, and 20.0 microg methoctramine, a muscarinic M2 antagonist, suppressed HVSs. The results suggest that the blockade of presynaptic M2 receptors and activation of postsynaptic M1 receptors in the NRT suppress thalamocortical oscillations and increase neocortical electrical arousal.
We examined the effects of puff application of endothelin (ET)-1 on the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) and heterosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) in hippocampal CA1 slices. ET-1 applied 2 min prior to tetanus blocked the induction of LTP, but facilitated the induction of heterosynaptic LTD. These ET-1 effects on synaptic plasticity were dose-dependent, and not due to a generalized depression of baseline responses. ET-1 did not alter NMDA receptor-mediated responses. These data provide the first evidence that endothelin modulates activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, and the potency of these effects suggests that endogenous ET-1 may play an important role in regulating memory storage processes.
In order to characterize how the dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5HT) systems may be interacting in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) during postnatal development, the specific toxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) was used to induce lesions of the nucleus raphe dorsalis (NRD) in neonatal rats and the density of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive varicosities (TH-IRv) was assessed. During the early adult period, lesioned rats showed a significant increase in the density of the TH-IR fibers in layers V and VI when compared with sham-treated animals. These results suggest that postnatal development in medial prefrontal cortex may be associated with a competitive interaction between cortical monoaminergic systems, such that an early disturbance in the development of the 5HT innervation can potentially induce a hyperinnervation of DA fibres.
The present study was designed to evaluate the effect of dopamine (DA) D-1 receptor activation in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) on the locomotor sensitizing effects of repeated intra-accumbens (intra-NAC) infusions of cocaine. Repeated infusion of cocaine (10 microg/0.5 microl daily for 2 days) resulted in an enhanced locomotor response to a subsequent intra-NAC and systemic (i.p.) challenging dose of the psychostimulant. Pretreatment with the selective D-1 agonist SK&amp;F82958 (1.0 microg) markedly enhanced the sensitizing effects of both intra-NAC and systemic cocaine. The effect of SK&amp;F82958 was completely blocked by systemic administration of the D-1 antagonist SCH23390 (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.). These data give further support to the idea that activation of D-1 receptors plays an important role in the induction of locomotor sensitization and show that the NAC may, in fact, be an anatomical locus of initiation of behavioural sensitization.
The aim of the present study was to determine whether amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) induces mitochondrial dysfunction. Mitochondrial function was reported to be affected following A beta exposure, as demonstrated by depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane, decrease of oxygen consumption and by the inhibition of complexes I, III and IV of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. A beta25-35 and A beta1-40 peptides also inhibited MTT reduction in a dose-dependent manner in undifferentiated and differentiated PC12 cells. Several antioxidants prevented this inhibitory response, suggesting that oxidative stress is involved in A beta-induced cytotoxicity. These data suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to amyloid beta-protein cytotoxicity and may play a major role in the abnormalities of energy metabolism observed in Alzheimer's disease.
This study showed that fatigue of the ipsilateral medial gastrocnemius muscle caused a clear-cut reduction in the ability of ensembles of primary muscle spindle afferents from the lateral gastrocnemius muscle to discriminate between muscle stretches of varying amplitude. The results were probably caused by reflex-mediated effects from chemosensitive group III and IV afferents onto the gamma-motoneurons projecting to lateral gastrocnemius muscle spindles. The experiments were conducted on seven cats anaesthetized with alpha-chloralose and a total of 41 primary muscle spindle afferents from the lateral gastrocnemius were registered. Afferents were simultaneously recorded in ensembles of three to 10 afferents. A method based on principal component analysis and algorithms for quantification of stimulus discrimination in ensembles of muscle afferents was used prior to, immediately following and five or more minutes after muscle fatigue had been induced to the ipsilateral medial gastrocnemius muscle. It is well established that the primary muscle spindle afferents play an important role in proprioception and kinaesthesia. Therefore the decrease in the accuracy of the information transmitted by ensembles of primary muscle spindle afferents caused by fatigue in an ipsilateral muscle implies concomitant effects on proprioception and kinaesthesia.
Retrograde, transneuronal tracing with Bartha's strain of pseudorabies virus was used in rats to identify spinal cord, brainstem and hypothalamic loci of uterine-related neurons that could function in the regulation of uterine activity. Based on the premise that estrogen might influence such uterine-related neurons, the existence of estrogen receptors in neurons in these same loci was examined. Viral injections were made into the uterine cervix, body and cervical end of the uterine horns, and the rats allowed to survive for four to six days. After four days, mainly the spinal cord, medulla and pons contained virus-infected neurons. After longer survival times, progressively higher levels of the neuraxis contained viral-labeled neurons, so that by six days hypothalamic uterine-related neurons were identified. First-order virus-infected neurons were visualized by immunohistochemistry in the pelvic paracervical parasympathetic ganglia and in inferior mesenteric sympathetic ganglia. Preganglionic and putative interneurons were labeled in the lumbosacral spinal cord and thoracic spinal cord mainly in the lateral horn area (sacral parasympathetic nucleus and intermediolateral nucleus), lateral aspect of the dorsal horn, intermediate gray, lamina X and dorsal gray commissural area. In the brainstem, labeling was most evident and consistent in the nucleus tractus solitarius, ventrolateral medulla, raphe magnus and pallidus nuclei, parapyramidal area, A5 cell group, Barrington's nucleus of the pons and periaqueductal gray of the midbrain. In the hypothalamus, virus-infected neurons were most marked in the paraventricular nucleus, with fewer in the medial preoptic area and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. Estrogen receptor-immunoreactive neurons were most often present among the virus-labeled uterine-related neurons of the spinal cord, nucleus tractus solitarius, ventrolateral medulla, periaqueductal gray, medial preoptic area and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. These results identify a multisynaptic pathway of neurons whose eventual output is involved in uterine functions, whose distribution is similar to that revealed by pseudorabies virus tracing from other visceral organs, and which are often mixed among estrogen-responsive neurons.
Despite a vast amount of research into the actions of cytokines within the central nervous system, the pharmacological role and/or physiological function of the various cytokines within the central nervous system is still not fully understood. The present study evaluated the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of interleukin-1beta, -2, -6 (20 ng) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (40 ng) on elevated plus maze behaviour, monoamine levels in the hypothalamus, hippocampus and amygdala, plasma corticosterone and catecholamine concentrations and Concanavalin A-induced splenic lymphocyte proliferation in the rat. Both interleukin-1beta and tumour necrosis factor-alpha induced &quot;anxiogenic-like&quot; effects on the elevated plus maze, whereas interleukin-2 and interleukin-6 did not. However only interleukin-1beta led to endocrine variations often associated with stress and anxiety. Cytokine specific alterations in monoamine levels were evident in the hypothalamus and hippocampus, while neurotransmitter concentrations in the amygdala were not significantly altered by cytokine treatment. In addition, interleukin-1beta reduced Concanavalin A-induced lymphocyte proliferation, whereas the other cytokine treatments failed to significantly alter this response. These results demonstrate that in some, but not all, respects interleukin-1beta administration produced &quot;stress like&quot; effects on behaviour, monoamine neurotransmitters, hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis activity and immune function, while the other cytokines produced less consistent effects on these parameters. It is noteworthy that although interleukin-1beta and tumour necrosis factor-alpha provoked an anxiogenic response in the elevated plus maze test of anxiety, neither cytokine significantly altered amygdaloid noradrenergic or serotonergic activity, as many previous studies have implicated increased amygdaloid noradrenergic and/or serotonergic activity in the pathophysiology of anxiety.
The effects of nociceptin (orphanin FQ) on the excitability of electrophysiologically-identified oxytocin and vasopressin neurons were investigated in rat hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus slices in vitro, using whole-cell patch-clamp recording techniques. Nociceptin inhibited the spontaneous discharge of 9/20 (45%) of supraoptic nucleus neurons tested, while in the remaining 11/20 neurons it inhibited firing rate and induced repetitive burst-firing. There were no differences between the effects of nociceptin on oxytocin and vasopressin neurons. When recordings were made using EGTA-containing patch pipettes, nociceptin caused inhibition in all 30 supraoptic nucleus neurons tested, and burst-firing was not seen. The inhibitory effects of nociceptin persisted in low Ca, Co medium, and were not antagonized by naloxone at concentrations sufficient to antagonize the inhibitory actions of morphine and U50488. The actions of nociceptin on supraoptic nucleus neurons are therefore likely to be mediated by postsynaptic opioid receptor-like (ORL1) receptors that are distinct from known opioid receptors. The inhibitory responses to nociceptin were also insensitive to naloxone benzoylhydrazone, which itself had no effect on the spontaneous discharge of the supraoptic nucleus neurons. Our findings demonstrate that endogenous nociceptin may have a functional role in regulating oxytocin and vasopressin secretion through its actions on hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus neurons.
The subcellular compartmentalization and axonal transport of oxytocin and vasopressin messenger RNAs have recently been reported in the rat hypothalamo-posthypophyseal system using in situ hybridization. So far, no data are available concerning the intracellular distribution of co-localized peptide transcripts, for example of galanin, which is synthesized in the vasopressinergic magnocellular neurons of the rat and which is up-regulated in these neurons under different conditions, including salt loading and colchicine injection. In the present study, using non-radioactive in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry at the light and electron microscope levels, preprogalanin messenger RNA and galanin-like immunoreactivity were localized in the hypothalamo-posthypophyseal system. After salt loading, preprogalanin transcripts were found throughout the perikaryal cytoplasm, especially in the peripheral cytoplasm and in the perinuclear area. Since immunohistochemistry also showed galanin-like immunoreactivity preferentially in the perinuclear area of control rats, galanin synthesis may occur mainly in this cytoplasmic domain. Preprogalanin messenger RNA was also clustered in dendrites containing rough endoplasmic reticulum. The use of a new in situ hybridization method involving tyramide signal amplification, based on catalysed reporter deposition, allowed visualization of preprogalanin messenger RNA in axonal projections running through the internal layer of the median eminence after salt loading, but not in control or in colchicine-injected animals. The negative results obtained after colchicine injection indicate that the mechanism of messenger RNA transport may require an intact cytoskeleton. The labelling was found in non-dilated axon segments as well as in a subset of axonal swellings in the rostral aspect of the median eminence, but was restricted to a few swellings in its caudal part, with no labelling in the posterior pituitary. Thus, preprogalanin messenger RNA was segregated in the axons. The functional significance of messenger RNAs' exportation into axons is not known, but our results suggest that this phenomenon may not be limited to the two principal magnocellular hormone messenger RNAs, but may also involve co-existing peptide messenger RNAs.
Calcium-permeable non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels are now characterized in much detail, but still little is known about the consequences of Ca2+ influx through these channels in specific neuron types. We are interested in the role of Ca2+-permeable non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels during differentiation of retinal ganglion cells. However, in view of the conflicting data on the relative Ca2+ permeability of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels in these neurons, a more systematic evaluation of permeation properties of different Na+ substitutes was necessary before proceeding with the main goal of the present study evaluating the effects of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation on repetitive firing and voltage-activated K+ and Ca2+ conductances. Retinal ganglion cells were dissociated from the rat retina on postnatal day 5. They were selected by vital anti-Thy-1 immunostaining and repetitive firing behaviour and submitted to patch-clamp recording in the whole-cell configuration. Non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels were activated by application of amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid or kainate. It was found that they were essentially impermeable to N-methyl-D-glucamine (P(NMDG)/P(Cs)&lt;0.02), but not to choline (P(choline)/P(Cs)=0.24) and tetramethylammonium (P(TMA)/P(Cs)=0.23). When using N-methyl-D-glucamine as a substitute for Na+ to obtain bi-ionic conditions P(Ca)/P(Cs) varied between 0.08 to 1.40. Linear current voltage relation or little outward rectification corresponded to a low Ca2+ permeability (P(Ca)/P(Cs)=0.14). In about one third of the cells kainate-induced currents showed inward rectification and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonists induced a substantially higher Ca2+ influx (P(Ca)/P(Cs)=0.64). Activation of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors by kainate profoundly altered the repetitive discharge of retinal ganglion cells. In contrast to the continuously firing controls, cells generated only a few spikes at the beginning of a steady depolarization after kainate exposure. Among the candidates regulating the firing behaviour of retinal ganglion cells voltage-activated Ca2+ and K+ conductances were tested for their sensitivity to kainate application. It was found that even short conditioning pulses of kainate decreased the peak amplitudes of both voltage-activated K+ and voltage-activated Ca2+ currents. Only the latter effect required extracellular Ca2+ and was antagonized by increasing the intracellular Ca2+ buffering strength. Thus, suppression of calcium currents was induced by a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated rise of the intracellular calcium concentration. The reduction of K+ currents did not depend on extracellular calcium and was insensitive to experimental manipulation of intracellular Ca2+ buffer strength. The interaction between Ca2+-permeable non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels and voltage-activated Ca2+ and K+ currents may represent an important regulatory mechanism to control the repetitive firing of developing retinal ganglion cells.
The striatum is thought to be generated from two transient swellings in the ventral telencephalon, the lateral and medial ganglionic eminences, present at mid-stages of embryonic rat development. We have studied the relative contribution of these structures to the specific generation of striatal neuronal subtypes such as projection neurons and cholinergic and somatostatin-containing interneurons at an early stage and a mid stage in striatal neurogenesis. Dissociated progenitors isolated from the embryonic day 12.5 and embryonic day 15.5 rat lateral ganglionic eminence grafted into the previously ibotenic acid lesioned adult striatum, produce grafts containing extensive numbers of neurons expressing messenger RNA for the striatal projection neuron marker, DARPP-32, whereas grafts of the embryonic day 12.5 and embryonic day 15.5 medial ganglionic eminences do not. While preprosomatostatin messenger RNA-expressing neurons were observed in grafts from each of the lateral ganglionic eminence and medial ganglionic eminence at both embryonic day 12.5 and embryonic day 15.5, choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA-expressing cholinergic neurons were largely found in grafts derived from the embryonic day 12.5 medial ganglionic eminence. These results suggest that the neuronal diversity of the adult striatum may derive both from the lateral ganglionic eminence, providing DARPP-32-expressing projection neurons as well as somatostatin-containing interneurons, and the early stage medial ganglionic eminence specifically contributing the cholinergic interneurons.
Rats were initially trained on a series of odor detection tasks and then received a unilateral olfactory bulbectomy and removal of different parts of the contralateral bulb. After postoperative recovery they were tested for detection of different concentrations of four odors, on a series of odor discrimination tasks and for their ability to acquire a relatively easy and a more difficult odor mixture discrimination task. Groups were formed based on which region of the bulb was intact (regional savings score) and on amount of bulb intact (bulbar savings score). In general, only rats with bulbar savings scores of less than 21% had deficits in detection or discrimination tasks but most performed as well as controls in most tasks. Correlations between bulbar savings scores and error scores were relatively low across all rats but, within the subgroup with the largest lesions (bulbar savings scores &lt;21%), high correlations between these variables were obtained. There was no evidence for a specific anosmia in any group or individual rat and, except for the more difficult odor mixture discrimination, no one task proved difficult for any subgroup. The present results demonstrate that rats with relatively small remnants of one olfactory bulb can perform a variety of odor detection and discrimination tasks as well or nearly as well as controls. These outcomes provide no support for localization of function within the olfactory bulb but are in accord with recent proposals that odors may be coded by a highly distributed pattern of bulbar input.
The distribution and function of the neurotransmitter adrenaline in the primate brain are poorly understood. Biochemical studies have shown the presence of adrenaline or its biosynthetic enzyme, phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase, in the rat and human thalamus. However, the distribution of the adrenergic fibres in the thalamus has only been demonstrated in rats. We study the adrenergic innervation of the macaque monkey thalamus using immunohistochemistry against phenyletanolamine-N-methyltransferase. The distribution of phenyletanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive fibres is markedly heterogeneous and principally restricted to those nuclei, or their portions, that are located in or close to the midline, with the highest density being found in the paraventricular, parafascicular and mediodorsal nuclei. The paraventricular nucleus is densely innervated by adrenergic axons throughout, while the densest innervation of the parafascicular nucleus is located in its medial part and the strongest mediodorsal nuclear immunolabelling is found in its most posterior and medial region. Moderate or low concentrations of phenyletanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunopositive fibres are present in the paratenial nucleus, and all parts of the central nucleus, nucleus reuniens, central medial nucleus, centromedian nucleus, medial geniculate body and medial pulvinar nucleus, while only scattered immunoreactive axons are found in other thalamic nuclei. The morphology of the phenyletanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive axons is quite diverse, as they have different diameters and most are endowed with diversely-shaped varicosities. These findings are the first morphological evidence for the presence of adrenergic innervation in the primate thalamus and reveal that this innervation is highly selective, heterogeneous and more widely distributed in primates than in rats. The thalamic nuclei innervated by adrenaline are connected to widespread limbic and associative cortical areas as well as to subcortical structures, in particular the neostriatum and amygdala. We hypothesize that thalamic adrenaline may be implicated in emotional, social and attentional mechanisms through its facilitation of co-ordinated action by these brain regions.
The distribution of the P2Y1 receptor protein and transcript in the one-day-old chick brain were determined by quantitative in vitro ligand autoradiography and in situ hybridization histochemistry. We have previously used [35S]2'-deoxy 5'-O-(1-thio) ATP as a radioligand for the recombinant P2Y1 receptor transiently expressed in COS-7 cells and have also shown that such sites are present at high density (Bmax: approximately 37 pmol radioligand bound/mg protein) in chick brain membranes. Here we report the macroscopic localization of these [35S]2'-deoxy 5'-O-(1-thio) ATP binding sites within the chick brain. They were found to be widely distributed there (within the range of 0.047 +/- 0.012 to 0.309 +/- 0.035 pmol bound/mg wet tissue). The affinities of P2 agonists and antagonists at these binding sites was comparable to that found previously for the recombinant P2Y1 receptor. In parallel experiments, the regional and cellular localization of the P2Y1 receptor messenger RNA was examined by in situ hybridization. The transcript was also found to be widely distributed throughout the brain. High levels of hybridization were detected in the cortex piriformis, ectostriatum, hippocampus, cerebellum and in a range of discrete nuclei throughout the brain, including the ovoidalis, isthmo-opticus and spiriformis lateralis nuclei. Localization at cellular level indicates that this receptor transcript is expressed in neurons and also at non-neuronal sites. Furthermore, the distribution of the P2Y1 transcript and the [35S]2'-deoxy 5'-O-(1-thio) ATP binding sites matched in a number of the regions and structures mentioned above. The present study clarifies the anatomical distribution of the P2Y1 receptor within the chick brain. Its broad distribution coupled with its neuronal expression suggest an important role for this type of metabotropic nucleotide receptor within the brain.
In situ hybridization was used to study the regional distribution of messenger RNAs encoding ionotropic glutamate receptor subtypes in the rat brain's dopaminergic cell body regions and their forebrain projection areas. Short oligonucleotide probes specific for the messenger RNAs encoding the flip or flop splice forms of the GluR1 and GluR2 AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate) receptor subunits, or for the messenger RNAs encoding the N-methyl-D-aspartate R1 subunit, were used. Significant differences were seen in the relative messenger RNA levels, and the distribution of the flip and flop splice forms, of GluR1 and GluR2. In the dopaminergic cell groups of the substantia nigra pars compacta and the ventral tegmental area, the flip form of both GluR1 and GluR2 dominated over the flop form. Similarly, in the core division of the nucleus accumbens, GluR1 and GluR2 flip forms dominated over the flop forms. In contrast, in the accumbens shell, the GluR1 and GluR2 flop forms dominated over the flip forms. As a comparison to the AMPA receptor subunits, N-methyl-D-aspartate R1 messenger RNA was relatively evenly distributed in all the regions analysed. The results demonstrate a heterogeneous distribution of the flip and flop splice forms of GluR1 and GluR2 in the brain's dopaminergic pathways, which could contribute to physiological differences in regulation of the pathways by glutamatergic neurotransmission. We also studied regulation of glutamate receptor subunit expression in these regions by antipsychotic drugs, based on previous reports of altered levels of subunit immunoreactivity after drug treatment. Chronic administration of the typical antipsychotic drug, haloperidol, caused a small but significant induction of GluR2 flip messenger RNA in the dorsolateral caudate putamen. This effect was not seen after chronic administration of the atypical antipsychotic drug, clozapine. Significant drug regulation of the other glutamate receptor subunits studied was not observed.
A high density of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) receptors coupled to both adenylyl cyclase and phospholipase C is found in the external granule cell layer of the rat cerebellum during postnatal development. It has recently been reported that synthetic PACAP promotes cell survival and neurite outgrowth in immature granule cells. In the present study, we have investigated the transduction pathways that mediate the neurotrophic activity of PACAP in cultured granule cells from eight-day-old rat cerebellum. The effect of PACAP on cell survival was mimicked by dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic-monophosphate but not phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate suggesting that only the adenylyl cyclase pathway is involved in the neurotrophic activity of PACAP. PACAP also induced a transient increase in c-fos messenger RNA level. The ability of PACAP to stimulate c-fos gene expression was mimicked by dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic-monophosphate but not phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. Similar effects of PACAP on granule cell survival were observed whether the cells were continuously incubated with PACAP for 48 h or only exposed to PACAP during 1 h. The protein kinase A inhibitor H89 significantly reduced the effect of PACAP on c-fos messenger RNA level whereas the specific protein kinase C inhibitor chelerythrine did not modify c-fos gene expression. These data indicate that the action of PACAP on cerebellar granule cell survival and c-fos gene expression are both mediated through the adenylyl cyclase/protein kinase A pathway. The observation that a short-term stimulation by PACAP can be converted into a long-lasting response indicates that the effect of the peptide on cell survival must involve immediate-early gene activation. The fact that a brief exposure to PACAP causes both c-fos gene expression and promotes cell survival strongly suggests that c-fos is involved in the trophic effect of PACAP on immature cerebellar granule cells.
The possible roles for nitric oxide produced by neurons in epileptic conditions have been investigated from two different aspects: microcirculation and delayed damage. Our aim was to determine whether the selective inhibition of neuronal (type 1) nitric oxide synthase by 7-nitroindazole, during seizures induced by systemic kainate, modifies hippocampal blood flow and oxygen supply and influences the subsequent hippocampal damage. Experiments were performed in conscious Wistar rats whose electroencephalogram was recorded. 7-Nitroindazole (25 mg/kg, i.p.) or its vehicle was injected 30 min before kainate administration (10 mg/kg, i.p.) and then twice at 1-h intervals. Kainate triggered typical limbic seizures evolving into status epilepticus, identified by uninterrupted electroencephalographic spike activity. The seizures were stopped by diazepam (5 mg/kg, i.p.) after 1 h of status epilepticus. Three types of experiments were performed in vehicle- and 7-nitroindazole-treated rats. (1) Hippocampal nitric oxide synthase activity was measured under basal conditions, at 1 h after the onset of the status epilepticus and at 24 h after its termination (n = 4-6 per group). (2) Hippocampal blood flow and tissue partial pressure of oxygen were measured simultaneously by mass spectrometry for the whole duration of the experiment, while systemic variables and body temperature were monitored (n = 6 per group). (3) Hippocampal damage was revealed by Cresyl Violet staining and evaluated with a lesion score seven days after status epilepticus (n = 12 per group). Hippocampal nitric oxide synthase activity was not significantly modified during status epilepticus or the following day in vehicle-treated rats. In contrast, it was inhibited by 57% in 7-nitroindazole-treated rats, both in basal conditions and after 1 h of status epilepticus, but was not different from its basal level 24 h later. 7-Nitroindazole significantly decreased basal hippocampal blood flow and tissue partial pressure in oxygen by 30% and 35%, respectively without affecting any systemic or thermal variable. During status epilepticus, 7-nitroindazole significantly reduced the increase in hippocampal blood flow by 70% and prevented any increase in the tissue partial pressure of oxygen. Seven days later, the hippocampal damage in the CA1 and CA3 layers was significantly less in 7-nitroindazole-treated rats than in vehicle-treated rats. These results indicate that the inhibition of neuronal nitric oxide synthase by 7-nitroindazole protects neurons from seizure-induced toxicity despite reducing blood flow and oxygen supply to the hippocampus.
Drugs acting at the three known classes of histamine receptors were injected intracerebroventricularly into the rat. The effects of these drugs upon synaptic potentials recorded from the dentate gyrus of the freely-moving rat were determined. Population spikes and field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded from the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus following stimulation of the perforant path. Drugs, dissolved in 0.9% NaCl were applied into the lateral cerebral ventricle in a volume of 5 microl over a period of 6 min. The histamine H1 receptor antagonist mepyramine (0.4 or 0.8 microg) had no significant effect on population spikes or field excitatory postsynaptic potentials. In contrast the H2 receptor antagonist cimetidine (3.25, 6.5 or 13 microg) showed a biphasic effect. At the lower doses (3.25 or 6.5 microg) a small (15%) depression of the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials and population spikes was observed beginning about 1 h following the infusion. At the highest dose tested (13 microg) a marked increase of the population spike was observed beginning immediately following the infusion and lasting for 90 min. Application of the H3 receptor agonist R-alpha-methylhistamine (0.2 microg) depressed the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (15% at 4 h post-injection) and even more strongly the population spike (50%). Surprisingly, at higher doses (0.4 and 0.8 microg) no effect was seen. The H3 receptor antagonist thioperamide (0.41 and 0.82 microg) did not cause an increase in synaptic potentials but rather at the highest dose a small depression occurred at later time points (2-4 h following the infusion). At the lower dose (0.41 microg) thioperamide blocked the effect of R-alpha-methylhistamine (0.2 microg). These results show that the histaminergic system modulates information flow through the dentate gyrus in a complex manner involving both histamine H2 and H1 receptors.
Lesions of the septohippocampal pathway produce cognitive deficits that are partially attenuated by grafts of cholinergic-rich tissue into denervated target regions or by systemic administration of cholinomimetic drugs. In the present study, fibroblasts engineered to produce acetylcholine were used to test the hypothesis that restoration of hippocampal acetylcholine in rats with septohippocampal lesions is sufficient to improve cognitive processing post-damage. Rats received unilateral grafts of acetylcholine-producing or control fibroblasts into the hippocampus immediately prior to an aspirative lesion of the ipsilateral fimbria-fornix. Some rats with fimbria-fornix lesions were implanted with acetylcholine-producing or control fibroblasts into the neocortex, another major target of the basal forebrain cholinergic system, to determine if the site of acetylcholine delivery to the damaged brain is critical for functional recovery. Rats were tested in a hidden platform water maze task, a cued water maze task and activity chambers between one and three weeks post-grafting. Compared to unoperated controls, rats with fimbria fornix lesions only were significantly impaired in hidden platform water maze performance. Hippocampal grafts of acetylcholine-producing cells reduced lesion-induced deficits in the water maze, whereas hippocampal control grafts and cortical grafts of either cell type were without effect. Locomotor activity and cued water maze performance were unaffected by the lesion or the implants. Taken together, these data indicate that water maze deficits produced by fimbria fornix lesions, which disrupt a number of hippocampal neurotransmitter systems, can be attenuated by target specific replacement of acetylcholine in the hippocampus and that this recovery occurs in the absence of circuitry repair.
Intense immunoreactivity for the m2-muscarinic receptor was found in a population of interstitial polymorphic neurons embedded within the infracortical white matter and the adjacent deep layers of the cerebral cortex. These infracortical neurons were evenly distributed throughout architectonic subdivisions of the monkey cortex except for parts of primary visual cortex where they were less numerous. A similar set of m2-immunoreactive interstitial cells was also detected in the human lateral temporal neocortex obtained at surgery. Upon electron microscopic examination, they were found to receive unlabelled synaptic inputs and displayed abundant rough endoplasmic reticulum, a prominent nucleolus, and invaginations of the nuclear membrane. Double labelling of m2 immunoreactivity and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry demonstrated that approximately 90% of the m2-positive infracortical cells were acetylcholinesterase-rich in the monkey and human brains. Conversely, the proportion of acetylcholinesterase-rich infracortical neurons that were m2-immunoreactive was over 90% in the monkey and at least 50% in the human. The concurrent visualization of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) enzyme activity with m2 immunoreactivity in the monkey and human brain showed that 85-95% of m2-immunoreactive infracortical cells were NADPH-d positive. Conversely, about 70% of NADPH-d cells contained m2 immunoreactivity. These observations provide the most convincing information to date that many of the acetylcholinesterase-rich neurons located in the infracortical white matter of the cerebral cortex are likely to be cholinoceptive. The expression of NADPH-d by these neurons suggests that they may also provide a relay through which cholinergic innervation, originating predominantly from the nucleus basalis of Meynert, could regulate the release of nitric oxide in the cerebral cortex and subjacent white matter. The degeneration of these neurons may account for at least some of the depletion of m2 receptors that has been reported in Alzheimer's disease.
The origin of the corticothalamic projections to the contralateral mediodorsal nucleus, the collateralization of cortical fibers and their synaptic organization in the ipsi- and contralateral mediodorsal nuclei were investigated in adult rats with double retrograde fluorescent and anterograde tracing. After tracer injections in the mediodorsal nuclei on either side, neurons were retrogradely labeled in all the areas of the contralateral prefrontal cortex in which ipsilateral labeling was also observed. Contralateral corticothalamic cells accounted for 15% of the labeled neurons in the orbital and agranular insular areas, while their proportion was lower (3%) in the anterior cingulate cortex. Up to 70% of the contralateral cortical neurons were double labeled by bilateral injections in the mediodorsal nuclei. At the electron microscopic level, unilateral injections of biotinylated dextran-amine in the orbitofrontal cortex resulted in anterograde labeling of small terminals and a few large boutons in the ipsilateral mediodorsal nucleus, while only small boutons were identified contralaterally. The diameter of postsynaptic dendritic profiles contacted by labeled small cortical endings was significantly larger in the ipsilateral mediodorsal nucleus than contralaterally. These findings demonstrate that dense contralateral cortical projections to the mediodorsal nucleus derive from the orbital and agranular insular areas, and that crossed corticothalamic afferents are mostly formed by collaterals of the ipsilateral connections. Our observations also point out the heterogeneity of corticothalamic boutons in the rat mediodorsal nucleus and morphological differences in the synaptic organization of prefrontal fibers innervating the two sides, indicating that ipsilateral cortical afferents may be more proximally distributed than crossed cortical fibers on dendrites of mediodorsal neurons.
Current source generators (dipoles) of the human visual evoked potentials to pattern-onset stimuli were investigated with the dipole tracing method, using a realistic four-layer head model of scalp-skull-fluid-brain, which can equate the surface potential distributions on a scalp to one or two corresponding equivalent dipoles. Three healthy adult human subjects were used, and 29 electrodes were set on a scalp of each subject. Visual stimulus of a checkerboard pattern was presented for 250 ms in each of eight different visual fields (central and peripheral parts of each of four quadrant fields). The visual evoked potentials consisting of initial positive-late negative waves (CI and CII components designated by Jeffreys and Axford) were recorded mainly on the occipital region contralateral to stimulated visual fields. The initial positive wave (CI) of visual evoked potentials were divided into two components: early component of the CI (e-CI--an early small positive deflection with approximate peak latency of 70-90 ms) and late component of the CI (l-CI--a late large positive deflection with approximate peak latency of 100-120 ms). The dipole with a fit exceeding 98% dipolarity with our model at the shortest latencies was defined as an &quot;earliest dipole&quot; of the evoked potentials, produced by the primary responses in the occipital cortex to an afferent volley from the lateral geniculate body. These earliest dipoles, for eight different visual field stimulations, were estimated at the approximate peak of the e-CI. Estimated dipoles were superimposed on a three-dimensional magnetic resonance image of each subject's brain. Earliest dipoles for right upper and right lower quadrant-field stimulations were located at the left calcarine cortices below and above the calcarine fissure, respectively; earliest dipoles for left upper and left lower quadrant-field stimulations were located at the right calcarine cortices below and above the calcarine fissure, respectively. Furthermore, earliest dipoles for central and peripheral quadrant-field stimulations were located posteriorly and anteriorly in the calcarine cortex, respectively. The results from these non-invasive analyses of visual evoked potentials indicated topographic localization of the dipoles around the calcarine fissure based on the loci of the visual fields. This was comparable to the retinotopy of the human occipital lobe based on clinicopathological studies.
Many neurons (56/174, or 32.2%) studied in the cat striate cortex (area 17) increased significantly (by 3.3 times on average) their responses under stimulation by cruciform or corner figures of specific or non-specific shape and orientation flashing in receptive field as compared with single light bar of preferred orientation. Most of these neurons (71.4%) were found to be highly selective to both the shape (the angle between the figure's lines) and orientation of these figures. In the neuronal selection studied we have also found all possible types of invariance of the cross and corner tuning to orientation and/or shape of these figures. We found neurons with selectivity to the form of the figures and invariance to their orientation and, on the contrary, units invariant to shape but selective to orientation. Some cells were found invariant to both the form and orientation of the cruciform or corner figure but highly sensitive to appearance of any such figure in the receptive field. Two main hypotheses about the mechanisms of selective sensitivity to crosses and angles can be considered. They are as follows: an excitatory convergence of two units with different preferred orientations, and intracortical inhibitory interactions. The cells with double orientation tuning for a single bar are found relatively rarely (about 20%), thus making the first suggestion the most unlikely. This circumstance is of special importance since it provides evidence against the hierarchic formation of the higher-order cortical units from a set of lower-order cells that is still under discussion. The units with high sensitivity to cross or corner seem to be ideally suitable for their selection, rather than to serve as classical orientation detectors only.
It is generally considered that the posteromedial part of the cat's lateral suprasylvian cortex is involved in the analysis of image motion. The main afferents of the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian cortex come from a direct retinogeniculate pathway and indirect retinotectal and retino-geniculo-cortical pathways. Removal of the primary visual cortex does not affect the spatial and temporal processing of suprasylvian cortex cells suggesting that these properties are derived from thalamic input. We have investigated the possibility that the striate-recipient zone of the lateral posterior nucleus-pulvinar complex may be responsible for the spatial (and temporal) frequency processing in posteromedial lateral suprasylvian cortex since these two regions establish strong bidirectional connections and share many visual properties. Experiments were done on anaesthetized normal adult cats. Visual responses in suprasylvian cortex were recorded before, during, and after the deactivation of the lateral part of the lateral posterior nucleus accomplished by the injection of lidocaine or GABA. Results can be summarized as follows. A total of 64 cells was tested. Out of this number, 11 units were affected by the deactivation of the lateral part of lateral posterior nucleus and one cell, by the blockade of pulvinar. For all cells, except one, the effect consisted in a global reduction of the evoked discharge rate suggesting that the thalamo-suprasylvian cortex projections are excitatory in nature. We did not find any significant differences in the optimal spatial frequency, nor in the width of the tuning function, whether the grating was presented at half- or saturation contrast. In addition, there were no significant differences between the low- and high cut-off spatial frequency values computed before and after the deactivation of the lateral posterior nucleus. No specific changes were observed in the contrast sensitivity function of the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian cortex cells. Similar results were observed with respect to the temporal frequency tuning functions. Deactivating the lateral posterior nucleus did not modify the direction selectivity nor the organization of the subregions of the lateral suprasylvian cortex &quot;classical&quot; receptive fields. The absence of strong changes in posteromedial lateral suprasylvian cortex cell response properties following the functional blockade of the lateral posterior nucleus suggests that the projections from this part of the thalamus are not essential to generate the spatial characteristics of most posteromedial lateral suprasylvian cortex receptive fields. These properties may be derived from other thalamic inputs (e.g., medial interlaminar nucleus) and/or from the intrinsic computation of the afferent signals within the lateral suprasylvian cortex. On the other hand, it is possible that the lateral posterior nucleus lateral suprasylvian cortex loop may be involved in other functions such as the analysis of complex motion as suggested by the findings from our and other groups.
To understand the influence of the ascending path linking area 17 to area 18 of visual cortices, experiments were carried out in which a small neuronal population of area 17 was inactivated with GABA, while unitary responses were recorded in area 18. In the latter, cells are identified as belonging to the simple or complex family according to their firing pattern evoked in response to sine-wave gratings scrolling through the receptive fields. Anesthetized cats were prepared for single-cell recordings. In area 17, a GABA-containing pipette was placed in superficial layers in order to inactivate reversibly a small neuronal population. Prior to blockade, the orientation tuning curves were obtained in both areas and the difference in optimal orientation between areas 17 and 18 was recorded. In area 18, cells were classified as simple or complex. The strategy was to study the reaction of neurons in area 18 prior to, during and after area 17 depression. In most simple cells, whenever the difference in orientation was in the iso-range, that is when the difference in optimal orientations of the injected site (in area 17) and of the neuron in area 18 was less than 30 degrees, the GABA application produced a decline of the evoked discharges, whereas GABA injection augmented the evoked firing rate when the difference was in the cross-range (&gt;60 degrees). In contrast to simple cells, GABA depression enhanced the responses in the majority of complex cells with like orientations in both areas. When the difference between recording sites was in the cross-range, then area 17 depression produced weaker evoked firing. A tangential penetration of the injecting pipette, allowing injection of different orientation sites while testing the same unit in area 18, revealed that the latter could react with an enhancement or a decline of the responses as the injecting pipette shifted from iso (or cross) to cross (or iso) disparity in optimal orientations between areas 17 and 18. These results suggest that the path connecting area 17 to area 18 may be functionally discriminated on the basis of the orientation domain and cell types. In addition, our data suggest that the ascending visual streams are required to generate orientation specificity in area 18.
Paired intracellular recordings in slices of adult rat neocortex with biocytin filling of synaptically connected neurons were used to investigate the pyramidal targets, in layer V, of layer III pyramidal axons. The time-course and sensitivity of excitatory postsynaptic potentials to current injected at the soma, and locations of close appositions between presynaptic axons and postsynaptic dendrites, indicated that the majority of contributory synapses were located in layer V. Within a &quot;column&quot; of tissue, radius &lt; or = 250 microm, the probability that a randomly selected layer III pyramid innervated a layer V pyramid was 1 in 4 if the target cell was a burst firing pyramid with an apical dendritic tuft in layers II/I. If, however, the potential target was a regular spiking pyramid, the probability of connectivity was only 1 in 40, and none of the 13 anatomically identified postsynaptic layer V targets had a slender apical dendrite terminating in layers IV/III. Morphological reconstructions indicated that layer III pyramids select target layer V cells whose apical dendrites pass within 50-100 microm of the soma of the presynaptic pyramid in layer III and which have overlapping apical dendritic tufts in the superficial layers. The probability that a layer V cell would innervate a layer III pyramid lying within 250 microm of its apical dendrite was much lower (one in 58). Both presynaptic layer III pyramids and their large postsynaptic layer V targets could therefore access similar inputs in layers I/II, while small layer V pyramids could not. One prediction from the present data would be that neither descending layer V inputs to the striatum or thalamus, nor transcallosal connections would be readily activated by longer distance cortico-cortical &quot;feedback&quot; connections that terminated in layers I/II. These could, however, activate corticofugal pathways to the superior colliculus or pons, both directly and via layer III.
The pH sensitive dye, Neutral Red, was used with optical imaging techniques to map intracellular pH shifts elicited by cortical surface stimulation of the rat cerebellum. In the in vivo rat cerebellar cortex stained with Neutral Red, a brief stimulus train (three stimuli at 33 Hz) evoked a longitudinal beam of increased fluorescence (acidic shift) running parallel to the long axis of the folium within 100 ms of stimulation onset. A 5-10 s stimulus train (5-20 Hz) produced a biphasic optical response consisting of a beam of increased fluorescence (acidic shift) which returned to baseline in approximately 60 s, followed by a beam of decreased fluorescence (alkaline shift) for up to 120 s. A close spatial correspondence was observed between electrophysiological and optical maps of the response to surface stimulation. Application of acetazolamide enhanced the optical signals, acetabenzolamide-phenoxyethene had no effect, and the glutamate antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, decreased the optical signals. Increased fluorescence was produced by superfusion of the cerebellar cortex with acidic Ringer solutions and a decrease in fluorescence by basic solutions. These fluorescence changes also occurred in the presence of several ion channel/receptor blockers. Increased fluorescence resulted from superfusion with Ringer solution containing sodium propionate and decreased fluorescence with the transition from 5% carbon dioxide to nominally carbon dioxide-free Ringer solution. Recovery from acid loading with ammonium chloride was prevented by amiloride, an inhibitor of the Na+/H+ transporter. Application of Ringer solution with high potassium concentration produced an increase in fluorescence but only a decrease in fluorescence was detected when neuronal blockers were present, an effect consistent with a glial contribution. This decrease in fluorescence was blocked by adding barium. No epifluorescent optical signals were obtained from unstained preparations or preparations stained with cell-permeant fluorescence markers, suggesting little contribution from activity-dependent volume changes and other intrinsic signals. These results demonstrate that the Neutral Red optical signals evoked by cerebellar surface stimulation are primarily pH based and include a significant component related to intracellular pH shifts. The large amplitudes of these optical signals are particularly useful for mapping neuronal activity. Furthermore, this technique provides a novel tool for the study of pH changes in vivo at both high spatial and temporal resolution.
In order to test if vision is a continuous processing system that analyses information immediately after it arrives at the retina or a discontinuous system that accumulates information and periodically analyses a data quantum, the time required by 38 healthy adults to solve simple visual tasks was accurately quantified. The main finding of the present study was that the processing time for visual tasks is always a multiple of a basic unit whose duration was 30-40 ms. Present data support the hypothesis that visual information is processed in the brain with a discontinuous flow of discrete-time quanta. Data suggest two processing ways for the visual system, one that with a high time-resolution (30-40 ms) operates under high-illumination conditions, and the other that with a low time-resolution (100-120 ms) is put into operation in low-illumination conditions.
The dorsal column nuclei, a first relay station of the somatosensory system, express coherent oscillatory activity in the 4-22 Hz frequency range at single unit, multiunit and local field potential levels. This activity appears spontaneously (33% of the cases) or, more commonly (83%), during natural sensory stimulation of the receptive field. Such oscillations are not imposed upon the dorsal column nuclei by incoming sensory afferents nor cortico-nuclear projections, which indicates that they are generated within the dorsal column nuclei. We concluded that dorsal column nuclei transform a non-rhythmic input from the periphery to a populational oscillatory output to the somatosensory thalamus during sensory stimulation.
A number of studies have examined bradykinin-induced sensitization of primary afferent neurons to mechanical or thermal stimuli. However, bradykinin-induced sensitization to other chemical stimuli has not been systematically addressed. We used primary cultures of dorsal root ganglion neurons from neonatal rats to determine whether bradykinin alters the responsiveness of individual neurons to capsaicin and protons. An increase in the concentration of free intracellular Ca2+ was used as a measure of a response to capsaicin or low pH. Pretreatment with bradykinin (30 nM) increased the proportion of &quot;intermediate-size&quot; (240-320 microm2) dorsal root ganglion neurons that responded to capsaicin (100 nM) or low pH (6.1). However, among &quot;small-size&quot; (160-239 microm2) neurons, bradykinin increased the proportion of neurons that responded to low pH (6.1) but not to capsaicin (10 or 100 nM). Because treatment with arachidonic acid (10 microM) did not mimic the effect of bradykinin and inhibition of cyclo-oxygenase and lipoxygenase with 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid (10 microM) did not inhibit the effect of bradykinin on the response to capsaicin, it is not likely that the bradykinin-induced enhancement of neuronal responsiveness is mediated by arachidonic acid or its metabolites in this model. These results support the hypothesis that bradykinin sensitizes primary afferent neurons to other chemicals such as protons that are present in inflamed tissue, particularly by recruiting additional sensory neurons to respond to a given chemical stimulus. An increase in the number of responsive nociceptors that innervate inflamed tissue would contribute to hyperalgesia via spatial summation on spinal neurons in the pathway for pain. Furthermore, since bradykinin enhanced the responsiveness of small-size neurons that responded to protons but not to capsaicin, these data suggest that bradykinin-induced sensitization to protons and capsaicin occur by different mechanisms.
The gp130 cytokines leukemia inhibitory factor and interleukin-6 are neuroactive cytokines associated with peripheral nerve injury. Here we show that exogenous administration of these factors selectively regulates neuropeptide phenotype in intact sensory neurons in a manner consistent with their role as injury-induced factors. Intraneural injection of leukemia inhibitory factor into the intact sciatic nerve of adult rats induces a significant increase in the percentage of neuronal profiles immunoreactive for galanin in the L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia without altering the percentage profiles immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or neuropeptide Y. Galanin-immunoreactivity was predominantly confined to those neurons which retrogradely transported and accumulated leukemia inhibitory factor. The up-regulation of galanin-immunoreactivity observed in L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia following unilateral axotomy of the sciatic nerve was significantly reduced following continuous treatment for two weeks with a monoclonal antibody against the gp130 receptor motif. Intraneural injection of interleukin-6 into the intact sciatic nerve also significantly increased the percentage of neuronal profiles which displayed galanin-immunoreactivity but not vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or neuropeptide Y-immunoreactivity. Our results indicate that cytokines which interact with the gp130 receptor at the site of peripheral nerve injury contribute to the cell body response to axotomy. Changes in the levels of such cytokines however are insufficient to account for the complete repertoire of neuropeptide phenotypic changes associated with peripheral nerve injury.
Two mouse monoclonal antibodies, 11H9.1 and 1G7.10, raised against the COOH-terminus peptide (359-390) of the rat neurokinin-2 receptor, were used to visualize by light and electron microscope immunocytochemistry the distribution of this receptor in adult rat spinal cord. At all spinal levels, immunoreactivity was mainly observed in two narrow crescentic zones bordering the gray matter of the dorsal and ventral horns, and around the central canal. In the light microscope, this labelling was the densest within the outer part of lamina I facing the dorsal column, where it took the form of minute dots and streaks scattered in the neuropil. In the electron microscope, such a localization was exclusively astrocytic and essentially involved astrocytic leaflets, as indicated by the size and irregular shape of the immunostained processes, their location between and around neuronal profiles, and their occasional display of glial filaments. The diaminobenzidine reaction product showed some predilection for the plasma membrane and was occasionally seen at gap junctions of these labelled processes. Many labelled astrocytic leaflets were observed in the immediate vicinity of axon terminals containing large dense-cored vesicles, and around fibres morphologically identifiable as primary afferent, unmyelinated C-fibres. These observations suggest that astrocytic neurokinin-2 receptors could define the effective sphere of neurokinin A neuromodulation in rat spinal cord, via alterations in the regulation of the extracellular environment and glutamate uptake by astrocytes and/or the release of putative astroglial mediators. The astrocyte neurokinin-2 receptors, activated by extrasynaptic neurokinin A, might thus co-operate with neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 neuronal receptors in the modulation of nociceptive information.
Recent experiments have produced direct evidence on the existence of various dendritic voltage-gated ion channels, indicating that these neuronal components are not just a passive medium for the propagation of synaptic excitation but a putative source of neuronal excitability that is reflected in the activity patterns occurring on the soma. In order to study possible changes in neuronal excitability when the distribution of dendritic voltage-activated channels is non-uniform, and the dendritic geometry is not necessarily cylindric, we have developed a neuron model that incorporates two voltage-activated currents [I(Na) and I(K)], and in which space-dependent distributions of the system parameters can be treated in a mathematically simple and efficient way. Simulation results with the model showed that both linearly and exponentially tapering geometries led to marked anisotropy of the propagation of excitation, favouring the soma-to-dendrite direction. Exponentially decaying densities of dendritic voltage-activated channels, with appropriate choice of the parameters, induced bistable behaviour between the normal resting state and an intrinsic, sustained oscillation with cylindric as well as linear and exponential tapering dendritic geometry. Bistability could not be evoked when the model was reduced to a space-independent one (point-like soma). These results suggest that both tapering dendritic geometry and inhomogeneous distribution of ion channels may crucially affect the propagation and integration of synaptic potentials, and that changes in dendritic channel densities might underlie pathological electrophysiological activities.
We have recently demonstrated that eight, daily flurothyl-induced generalized clonic seizures, followed by a four week stimulus-free interval, results in a long-lasting reduction in generalized seizure threshold and a change in the type of seizure expressed in response to flurothyl from clonic to tonic. There is a progressive increase in the probability that a mouse will express a tonic seizure during the four week interval, suggesting that prior flurothyl seizures initiate a proepileptogenic process that requires time to develop. In this study, the immunohistochemical detection of the c-fos protein (Fos) was used to evaluate whether seizure-induced epileptogenesis resulted in regional differences in the degree of neuronal activation. Fos immunoreactivity was examined 1.5 h following either a single generalized seizure, the last of eight consecutive daily seizures or a retest seizure evoked two weeks after the last of eight seizures. In each condition, generalized seizure behaviours were elicited in C57BL/6 mice using flurothyl and classified as either &quot;forebrain&quot; (face and forelimb clonus) or &quot;brainstem&quot; (running/bouncing, treading, tonic extension). The spatial distribution of Fos induction was compared on the basis of the seizure phenotype and the seizure history. The predominant differences in Fos distribution were found to be related to the type of seizure expressed regardless of the seizure history. Furthermore, the different motor components that make up a &quot;brainstem&quot; seizure could not be distinguished by the pattern of Fos labelling suggesting that multiple convulsive behaviours are mediated by one anatomical system. Finally, Fos induction in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus preceded and predicted the change in seizure type from &quot;forebrain&quot; to &quot;brainstem&quot;. These data support the concept that separate anatomical systems mediate the expression of the two generalized seizure phenotypes. In addition, the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus may be a point of interaction between the systems and may play a role in seizure-induced neural reorganization.
The aim of this study was to establish which regions of the trigeminal nucleus are activated by tooth pulp stimulation in the normal ferret. The distribution of Fos-like immunoreactivity was examined following electrical stimulation of the tooth pulp in the awake and anaesthetized ferret. Stimulus-specific labelling was found in subnuclei caudalis and oralis of the trigeminal spinal nucleus. Three groups of chronically prepared animals; conscious, anaesthetized (alphaxolone/alphadolone) and anaesthetized-paralysed (alphaxolone/alphadolone with gallamine triethiodide), received electrical stimuli to both the upper and lower left canine teeth (1 Hz train of 3 x 0.5 ms at 200 Hz) at an amplitude of 10 times the threshold of the jaw opening reflex. Three control groups were treated identically except no stimulus was given. In stimulated anaesthetized and anaesthetized-paralysed animals, Fos-positive profiles were seen in laminae I and II of subnucleus caudalis and in the medial part of subnucleus oralis. There was no labelling evident in subnucleus interpolaris or the main sensory nucleus, or contralaterally in any of the subnuclei. In all conscious stimulated animals there was additional bilateral Fos-positive labelling, mainly in the deeper laminae of subnucleus caudalis. This bilateral labelling was not stimulus-specific as it was also seen in conscious non-stimulated animals. After correction for this bilateral labelling no significant difference was found between conscious, anaesthetized and anaesthetized-paralysed groups of stimulated animals or between the different groups of control animals. These results support the concept that the rostral parts of the trigeminal spinal nucleus are involved in processing of nociceptive input. They also demonstrate that light alphaxolone/alphadolone anaesthesia has no effect on stimulus-specific Fos expression following tooth pulp stimulation. The second aim of this study was to develop a clearly defined model for future studies in which Fos expression is no different to that seen in the conscious state. As in the conscious animal, labelling not associated with the stimulus is difficult to distinguish from stimulus specific labelling, further studies using this model of trigeminal nociceptive pathways would be best carried out in lightly anaesthetized animals.
The mechanisms by which the direct actions of neuroleptics are translated into therapeutic effects are unknown. We immunocytochemically investigated the expression of Fos- and Jun-related proteins and examined activator protein-1 DNA-binding activity in ddY mouse brain 120 min after the administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg), (-)-sulpiride (20 mg/kg) and a selective dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH23390 (1 mg/kg). The densities of Fos-, FosB-, Fra-1-, Jun- and JunD-immunoreactive nuclei induced by haloperidol and sulpiride in the hippocampus, piriform cortex and accumbens nucleus were higher than those in the control groups. The same regions showed higher densities of FosB-, Fra-1- and JunD-immunoreactive nuclei induced by SCH23390 compared with the control groups. We investigated further the activator protein-1 composite factors using super gel shift assays. These results suggested that induced Fos, FosB, Fra-1, Jun and JunD proteins constitute the activator protein-1 complex after the administration of haloperidol and sulpiride. In contrast, FosB, Fra-1 and JunD appear to constitute the activator protein-1 complex after the administration of SCH23390. Therefore, the diversity of activator protein-1 composite factors suggests that various kinds of gene are induced to act by some neuroleptics.
The neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine produces a parkinsonian syndrome in man and experimental animals. The toxic metabolite of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, exhibits high-affinity uptake by plasma membrane monoamine transporters and also by the vesicular monoamine transporter. Using autoradiographic and immunohistochemical methods in mice, we demonstrate the accumulation of [3H]1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium within neurons that contain the vesicular monoamine transporter, following systemic administration of [3H]1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Within 1-24 h following the intraperitoneal administration of 10 microg/kg of [3H]1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, [3H]1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine labelling was found within such regions as the locus coeruleus, dorsal, medial, and pallidal raphe nuclei, substantia nigra pars compacta, ventral tegmental area, and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. These regions all contain monoaminergic somata as defined by immunohistochemical staining with an antibody against the vesicular monoamine transporter. There was a positive relationship between the density of [3H]1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium label and the density of vesicular monoamine transporter immunoreactivity: the highest densities of both were found in the locus coeruleus and lowest densities in the midbrain dopaminergic neurons. In addition, [3H]1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium labelling was detected in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus, which also contained vesicular monoamine transporter immunoreactive nerve terminals. The present data indicate that low doses of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine cause a significant accumulation of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium within monoaminergic somata in parallel with the amount of vesicular monoamine transporter in the neuron. Since nuclei with intense labelling are not damaged by doses of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine that are toxic to midbrain dopaminergic neurons, these data are consistent with the hypothesis that sequestration of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium within monoaminergic synaptic vesicles can protect the neurons from degeneration caused by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.
The distribution and density of asymmetric synapses including biocytin-labelled corticostriatal synapses of the rat neostriatum were examined at postnatal day 10 (P10), P15, P21 and in adults. The density of asymmetric synapses in the adult neostriatum (28.0 synapses/100 microm2) was significantly greater than that in neonates at P15 (14.4 synapses/100 microm2) and P10 (11.5 synapses/100 microm2), but not at P21 (24.2+/-1.5 synapses/100 microm2). The increased density of asymmetric synapses in the adult neostriatum was due primarily to an increase in the number of axospinous synapses. The density of axospinous synapses was greatest in adults (22.3 synapses/100 microm2) and significantly less at P21 (15.3 synapses/100 microm2), P15 (5.9 synapses/100 microm2), and P10 (2.0 synapses/100 microm2). The density of axodendritic synapses, however, remained similar at all ages (adult, 3.9+/-1.1 synapses/100 microm2; P21, 6.0+/-1.2 synapses/100 microm2; P15, 5.7+/-0.8 synapses/100 microm2 or P10, 7.2+/-1.3 synapses/100 microm2). Iontophoretic injection of biocytin into the lateral frontal agranular cortex produced labelling of corticostriatal afferents which formed asymmetric synapses in the neostriatum. The distribution of termination sites of biocytin-labelled corticostriatal boutons showed a pattern of development similar to the unlabelled asymmetric synapses. The present study shows that the increase in the overall number of asymmetric synapses over the first three postnatal weeks can be attributed to an increase in the density of asymmetric axospinous synapses. During the same period little change is noted in the number or density of asymmetric axodendritic synapses. These changes in excitatory synaptic input to medium spiny neurons may explain some of the previously described electrophysiological differences noted between the neonatal and adult neostriatum.
This study determined the effects of prenatal nicotine exposure (2 mg/kg/day) in Sprague Dawley CD rats via subcutaneously implanted osmotic minipumps, during gestational days 7-21, on postnatal levels of neuronal nicotinic receptor alpha4, alpha7 and beta2 subunit messenger RNAs. Northern analysis of postnatal day 1, 7, 14 and 28 hippocampal/septal and cortical total RNA using alpha-[32P]dCTP-labeled alpha4, alpha7 and beta2 complementary DNA probes identified a single (5.7-kb) alpha7 messenger RNA, three (2.4-, 3.8- and 8.0-kb) alpha4 messenger RNAs and four (3.7-, 5.0-, 7.5- and 10.0-kb) beta2 messenger RNAs. In comparison to prenatal saline, prenatal nicotine produced several significantly higher messenger RNA levels (cortical: 5.7-kb alpha7, 2.4-, 3.8- and 8.0-kb alpha4, 10.0-kb beta2; hippocampal/septal: 2.4- and 8.0-kb alpha4); these increases occurred predominantly on, but were not restricted to, postnatal day 14. Effects of nicotine were generally resolved by postnatal day 28. Collapsing the data across sex and age, a significant treatment effect indicated that hippocampal/septal and cortical 8.0-kb alpha4 messenger RNA levels and 10.0-kb beta2 messenger RNA levels were significantly higher following prenatal nicotine exposure. This is the first study indicating that prenatal nicotine produces alterations in developing postnatal rat neuronal nicotinic receptor messenger RNA levels, possibly by premature stimulation of neuronal nicotinic receptors. These results further implicate the teratogenic potential of nicotine in postnatal neuronal development.
Using immunocytochemical methods, we have examined extensively the spatial and temporal patterns of expression of three extracellular matrix molecules-laminin, fibronectin, and type IV collagen-in the embryonic, postnatal (days 2 and 11) and adult rat olfactory system. The study started at embryonic day 14 when olfactory fibres and their associated migrating cells course through the nasal mesenchyme. From embryonic day 14 to the adult, a sheet-like pattern of labelling for laminin, fibronectin and type IV collagen was observed along the basal surface of the olfactory epithelium and around the telencephalon. This type of labelling was continuous around the telencephalic vesicle, whereas it appeared disrupted in the basal lamina of the olfactory epithelium to permit exit of the olfactory axons and their associated migrating cells into the mesenchyme. From embryonic day 14 to day 20, punctate labelling for the three molecules studied was observed along the mesenchymal olfactory pathway, the ventral part of the olfactory bulb, the olfactory nerve layer and the presumptive glomerular layer, respectively. By embryonic day 17, the punctate labelling initially detected in the mesenchymal olfactory pathway was replaced by a sheet-like pattern related to the mature basal lamina surrounding the olfactory axon fascicles. Punctate labelling for laminin and type IV collagen persisted in the olfactory nerve layer and around the glomeruli through adult life whereas that of fibronectin declined and disappeared by postnatal day 2. The spatiotemporal distribution of the punctate pattern for laminin, fibronectin and type IV collagen observed in the embryonic olfactory system suggests a role in delineating the pathway for olfactory axon elongation. The continuous expression of laminin and type IV collagen in the adult olfactory bulb may be related to the regenerative activity and high plasticity of the olfactory system.
The present study tests the hypothesis that propentofylline, an adenosine re-uptake inhibitor, will reduce free radical generation during cerebral hypoxia. Ten newborn piglets were pretreated with propentofylline (10 mg/kg), five of which were subjected to hypoxia, while the other five were maintained at normoxia. Five untreated control piglets underwent the same conditions. Hypoxia was induced through a decrease in FiO2 to 0.11 and documented biochemically by a decrease in ATP and phosphocreatine levels. Free radical formation in the cortex was detected directly using electron spin resonance spectroscopy with a spin trap technique. Results demonstrate that free radicals, corresponding to the alkoxyl radical, increased significantly following hypoxia, and that this increase was inhibited by pretreatment with propentofylline. Conjugated dienes, a lipid peroxidation product, also increased following hypoxia and were subsequently inhibited by propentofylline. The administration of propentofylline also significantly limited the hypoxia-induced decrease in tissue levels of ATP and phosphocreatine. These data demonstrate that pretreatment with propentofylline decreased free radical generation and lipid peroxidation as well as preserved high energy phosphates during cerebral hypoxia.
Expression of p75 neurotrophin receptor and survival of medium-sized spiny projection neurons and cholinergic interneurons in the rat striatum were studied using immunocytochemistry at different times after transient, unilateral middle cerebral artery occlusion. Thirty minutes of middle cerebral artery occlusion caused a major loss of projection neurons, identified by their immunoreactivity to dopamine- and adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein with a molecular weight of 32,000, in the lateral part of the striatum, as observed at 48 h following the insult with no further change at one week. In contrast, no reduction of the number of choline acetyltransferase-positive, cholinergic interneurons, which also expressed TrkA, was detected at either time-point. At 48 h following middle cerebral artery occlusion, expression of p75 neurotrophin receptor was observed in striatal cells which, by the use of double-label immunostaining, were identified as the cholinergic interneurons. No p75 neurotrophin receptor immunoreactivity remained in cholinergic cells after one week of reperfusion. Based on current hypotheses regarding the function of the p75 neurotrophin receptor, the transient expression of this receptor in striatal cholinergic interneurons might contribute to their high resistance to ischemic neuronal death. However, the expression of p75 neurotrophin receptor could also be a first step in a pathway leading to apoptosis, which is inhibited after the present insult due to concomitant activation of TrkA.
The present studies were initiated to investigate whether p53 transactivated target genes are induced in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemia. Therefore, we applied in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry and western blotting to study the temporal and spatial expression of p53 and its transcriptional targets Bax, p21 and cyclin G1 following permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. Cyclin G1 immunoreactivity was constitutively expressed in the nuclei of cells in the choroid plexus and ependymal cell layer and in the cytoplasm of cell bodies and dendrites of pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex. Cyclin G1 messenger RNA and protein levels transiently increased to 150% of contralateral levels in neurons of the ipsilateral frontal and parietal cortex and striatum 3 h following middle cerebral artery occlusion. A low level of constitutively expressed p21 messenger RNA and protein was found in nuclei of cells in the choroid plexus, oligodendrocytes and neurons. p21 messenger RNA and protein levels gradually increased to 250% and 140% of contralateral levels in areas bordering the infarct core up to 6 h following middle cerebral artery occlusion. In contrast, p53 and Bax messenger RNA and protein levels, and protein levels of p27, cyclin-dependent kinase 5, p35 and cyclin E decreased in the infarct core and border areas with time after middle cerebral artery occlusion. The selective up-regulation of cyclin G1 and p21 in neurons in the border zone of a focal ischemic infarct indicates their involvement in an adaptive response to ischemic injury. The possible participation of cyclin G1 and p21 in a signal transduction pathway associated with ischemia-induced cellular stress is discussed.
Given the importance of alpha2-adrenergic receptors in the regulation of catecholaminergic transmission, we analysed the distribution of immunoreactivity corresponding to the C-subtype of alpha2-adrenergic receptor in central catecholaminergic neurons using double-label immunohistochemistry with antibodies directed against alpha2C-adrenergic receptors and tyrosine hydroxylase. Cells exhibiting both alpha2C-adrenergic receptor and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity were found in most areas containing catecholaminergic cell groups. However, the percentage of double-labelled cells varied in a region-specific manner. In the medulla, alpha2C-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity was characteristic of only a minority of cells exhibiting tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity (40-43% in area A1/C1, 27-36% in area A2/C2, 35% in area C3) while a larger percentage of double-labelled cells was observed in the pons (65% in A5, 92% in locus coeruleus, 68% in A7). In the midbrain, alpha2C-adrenergic receptor immunoreactivity was detected in most tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in dopaminergic regions (63% in the retrorubral field, 77-83% in substantia nigra, 67% in ventral tegmental area). These results suggest that alpha2C-adrenergic receptors may act as autoreceptors on some central adrenergic and noradrenergic neurons. In addition, the colocalization of alpha2C-adrenergic receptor and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in dopaminergic cell groups suggests that reported effects of alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonists in these areas may be mediated by the C-subtype.
Recent reports have demonstrated that cannabinoid receptor binding decreases in several neurodegenerative diseases related to extrapyramidal function. However, there is little evidence with regard to potential changes of these receptors during senescence. The present study was designed to determine the possible existence of ageing-induced changes in cannabinoid receptor binding and gene expression in extrapyramidal areas. To this end, we analysed cannabinoid receptor binding and basal and cannabinoid receptor agonist-stimulated [35S]guanylyl-5'-O-(gamma-thio)-triphosphate binding, by using autoradiography, and cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA levels, by using in situ hybridization, in slide-mounted brain sections obtained from young (three-month-old) and aged (&gt;two-year-old) rats. Results were as follows. Aged rats exhibited a marked decrease in cannabinoid receptor binding in most of the basal ganglia, excepting the globus pallidus which had similar binding levels in both young and aged rats. The highest decreases were in the entopeduncular nucleus (-49.6%) and substantia nigra pars reticulata (-45.2%), whereas more moderate decreases were found in the lateral caudate putamen (-29%) and only a decremental trend in the medial caudate putamen (-13.1%). These decreases in cannabinoid receptor binding were paralleled by less marked increases in WIN 55212-2-stimulated [35S]guanylyl-5'-O-(gamma-thio)-triphosphate binding in these structures in aged rats (% of agonist stimulation: 189% in the substantia nigra; 29.4% in the lateral caudate putamen) as compared to young rats (296% and 53.2%, respectively). Contrarily, the percentage of agonist stimulation was similar in the globus pallidus, an area where cannabinoid receptor binding did not change during ageing, of aged (205.5%) and young (215.5%) rats. In addition, aged rats also exhibited significant reductions in the cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA levels in the medial (-14.3%) and, in particular, in the lateral (-29.4%) caudate putamen, the area where the cell bodies of cannabinoid receptor-containing neurons, projecting to the substantia nigra, entopeduncular nucleus and globus pallidus, are located. In summary, the synthesis and binding levels of cannabinoid receptors markedly dropped in different structures of the extrapyramidal system of aged rats. Since these receptors, located in the basal ganglia, seem to play a role in motor control, this loss of cannabinoid receptors might be related to the motor impairment which progressively appears during senescence.
Components of the circadian system, the suprachiasmatic nucleus and the intergeniculate leaflet receive serotonin input from the raphe nuclei. Manipulations of serotonin neurotransmission disrupt cellular, electrophysiological, and behavioural responses of the circadian system to light, suggesting that serotonin plays a modulatory role in photic regulation of circadian rhythms. To study the relation between serotonin afferents and light-activated cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and intergeniculate leaflet, we used immunostaining for the serotonin transporter and for the transcription factor, Fos. Serotonin transporter, a plasma membrane protein located on serotonin neurons, regulates the amount of serotonin available for neurotransmission by re-accumulating released serotonin into presynaptic neurons; expression of Fos in the suprachiasmatic nucleus identifies light-activated cells involved in photic resetting of circadian clock phase. In the suprachiasmatic nucleus, immunostaining for serotonin transporter revealed a dense plexus of fibres concentrated primarily in the ventrolateral region. In the intergeniculate leaflet, serotonin transporter immunostaining identified vertically-oriented columns of fibres. Serotonin transporter immunostaining was abolished by pretreatment with the serotonin neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine. Exposure to light for 30 min during the dark phase of the light cycle induced Fos expression in the ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus and intergeniculate leaflet regions. In both structures the Fos-expressing cells were encircled by serotonin transporter-immunoreactive fibres often in close apposition to these cells. These results support the idea that serotonin activity plays a modulatory role in processing of photic information within the circadian system.
The activity of 184 Purkinje cells and 58 unidentified neurons located within the cerebellar anterior vermis was recorded in decerebrate cats during wobble of the body under a fixed head. This stimulus induced a neck displacement of constant amplitude (2.5 degrees) whose direction rotated at the constant velocity of 56.2 degrees/s on the horizontal plane, both in the clockwise and counterclockwise directions. It was then possible to evaluate the spatiotemporal characteristics of unit responses to neck displacement in the vertical planes; 131 of 184 Purkinje cells (71%) and 35 of 58 unidentified cells (60%) responded to clockwise and/or counterclockwise rotations. In particular, among the responsive units, 44% of the Purkinje cells and 37% of the unidentified cells showed an equal amplitude modulation during clockwise and counterclockwise rotations. These units are expected to show a maximal response sensitivity for neck displacement in a preferred direction, a null response for perpendicularly oriented stimuli and a constant temporal phase (narrowly tuned neurons). In 28% of the Purkinje cells and 40% of the unidentified cells, responses of different amplitudes were observed during clockwise and counterclockwise rotations. These neurons should display a preferred direction of response to neck displacement, lack of null response directions and a temporal phase changing with the stimulus direction (broadly tuned neurons). Finally, 27% of the Purkinje cells and 23% of the unidentified cells responded only to wobble in the clockwise or counterclockwise direction (unidirectional units). This behavior predicts equal sensitivities for all the directions of neck displacement and a response phase changing linearly with the direction of neck displacement. A maximal sensitivity vector (Smax), aligned with the preferred direction of the neuron, was evaluated for the bidirectional narrowly tuned and broadly tuned units. Its amplitude and temporal phase corresponded to the response characteristics expected for stimuli in the preferred direction of the cell. Smax directions were distributed over the horizontal plane. Most of them, however, were closer to the pitch than to the roll axis and pointed towards the animal's tail. Among pitch-related Purkinje cells, the temporal phase of Smax was small with a predominance of phase lags; phase leads of rather large amplitude were usually observed for roll-related Purkinje cells. The possibility that the recorded population of units coded the direction of neck displacement was tested by assuming that each cell gave a vectorial contribution related to its response properties and that the vectorial sum of such contributions represented the outcome of the population code. Dynamic body-to-head displacements in four different directions were simulated and for each direction 12 population vectors were evaluated at regular intervals of the stimulus cycle. The direction of the population vector was related to that of the stimulus, but the correspondence was close only for the pitch direction. Moreover, the amplitude of the population vector depended upon the direction of the stimulus, being larger for pitch than for roll displacements. Due to the efferent connections of the explored cerebellar region, the neuronal signals generated by the Purkinje cell population are probably transferred to the spinal cord, where they may differentially affect the amplitude and the spatial properties of the neck reflexes according to the direction of neck displacement.
Animals exposed to chronic stress exhibit normal or enhanced hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal responses to novel, acute stimuli despite the inhibitory endogenous corticosteroid response to the chronic stressor. Prior stress is thought to induce a central facilitatory trace that, upon exposure to a novel stimulus, balances or overcomes the inhibitory effects of corticosterone. The neuroanatomical basis for this facilitation of hypothalamic pituitary adrenal responses is unknown. In this study, we first show increased adrenocorticotropin and corticosterone responses to the novel stressor of restraint in rats exposed to intermittent cold for seven days. We then compared numbers of Fos-immunoreactive cells in 26 sites in control and chronically stressed rats at various times after onset of a 30 min restraint. At 60 min, density of Fos-stained cells was significantly higher in chronically stressed than in control rats in the parabrachial/Klliker-Fuse area, posterior paraventricular thalamus, central, basolateral and basomedial nuclei of the amygdala and parvocellular paraventricular hypothalamus. The posterior paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus receives projections from the parabrachial nucleus and projects heavily to the differentially stained subnuclei of the amygdala, which in turn project to the parvocellular paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. We propose that increased activity in the parabrachial-posterior paraventricular thalamus-amygdala-parvocellular paraventricular hypothalamus underlies facilitation of the hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal axis to novel stress in chronically stressed rats. We confirmed part of this proposal by showing that lesions of the posterior paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus increase adrenocorticotropin responses to restraint only in previously chronically stressed animals. This potential circuit provides a basis for further examination of the functional roles of these regions in stress-induced facilitation of hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal activity.
Cell fate determination and region-specific migration among neurons from the developing brain have been widely studied. Because similar attributes have been mostly unexplored in reference to glia, the present study has characterized the migratory responses of glia from diverse regions of the embryonic mouse brain after their transplantation to the brains of early postnatal (still developing) rats. Through the use of the mouse-specific, glial-specific marker M2, immunocytochemical processing of host tissues three to four weeks after transplantation revealed notable difference in the migratory patterns of phylogenetically diverse populations of glia. While glia from the ventral mesencephalon, cerebral cortex, and cerebellar neuroepithelium all showed a similar affinity for the nigropallidal tract after grafting to the internal capsule, only ventral mesencephalon-derived glia showed restricted migration toward and into the substantia nigra after transplantation to the thalamus or pontine tegmentum. These results suggest the presence of a highly favourable substrate for glial migration along developing fibre tracts, but, more importantly, indicates the potential for certain glia to respond to particular (region-specific) distal cues within the developing brain.
The regional and subcellular localizations of glycine receptor complex messenger RNAs were determined in the adult rat central nervous system using non-radioactive in situ hybridization. The present investigation focused on glycine receptors alpha1 and alpha2 subunit messenger RNAs. Within the central nervous system we observed that the glycine receptor alpha1 and alpha2 subunit messenger RNAs are widely expressed. At the subcellular level, these messenger RNAs are present either in neuronal somata and dendrites or somata only. Furthermore, among different regions as well as within the same region the subcellular localizations of both alpha subunit messenger RNAs are cell type-dependent. In contrast, the regional distributions of beta subunit and gephyrin messenger RNAs are essentially as previously described [Fujita M. (1991) Brain Res. 560, 23-37; Malosio M.-L. et al. (1991) Eur. molec. Biol. Org. J. 9, 2401-2409; Kirsch J. et al. (1993) Eur. J. Neurosci. 5, 1109-1117] and their messenger RNAs are confined predominantly within the somata of neurons [Kirsch J. et al. (1993); Racca et al. (1997) J. Neurosci. 17, 1691-1700]. These results demonstrate that the glycine receptor complex messenger RNAs are broadly expressed in the central nervous system and that the glycine receptor alpha1 and alpha2 subunit messenger RNAs differ in their subcellular localization depending on the neuronal population. The latter finding suggests that different mechanisms for the localization of glycine receptor alpha1 and alpha2 subunit messenger RNAs are used by distinct populations of neurons.
In the present normal anatomical light and electron microscopic study in the rat, histochemical (Nissl, Timm, Golgi) or immunocytochemical (microtubule-associated protein type 2, glutamate decarboxylase, glutamate receptor subunit 1, synaptophysin) stains were used to analyse neurons embedded within the stria terminalis and their associated neuropil. These cells are closely related to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the centromedial amygdala, and have been termed the &quot;supracapsular part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis&quot;. The largest part of this neuronal complex is located in the ventrolateral part of the stria, where it appears as a round or oval &quot;lateral pocket&quot; in virtually any type of light microscopic preparation because of its collection of neuronal cell bodies and dense neuropil, in addition to a lacework of unmyelinated axons. A much smaller but still distinct &quot;medial pocket&quot; is located in the medial corner of the stria. The large lateral subdivision of the supracapsular stria terminalis is directly continuous with the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and extends to the central amygdaloid nucleus, containing a column of neurons that is only broken up into cell clusters at the most caudal levels of the stria as it drops vertically toward the amygdala. The considerably smaller medial subdivision appears, in turn, to be directly continuous with the medial part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. The medial column tapers off more rapidly than the lateral part, so that as the middle levels are approached, only small interrupted clusters of cells are seen. Solitary neurons can also be found in practically every part of the stria terminalis except among the ventrally located axons of the commissural component. Most of the neurons are small to medium in size, as viewed in transverse sections of the stria, but larger neurons are also encountered. In sections parallel to the stria, many neurons are fusiform in appearance. The dendrites are often aligned in a longitudinal fashion; many of the dendrites related to the cells in the lateral pocket are moderately to densely spined, whereas those in the medial pocket are more sparsely spined. The neuropil in both the lateral and medial pockets is characterized by boutons, bundles of unmyelinated axons, and dendrites. Based on their vesicle content, the boutons are divided into three major types: (A) round or slightly oval, agranular vesicles of uniform size; (B) pleomorphic, agranular vesicles, many of which are flattened; and (C) pleomorphic agranular vesicles, some of which are considerably larger than the ones in type B boutons. Type A boutons establish contacts with both dendritic spines and shafts, whereas types B and C usually contact dendritic shafts and sometimes somata. These synaptic components are similar to those described earlier for the central and medial amygdaloid nuclei. Overall, our results support the contention advanced in 1923 by Johnston [J. comp. Neurol. 35, 337481] that the cells accompanying the stria terminalis are interconnecting columns of a macrostructure encompassing the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and centromedial amygdala. More recently, it has been appreciated that columns of neurons below the globus pallidus also belong to this macrostructure [Alheid G. F. et al. (1995) In The Rat Nervous System, 2nd edn, pp. 495 578, Academic, San Diego; de Olmos J. S. et al. (1985) In The Rat Nervous System, pp. 223-334, Academic, Sydney], which has been named the &quot;extended amygdala&quot;.
Trauma to a peripheral nerve is followed by anatomical remodelling proximal to the lesion, including sprouting of perivascular axons to form baskets of noradrenergic terminals (&quot;rings&quot;) around large diameter primary afferent somata in the dorsal root ganglia containing lesioned neurons and sprouting of Abeta axons terminating deep in the dorsal horn into Lamina II. These abnormal structural associations may contribute to the changes in sensory processing that lead to neuropathic pain. The trigger for sprouting of sympathetic axons is probably a neurotrophin (such as nerve growth factor) concentrated locally. Nerve growth factor messenger RNA is known to be increased in dorsal root ganglia after sciatic nerve transection and increased local nerve growth factor elicits collateral sprouting of intact sympathetic terminals into adjacent denervated skin. Nociceptive terminals containing calcitonin gene-related peptide, with or without substance P, also sprout in response to raised concentrations of nerve growth factor. We have found that axons of small sensory neurons immunoreactive for these peptides also form rings around large diameter dorsal root ganglion cells of adult rats after sciatic nerve transection, concurrently with the development of rings of noradrenergic terminals.


To examine the functional role of dorsal column nuclei in neuropathic pain, electrophysiological properties of low- and high-threshold dorsal column nuclei neurons in neuropathic and normal rats were examined. Single-neuronal activities were recorded from the gracile nucleus (GN) in rats at 10-14 days after application of four loose ligatures around the sciatic nerve (chronic constriction nerve injury; CCI). A total of 190 units were recorded from the GN in naive and CCI rats. The largest population of low-threshold mechanoreceptive (LTM) neurons recorded from the GN of naive rats were classified as rapidly-adapting (RA) LTM neurons, whereas those from CCI rats were slowly-adapting (SA) neurons. Mean orthodromic latencies of GN neurons ipsilateral to the CCI after sciatic nerve stimulation were significantly longer than those of naive animals and those of GN neurons without receptive fields were significantly longer than any other type of neurons. One hundred and eight of 190 GN neurons were also antidromically activated following electrical stimulation of the ventro-lateral posterior nucleus of the thalamus. Furthermore, when stronger stimuli were applied to the sciatic nerve, some GN neurons also responded with long latencies. GN neurons of sham-operated naive rats and those contralateral to the CCI had mechanical receptive fields on the paw, whereas 8.0% of the GN neurons in the CCI side did not have any detectable mechanical receptive field. Receptive field size was not significantly different between neurons ipsilateral or contralateral to the CCI and those of naive rats. Spontaneous activity of GN neurons from the ipsilateral side was significantly higher than those from the contralateral side. On the other hand, spontaneous activity of GN neurons both ipsilateral and contralateral to the CCI were significantly higher than those from naive rats. Furthermore, afterdischarges of GN neurons ipsilateral and contralateral to the CCI were significantly higher than those of naive rats. The present data suggest that the dorsal column pathway is involved in CCI-produced sensory abnormalities by conveying their hyperactivity to thalamic neurons.
Adenosine is an endogenous neuromodulator which alters neuronal excitability and firing rate. In recent years there has been growing interest in the manipulation of adenosine levels to understand the pathophysiology of various diseases. Dipyridamole (DPM) is a potent adenosine transport inhibitor that causes a several-fold increase in brain adenosine concentration. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of DPM on MPTP-induced neurotoxicity. Mice weighing 30 +/- 3 g were administered with MPTP (30 mg/kg, i.p.) daily for 5 days. DPM was given daily 1 h before MPTP in doses of 250, 500 and 1000 mg/kg body weight, (P.O.) respectively, in three different groups of mice for 7 days. Twenty four hours after the last dose of DPM, the animals were observed for neurobehavioral changes including locomotor activity and pole descending time. Immediately after behavioral studies, all the animals were sacrificed and brains were isolated for biochemical studies. The treatment of mice with MPTP or DPM individually produced no significant change in mobility or spasticity; however, the combination of these drugs produced significant bradykinesia. There was no incidence of mortality when the mice were treated with MPTP or DPM individually, though the combination of MPTP and DPM produced significant mortality which was proportional to the doses of the later drug. The treatment of mice with MPTP produced significant depletion of striatal dopamine and glutathione. Concomitant treatment of DPM with MPTP further reduced the striatal glutathione level without affecting dopamine. The result of this study shows the ability of DPM to potentiate MPTP-induced neurobehavioral toxicity and mortality in mice. Further studies are warranted to determine the role of adenosine in experimental and clinical Parkinson's disease.
Over a 24-day period the magnitude of the average, 24 hr., global geomagnetic activity was significantly correlated (r and rho about .40) with the average numbers of agonistic (biting) responses between midnight and 0100 hr. in a group of four males epileptic rats. Geomagnetic activity was not significantly correlated with quantitative measures of boxing, mounting, eating, grooming, or drinking. Partial correlations, which also controlled for a weak serial correlation, indicated that the index of geomagnetic activity was only associated with the biting (partial r = .54) behaviors. The results replicated previous studies and suggest that the relationship between aggression and geomagnetic activity is specific and not an artifact of a generalized increase in multiple domains of behavior.
After training is an automated radial maze, 11 male rats were injected with either &quot;subclinical&quot; dosages of lithium and pilocarpine or saline and then tested 5 days or 4 months later. When employed as their own controls or when compared with a saline-injected reference group, the rats that had received the lithium and pilocarpine displayed memory deficits but not learning learning deficits after the longest of the two delays (effect size was 41%). These results suggest that subtle disruption in memory but not learning to criterion could be associated with &quot;subclinical electrical seizures&quot; or the micromorphological changes associated with this activity.
Accuracies of two-point discrimination (successive 2-min increments between 0 and 10 mm) for the middle fingers and the middle toes for 87 children from ages 7 through 15 years were measured to obtain normative data. The finer discriminative capacity for the fingers rather than the toes was evident. Whereas discriminative accuracy approached the asymptote with distances equal to or greater than 4 mm for the fingers, distances equal to or greater than 8 mm were required for the toes. For this ontogenetic range, the effects for toes vs fingers was much greater than the effect size for age.
The nocturnal and day-time activity of rats was monitored continuously after the induction of seizures by a single systemic injection of lithium followed 4 hr. later by the muscarinic agent pilocarpine. Although there was a transient increase in activity during the day cycle shortly after the seizure induction, this behavior returned to baseline levels; however, nocturnal activity increased and remained elevated two or three times above the baseline levels. Implications for the enhancement of nocturnal melatonin levels within the brains of these chronically epileptic rats are discussed.
Repeated administration of the artemisinin antimalarial compound, 3-arteether (AE) (25 mg/kg, i.m.) was evaluated in rats using a two-choice, discrete trial, auditory discrimination task and subsequent neurohistology. Rats were trained to choose one of two response levers following presentation of white noise or a tone + white noise. Increasing and decreasing the intensity of the tone increased and decreased discriminability, respectively, and differential reinforcement density produced systematic changes in response bias. AE (n = 5) or vehicle (n = 5) was injected daily (9-12 days). Initial injections of AE did not affect behavioral performance. Continuing daily injections produced significant decreases in choice accuracy and significant increases in choice reaction time. When overt signs of severe toxicity were observed, rats were sacrificed and significant neural pathology was observed in the nucleus trapezoideus of AE-treated rats. In a subsequent experiment, AE was injected for 3 (n = 5), 5 (n = 5), or 7 (n = 5), consecutive days and performance was examined for an additional 7 days. Behavioral disruption was only observed in rats receiving AE for 7 days and the greatest degree of disruption occurred after AE injections were completed. Histopathological examination showed significant neural pathology in the nuclei trapezoideus, superior olive, and ruber of rats receiving 7- and 5-day AE regimens, and in the nucleus trapezoideus of rats receiving the 3-day regimen. Thus, behavioral disruption reflected, but did not predict, neuropathology. These results confirm and extend earlier results demonstrating neurotoxicity of AE in rats. Further, these results demonstrate that the auditory discrimination task provides an objective behavioral measure of AE neurotoxicity, and thus, can serve as a valuable tool for the safety development of AE and other artemisinin antimalarial compounds.
The rat has proven to be a valuable preclinical model for characterizing effects of psychotrophic drugs and for identifying new psychotherapeutic agents in pharmacological screens. However, substantial differences have been described between the rat and human brain in regard to the neuroanatomical distribution of some drug and neurotransmitter receptor binding sites. To assess the utility of the rat as a model for the neuroanatomical topography of 5-HT1A and type 1 benzodiazepine (BDZ) receptors in humans, the distribution of binding sites for 3H-8-OH-DPAT (5-HT1A agonist) and 3H-zolpidem (type 1 BDZ agonist) was compared with autoradiography in select regions of the rat and human brain. Concordance in the binding patterns for the two ligands was observed in several brain regions for the two species. However, substantial differences were also found in the topography of binding sites for the ligands in the rat and human brain. High 3H-8-OH-DPAT binding was seen in the dorsal raphe nucleus and hippocampal formation in both the rat and human brain. However, species differences were observed in the relative distribution of ligand binding among hippocampal subregions. In the cerebral cortex, the laminar distribution of 3H-8-OH-DPAT binding sites was notably different for rats and humans. In humans, outer cortical layers were most densely labeled with 3H-8-OH-DPAT, whereas in the rat cortex, the highest binding was in the inner layers. A striking difference between rats and humans was observed for 3H-8-OH-DPAT binding in the lateral septal nucleus, which was densely labeled in the rat but weakly labeled in humans. Substantial differences between rats and humans were also observed for 3H-zolpidem binding. In the rat brain, high densities of binding sites were found in the medial septum, inferior colliculus, and substantia nigra reticulata. These regions showed very low 3H-zolpidem binding in the human brain. Intermediate binding was seen in the rat cerebral cortex, and low binding was found in the hippocampus. By contrast, in humans, cerebral cortical regions were the most densely labeled of all regions studied, and certain hippocampal subregions exhibited relatively high binding. The striking neuroanatomical differences in 3H-8-OH-DPAT and 3H-zolpidem binding observed between rats and humans suggest that different functional consequences may be produced within specific brain regions after administration of drugs that influence 5-HT1A and type 1 BZD receptors.
Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of leptin, the adipocyte hormone, inhibits neuropeptide Y (NPY)-induced feeding in the rat. To identify the neural substrate for leptin and NPY interaction in the hypothalamus, we evaluated the expression of c-fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI), an early marker of neuronal activation, in response to icv administration of leptin, NPY and leptin plus NPY. As expected, leptin significantly decreased NPY-induced feeding in leptin plus NPY-treated rats. A comparative evaluation of the number of FLI-positive neurons in hypothalamic sites showed that both leptin and NPY activated FLI in the parvocellular subdivision of the paraventricular nucleus (pPVN), dorsomedial nucleus (DMN) and ventromedial nucleus (VMN). NPY also augmented the FLI response in the magnocellular PVN (mPVN) and supraoptic nucleus (SON), two sites where leptin alone was ineffective. Combined leptin and NPY treatment significantly decreased the number of FLI-positive neurons in the magnocellular PVN but increased their number in the dorsomedial nucleus as compared to the number of FLI-expressing neurons in these sites after NPY and leptin alone. Because there is morphologic evidence of a link between magnocellular PVN and dorsomedial nucleus, these results suggest the functional involvement of leptin plus NPY responsive elements in these sites in reduction of NPY-induced feeding by leptin.
The amygdaloid nuclear complex is critical for producing appropriate emotional and behavioral responses to biologically relevant sensory stimuli. It constitutes an essential link between sensory and limbic areas of the cerebral cortex and subcortical brain regions, such as the hypothalamus, brainstem, and striatum, that are responsible for eliciting emotional and motivational responses. This review summarizes the anatomy and physiology of the cortical pathways to the amygdala in the rat, cat and monkey. Although the basic anatomy of these systems in the cat and monkey was largely delineated in studies conducted during the 1970s and 1980s, detailed information regarding the cortico-amygdalar pathways in the rat was only obtained in the past several years. The purpose of this review is to describe the results of recent studies in the rat and to compare the organization of cortico-amygdalar projections in this species with that seen in the cat and monkey. In all three species visual, auditory, and somatosensory information is transmitted to the amygdala by a series of modality-specific cortico-cortical pathways (&quot;cascades&quot;) that originate in the primary sensory cortices and flow toward higher order association areas. The cortical areas in the more distal portions of these cascades have stronger and more extensive projections to the amygdala than the more proximal areas. In all three species olfactory and gustatory/visceral information has access to the amygdala at an earlier stage of cortical processing than visual, auditory and somatosensory information. There are also important polysensory cortical inputs to the mammalian amygdala from the prefrontal and hippocampal regions. Whereas the overall organization of cortical pathways is basically similar in all mammalian species, there is anatomical evidence which suggests that there are important differences in the extent of convergence of cortical projections in the primate versus the nonprimate amygdala.
This article focuses on neuroendocrine measures in anxiety disorders and their relationships to neurotransmitter and neuroendocrine function. In particular, the hypothalamic-pituitary-somatotropin and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axes are emphasized, and a role for extrahypothalamic corticotropin releasing factor is proposed. Additional neuroactive hormones are also considered. A nonhuman primate model of anxiety is discussed in terms of its neuroendocrine relevance. And, throughout, a hypothetical functional-anatomic model for anxiety and panic is proposed using the findings of cognitive neuroscience fear research. Finally, an effort is made to synthesize existing psychoneuroendocrinologic data into a current conceptualization of the pathophysiology of anxiety disorders.
The cost-effectiveness of using the atypical antipsychotic medication clozapine for severe psychosis was examined in a rural public-sector community mental health setting in Virginia. Based on a sample of 20 patients, use of clozapine resulted in estimated cost savings of between $3,000 and $9,000 per patient per year, including the costs of dropouts from treatment. Savings were mainly due to a decline in hospitalization from 47.7+/-59.8 days per patient in the year before clozapine treatment to 4.6+/-11.3 days in the year after. Although this study had methodological limitations, the results suggest that clozapine may be cost-effective in this setting.
Systemic administration of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) promoted behavioral changes in an open-field exploratory test. In particular, while the cytokine suppressed locomotor activities, these behaviors were not particularly sensitive to dosage differences. In contrast, dose-dependent biphasic variations that varied over time were evident with respect to the exploration of a novel container. Within this paradigm, the behavioral changes did not appear to be related to neophobia. In addition, despite the marked effects of IL-1beta on exploratory and locomotor behaviors, habituation/exploration in a free-running spontaneous alternation task was unaffected by the cytokine. In addition to the behavioral variations, IL-1beta dose-dependently increased plasma ACTH and corticosterone concentrations, and also induced several central monoamine alterations. In particular, IL-1beta increased the utilization of norepinephrine (NE) within the paraventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus/median eminence, locus coeruleus, and prefrontal cortex, while the turnover of dopamine (DA) was evident in the arcuate nucleus/median eminence. It is suggested that although systemic IL-1beta treatment induces some stress-like effects, the profile of central neurochemical changes induced by the cytokine can be distinguished from psychological or processive types of stressors.
Schizophrenia is a disorder characterized by multiple symptoms, with a varied course and outcome. The etiology is yet unknown, but multiple pathological processes or, equally likely, a unique pathophysiological process, may be involved. Here, we review evidence for progressive changes in schizophrenia in order to understand further the pathophysiology of this disorder. We first present evidence for clinical and psycho-social changes over time, followed by evidence from structural brain studies that suggests that schizophrenia is a brain disorder. We then review findings from the small number of longitudinal studies that have evaluated structural brain changes in schizophrenia, followed by a review of the evidence for neurophysiological changes, both cross-sectional and longitudinal. This is followed by a discussion of possible cellular mechanisms, including NMDA receptor abnormalities, that might account for structural and functional brain changes (temporal and frontal), and we discuss how these abnormalities might be related to not only the specific signs and symptoms of schizophrenia but also to the onset and course of the illness. Finally, we discuss neurodevelopment (static and perhaps non-static alterations) and neurodegenerative theories of schizophrenia. We propose that the two are not mutually exclusive, but instead likely reflect a &quot;two-hit&quot; model for some subtypes of schizophrenia.
Oxidative stress-induced neurodegeneration has been implicated in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, neuroprotection is of central interest in basic and preclinical neuroscience. Recently, we reported that the AD-associated amyliod beta protein can induce neuronal cell death via the generation of free radicals, oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation. The depletion of the intracellular pool of glutathione (GSH), an important intracellular oxidant, can also induce oxidative events. Various lipophilic antioxidants, including the female sex hormone estrogen, can protect neurons against oxidative cell death. Here, we report that estrogens prevent oxidative cell death induced by GSH depletion in murine clonal hippocampal HT22 cells and in cells of the sympathetic precursor-like cell line PC12. Estrogens act as free radical scavengers and inhibit the intracellular accumulation of peroxides caused by GSH depletion and, ultimately, prevent neuronal cell death. This protective activity is independent of the presence or activation of estrogen receptors but is dependent on the presence of an intact hydroxyl group in the steroid ring A of the estrogen molecule. The modification or the absence of this group led to a loss of the neuroprotective activity. These data further support the important role of antioxidants in neuroprotection and may help in the design of novel antioxidant drugs.

Neuroradiology as a Neuroscience speciality has to keep undoubtedly a narrow relationship with the rest of the branches of Neurological Diagnostic, but mainly with Clinical Neurology, Neurosurgery and Neuropathology. It is specially remarked that cooperation with Neurosurgery has to be very narrow not only in diagnostic field as in evaluation of Neuroradiology operation techniques (endovascular therapy) as in the field of Stereotaxis and Radiosurgery.
Ten schizophrenic patients and ten healthy control subjects matched with respect to sex, age and education were tested by a psychological test battery including WAIS, WCST, FAS and a modified version of the tachistoscopic Defence Mechanism Test (DMTm). In a Q-factor analysis two factors were derived in the analysis of DMTm test scores. The distribution of cases among these factors was wholly at random. On the other hand, when analysing WAIS scores, five factors were derived and schizophrenic cases as well as control subjects were almost unequivocally clustered by different factors. It is argued that also if an unequivocal categorisation of cases had been achieved in the analysis of DMTm data, such a finding might well have been interpreted as an effect of anomalies in cerebral structures assumed to be of critical importance in the filtering of signals in the stream of visual perception. The existence of such anomalies in schizophrenics is now well established by neuroimaging as well as postmortem studies, and findings are also well in accordance with phenomenological and physiological data. The failure of DMTm to separate schizophrenic and control subjects does thus make the second and important step in a discussion on validity entirely superfluous, namely whether signs recorded really measure what they are assumed to measure, in this case defence mechanisms in a psychoanalytic sense.

The purpose of this study was to look at the efficacy and side effect profile of topiramate in a neurology unit. Using case notes, 94 patients who had been treated with topiramate were identified: 48 patients had taken part in clinical trials of topiramate, 46 received topiramate once licensed. Of these patients 24% had a greater than 50% decrease in seizure frequency. Patients with primary generalized epilepsy (n = 12) had a greater reduction in seizures compared with those with partial epilepsies (n = 70) P &gt; 0.03. There was a high incidence (41%) of side effects, particularly psychiatric problems, leading to withdrawal of therpay in 41% of patients. Seven patients were admitted to hospital as a result of psychotic symptoms or depression. The incidence of psychotic symptoms (12%) was significantly higher for patients receiving topiramate compared with 191 patients attending the department on gabapentin (0.5%) and 270 patients attending the department on lamotrigine (0.7%) P &lt; 0.001. 'Abnormal thinking', consisting of mental slowing and word-finding difficulties, occurred in 31%. The incidence could be significantly reduced by using 25 mg dose increments fortnightly as opposed to 100 mg weekly (P &gt; 0.03). Although topiramate is an effective antiepileptic drug, its use is accompanied by a high incidence of particularly psychiatric side effects.
The purpose of the study was to examine the psychometric properties of the revised Liverpool Seizure Severity Scale. The scale has been adapted to increase its content validity and its potential for detecting change attributable to antiepileptic drug treatment. Ninety-seven patients completed the revised scale of which 32 completed it for both major and minor seizures. Reliability of the revised scale was conducted using assessment of internal consistency and test-retest. T-tests were conducted to assess the ability of patients to differentiate between major and minor seizures on scores of the seizure-severity scale. The psychometric properties of the scale were not adversely affected by either the increase in the number of items or the additional response scores. Patients completing the two scales of major and minor seizures were able to reliably differentiate between the two. We have attempted to improve the Liverpool Seizure Severity Scale in order to enhance its reliability, validity and sensitivity to change. The amendments we have made have not adversely affected its psychometric properties and we hope that it will make it more acceptable for use in clinical trials of new antiepileptic drug treatment. The revised scale is currently being applied to a number of clinical trials.
Transgenic mice harboring the lacZ reporter gene on one X chromosome have been used to mark 50% of all retinal progenitors. The distribution of clones arising from this population of marked progenitors reveals a conspicuous columnar segregation of clonally related cells, indicating that most retinal neuroblasts migrate exclusively radially. Against this columnar background of the transgenic retina, single cone, horizontal, amacrine and ganglion cells are observed to transgress clonal borders, mixing freely with cells derived from different precursors. This tangential dispersion is due to the lateral movement of postmitotic neuroblasts around the time of their differentiation, rather than to the dispersion of a proliferative sibling at the time of cell birth. Tangential dispersion is suggested to play a significant role in creating the functional architecture of the mature retina, being the means by which the orderly spacing, or regularity, of retinal mosaics is established during development.
Retinal development depends on complex interactions between products of thousands of genes and numerous cellular and environmental factors. We are using novel quantitative genetic methods to map and characterize genes that are responsible for the pervasive quantitative differences in the architecture of the eye and the retina. These genes, known as quantitative trait loci (QTLs), may also determine susceptibility to common eye diseases. To map QTLs that generate variation among normal individuals we have analyzed several traits in a wide variety of mice, including standard inbred strains, recombinant inbred strains, wild mice, F1 hybrids and intercross progeny. Here we review this approach and give three specific examples of how genes with well-defined functions in retinal development are being mapped and characterized.
Macrophage-derived neurotrophic factor (M phi DNF) is purified from macrophage conditioned medium by a procedure consisting of column chromatography with Sephacryl S-100-HR, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and a final step using reverse-phase HPLC. The product shows a single protein band in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel. It has a molecular weight of 60.5 kD and an isoelectric point of pI 5.1 and contains more leucine, lysine, glutamine and aspartic acids in its amino acid composition. Purified M phi DNF can promote the survival, activity, and neurite outgrowth of cultured cerebellar cortical neurons and that this effect reaches maximal levels with concentrations of the M phi DNF ranging from 500-1000 ng/ml.
One hundred and forty patients with low cervical spinal cord injuries, who were admitted to the Riyadh Armed Forces Hospital over the past 10 years were reviewed. Motor vehicle accidents constituted 119 (85%) of the patients. Camel collisions were a major cause of vehicle accidents 39 (33%), after rollover accidents 70 (59%), and much more than head on collisions 9 (7.5%). Male to female ratio was 14:1 with a mean age of 32 years. Camel collision although a commonly observed cause of motor vehicle accidents in the Middle East has not been mentioned in the literature before. The mechanism of injury is not much different, but the exact description of the accident and sustaining injury is interesting because it leads to localised damage to the neck without major body trauma and mortality.

The relationship of temperament to different patterns and types of alcohol abuse has received much attention over the last decade in order to provide clues to matching patients optimally to treatment strategies. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship of temperament with a number of relevant substance abuse characteristics in a substance abusing population. One hundred forty-five male veterans were interviewed on their lifetime use of substances and on their psychiatric symptoms, problems associated with use, context, and family history of substance abuse. Subjects filled out the TPQ and the MPQ, which were subjected to factor analysis and revealed four factors: (1) Negative Affectivity/Impulsivity, (2) Positive Affectivity/Sociability, (3) Persistence/Achievement, and (4) Constraint. There was partial support for the hypotheses. Impulsivity was negatively correlated with age of onset and positively correlated with substance-related problems and a family history of substance abuse. Subjects with a history of depression scored significantly lower on the Positive Affectivity/Sociability factor than those who had not experienced a significant depression. Individuals who used alone scored lower on this factor than those who used in social contexts. The temperament factors of Persistence/Achievement and Constraint were, for the most part, unrelated to substance abuse.



Observations of low postmortem blood concentrations of antiepileptic drugs in cases of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) have led to the assumption that noncompliance may play a role in SUDEP. However, the reliability of postmortem drug levels has been questioned. The purpose of this study was to analyze possible postmortem changes in blood concentrations of carbamazepine (CBZ) and phenytoin (PHT). New Zealand white rabbits were fed with PHT or CBZ until assumed steady state. A blood sample was then drawn for determination of serum and whole blood concentrations of CBZ and PHT, after which the rabbits were killed and stored at 6 degrees C. A further blood sample for drug analysis was obtained 72 hours after death. Antemortem serum concentrations of CBZ were not significantly different from whole blood concentration 72 hours after death. In contrast, antemortem whole blood concentrations of PHT were only 65% of the corresponding serum concentrations, and postmortem PHT blood levels were even lower, being 35% of antemortem serum concentrations. In conclusion, blood concentrations of CBZ seem to be stable during 72 hours after death under these experimental conditions. However, postmortem PHT concentrations should be interpreted with caution and low postmortem concentrations do not necessarily imply a poor compliance.
Neuroscientists and philosophers nowadays claim that the problem of phenomenal consciousness is a scientific problem. Increasing knowledge of the neural correlates of consciousness is expected to yield an explanation of consciousness in neuroscientific terms. On the other hand, it is sometimes argued that even complete knowledge of brain function will leave unanswered the question of why cerebral processes are accompanied by consciousness at all. Proponents of this view assume an unbridgeable `explanatory gap' between the brain and the whole realm of phenomenal consciousness. Here, it is argued that this `explanatory gap' problem can not adequately be met by current neuroscientific approaches to consciousness, while purely philosophical approaches remain controversial because they inevitably reach a level of contradictory intuitions that do not seem to be resolvable by further argument. However, the problem may be resolved once one accepts that the features of consciousness itself might change with our judgments and descriptions of consciousness inspired by neuroscience. Such a `change of consciousness' becomes realistic when consciousness is construed as a description-dependent, `non-intrinsic' property[1]. Hence, it is argued that neuroscientists are right not to try to refute the explanatory gap argument, but that they should continue research on the neural correlates of consciousness, thus preparing new descriptions of phenomenal consciousness.
Bridging cognition, brain and genes: evidence from genetically-based syndromes, Fifth Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Society, 5-7 April 1998, San Francisco, CA, USA.
Rembrandt's striking painting of a human brain being dissected by a headless figure is actually a fragment of a larger work. The original was both a commissioned group portrait of a surgeons' guild and an account of a public dissection. Such dissections served both educational and entertainment functions in 17th century Holland.
Responses of first-order afferents from the extraocular muscles of the pigeon were studied by extracellular recording in the ophthalmic part of the trigeminal ganglion of decerebrate, paralysed pigeons. The afferents responded to both the amplitude and velocity of ramp displacements of the intact eye with amplitude sensitivities ranging from 0.9 to 8 impulses/s/deg of eye displacement beyond the response threshold. Once a new stable position had been reached, the afferent signal depended only upon the absolute position of the eye within the orbit. The responses adapted in seconds rather than minutes so these units would not provide a continuous signal of the position of an immobile eye; they are best described as signalling position and velocity in relation to eye movements.
Recently Sillito et al. (Nature 1994;369:479-82) discovered correlations in the spike trains of a relatively distant pair of cat lateral geniculate nucleus cells when simultaneously stimulated by a drifting grating; no such correlation occurs when the visual cortex is removed. In a further analysis of the data, we have found that short, high-frequency bursts contribute substantially to the synchronization and we hypothesize that the origin of the bursts is the low-threshold calcium spike. Guided by this hypothesis, our model of the corticogeniculate pathway and early visual system reproduces the experimental data in nearly every detail, as well as making predictions about cortical activity during the synchronizing process. We also discuss the possible behavioral relevance of correlations in the geniculo-cortical loop as well as other neural systems.
1. The aim was to investigate the possibility of interindividual variability of histamine N-methyltransferase (HNMT) in the human liver and renal cortex. The activity of HNMT was measured in 99 specimens of the human liver and in 75 specimens of the renal cortex. 2. In the liver the activity of HNMT was positively skewed. It ranged 2.9-fold with a median of 1.72 pmol/min/mg. In the renal cortex the activity of HNMT was normally distributed and ranged 2.6-fold with a mean and coefficient of variation of 1.35 pmol/min/mg and 21%, respectively. 3. The activities of catechol methyltransferase and thiopurine methyltransferase were measured in the renal cortex and any correlations with HNMT activity were assessed. There was a weak but significant correlation (r = 0.294, p = 0.010) between HNMT and catechol methyltransferase activities whereas HNMT activity was not correlated with thiopurine methyltransferase activity. 4. These results are consistent with the view that HNMT is well expressed in the human liver and renal cortex and that it varies among subjects.

Ibogaine, an alkaloid extracted from Tabemanthe iboga, is being studied as a potential long-acting treatment for oploid and stimulant abuse as well as for alcoholism and smoking. Studies in this laboratory have used animal models to characterize ibogaine's interactions with drugs of abuse, and to investigate the mechanisms responsible. Ibogaine, as well as its metabolite, noribogaine, can decrease both morphine and cocaine self-administration for several days in some rats; shorter-lasting effects appear to occur on ethanol and nicotine intake. Acutely, both ibogaine and noribogaine decrease extracellular levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens of rat brain. Ibogaine pretreatment (19 hours beforehand) blocks morphine-induced dopamine release and morphine-induced locomotor hyperactivity while, in contrast, it enhances similar effects of stimulants (cocaine and amphetamine). Ibogaine pretreatment also blocks nicotine-induced dopamine release. Both ibogaine and noribogaine bind to kappa opioid and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and to serotonin uptake sites; ibogaine also binds to sigma-2 and nicotinic receptors. The relative contributions of these actions are being assessed. Our ongoing studies in rats suggest that kappa agonist and NMDA antagonist actions contribute to ibogaine's effects on opioid and stimulant self-administration, while the serotonergic actions may be more important for ibogaine-induced decreases in alcohol intake. A nicotinic antagonist action may mediate ibogaine-induced reduction of nicotine preferences in rats. A sigma-2 action of ibogaine appears to mediate its neurotoxicity. Some effects of ibogaine (e.g., on morphine and cocaine self-administration, morphine-induced hyperactivity, cocaine-induced increases in nucleus accumbens dopamine) are mimicked by kappa agonist (U50,488) and/or a NMDA antagonist (MK-801). Moreover, a combination of a kappa antagonist and a NMDA agonist will partially reverse several of ibogaine's effects. Ibogaine's long-term effects may be mediated by slow release from fat tissue (where ibogaine is sequestered) and conversion to noribogaine. Different receptors, or combinations of receptors, may mediate interactions of ibogaine with different drugs of abuse.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is an autosomal dominant human disorder, caused by the abnormal expansion of a CTG trinucleotide repeat in the 3' untranslated region of a protein kinase gene (DMPK). Muscle symptoms are a common feature of the disorder and in the adult onset cases there are increased patterns of muscle fibre degeneration and regeneration. In the congenitally affected infants there is a failure of muscle maturation, with the histological presence of numerous immature fibres. However, the pathological mechanism in both forms of the disease is unclear. We report that over-expression of the murine dmpk gene, in a murine myogenic cell line, leads to markedly reduced levels of fusion to the terminally differentiated state. These findings complement recently published data using a heterologous expression/cell system and may have implications for the understanding of the disease process in this disorder.
In the present study the effect of ascorbate (0.8 mM)/iron (2.5 microM) on lipid and protein oxidation, in Synaptosomes isolated from rat brain cortex, was evaluated. Vitamin E, idebenone and reduced glutathione were used as free radicals scavengers, in order to analyze the mechanism involved in ascorbate/iron-induced oxidative stress. An increased formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the cytosol and in the mitochondria was observed, in ascorbate/iron treated synaptosomes. Idebenone (50 microM) prevented the increased formation of ROS in both synaptosomal compartments, vitamin E (150 microM) protected partially this formation in mitochondria, whereas reduced glutathione (250 microM) (GSH) was ineffective. After ascorbate/iron treatment an increase in lipid peroxidation occurred as compared to control, which was completely inhibited by idebenone. A decrease in protein-SH content was also observed, and it was prevented by Vitamin E, idebenone and GSH. When synaptosomes were treated with ascorbate/iron the levels of GSH decreased, and the levels of oxidized glutathione (GSSG) increased as compared to controls under these conditions. Glutathione peroxidase activity was unchanged, whereas an inhibition of glutathione reductase activity was observed. These data suggest that the increased formation of free radicals in synaptosomes leads to lipid and protein oxidation, the role of the endogenous GSH being essential to protect protein thiol-groups against oxidative damage in order to maintain enzyme activity.
During development, distinct classes of neurons are specified in precise locations along the dorso-ventral and anterior-posterior axes of the neural tube. We provide evidence that intersections of Shh, which is expressed along the ventral neural tube, and FGF8, which is locally produced at the mid/hindbrain boundary and in the rostral forebrain, create induction sites for dopaminergic neurons in the midbrain and forebrain. The same intersection, when preceded by a third signal, FGF4, which is expressed in the primitive streak, defines an inductive center for hindbrain 5-HT neurons. These findings illustrate that cell patterning in the neural plate is a multistep process in which early inducers, which initially divide the neural plate into crude compartments, are replaced by multiple local organizing centers, which specify distinct neuronal cell types within these compartments.
The initiation of insulin release from rat islet beta cells relies, in large part, on calcium influx through dihydropyridine-sensitive (alpha1D) voltage-gated calcium channels. Components of calcium-dependent insulin secretion and whole cell calcium current, however, are resistant to L-type channel blockade, as well as to omega-conotoxin GVIA, a potent inhibitor of alpha1B channels, suggesting the expression of additional exocytotic calcium channels in the islet. We used a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction-based strategy to ascertain at the molecular level whether the alpha1A calcium channel isoform was also present. Results revealed two new variants of the rat brain alpha1A channel in the islet with divergence in a putative extracellular domain and in the carboxyl terminus. Using antibodies and cRNA probes specific for alpha1A channels, we found that the majority of cells in rat pancreatic islets were labeled, indicating expression of the alpha1A channels in beta cells, the predominant islet cell type. Electrophysiologic recording from isolated islet cells demonstrated that the dihydropyridine-resistant current was sensitive to the alpha1A channel blocker, omega-agatoxin IVA. This toxin also inhibited the dihydropyridine-resistant component of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, suggesting functional overlap among calcium channel classes. These findings confirm the presence of multiple high voltage-activated calcium channels in the rat islet and implicate a physiologic role for alpha1A channels in excitation-secretion coupling in beta cells.
Amyloid beta protein (AbetaP) forms senile plaques in the brain of the patients with Alzheimer's disease. The early-onset AD has been correlated with an increased level of 42-residue AbetaP (AbetaP1-42). However, very little is known about the role of AbetaP1-42 in such pathology. We have examined the activity of AbetaP1-42 reconstituted in phospholipid vesicles. Vesicles reconstituted with AbetaP show strong immunofluorescence labeling with an antibody raised against an extracellular domain of AbetaP suggesting the incorporation of AbetaP peptide in the vesicular membrane. Vesicles reconstituted with AbetaP showed a significant level of 45Ca2+ uptake. The 45Ca2+ uptake was inhibited by (i) a monoclonal antibody raised against the N-terminal region of AbetaP, (ii) Tris, and (iii) Zn2+. However, reducing agents Trolox and dithiothreitol did not inhibit the 45Ca2+ uptake, indicating that the oxidation of AbetaP or its surrounding lipid molecules is not directly involved in the AbetaP-mediated Ca2+ uptake. An atomic force microscope was used to image the structure and physical properties of these vesicles. Vesicles ranged from 0.5 to 1 microm in diameter. The stiffness of the AbetaP-containing vesicles was significantly higher in the presence of calcium. The stiffness change was prevented in the presence of zinc, Tris, and anti-AbetaP antibody but not in the presence of Trolox and dithiothreitol. Thus the stiffness change is consistent with the vesicular uptake of Ca2+. These findings provide biochemical and structural evidence that AbetaP1-42 forms calcium-permeable channels and thus may induce cellular toxicity by regulating the calcium homeostasis in Alzheimer's disease.
Synapsins I and II are synaptic vesicle proteins essential for normal Ca2+ regulation of neurotransmitter release. Synapsins are composed of combinations of common and variable sequences, with the central C-domain as the largest conserved domain. The C-domain is structurally homologous to ATPases, suggesting that synapsins function as ATP-dependent phosphotransfer enzymes. We have now identified an unanticipated third synapsin gene that is also expressed in brain. The product of this gene, synapsin IIIa, shares with synapsins Ia and IIa three conserved domains that are connected by variable sequences: the phosphorylated A-domain at the amino terminus, the large ATP-binding C-domain in the center, and the E-domain at the carboxyl terminus. Like other synapsins, synapsin IIIa binds ATP with high affinity and ADP with a lower affinity, consistent with a cycle of ATP binding and hydrolysis. ATP binding to the different synapsins is directly regulated by Ca2+ in a dramatically different fashion: Ca2+ activates ATP binding to synapsin I, has no effect on synapsin II, and inhibits synapsin III. Thus vertebrates express three distinct synapsins that utilize ATP but are specialized for different modes of direct Ca2+ regulation in synaptic function.
Vasopressin (AVP) is a major neuropeptide in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the mammalian hypothalamic circadian pacemaker. Protein kinase Calpha is a putatively coupled intracellular messenger. Mean numbers of AVP- and protein kinase Calpha-immunoreactive neurons were determined in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of common voles, entrained to a 12:12 h light-dark (LD) cycle, at the beginning of the light period (zeitgeber time zero) and 6 h later (zeitgeber time six). At zeitgeber time zero, mean numbers of AVP- and protein kinase Calpha- immunoreactive neurons were 2194 and 9897, respectively. Both numbers decreased significantly with about 40% at zeitgeber time six. This concurrent decrease was most pronounced in the dorsomedial aspect of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. These findings are consistent with the findings of a peak of AVP release in rats during the early light phase.
The brain's cerebral cortex decomposes visual images into information about oriented edges, direction and velocity information, and color. How does the cortex decompose perceived sounds? A reverse correlation technique demonstrates that neurons in the primary auditory cortex of the awake primate have complex patterns of sound-feature selectivity that indicate sensitivity to stimulus edges in frequency or in time, stimulus transitions in frequency or intensity, and feature conjunctions. This allows the creation of classes of stimuli matched to the processing characteristics of auditory cortical neurons. Stimuli designed for a particular neuron's preferred feature pattern can drive that neuron with higher sustained firing rates than have typically been recorded with simple stimuli. These data suggest that the cortex decomposes an auditory scene into component parts using a feature-processing system reminiscent of that used for the cortical decomposition of visual images.
Tropomyosins (TMs) are highly conserved, coiled-coil, actin binding regulatory proteins found in most eukaryotic cells. The amino-terminal domain of 284-residue TMs is among the most conserved and functionally important regions. The first nine residues are proposed to bind to the carboxyl-terminal nine residues to form the &quot;overlap&quot; region between successive TMs, which bind along the actin filament. Here, the structure of the N-terminus of muscle alpha-TM, in a chimeric peptide, TMZip, has been solved using circular dichroism (CD) and two-dimensional proton nuclear magnetic resonance (2D 1H NMR) spectroscopy. Residues 1-14 of TMZip are the first 14 N-terminal residues of rabbit striated alpha-TM, and residues 15-32 of TMZip are the last 18 C-terminal residues of the yeast GCN4 transcription factor. CD measurements show that TMZip forms a two-stranded coiled-coil alpha-helix with an enthalpy of folding of -34 +/- 2 kcal/mol. In 2D1H NMR studies at 15 degrees C, pH 6.4, the peptide exhibits 123 sequential and medium range intrachain NOE cross peaks per chain, characteristic of alpha-helices extending from residue 1 to residue 29, together with 85 long-range NOE cross peaks arising from interchain interactions. The three-dimensional structure of TMZip has been determined using these data plus an additional 509 intrachain constraints per chain. The coiled-coil domain extends to the N-terminus. Amide hydrogen exchange studies, however, suggest that the TM region is less stable than the GCN4 region. The work reported here is the first atomic-resolution structure of any region of TM and it allows insight into the mechanism of the function of the highly conserved N-terminal domain.
We have identified isoforms of dystrophin and utrophin, a dystrophin homologue, expressed in astrocytes and examined their expression patterns during dibutyryl-cAMP (dBcAMP)-induced morphological differentiation of astrocytes. Immunoblot and immunocytochemical analyses showed that full-length-type dystrophin (427 kDa), utrophin (395 kDa), and Dp71 (75 kDa), a small-type dystrophin isoform, were coexpressed in cultured nondifferentiated rat brain astrocytes and were found to be located in the cell membrane. During morphological differentiation of the astrocytes induced by 1 mM dBcAMP, the amount of Dp71 markedly increased, whereas that of dystrophin and utrophin decreased. Northern blot analyses revealed that dBcAMP regulates the mRNA levels of Dp71 and dystrophin but not that of utrophin. dBcAMP slightly increased the amount of the beta-dystroglycan responsible for anchoring dystrophin isoforms and utrophin to the cell membrane. Immunocytochemical analyses showed that most utrophin was observed in the cytoplasmic area during astrocyte differentiation, whereas Dp71 was found along the cell membrane of the differentiated astrocytes. These findings suggest that most of the dystrophin/utrophin-dystroglycan complex on cell membrane in cultured astrocytes was replaced by the Dp71-dystroglycan complex during morphological differentiation. The cell biological roles of Dp71 are discussed.
The levels of N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) were determined by HPLC in untreated or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) activated pure astrocyte, oligodendrocyte, and microglial cultures derived from developing rat brain. Oligodendrocyte cultures expressed 1.52+/-0.12 nmol/microg protein of NAAG, whereas astrocyte cultures (0.04+/-0.08 nmol/microg protein) and untreated microglial cultures (0.05+/-0.09 nmol/microg protein) contained only trace amounts of the dipeptide. After stimulation of microglial cultures for 24 h with LPS, NAAG levels increased significantly to 0.37+/-0.12 SD nmol/microg protein. NAAG levels in astrocyte and oligodendrocyte cultures remained unchanged after LPS treatment. The findings indicate that NAAG is localized to specific glial cell types. Further our results suggest that NAAG biosynthesis is induced in microglia, activated by specific stimuli.
One hypothesis regarding the etiology of schizophrenia proposes that disruption of the dopaminergic innervation of the prefrontal cortex leads to an increase in dopamine (DA) transmission in subcortical regions. In the present study, we examined the effect of 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) dopamine innervation on the spontaneous electrophysiological activity of ventral tegmental DA neurons recorded in vivo. DA cell activity was assessed along three dimensions: (1) the relative proportion of DA neurons exhibiting spontaneous activity, (2) their basal firing rate, and (3) the mean percentage of spikes fired in bursts. In lesioned rats, DA neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) exhibited a significantly slower mean firing rate, as well as a significant reduction in the percentage of spikes fired in bursts relative to controls. In contrast, depletion of DA in the mPFC did not have a significant effect on the relative proportion of VTA DA neurons exhibiting spontaneous activity. We suggest that by reducing the basal electrophysiological activity of VTA DA neurons, mPFC DA depletion may lead to an increase in the level of responsivity of the system to excitatory stimuli. Thus, the magnitude of increase in action potential-dependent DA release that occurs in response to a challenge may be augmented in lesioned rats.
In mouse hippocampal slices, long-term potentiation (LTP) at Schaffer collateral fiber synapses onto CA1 pyramidal cells could be induced by brief trains of 5-Hz synaptic stimulation (30 s) or by longer trains of 5-Hz stimulation (3 min) delivered during beta-adrenergic receptor activation. In contrast, 5-Hz stimulation, either alone or in the presence of the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol, failed to induce LTP at associational-commissural (assoc-com) fiber synapses onto CA3 pyramidal cells. Our results suggest that although CA3 pyramidal cells give rise to both the Schaffer collateral fiber synapses in CA1 and the assoc-com fiber synapses in CA3, the induction of LTP at these synapses may be regulated by different activity- and modulatory neurotransmitter-dependent processes.
The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) was developed as a genetic model of essential hypertension. In vivo and in vitro evidence demonstrates that vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) from the SHR produce more nerve growth factor (NGF) than the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) control strain. This increased NGF production is accompanied by excessive innervation of target tissues in the SHR. In the present study, a sensitive, competitive, quantitative, reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (C Q RT-PCR) assay is characterized and used to analyze levels of NGF mRNA in cultured VSMCs derived from the SHR and WKY strains as well as bladder tissue. Differences in NGF secretion rates between SHR and WKY VSMCs were partially due to an increased stability of NGF mRNA in SHR VSMCs. Following treatment with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta 1) to elevate NGF production, the half-life of the NGF mRNA was 104.5 +/- 18.0 min in SHR VSMCs, compared to only 36.5 +/- 11.6 min in WKY VSMCs. Sequence analysis of the 3' untranslated region (UTR) revealed no strain differences in cis-acting sequences potentially involved in determining mRNA stability. Thus, it seems unlikely to be a 3'UTR mutation that prolongs mRNA lifetime. Rather, differential regulation of an RNA-binding protein may play a role in the abnormal NGF mRNA stability in SHR VSMCs. SHR VSMCs also demonstrate an increased translational efficiency of NGF protein; more NGF protein is synthesized per unit of NGF mRNA. The use of a C Q RT-PCR assay has allowed the determination that abnormal NGF mRNA stabilization as well as altered translational efficiency may contribute to excess NGF synthesis and progressive hypertension in the SHR.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR6), expressed by rod bipolar cells and ON cone bipolar cells, activates a trimeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G-protein) that ultimately closes a cation channel. The G-protein remains unidentified, but the alpha subunit of Go (Go(alpha)) has been suggested as a candidate because it is present in rod bipolar cells. However, the precise subcellular distribution of Go within the rod bipolar cell, and its distribution among cone bipolar cells was not determined. This information is important in assessing the hypothesis that Go couple mGluR6 to its effector. Here I report the distribution of Go (alpha subunit) by immunostaining in several mammalian retinas. The overall distribution is conserved across mammalian species: strongest in the dendrites of ON bipolar cells, moderate in their somas, weak in their axons, and absent from their terminals. Go(alpha) is also present in some amacrine somas and processes. In monkey fovea, where rods and rod bipolar cells are absent, Go(alpha) is present in about half of the bipolar somas which occupy the upper tiers of the bipolar layer, and are therefore identified as ON cone bipolar cells. Ultrastructurally, in monkey and cat, Go(alpha) is present in the dendritic tips of rod bipolar cells and ON cone bipolar cells, which are identified by their invaginating contacts. It is absent from OFF cone bipolar dendrites, which are identified by their flat contacts. It is also absent from axons entering the inner plexiform layer, and their terminals. In the primary dendrites, stain for Go(alpha) mainly associates with the plasma membrane, but in the dendritic tips it is also present in the cytosol. Apparently, Go(alpha) is expressed by the same bipolar cells that also express mGluR6, and is concentrated at the same subcellular location. Thus, Go(alpha) could serve to couple mGluR6 to later stages of its signaling cascade.
In recent years evidence has begun to accumulate indicating that the central control of mammalian puberty requires not only changes in transsynaptic communication, but also the participation of glial cells. Neurons and astrocytes control the pubertal process by regulating the secretory activity of those neurons that produce luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neuropeptide that governs sexual development. LHRH, in turn, directs sexual development by stimulating the secretion of pituitary gonadotropins. Astrocytes affect LHRH neuronal function via cell-cell signaling mechanisms involving several growth factors acting via receptors endowed with tyrosine kinase activity. We have identified two members of the epidermal growth factor/transforming growth factor alpha (EGF/TGFalpha) family and their respective receptors as key players in the glial-neuronal interactive process that regulates LHRH secretion. Our results indicate that TGFalpha and its distant congener neuregulin (NRG) are produced in hypothalamic astrocytes and stimulate LHRH release indirectly via activation of their respective receptors, located--surprisingly--not on LHRH neurons, but on astrocytes. Activation of EGF receptors by TGFalpha, and/or the erbB2/erbB4 receptor complex by NRG, leads to glial release of prostaglandin (PG) E2, which then acts directly on LHRH neurons to stimulate LHRH release. That a central blockade of TGFalpha or NRG action delays puberty, and focal overexpression of TGFalpha advances it, leads to the conclusion that both TGFalpha and NRG are physiological components of the central mechanism controlling the initiation of female puberty.
Amino acid (glutamatergic, GABAergic) neuron deficiency theories of schizophrenia offer plausible explanations of pathogenesis. However, reports of disease-related reductions in amino acid synthesizing enzymes in post-mortem brains are contradictory. We measured neuronal uptake sites for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA; [3H]nipecotic acid binding) and nerve terminal/glial uptake sites for L-glutamate (D-[3H aspartate binding) in three independent groups of post-mortem brains from patients with schizophrenia and control subjects. Measurements were also made of the phencyclidine site of the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Samples from patients showed no reductions in the binding of [3H]nipecotic acid or D-[3H]aspartate in caudate, putamen or globus pallidus. On the contrary, some increased binding of both ligands was observed in patients in many comparisons with controls. There were no clear-cut changes in NMDA receptor binding. The most consistent change in the brain sets was increased [3H]nipecotic acid binding in caudate-putamen. This could be due to neuroleptic treatment. The findings produce no evidence that schizophrenia involves major loss of GABA neuron terminals in the basal ganglia or losses of corticostriatal glutamatergic projections.
Site-directed mutagenesis was used to investigate the molecular interactions involved in ligand binding to the human 5-HT1B receptor. Six mutants were constructed at four positions and expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Substitution of the amino acid F185 in transmembrane region IV by an alanine increased the affinities of sumatriptan, methysergide and 8-hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) 3-4-fold and substitution by a methionine increased the affinities of methysergide and methiothepin 2- and 3-fold, respectively. Substitution of amino acid S334 in transmembrane region VI by an alanine increased the affinity of 8-OH-DPAT 5-fold. In accordance with this, the EC50 value of 8-OH-DPAT was decreased 7-fold. This suggests that the serine at position 334 causes steric hindrance for 8-OH-DPAT binding that is lost in the S334A mutant. Mutation of F354 in transmembrane region VII, which differs between receptor subtypes, increased the affinity of methiothepin 2-3-fold but the affinities of the other compounds tested were essentially unchanged.
Both the alpha and betagamma subunits of heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) communicate signals from receptors to effectors. Gbetagamma subunits can regulate a diverse array of effectors, including ion channels and enzymes. Galpha subunits bound to guanine diphosphate (Galpha-GDP) inhibit signal transduction through Gbetagamma subunits, suggesting a common interface on Gbetagamma subunits for Galpha binding and effector interaction. The molecular basis for interaction of Gbetagamma with effectors was characterized by mutational analysis of Gbeta residues that make contact with Galpha-GDP. Analysis of the ability of these mutants to regulate the activity of calcium and potassium channels, adenylyl cyclase 2, phospholipase C-beta2, and beta-adrenergic receptor kinase revealed the Gbeta residues required for activation of each effector and provides evidence for partially overlapping domains on Gbeta for regulation of these effectors. This organization of interaction regions on Gbeta for different effectors and Galpha explains why subunit dissociation is crucial for signal transmission through Gbetagamma subunits.
Objects differ along many stimulus dimensions, but observers typically group them into fewer 'categories' according to their potential use or behavioral relevance. New experiments in awake, behaving monkeys open a window onto the process of stimulus categorization within the central nervous system.
As part of a program to investigate the structure-activity relationships of Gabapentin (Neurontin), a number of alkylated analogues were synthesized and evaluated in vitro for binding to the Gabapentin binding site located on the alpha2delta subunit of a calcium channel. A number of other bridged and heterocyclic analogues are also reported along with their in vitro data. Two compounds showing higher affinity than Gabapentin were selected for evaluation in an animal model of epilepsy. One of these compounds, cis-(1S,3R)-(1-(aminomethyl)-3-methylcyclohexyl)acetic acid hydrochloride (19), was shown to be effective in this model with a profile similar to that of Gabapentin itself.
The KDEL retention signal, when added at the C-terminal of the constant region of light and heavy chains of immunoglobulins is able to efficiently retain assembled immunoglobulins only in cells of nonlymphoid origin. In transfected myeloma cells the wild type and the KDEL-Ig mutants are secreted with the same efficiency. This phenomenon is not due to a proteolytic cleavage of the KDEL signal nor to a lack of intermolecular disulfide bond formation and is not due to an impaired recognition of the KDEL signal in myeloma cells. Thus, the constitutive secretion of assembled immunoglobulins, currently considered to follow a default process, appears to be regulated by a mechanism that is able to overcome an efficient ER retention system.
This study sought to obtain additional evidence that transient auditory memory stores information about conjunctions of features on an automatic basis. The mismatch negativity of event-related potentials was employed because its operations are based on information that is stored in transient auditory memory. The mismatch negativity was found to be elicited by a tone that differed from standard tones in a combination of its perceived location and frequency. The result lends further support to the hypothesis that the system upon which the mismatch negativity relies processes stimuli in an holistic manner.
Anandamide, an endogenous cannabinoid signaling molecule, in a concentration dependent manner, initiates the release of nitric oxide (NO) from leech and mussel ganglia. SR 141716A, a cannabinoid antagonist, blocks the anandamide stimulated release of NO from these tissues. Methyl arachidonyl fluorophosphonate (MAFP), a specific anandamide amidase inhibitor, when administered to either ganglia with anandamide (10-6 M) did not increase the peak level of NO release but did significantly extend NO release from 12 to 18 min (P&lt;0.05). Lower levels of anandamide (10-8 and 10-7 M) do not stimulate the release of significant amounts of NO from these tissues. However, in the presence of MAFP (2.5 nM), the lower anandamide concentrations were able to release significant peak amounts of NO. In mussel neural tissues, the peak NO release increased from 2.2+/-1.3 nM to 8.6+/-2.1 nM. Taken together, the results indirectly demonstrate the presence of anandamide amidase in these tissues, suggesting that the enzyme may serve as an endogenous regulator of anandamide action.
We investigated whether the difference in infarction volume after occlusion of a long proximal segment of the middle cerebral artery between Wistar and Fischer-344 rats, is caused by differences in collateral blood flow rate through leptomeningeal anastomoses. In view of the retrograde direction of collateral blood flow into the middle cerebral artery territory, we developed parasagittal laser-Doppler flowmetry. Using this method two laser-Doppler probes are placed on the cerebral cortex: probe 1 is placed near the anastomoses between the middle- and anterior cerebral artery, probe 2 is placed 2 mm further away from these anastomoses than probe 1. We found in both rat strains a comparable relation between the areas under the curve of the signal measured by both laser-Doppler probes for 2 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion. This relation is considered to be a measurement of the collateral blood flow rate into the middle cerebral artery territory through leptomeningeal anastomoses after middle cerebral artery occlusion. We conclude that collateral blood flow for the two strains were essentially similar for the initial 2 h after MCA occlusion. Although these collateral blood flows could have been different at a later time, it is unlikely that the interstrain difference in cerebral infarction volume between Wistar and Fischer-344 rats after proximal middle cerebral artery occlusion is caused by an apparent interstrain difference in the magnitude of collateral blood flow rate through leptomeningeal anastomoses. The parasagittal laser-Doppler flowmetry technique we developed for these experiments is currently successfully used in our laboratory to evaluate the efficacy of hemodynamically active pharmacotherapeutical agents in raising the collateral blood flow rate into the middle cerebral artery territory after middle cerebral artery occlusion.
We assessed the possible role of interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme-family proteases (caspases) in apoptosis in cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons. CPP32 (caspase-3)-like protease activity was augmented by low KCl treatment, preceding neuronal cell death. Agents such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), dibutylyl cAMP, NMDA, actinomycin D, S-adenosyl-L-methionine, and spermine prevented apoptosis. For various neuroprotective agents, the degree of apoptosis prevention correlated with the prevention of the activation of CPP32-like protease. Furthermore, Z-Asp-2, 6-dichlorobenzoyloxy-methylketone (Z-Asp-CH2-DCB), Boc-Asp-fluoromethylketone (Boc-Asp-FMK), and Z-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone (Z-VAD-FMK), which are inhibitors of caspases, also prevented apoptosis. In contrast to many other neuroprotective agents, these inhibitors of caspases showed little effect on the decrease of cellular 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction activity after low KCl treatment. The neurons rescued by these inhibitors of caspases during low KCl treatment were in a hypoenergic state in their ATP levels and vulnerable to subsequent treatment with medium containing high KCl or glutamate which induce an influx of Ca2+, but which are less toxic to normal neurons. These results suggest that caspase(s) are involved in the apoptosis of cerebellar granule neurons and that several agents protect neurons from death by blocking the activation of the protease(s). Although several caspase inhibitors examined in this study protect neurons from apoptosis, rescued neurons are vulnerable to subsequent stimuli that induce necrotic cell death.
In vitro isolated spinal cord preparations of newborn mice were used to examine the localisation of neuronal network(s) involved in the centrally-driven command of motor activities. Transections of reduced spinal cord preparations were performed under different extracellular bathing conditions, to obtain the smallest piece of cord capable of generating spinal motor rhythm. Under normal bathing medium, the whole lumbosacral cord from 0 to 2-day-old mice (P0-2 group) must be maintained to generate spontaneous motor bursts on lumbar ventral roots. In the P3-5 group, however, a three segment long section from the sacral part of the cord was still able to produce spontaneous episodes of rhythmic activity. Using a Mg2+-free medium to activate quiescent motor neuronal networks, transection procedures revealed that a double lumbar segment and a single segment (at both lumbar and sacral levels) of the cord continued to exhibit rhythmic locomotor-like discharges in P0-2 and P3-5 groups, respectively. In some experiments in which isolated reduced preparations did not generate any rhythmic activity in ventral roots, central inhibitory influences were blocked by addition of bicuculline (20-30 microM) or strychnine (20 microM) to the superperfusate. Under these conditions, a slow and synchronous rhythmic activity was typically recorded from lumbar and sacral outputs in both P0-2 and P3-5 groups. Finally, transection experiments showed that lumbar and sacral hemisegments of the cord retained the ability to generate a bicuculline- or strychnine-induced motor rhythm. These results suggest that (1) intersegmental connections appear to be stronger in P0-2 than in P3-5 group, since under both normal or Mg2+-free bathing medium, spinal rhythmic activity was more affected by transection procedures in preparations from the younger animals, and (2) neuronal networks producing rhythmic motor activities in mouse may be segmentally organised, each hemisegment being able to generate its own spinal motor rhythm.
The effects of different adrenoceptor agonists were investigated on mechanically induced Ca2+ waves in astroglial cells in astroglial-neuronal mixed cultures from rat hippocampus. In the initial part of the study some properties of the waves were characterized. The results show that the initiation of the Ca2+ waves was not critically dependent on extracellular Ca2+ but both the calcium signal and the propagation area of the calcium wave were significantly reduced when the experiments were performed in Ca2+-free buffer. In addition, using the phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor U-73122 (1 microM) and the gap junction uncoupler octanol (1 mM), the results showed that the Ca2+ wave propagation required PLC activation and functional gap junctions. Further, the data also showed that the protein kinase C (PKC) activator phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA 150 nM) reduced the spreading of the waves. The adrenoceptor agonists isoproterenol (iso; beta), phenylephrine (phe; alpha1) and clonidine (clon; alpha2) were evaluated for their short-term (&lt;30 s) effects on the wave propagation. The propagation area was persistently decreased 1, 3 and 5 min after removal of phe. No effects were observed after incubation with iso or clon. Furthermore, using U-73122 or PMA together with phe, shortly incubated, the experiments showed that PLC was a central regulator in the initial phase of the initiation procedure of wave propagation. However, under these conditions PKC was shown not to be involved. Instead it appeared that PKC exerted its inhibitory action on the Ca2+ waves in a latter phase, after prolonged phe exposure. Taken together, the results show that the propagation of Ca2+ waves between astroglial cells in primary cultures can be inhibited/regulated in two principally different ways which involve a pronounced time component. The results also further point out the adrenergic signaling system as an important mediator of dynamic neuron-astroglial information exchange.
The neuroprotective effect of YM872 ([2.3-dioxo-7-(1H-imidazol-1-yl) 6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1-quinoxalinyl]acetic acid monohydrate), a novel alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor antagonist with improved water solubility, was examined in a rat focal cerebral ischemia model. Rats were subjected to permanent middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion using the intraluminal suture occlusion method for 24 h. YM872 was intravenously infused for 4 h (20 and 40 mg/kg/h) or 24 h (10 and 20 mg/kg/h), starting 5 min after the MCA occlusion, to investigate the effect of prolonged duration of the treatment on infarct volume. In the 4 h infusion study, YM872 reduced the cortical infarct volume by 48% at a dose of 40 mg/kg/h. YM872 did not significantly reduce the infarct at 20 mg/kg/h for 4 h. In the 24 h infusion study, however, YM872 markedly reduced the cortical infarct volume by 62%, even at 20 mg/kg/h. The present study indicates that the neuroprotective effect of YM872 is enhanced by extending the duration of treatment, and demonstrates the benefit of the prolonged treatment with AMPA antagonists following focal cerebral ischemia. YM872, a highly water soluble compound, is applicable to investigate the role of AMPA receptors in ischemic models without concern about nephrotoxicity and could be useful in the treatment of human stroke.
Recent research has found that patterns of brain activation involving the frontal cortex during novel task performance change dramatically following practice and repeat performance. Evidence for differential left vs. right frontal lobe activation, respectively, during episodic memory encoding and retrieval has also been reported. To examine these potentially related issues regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured in 15 normal volunteers using positron emission tomography (PET) during the naive and practiced performance of a maze task paradigm. SPM analysis indicated a largely right-sided, frontal lobe activation during naive performance. Following training and practice, performance of the same maze task elicited a more posterior pattern of rCBF activation involving posterior cingulate and precuneus. The change in the pattern of rCBF activation between novel and practiced task conditions agrees with results found in previous studies using repeat task methodology, and indicates that the neural circuitry required for encoding novel task information differs from that required when the same task has become familiar and information is being recalled. The right-sided preponderance of activation during naive performance may relate to task novelty and the spatially-based nature of the stimuli, whereas posterior areas activated during repeat performance are those previously found to be associated with visuospatial memory recall. Activation of these areas, however, does not agree with previously reported findings of left-sided activation during verbal episodic memory encoding and right-sided activation during retrieval, suggesting different neural substrates for verbal and visuospatial processing within memory.









In the studies on Xenopus laevis presented here, the role of acetylcholine (ACh) in the regulation of pituitary activity was examined. The results are discussed in connection with other results on cholinergic regulation of pituitary functioning in vertebrates. It is demonstrated that dissociated melanotropes can synthesize ACh in vitro. In addition, immunocytochemical studies show the presence of the ACh-synthesizing enzyme choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in the cytoplasm of melanotrope cells. ACh concentration-dependently raises the intracellular free calcium concentration as well as the release of proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived peptides. Selective muscarinic receptor antagonists showed that the actions of ACh are mediated through an M1-subtype muscarinic receptor. Immunofluorescence cytochemistry visualized muscarinic receptors on the surface of melanotrope cells. It is concluded that ACh stimulates the release of POMC-derived peptides from the Xenopus melanotrope cell in an autocrine, excitatory way. Finally, the possible mechanism through which ACh is released from melanotrope cells and the physiological significance of ACh in the pituitary gland are discussed.



Forebrains from rats of postnatal days (PND) 2, 7, 14, 21, and 30-40 were subjected to subcellular fractionation and samples from crude mitochondrial (P2, which contain synaptic plasma membranes) and microsomal (P3) fractions were used for SDS-PAGE and Western blotting with antibodies against GluR1, and GluR2/3 subunits of AMPA/GluR receptors. GluR immunoreactivity in P2 fractions increased gradually from PND 2 to PND 30. In contrast, GluR immunoreactivity in P3 fractions increased sharply at early postnatal ages, and was higher than in adults as early as at PND 7. Data were compared to postnatal changes in 3H-AMPA binding reported in various studies. Significant correlations were observed between changes in GluR immunoreactivity in P3 fractions and changes in high-affinity binding on one hand and between changes in GluR immunoreactivity in P2 fractions, and changes in low affinity binding. These data further establish that glutamate receptors present in different subcellular compartments represent different maturational states of the receptors, and suggest that changes in GluR populations could participate in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity.
There has been recent evidence that Gz may play a role in the transmission of the neurotrophic signal from nerve terminals to the cell bodies [Johanson, S.O., Crouch, M.F., Hendry, I.A., Signal transduction from membrane to nucleus: the special case for neurons, Neurochem. Res. 21 (1996) 779-785]. We examined the developmental expression of the alpha subunit of Gz (Gzalpha) in the peripheral and central nervous systems of the mouse. Our laboratory has developed a quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for Gzalpha which makes use of a fragment of the PCR product shortened by 107 base pairs creating a standard which mimics the original RNA. Serial dilutions of the mouse RNA with a constant concentration of mimic RNA were made and the point where equal amounts of product are formed allows accurate measurement of Gzalpha mRNA in the tissue. We have demonstrated that in the developing mouse superior cervical ganglion (SCG), dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and trigeminal ganglion the expression of Gzalpha mRNA is highest perinatally. From 3 weeks of age, in all tissues with the exception of the SCG, Gzalpha mRNA levels fall to lower levels in the adult animal. The developmental pattern of expression of Gzalpha in both the cerebellum and the brain differs from the peripheral nervous system. In the cerebellum, Gzalpha mRNA expression is highest around birth and in the brain it is highest around third postnatal week and then the levels decline as adulthood is approached. These results suggest that the highest level of Gzalpha mRNA is expressed at the time when target tissue innervation is occurring. This further strengthens the hypothesis that Gzalpha is important in the transfer of information from target tissues to the innervating nerve cells.
The Anorexia (anx) mutation causes reduced food intake in preweanling mice, resulting in death from starvation within 3-4 weeks. We have found serotonin (5HT) hyperinnervation in the anx brain; altered noradrenergic (NE) innervation may also mediate eating disorders. We examined the expression of synthetic or catabolic monoamine enzyme genes in brainstem nuclei: serotonin transporter (5HTT) and monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) in the raphe nuclei (RN), and MAOA, norepinephrine transporter (NET), and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the locus ceruleus (LC). We compared 3-week old anx with control and 24-h food-deprived wildtype littermates using in situ hybridization to measure mRNA levels by quantitative autoradiography. The anx mutation was correlated with decreased MAOA mRNA in the LC (but not RN), decreased 5HTT mRNA in the RN, and a trend towards lower NET mRNA in the LC. Food deprivation decreased MAOA mRNA in the LC (but not RN), increased TH mRNA in the LC, and did not alter NET or 5HTT mRNA levels. Thus, the effect of the anx mutation on MAOA expression in the LC paralleled the effect of food-deprivation, but the anx mutation and food-deprivation had differential effects on the expression of TH, NET, and 5HTT genes. Decreased 5HTT expression in the anx RN is consistent with upregulation of serotonergic neurotransmission that may accompany 5HT hyperinnervation. Central NE levels or innervation may be altered in anx mice by decreased expression of NET and MAOA and a lack of TH upregulation induced by food deprivation as in wild-type mice.
Excitatory neurotransmitters such as glutamate are required for the normal functioning of the central nervous system but can trigger excitotoxic neuronal injury if allowed to accumulate to abnormally high levels. Their extracellular levels are controlled primarily by transmitter uptake into astrocytes. Here, we demonstrate that the amyloid protein precursor may participate in the regulation of this important process. The amyloid protein precursor has been well conserved through evolution, and a number of studies indicate that it may function as an endogenous excitoprotectant. However, the mechanisms underlying this neuroprotective capacity remain largely unknown. At moderate levels of expression, human amyloid protein precursors increased glutamate/aspartate uptake in brains of transgenic mice, with the 751-amino acid isoform showing greater potency than the 695-amino acid isoform. Cerebral glutamate/aspartate transporter protein levels were higher in transgenic mice than in non-transgenic controls, whereas transporter mRNA levels were unchanged. Amyloid protein precursor-dependent stimulation of aspartate uptake by cultured primary astrocytes was associated with increases in protein kinase A and C activity and could be blocked by inhibitors of these kinases. The stimulation of astroglial excitatory amino acid transport by amyloid protein precursors could protect the brain against excitotoxicity and may play an important role in neurotransmission.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is caused by helper T cell-dependent autoantibodies against the muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR). Thymic epithelial tumors (thymomas) occur in 10% of MG patients, but their autoimmunizing potential is unclear. They express mRNAs encoding AChR alpha and epsilon subunits, and might aberrantly select or sensitize developing thymocytes or recirculating peripheral T cells against AChR epitopes. Alternatively, there could be defective self-tolerance induction in the abundant maturing thymocytes that they usually generate. For the first time, we have isolated and characterized AChR-specific T cell clones from two MG thymomas. They recognize extracellular epitopes (alpha75-90 and alpha149-158) which are processed very efficiently from muscle AChR. Both clones express CD4 and CD8alpha, and have a Th-0 cytokine profile, producing IL-4 as well as IFN-gamma. They are restricted to HLA-DP14 and DR52a; expression of these minority isotypes was strong on professional antigen-presenting cells in the donors' tumors, although it is generally weak in the periphery. The two clones' T cell receptor beta chains are different, but their alpha chain sequences are very similar. These resemblances, and the striking contrasts with T cells previously cloned from non-thymoma patients, show that thymomas generate and actively induce specific T cells rather than merely failing to tolerize them against self antigens.
Previous studies have identified sensitive periods for the developing barn owl during which visual experience has a powerful influence on the calibration of sound localization behavior. Here we investigated neural correlates of these sensitive periods by assessing developmental changes in the capacity of visual experience to alter the map of auditory space in the optic tectum of the barn owl. We used two manipulations. (1) We equipped owls with prismatic spectacles that optically displaced the visual field by 23 degrees to the left or right, and (2) we restored normal vision to prism-reared owls that had been raised wearing prisms. In agreement with previous behavioral experiments, we found that the capacity of abnormal visual experience to shift the tectal auditory space map was restricted to an early sensitive period. However, this period extended until later in life (approximately 200 d) than described previously in behavioral studies (approximately 70 d). Furthermore, unlike the previous behavioral studies that found that the capacity to recover normal sound localization after restoration of normal vision was lost at approximately 200 d of age, we found that the capacity to recover a normal auditory space map was never lost. Finally, we were able to reconcile the behaviorally and neurophysiologically defined sensitive periods by taking into account differences in the richness of the environment in the two sets of experiments. We repeated the behavioral experiments and found that when owls were housed in a rich environment, the capacity to adjust sound localization away from normal extended to later in life, whereas the capacity to recover to normal was never lost. Conversely, when owls were housed in an impoverished environment, the capacity to recover a normal auditory space map was restricted to a period ending at approximately 200 d of age. The results demonstrate that the timing and even the existence of sensitive periods for plasticity of a neural circuit and associated behavior can depend on multiple factors, including (1) the nature of the adjustment demanded of the system and (2) the richness of the sensory and social environment in which the plasticity is studied.
In vitro experiments suggest that dendritic fast action potentials may influence the efficacy of concurrently active synapses by enhancing Ca2+ influx into the dendrites. However, the exact circumstances leading to these effects in the intact brain are not known. We have addressed these issues by performing intracellular sharp electrode recordings from morphologically identified sites in the apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons in vivo while simultaneously monitoring extracellular population activity. The amplitude of spontaneous fast action potentials in dendrites decreased as a function of distance from the soma, suggesting that dendritic propagation of fast action potentials is strongly attenuated in vivo. Whereas the amplitude variability of somatic action potentials was very small, the amplitude of fast spikes varied substantially in distal dendrites. Large-amplitude fast spikes in dendrites occurred during population discharges of CA3-CA1 neurons concurrent with field sharp waves. The large-amplitude fast spikes were associated with bursts of smaller-amplitude action potentials and putative Ca2+ spikes. Both current pulse-evoked and spontaneously occurring Ca2+ spikes were always preceded by large-amplitude fast spikes. More spikes were observed in the dendrites during sharp waves than in the soma, suggesting that local dendritic spikes may be generated during this behaviorally relevant population pattern. Because not all dendritic spikes produce somatic action potentials, they may be functionally distinct from action potentials that signal via the axon.
Loss of central glucocorticoid receptor (GR) function is thought to be involved in the development of neuroendocrine and psychiatric disorders associated with corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) hyperactivity. The possible causal relationship between defective GR function and altered activity of CRH neurons was studied in transgenic mice (TG) expressing antisense RNA against GR. Immunocytochemical studies showed significant reductions in CRH immunoreactive neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and in CRH and vasopressin (AVP) stores in the external zone of the median eminence. Concomitantly, stimulus-evoked CRH secretion from mediobasal hypothalami of TG mice in vitro was reduced significantly. However, CRH mRNA levels in the PVN of TG mice were marginally lower than those in wild-type (WT) mice. 125I-CRH binding autoradiography revealed no differences between WT and TG animals in any of the brain regions that were studied. Basal plasma corticosterone (cort) levels and 125I-CRH binding, CRH-R1 mRNA, POMC mRNA, and POMC hnRNA levels in the anterior pituitary gland were similar in WT and TG mice. Intraperitoneal injection of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) increased plasma cort levels, CRH mRNA in the PVN, and anterior pituitary POMC hnRNA similarly in WT and TG mice. The injection of saline significantly reduced anterior pituitary CRH-R1 mRNA levels in WT mice, but not in TG mice, whereas IL-1beta produced a decrease in these mRNA levels in both strains. The data show that long-term GR dysfunction can be associated with reduced activity of CRH neurons in the PVN and decreased sensitivity of pituitary CRH-R1 mRNA to stimulus-induced downregulation. Moreover, the hypothalamic changes observed in this model suggest that impaired GR function, at least if present since early embryonic life, does not necessarily result in CRH hyperexpression characteristics of disorders such as major depression.
Based largely on dissociations of the effects of different lesions on learning and memory, memories for different attributes appear to be organized in independent neural systems. Results obtained with direct injections of drugs into one brain region at a time support a similar conclusion. The present experiments investigated the effects of simultaneous pharmacological manipulation of two neural systems, the amygdala and the septohippocampal system, to examine possible interactions of memory modulation across systems. Morphine injected into the medial septum impaired memory both for avoidance training and during spontaneous alternation. When glucose was concomitantly administered to the amygdala, glucose reversed the morphine-induced deficits in memory during alternation but not for avoidance training. These results suggest that the amygdala is involved in modulation of spatial memory processes and that direct injections of memory-modulating drugs into the amygdala do not always modulate memory for aversive events. These findings are contrary to predictions from the findings of lesion studies and of studies using direct injections of drugs into single brain areas. Thus, the independence of neural systems responsible for processing different classes of memory is less clear than implied by studies using lesions or injections of drugs into single brain areas.
Normal locomotion in arthropods and vertebrates is a complex behavior, and the neural mechanisms that coordinate their limbs during locomotion at different speeds are unknown. The neural modules that drive cyclic movements of swimmerets respond to changes in excitation by changing the period of the motor pattern. As period changes, however, both intersegmental phase differences and the relative durations of bursts of impulses in different sets of motor neurons are preserved. To investigate these phenomena, we constructed a cellular model of the local pattern-generating circuit that drives each swimmeret. We then constructed alternative intersegmental circuits that might coordinate these local circuits. The structures of both the model of the local circuit and the alternative models of the coordinating circuit were based on and constrained by previous experimental results on pattern-generating neurons and coordinating interneurons. To evaluate the relative merits of these alternatives, we compared their dynamics with the performance of the real circuit when the level of excitation was changed. Many of the alternative coordinating circuits failed. One coordinating circuit, however, did effectively match the performance of the real system as period changed from 1 to 3.2 Hz. With this coordinating circuit, both the intersegmental phase differences and the relative durations of activity within each of the local modules fell within the ranges characteristic of the normal motor pattern and did not change significantly as period changed. These results predict a mechanism of coordination and a pattern of intersegmental connections in the CNS that is amenable to experimental test.
Complex vocalizations, such as human speech and birdsong, are characterized by their elaborate spectral and temporal structure. Because auditory neurons of the zebra finch forebrain nucleus HVc respond extremely selectively to a particular complex sound, the bird's own song (BOS), we analyzed the spectral and temporal requirements of these neurons by measuring their responses to systematically degraded versions of the BOS. These synthetic songs were based exclusively on the set of amplitude envelopes obtained from a decomposition of the original sound into frequency bands and preserved the acoustical structure present in the original song with varying degrees of spectral versus temporal resolution, which depended on the width of the frequency bands. Although both excessive temporal or spectral degradation eliminated responses, HVc neurons responded well to degraded synthetic songs with time-frequency resolutions of approximately 5 msec or 200 Hz. By comparing this neuronal time-frequency tuning with the time-frequency scales that best represented the acoustical structure in zebra finch song, we concluded that HVc neurons are more sensitive to temporal than to spectral cues. Furthermore, neuronal responses to synthetic songs were indistinguishable from those to the original BOS only when the amplitude envelopes of these songs were represented with 98% accuracy. That level of precision was equivalent to preserving the relative time-varying phase across frequency bands with resolutions finer than 2 msec. Spectral and temporal information are well known to be extracted by the peripheral auditory system, but this study demonstrates how precisely these cues must be preserved for the full response of high-level auditory neurons sensitive to learned vocalizations.
The mossy fiber axons of both the developing and adult dentate gyrus express the highly polysialylated form of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) as they innervate the proximal apical dendrites of pyramidal cells in the CA3 region of the hippocampus. The present study used polysialic acid (PSA)-deficient and NCAM mutant mice to evaluate the role of PSA in mossy fiber development. The results indicate that removal of PSA by either specific enzymatic degradation or mutation of the NCAM-180 isoform that carries PSA in the brain causes an aberrant and persistent innervation of the pyramidal cell layer by mossy fibers, including excessive collateral sprouting and/or defasciculation of these processes, as well as formation of ectopic mossy fiber synaptic boutons. These results are considered in terms of two possible effects of PSA removal: an increase in the number of mossy fibers that can grow into the pyramidal cell layer and an inhibition of process retraction by formation of stable junctions including synapses. As these defects on granule cells in the adult animal and PSA-positive granule cells continue to be produced in the mature brain, the present findings may be relevant to previous studies suggesting that PSA-NCAM function is required for long-term potentiation, long-term depression, and learning behaviors associated with hippocampus.
The neural cell adhesion molecule L1, which is present on axons and growth cones, plays a crucial role in the formation of major axonal tracts such as the corticospinal tract and corpus callosum. L1 is preferentially transported to axons and inserted in the growth cone membrane. However, how L1 is sorted to axons remains unclear. Tyr1176 in the L1 cytoplasmic domain is adjacent to a neuron-specific alternatively spliced sequence, RSLE (Arg-Ser-Leu-Glu). The resulting sequence of YRSLE conforms to a tyrosine-based consensus motif (YxxL) for sorting of integral membrane proteins into specific cellular compartments. To study a possible role of the YRSLE sequence in L1 sorting, chick DRG neurons were transfected with human L1 cDNA that codes for full-length L1 (L1FL), a non-neuronal form of L1 that lacks the RSLE sequence (L1DeltaRSLE), mutant L1 with a Y1176A substitution (L1Y1176A), or L1 truncated immediately after the RSLE sequence (L1DeltaC77). L1FL and L1DeltaC77, both of which possess the YRSLE sequence, were expressed in the axonal growth cone and to a lesser degree in the cell body. In contrast, expression of both L1DeltaRSLE and L1Y1176A was restricted to the cell body and proximal axonal shaft. We also found that L1DeltaRSLE and L1Y1176A were integrated into the plasma membrane in the cell body after missorting. These data demonstrate that the neuronal form of L1 carries the tyrosine-based sorting signal YRSLE, which is critical for sorting L1 to the axonal growth cone.
The role of motoneurons in central motor pattern generation was investigated in the feeding system of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis, an important invertebrate model of behavioral rhythm generation. The neuronal network responsible for the three-phase feeding motor program (fictive feeding) has been characterized extensively and divided into populations of central pattern generator (CPG) interneurons, modulatory interneurons, and motoneurons. A previous model of the feeding system considered that the motoneurons were passive followers of CPG interneuronal activity. Here we present new, detailed physiological evidence that motoneurons that innervate the musculature of the feeding apparatus have significant electrotonic motoneuron--&gt;interneuron connections, mainly confined to cells active in the same phase of the feeding cycle (protraction, rasp, or swallow). This suggested that the motoneurons participate in rhythm generation. This was assessed by manipulating firing activity in the motoneurons during maintained fictive feeding rhythms. Experiments showed that motoneurons contribute to the maintenance and phase setting of the feeding rhythm and provide an efficient system for phase-locking muscle activity with central neural activity. These data indicate that the distinction between motoneurons and interneurons in a complex CNS network like that involved in snail feeding is no longer justified and that both cell types are important in motor pattern generation. This is a distributed type of organization likely to be a general characteristic of CNS circuitries that produce rhythmic motor behavior.
We have reported recently a high density of transient A-type K+ channels located in the distal dendrites of CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons and shown that these channels shape EPSPs, limit the back-propagation of action potentials, and prevent dendritic action potential initiation (). Because of the importance of these channels in dendritic signal propagation, their modulation by protein kinases would be of significant interest. We investigated the effects of activators of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and the Ca2+-dependent phospholipid-sensitive protein kinase (PKC) on K+ channels in cell-attached patches from the distal dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Inclusion of the membrane-permeant PKA activators 8-bromo-cAMP (8-br-cAMP) or forskolin in the dendritic patch pipette resulted in a depolarizing shift in the activation curve for the transient channels of approximately 15 mV. Activation of PKC by either of two phorbol esters also resulted in a 15 mV depolarizing shift of the activation curve. Neither PKA nor PKC activation affected the sustained or slowly inactivating component of the total outward current. This downregulation of transient K+ channels in the distal dendrites may be responsible for some of the frequently reported increases in cell excitability found after PKA and PKC activation. In support of this hypothesis, we found that activation of either PKA or PKC significantly increased the amplitude of back-propagating action potentials in distal dendrites.
How effectively synaptic and regenerative potentials propagate within neurons depends critically on the membrane properties and intracellular resistivity of the dendritic tree. These properties therefore are important determinants of neuronal function. Here we use simultaneous whole-cell patch-pipette recordings from the soma and apical dendrite of neocortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons to directly measure voltage attenuation in cortical neurons. When combined with morphologically realistic compartmental models of the same cells, the data suggest that the intracellular resistivity of neocortical pyramidal neurons is relatively low ( approximately 70 to 100 Omegacm), but that voltage attenuation is substantial because of nonuniformly distributed resting conductances present at a higher density in the distal apical dendrites. These conductances, which were largely blocked by bath application of CsCl (5 mM), significantly increased steady-state voltage attenuation and decreased EPSP integral and peak in a manner that depended on the location of the synapse. Together these findings suggest that nonuniformly distributed Cs-sensitive and -insensitive resting conductances generate a &quot;leaky&quot; apical dendrite, which differentially influences the integration of spatially segregated synaptic inputs.
1. Cl- channels on the pressure-sensitive (P) neuron in the leech are directly activated by synaptic release of serotonin (5-HT) and are indirectly stimulated by the cAMP second messenger pathway, suggesting an unusual dual regulation of the channels. We have investigated the mode of action of 5-HT and dopamine (DA) on a Cl- channel in adult P cells in culture by recording from cell-attached patches. 2. 5-HT increased Cl- channel activity only when included in the recording pipette and not when applied in the bath. 3. Pipette or, more effectively, bath application of DA led to an increase in Cl- channel activity. This effect was blocked by the potent and specific dopaminergic (DA1) receptor blocker, SCH-23390. 4. The stimulation by DA, but not by 5-HT, was also blocked by the cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor Rp-cAMP and was mimicked by the membrane-permeant cAMP analogue dibutyryl cAMP (db-cAMP). 5. Our results show that 5-HT directly gates a Cl- channel that is also activated by DA via the cAMP pathway. This study demonstrates that a ligand-gated channel can be independently operated by another transmitter acting via a second messenger pathway.
1. Whole-cell patch clamp and intracellular recordings were obtained from 190 sympathetic preganglionic neurones (SPNs) in spinal cord slices of neonatal rats. Fifty-two of these SPNs were identified histologically as innervating the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) by the presence of Lucifer Yellow introduced from the patch pipette and the appearance of retrograde labelling following the injection of rhodamine-dextran-lysine into the SCG. 2. Electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral (n = 71) or contralateral (n = 32) lateral funiculi (iLF and cLF, respectively), contralateral intermediolateral nucleus (cIML, n = 41) or ipsilateral dorsal horn (DH, n = 34) evoked EPSPs or EPSCs that showed a constant latency and rise time, graded response to increased stimulus intensity, and no failures, suggesting a monosynaptic origin. 3. In all neurones tested (n = 60), fast rising and decaying components of EPSPs or EPSCs evoked from the iLF, cLF, cIML and DH in response to low-frequency stimulation (0.03-0.1 Hz) were sensitive to non-NMDA receptor antagonists. 4. In approximately 50 % of neurones tested (n = 29 of 60), EPSPs and EPSCs evoked from the iLF, cLF, cIML and DH during low-frequency stimulation were reduced by NMDA receptor antagonists. In the remaining neurones, an NMDA receptor antagonist-sensitive EPSP or EPSC was revealed only in magnesium-free bathing medium, or following high-frequency stimulation. 5. EPSPs evoked by stimulation of the iLF exhibited a sustained potentiation of the peak amplitude (25.3 +/- 11.4 %) in six of fourteen SPNs tested following a brief high-frequency stimulus (10-20 Hz, 0.1-2 s). 6. These results indicate that SPNs, including SPNs innervating the SCG, receive monosynaptic connections from both sides of the spinal cord. The neurotransmitter mediating transmission in some of the pathways activated by stimulation of iLF, cLF, cIML and DH is glutamate acting via both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors. Synaptic plasticity is a feature of glutamatergic transmission in some SPNs where EPSPs are potentiated following a brief high-frequency stimulus. Our data also suggest a differential expression of NMDA receptors by these neurones.
In contrast to the ease of finding tonotopicity in other nuclei, both anatomical and electrophysiological methods have failed to demonstrate a clear and simple tonotopic map within the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (VLL). The present study was undertaken in cat with the hope that methods not used previously in studies of VLL might succeed in demonstrating an orderliness in its exiting fibers (i.e., efferents) or its incoming fibers (i.e., afferents). Since the same organization of ascending frequencies present in the cochlea is maintained in these fibers as well as in all main auditory nuclei, demonstration of a similar organization of frequencies in VLL would be evidence of the cochleo- or tono-topicity of this nucleus. Using triple injection of 3 different fluorescent dyes in inferior colliculus to study efferents, orderly and tonotopic cell-labeling is found in each of the brainstem auditory nuclei, with the notable exception of VLL. Instead, labeling of cell clusters, each cluster containing a small number of cells, is found randomly distributed throughout VLL in all 3 of its spatial dimensions. Using the 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) method, during stimulation at 6 different frequencies, afferent orderliness, indeed, tonotopicity is found in all major brainstem auditory nuclei, again with the notable exception of VLL. Rather, each frequency evokes 2-DG label throughout VLL. In agreement with the results based on electrophysiological methods, therefore, the anatomical methods used here also yield no evidence of tonotopicity in VLL. Thus, if there is orderliness in VLL's efferents or afferents, it is based on an auditory dimension incommensurate with frequency.
Parkinson's disease is associated with progressive loss of nigrostriatal dopamine (DA). Models of the disorder, produced with neurotoxins (N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine or 6-hydroxydopamine) that selectively lesion DA neurons, are characterized by acute removal and gradual recovery of DA. We report slowly progressive loss of DA in ipsilateral nucleus accumbens following profound (&gt;90%) acute unilateral depletion of DA in the caudate-putamen of neonatal rats, from 50% at age 27 days to 94% by 100 days. Metabolic turnover of DA markedly increased in ipsilateral accumbens, and may yield tissue-damaging neurotoxic by-products. This paradigm may help in elucidating mechanisms responsible for gradual degeneration of DA neurons and for screening potential neuroprotective agents.
The main function of postural nervous mechanisms in different species, from mollusc to man, is to counteract the force of gravity and stabilize body orientation in space. Here we investigate the basic principles of postural control in a simple animal model, the marine mollusc Clione limacina. When swimming, C. limacina maintains its vertical orientation because of the activity of the postural neuronal network. Driven by gravity-sensing organs (statocysts), the network causes postural corrections by producing tail flexions. To understand how this function occurs, we studied network activity by using a new method. We used an in vitro preparation that consisted of the central nervous system isolated with the statocysts. Output signals from the network (electrical activity of tail motor neurons) controlled an electrical motor which rotated the preparation in space. We analysed the activity of individual neurons involved in postural stabilization under opened or closed feedback loop. When we closed this artificial feedback loop, the network stabilized the vertical orientation of the preparation. This stabilization is based on the tendency of the network to minimize the difference between the activities of the two antagonistic groups of neurons, which are driven by orientation-dependent sensory inputs.
The effects of early brain damage are often, but not always, milder than the effects of comparable damage in adults, depending on the age at which injury occurred, the region of the brain damaged, and the brain functions involved. Studies of the impact of early brain damage have generally focused on functions primarily associated with the neural structures injured, even though the development and function of distant but interconnected neural systems might also show effects. Here we examine the regulation of striatal dopamine by the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, in adult monkeys that had had either neonatal or adult lesions of the medial-temporal lobe and in normal animals. We use microdialysis to measure the dopamine response in the caudate nucleus after the infusion of amphetamine into the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Normal animals and those with adult lesions showed a reduction in dopamine overflow; in contrast, monkeys with neonatal lesions showed increased dopamine release. Thus, early injury to the primate medial-temporal lobe disrupts the normal regulation of striatal dopamine activity by the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during adulthood. Early focal lesions may have substantial and long-lasting impacts on the function of a distant neural system.





This is the final part of the psychotherapy series, which has offered an overview and insight into some of the major talking therapies used by nurses. This series and extended material is being drawn together by Nursing Times and Phil Barker for a book on talking therapies. Previous topics covered in the series were: Psychodynamic psychotherapy, January 14 Humanistic therapies, February 11 Behavioural therapies, March 11 Family and systemic therapies, April 8.
Selective exposure to x-irradiation during infancy, from postnatal days (PND) 2-11 in the rat, results in severe hippocampal granule cell hypoplasia. Preweanling (PND 17-18) rats, which suffer such hippocampal granule-cell agenesis, show deficits in patterned single alternation (PSA), a form of memory-based learning. Deficits in short-term memory along with increased arousal have been suggested as characteristic of children diagnosed with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). We report here on the ameliorating effects of D-amphetamine, a drug commonly used in the treatment of ADHD, before Ritalin, on PSA, after infantile (PND 2-15) exposure to x-irradiation. After i.p. injections of 0.3 mg/kg D-amphetamine, the onset and magnitude of the PSA memory-based discrimination in the x-irradiated preweanling rats was restored to about the level of controls. These results, showing alleviation of x-irradiation-related deficits in short-term memory by D-amphetamine injections, along with our earlier and present results, showing substantial deficits after x-irradiation alone, encourage the hypothesis that hippocampal granule-cell hypoplasia, which would occur in humans prenatally and is Altman's model of &quot;minimal brain dysfunction&quot; [Altman, J. (1986) in Learning Disabilities and Prenatal Risk, ed. Lewis, M. (Univ. of Illinois Press, Urbana), pp. 241-304], may be a factor in at least some forms of ADHD and may provide a basis for an animal model of the disease.
N-chloroethyl derivatives of 7-hydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene (7-OH-DPAT), 1-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ), or fluphenazine were microinjected into rat nucleus accumbens (Acc), and receptor binding quantified autoradiographically after 24 h. EEDQ reduced [3H]nemonapride (D2-like receptors) binding in Acc (by 84%) and islands of Calleja (IC; 44%), without affecting [3H](+)-7-OH-DPAT (D3); N-chloroethyl-7-OH-DPATs blocked both radioligands in Acc and IC (30%-70%); fluphenazine had no effect.
Chronic food restriction reduces blood pressure (BP) and sympathetic support of BP in aortic coarctation hypertension. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that chronic food restriction would reduce sympathetic support of BP mediated by the paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei (PVN). Hypertension was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=40) by suprarenal aortic coarctation. Rats were assigned to either an ad libitum fed (AL) group or a food restricted (FR) group that received 60% of the food consumed by AL for 3 weeks. One week prior to data collection, catheters were implanted in the left carotid artery and right jugular vein. BP was measured for 2 days prior to, and 7 days after rats in AL and FR groups received either bilateral electrolytic lesions of the PVN (PVNx) or sham lesions (SHAM). Prior to either PVNx or SHAM, FR rats had significantly lower BP (AL=152+/-5; FR=113+/-2 mmHg), less of a depressor response to ganglionic blockade (AL=-58+/-4; FR=-35+/-2 mmHg), and lower plasma norepinephrine levels (AL=758+/-71; FR=380+/-23 pg/ml) compared to AL. PVNx reduced BP in both AL and FR rats (AL-PVNx=105+/-6 mmHg, FR-PVNx=101+/-3 mmHg). PVNx also lowered the depressor response to ganglionic blockade (AL-PVNx=-28+/-5 mmHg, FR-PVNx=-29+/-4 mmHg) and plasma norepinephrine levels (AL-PVNx=372+/-74 pg/ml, FR-PVNx=248+/-31 pg/ml). FR decreased the magnitude of the reductions in resting BP and in sympathetic activity in response to PVNx. These results indicate that intact PVN are required for maintenance of aortic coarctation hypertension, and implicate the PVN as a site involved in BP reductions produced by chronic food restriction.
Results of the previous study suggest that insulin-related peptides regulate proliferation of retinal progenitors in the adult goldfish. Because of their known roles in retinal neurogenesis, we have chosen to focus future studies on insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) and the IGF-I receptor. In the study described here, we characterized the spatial distribution and specificity of IGF-I binding sites in the retina of the adult goldfish by performing receptor-binding autoradiography with [125I]-IGF-I alone and with unlabeled IGF-I-related molecules (IGF-I, IGF-II, insulin, and des-[1-3]-IGF-I) as competitive inhibitors of [125I]-IGF-I binding. The results of these experiments show that IGF-I binds in two locations in the retina of the adult goldfish, within the inner plexiform layer of the differentiated retina and the circumferential germinal zone. The competition experiments suggest that [125I]-IGF-I binds at sites specific for IGF-I, and that both IGF-I receptors and IGF-I binding proteins are present in the retina.
The retina of the adult goldfish grows throughout the life of the animal, in part, by the continual addition of new neurons. Further, destruction of extant neurons in this tissue stimulates neuronal regeneration. In an attempt to identify growth factors that regulate both normal and injury-stimulated neurogenesis, we used organ culture techniques and tested nine peptide growth factors for their ability to modulate cell proliferation in both normal retinas and retinas with lesions. Of the growth factors tested, only the insulin-related peptides (insulin and insulin-like growth factors I and II) consistently stimulated proliferation, and this was restricted to the retinal progenitors within the circumferential germinal zone. None of the growth factors tested stimulated proliferation of rod precursors (cells in the mature retina whose progeny are exclusively rod photoreceptors) or the injury-stimulated retinal progenitors. Although the negative data are subject to multiple interpretations, these data suggest that in the retina of the adult goldfish, insulin-related peptides regulate proliferation of retinal progenitors within the circumferential germinal zone, but molecules that modulate the proliferation of the rod precursors or injury-induced retinal progenitors in the retina of the adult goldfish have yet to be identified.
The organization of neurons in the lumbar enlargement of the rat spinal cord processing information conveyed by group II afferents of hind-limb muscle nerves has been investigated by using cord dorsum and intraspinal field potential recording. Group II afferents of different muscle nerves were found to evoke their strongest synaptic actions in specific segments of the lumbar cord. Group II afferents of quadriceps and deep peroneal nerves evoked potentials mainly at the rostral end of the lumbar enlargement (L1-rostral L3), whereas group II afferents of gastrocnemius-soleus and hamstring nerves evoked their main synaptic actions at the caudal end of the lumbar enlargement (L5). In the central lumbar segments (caudal L3-L4), the largest group II potentials were produced by afferents of tibialis posterior and, to a lesser degree, flexor digitorum longus. Field potentials evoked by group II afferents of quadriceps, tibialis posterior, and flexor digitorum longus were largest in the dorsal horn (up to 600 microV), but also occurred in the ventral horn where they were sometimes preceded by group I field potentials. In contrast, field potentials evoked by group II afferents of gastrocnemius-soleus and hamstring nerves were restricted to the dorsal horn. These results indicate that neurons in different segments of the rat lumbar spinal cord process information from group II afferents of different hind-limb muscles. Furthermore, the topographical organization of group II neuronal systems in the rat is similar in several respects to that in the cat and may therefore represent a general organizational feature of the mammalian spinal cord.
At maturity, ON and OFF alpha ganglion cells in the cat retina are arrayed in regular mosaics, with adjacent cells commonly forming ON-OFF pairs. In the present study, we investigated the role of activity-mediated ganglion cell death in the formation of such cellular patterns. Because direct measures of ganglion cell mosaics are problematic in the developing retina, we examined the distributions of ON and OFF alpha cells in the postnatal cat retina by assessing the degree to which cells in closest proximity were of opposite sign (i.e., ON-OFF pairs). Computer simulations demonstrated that superimposition of two regular distributions results in a high incidence (approximately 90%) of opposite sign pairs. This is also the case for ON and OFF alpha cells in the mature retina, reflecting the high degree of regularity exhibited by this cell class. In contrast, during the first postnatal month, alpha cells displayed a much lower incidence of opposite sign pairs (approximately 60%), comparable to the superimposition of two simulated random distributions. We also show that there is a 20% loss of alpha cells in the central retina during postnatal development and that this magnitude of loss is sufficient to form regular distributions of ON and OFF cells. To assess the influence of sodium voltage-gated activity on this developmental process, intraocular injections of tetrodotoxin (TTX) were made during the postnatal period of alpha cell loss. When the TTX-treated animals reached maturity, there was a dose-related decrease in the incidence of opposite sign pairs, without any appreciable change in cell density. Moreover, the regularity index of ON and OFF cells was significantly lower than normal in the TTX-treated retinas. These findings demonstrate that a spatially selective pattern of ganglion cell loss contributes to the formation of regular ON and OFF ganglion cell distributions and that such cell loss is regulated by retinal activity.
We investigated the neuropsychological correlates of hippocampal atrophy in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. The memory impaired PD patients had smaller hippocampi than other PD patients. The performance of PD patients in spatial working memory and attentional set-shifting correlated with the severity of motor defect, and not with hippocampal atrophy. Our results suggests that failure of verbal/visual memory may be related to hippocampal atrophy in Parkinson's disease. On the contrast, the defect in spatial working memory and attentional set-shifting may be sensitive to dysfunction of 'fronto-striatal' systems in PD patients.
Both target-derived and injury-induced factors could be involved in the axotomy-induced increases in galanin expression in dorsal root, ganglion (DRG) neurons. Galanin mRNA levels were studied in primary cultures of E13.5 embryos, grown for 14 days in culture, in response to two candidate molecules, nerve growth factor (NGF) and leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF). In these cultures, NGF withdrawal alone resulted in a significant increase in galanin mRNA. Addition of LIF onto NGF-containing cultures did not produce a significant increase, while addition of LIF to NGF-deprived cultures caused an upregulation of galanin mRNA which was significantly stronger than that of NGF withdrawal alone. Thus, NGF withdrawal and LIF increase act together to up-regulate galanin gene transcription in DRG neurons.
The effect of the cholinesterase inhibitors tacrine and donepezil on A beta(25-35)-induced toxicity was investigated in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells by measuring the mitochondrial activity. Tacrine and donepezil was found in clinical relevant concentrations (10(-7)-10(-6) M) to attenuate A beta(25-35)-induced toxicity in PC12 cells. The neuroprotective effect of tacrine was blocked in the presence of the nicotinic antagonists mecamylamine (10(-5) M) and tubocurarine (10(-5) M), suggesting an interaction via nicotinic receptors. This study demonstrates that tacrine and donepezil can exert neuroprotective properties which might be of importance and contribute to the clinical efficacy of cholinesterase inhibitors in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
T-cell restricted intracellular antigen related protein (TIAR) is an RNA-binding protein that is supposed to be involved in the process of stress-induced apoptosis. TIAR triggers DNA fragmentation in permeabilized thymocytes and its expression diminishes in the cell nucleus and rises simultaneously in the cytoplasm during Fas-induced cell death. Using a monoclonal antibody against TIAR, we stained different areas of the hippocampus from seven controls and 14 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). There was a clear expression of TIAR in the hippocampus of non-demented controls. Surprisingly, a significant increase was found in the expression of TIAR in the hippocampal area in AD. The increased expression of TIAR in AD may be related to the process of neurodegeneration in the hippocampus.
The selectivity of the muscarinic toxin MT3 from green mamba snake venom was corroborated by inhibition of the binding of [3H]NMS, a classical muscarinic radioligand, to native and cloned muscarinic receptors, showing 214-fold higher affinity for m4 than for m1 subtype, without significant binding to the others. The highest concentrations of MT3 sites (putative m4 receptors) in the rat brain were found in striatum and olfactory tubercle, intermediate concentration in dentate gyrus and CA1, and lower but still conspicuous levels in CA3 and frontal cortex. MT3 caused retrograde amnesia of an inhibitory avoidance task, when injected into the dorsal hippocampus of rats after training, suggesting a positive role of these MT3 sensitive sites, which are probably m4 muscarinic receptors, in memory consolidation of this task.
Chronic (2 day) exposure of human neuroblastoma cells to the organophosphate pesticide phosmet induced a marked concentration-dependent increase in the levels of PrP present on the cell surface as assessed by biotin labelling and immunoprecipitation. Levels of both phospholipase C (PIPLC)-releasable and non-releasable forms of PrP were increased on the plasma membrane. These increases appear to be due to post-transcriptional mechanisms, since PrP mRNA levels as assessed by Northern blotting were unaffected by phosmet treatment. These data raise the possibility that phosmet exposure could increase the susceptibility to the prion agent by altering the levels of accessible PrP.
Helium pressure of &gt; 20 bar causes neuroexcitatory changes referred to as the high pressure neurological syndrome. In rodents, symptoms include locomotor and motor activity (LMA), myoclonia and, at greater pressure, convulsions. We studied the effects of the GABA reuptake inhibitor nipecotic acid, the GABA transaminase inhibitor gamma-vinyl-GABA (GVG), the GABAA receptor agonist muscimol, and the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen. Whatever the drug used, bilateral administration in the substantia nigra reticulata (SNR) or in the substantia nigra compacta (SNC) showed no significant effects on myoclonia. In contrast, administration in the SNR of nipecotic acid, GVG, and baclofen resulted in a significant decrease of LMA; administration of muscimol in the SNR increased LMA. No significant effect was seen when drugs were injected in the SNC. These results suggest that changes in GABA transmission in the SNR, but not in the SNC, play a crucial role in the control of motor activity and the regulation of movement.
Two groups of hemiparkinsonian rats received grafts of embryonic ventral mesencephalon with or without the addition of the NMDA receptor antagonist (+)dizocilpine hydrogen maleate (MK-801). When added to the cell suspension, a 10 microM concentration of MK-801 did not enhance the survival of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurones in the grafts. These findings suggest that cell death occurring during nigral transplantation is not primarily due to excitotoxicity.
We provide evidence for anisotropic diffusion in rat corpus callosum and hippocampus. The preferential diffusion pathway in corpus callosum is along the myelinated axon fibres; in the hippocampus diffusion is easier along the transversal axis (x) than along the sagittal (y) or vertical (z) axes. In all areas studied, i.e. in the cortex, corpus callosum and hippocampus, the mean ECS volume fraction alpha (alpha = ECS volume/total tissue volume) ranged between 0.20 and 0.22 and mean non-specific uptake k' was between 4.0 and 5.9 x 10(-3) s-1. Diffusional anisotropy in the hippocampus may be of importance for extrasynaptic transmission and in the 'cross-talk' between synapses.
Ibogaine, an alkaloid found in the root bark of the African shrub Tabernanthe iboga, has been claimed to interrupt opioid dependence in humans; in animals, it has been shown to inhibit morphine self-administration and to attenuate signs of morphine withdrawal. However, ibogaine has some neurotoxicity, and because of this, efficacious and safer congeners of ibogaine have been sought, 18-Methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), a novel iboga alkaloid congener, has been shown, in animals, to mimic the effects of ibogaine on morphine self-administration without producing any ibogaine-like neurotoxiticity. In the present study, 18-MC was shown to attenuate five of seven signs of morphine withdrawal in rats. The data suggest that 18-MC will ameliorate symptoms of opioid dependence in humans.
Rat and gerbil hippocampus exposed to a sublethal period of ischemia becomes resistant to a subsequent period of lethal ischemia induced several days later, a phenomenon referred to as ischemic preconditioning. Here we describe ischemic preconditioning induced in vitro in cultured hippocampal neurons. Mixed neuroglial hippocampal cell cultures of 14-17 DIV were exposed to a combined glucose and oxygen deprivation (GOD). Cultures subjected to 90 min, but not 60 min, of GOD showed extensive degeneration after a 1 day recovery period. An episode of 60 min of preconditioning GOD followed 1 and 2 days later by 90 min of GOD resulted in 40-60% protection. The data demonstrate that ischemic preconditioning can be mimicked in an in vitro hippocampal cell culture system.
The effect of benzodiazepine agonists of varying efficacy on gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptor alpha1 subunit protein expression was determined in primary cultured cerebellar granule cells. After 48 h exposure to 1 microM drug concentrations, flunitrazepam, diazepam, and the partial agonists Ro 19-8022 and bretazenil, but not the partial agonists Ro 42-8773, Ro 41-7812 or imidazenil, decreased alpha1 subunit protein expression. The grading of effect of the benzodiazepine partial agonists on alpha1 subunit protein expression is consistent with their agonist efficacies. This model, therefore, appears to act as a sensitive indicator of benzodiazepine agonist efficacy with the ability to differentiate between partial agonists.
These experiments tested the hypothesis that substance P neurotransmission at tachykinin NK1 receptors in the locus coeruleus is involved in stress-induced activation of the locus coeruleus, using c-fos as an index of activation. Selective tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists administered systemically did not result in substantial locus coeruleus c-fos expression. Restraint stress resulted in a large number of locus coeruleus c-fos expressing cells. Administration of two selective tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists prior to restraint resulted in an increase in the number of locus coeruleus c-fos expressing cells, compared to restraint alone. These results suggest that the enhanced c-fos expression observed in response to tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists combined with stress, could be due to the blockade of tachykinin NK1 receptor-mediated activity at sites other than the locus coeruleus, resulting in an overall activation of the locus coeruleus.
Motoneurons of invertebrates and vertebrates can continue to fire repetitively after being activated by a brief, excitatory synaptic input (self-sustained firing). This firing behavior is due to the activation of intrinsic, voltage-gated currents which produce sustained regenerative depolarizations (plateau potentials) of the cell. Examination of these intrinsic cellular properties has been performed in reduced animal preparations and it is unknown if such self-sustained firing occurs in motoneurons of the intact human. In this paper, we present evidence of this in the human by using a technique of dual motor unit recordings. Subjects were instructed to maintain a constant dorsiflexion effort, and the common synaptic input (e.g. descending drive) onto the tibialis anterior (TA) motoneuron pool was monitored by recording the firing frequency of a low threshold 'control' unit. Once the firing rate of the control unit was constant, vibration of the TA tendon recruited a second 'test' unit which continued to fire after the vibration (i.e. synaptic input) was removed, even though the firing rate of the control unit (and thus, the common drive) remained the same or decreased. Self-sustained firing of motoneurons such as this may reduce the need for prolonged synaptic input when constant muscle activation is required (e.g. for postural tone).
After resection of the corpus callosum, V.J., a left-handed woman with left-hemisphere dominance for spoken language, demonstrated a dissociation between spoken and written language. In the key experiment, words flashed to V.J.'s dominant left hemisphere were easily spoken out loud, but could not be written. However, when the words were flashed to her right hemisphere, she could not speak them out loud, but could write them with her left hand. This marked dissociation supports the view that spoken and written language output can be controlled by independent hemispheres, even though before her hemispheric disconnection, they appeared as inseparable cognitive entities.
We measured the serum gelsolin, actin-modulating protein, levels in five patients after rhabdomyolysis. We observed a tendency of serum gelsolin (83 kDa) to increase during the study period of 11 days. No intracellular gelsolin (80 kDa) was found in the serum, although it is abundant in muscle, and the destruction was severe as judged by other parameters. Serum gelsolin thus behaves differently in rhabdomyolysis than after acute tissue damage in other organs, such as liver necrosis and adult respiratory distress syndrome.
Complex I deficiency, either specific or associated with other respiratory chain defects, has been identified in myopathies, encephalomyopathies and in three 'neurodegenerative' disorders: Parkinson's disease, dystonia and Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy. The complex I defect is expressed in blood in all these three but, to date, only in LHON have specific mitochondrial DNA mutations been identified. Recent work with rho degrees cybrids indicates that, in a subgroup of patients at least, the complex I deficiency is determined by mtDNA, in contrast to dystonia where a nuclear gene defect or toxic influence appears a more likely cause. The actions of specific toxins, e.g., MPTP continue to play an important role in our understanding of pathogenesis of neurodegeneration, particularly in PD.
Neuropeptide Y is expressed in neurons of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus and has been ascribed a role as a stimulant of food intake. Neuropeptide Y Y1 and Y2 receptors are also localised in the arcuate nucleus, and it has been suggested that the Y1 receptor mediates part of the effect of neuropeptide Y on feeding behaviour. In the present study, immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization were used to investigate the effect of food deprivation on the expression of Y1 and Y2 receptors in the arcuate nucleus of the rat. Fasting for 48 h induced a decrease in the number and area of Y1 receptor immunoreactive neurons in the arcuate nucleus. Furthermore, arcuate Y1 receptor mRNA levels also decreased after food deprivation. The decrease in the number of the Y1 receptor immunoreactive neurons was partially attenuated by supplementing the drinking water with 10% glucose. In contrast, fasting did not significantly change Y2 receptor mRNA levels in the arcuate nucleus. These results support the view that Y1 receptors in the arcuate nucleus play a role in the feeding pattern induced by neuropeptide Y.
Endogenous opioid peptides serve as growth factors in developing, renewing, healing, and neoplastic cells and tissues. A native opioid peptide, [Met5]-enkephalin, termed opioid growth factor (OGF), has been discovered to regulate DNA synthesis in the epithelium of the ocular surface. OGF and its receptor zeta have been localized in both the basal and suprabasal cells of the epithelium. This study examined the hypothesis that OGF is an autocrine growth factor. Using probe for preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA that encodes OGF, and in situ hybridization techniques, silver grains related to PPE mRNA were detected in both basal and suprabasal cells of the central and peripheral cornea, limbus, and conjunctiva. No distinct regional differences in the presence or location of message, as reflected by the density and distribution of PPE mRNA signal, were noted. These results demonstrate that a growth factor known to serve as a tonic, inhibitory, and receptor-mediated influence on the epithelium of the ocular surface is derived in an autocrine manner, thereby permitting local control of homeostatic cellular replication.
The objective of the present study was to investigate the potential role of the free radical nitric oxide (NO) in the development of fetal rat mesencephalic neurons grafted in a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease. First, using nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-immunocytochemistry and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry, we investigated the presence of the neuronal isoform of NOS (nNOS) in intrastriatal mesencephalic grafts. During the course of the experiment (16 weeks) an increase in the staining intensity and the number of nNOS/NADPH-d positive cells within the grafts was observed, as well as a gradual maturation of dopaminergic neurons. In addition, within both the host striatal and grafted mesencephalic tissue, a NO-dependent accumulation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) was detected, indicating the presence of guanylate cyclase, i.e., the target-enzyme for NO. Secondly, to determine the impact of NO on the survival of grafted dopaminergic neurons, 6-OHDA lesioned rats received mesencephalic grafts and were subsequently treated with the competitive NOS-inhibitor Nomega-nitro-l-arginine methylester (l-NAME). After chronic treatment for 4 weeks, tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry revealed no apparent differences between the survival of grafted dopaminergic neurons in control- or l-NAME treated animals, respectively. As the maturation of grafted dopaminergic neurons coincides with a gradual increase in the expression of nNOS within the graft and since dopaminergic cell numbers are not changed upon administration of l-NAME, it is concluded that endogenously produced and potentially toxic NO does not affect the survival of grafted fetal dopaminergic neurons.
The degree of interdependence between intracranial EEG channels was investigated in four epileptic patients with complex partial seizures of mesial temporal lobe origin. With a new method to characterize nonlinear dynamical interdependence-the mutual nonlinear prediction-we demonstrated here a possibility to quantify, during epileptic seizures, the relationships between EEG signals of electrode contacts in the epileptogenic area. During the interictal period, the degree of nonlinear interdependences were very low or absent. In contrast, it was found that transient patterns of nonlinear interdependences emerge at the initial spread of the seizure, during essential parts of its development, and at seizure end, but the maintenance of these interactions are not observed throughout the seizure activity. These results suggest that the nonlinear associations plays an important role in epileptogenesis, and that the process of neuronal entrainment during seizure onset involves a transient interaction between a distributed network of neuronal aggregates, but the maintenance of this interaction is not required for sustained seizure activity. Furthermore, this technique can describe properly the spatio-temporal organisation of the seizures of medio-temporal lobe origin and could become a very useful tool to aid the localization of the epileptogenic regions at the origin of epileptic seizures and their pathways of propagation.
Previously, we showed caveolae contain a population of protein kinase Calpha (PKCalpha) that appears to regulate membrane invagination. We now report that multiple PKC isoenzymes are enriched in caveolae of unstimulated fibroblasts. To understand the mechanism of PKC targeting, we prepared caveolae lacking PKCalpha and measured the interaction of recombinant PKCalpha with these membranes. PKCalpha bound with high affinity and specificity to caveolae membranes. Binding was calcium dependent, did not require the addition of factors that activate the enzyme, and involved the regulatory domain of the molecule. A 68-kD PKCalpha-binding protein identified as sdr (serum deprivation response) was isolated by interaction cloning and localized to caveolae. Antibodies against sdr inhibited PKCalpha binding. A 100-amino acid sequence from the middle of sdr competitively blocked PKCalpha binding while flanking sequences were inactive. Caveolae appear to be a membrane site where PKC enzymes are organized to carry out essential regulatory functions as well as to modulate signal transduction at the cell surface.
Alpha-2-adrenergic receptor (alpha2-AR) agonists potently inhibit the activity of noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus (LC), an effect that may be mediated by the A- and/ or C-subtypes of alpha2-AR (alpha2A- and alpha2C-AR). To gain insight into the functional significance of these alpha2-AR subtypes in the LC, we have examined their ultrastructural localization by using subtype-specific antibodies. We recently demonstrated that alpha2A-ARs are localized prominently in axon terminals and catecholaminergic dendrites in the LC. In the present study, we sought to identify the subcellular substrates underlying alpha2C-AR actions in the LC by analyzing the ultrastructural distribution of alpha2C-AR immunoreactivity (alpha2C-AR-IR) in sections that were dually labeled for the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Alpha-2C-AR-IR was predominantly localized in dendrites, most of which also contained immunolabeling for TH. Within such dendrites, alpha2C-AR-IR was associated with the plasma membrane and occasionally Golgi cisternae and tubulovesicles. The vast majority of dendrites containing alpha2C-AR-IR received asymmetric (excitatory) contacts from unlabeled axon terminals that often contained dense core vesicles. Alpha-2C-AR-IR was observed in some unmyelinated axons and astrocytic processes that were apposed to TH-immunoreactive dendrites but was rarely associated with axon terminals. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that alpha2C-ARs (1) are localized postsynaptically in catecholaminergic neurons of the LC and (2) may be strategically situated to modulate the activation of LC neurons by excitatory inputs.
By using light microscopic immunocytochemistry and computer analysis, we have mapped the distributions of two calcium-binding proteins (CaBPs), calbindinD28k (CB) and parvalbumin (PV), in the rat superior colliculus (SC). The patterns of CaBP expression were complementary. A band of heavily labeled, medium-sized CB-immunoreactive cells (CB-cells) was centered in the optic layer (OL), whereas PV-immunoreactive cells (PV-cells) were found predominantly in the intermediate gray layer (IGL), where they were clustered within patches of PV-labeled fibers. The superficial gray layer (SGL) could be divided into two sublaminae. CB-cells were found mostly in the dorsal half of the SGL, whereas PV-cells were scattered throughout the ventral SGL and the dorsal OL. Most of the CaBP-immunoreactive cells in the SGL were small bipolar cells with vertically oriented dendrites; however, there were also some PV-cells with horizontally oriented dendrites. Quantitative analysis of the CaBP distributions reinforced our observations that these cells are distributed in complementary tiers that are not restricted to the traditional laminae. The size and shape of some of these tiers were determined from a three-dimensional reconstruction of serial sections. The complementarity of the CaBP-immunoreactive tiers was also confirmed by fluorescence microscopy of double-labeled sections, in which few if any double-labeled neurons were observed. Complementary tiers of CB-cells and PV-cells have been observed previously in the SC of the cat. The present results demonstrate them in another species and further suggest that there are functional sublaminae in the SC that can be distinguished by CaBP content.
Cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain are the focus of considerable interest because they are severely affected in Alzheimer's disease. However, both cholinergic and noncholinergic neurons are intermingled in this region. The goal of the present study was to characterize the morphology and in vivo electrophysiology of noncholinergic basal forebrain neurons. Neurons in the ventral pallidum and substantia innominata were recorded extracellularly, labeled juxtacellularly with biocytin and characterized for the presence of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. Two types of ventral pallidal cells were observed. Type I ventral pallidal neurons had axons that rarely branched near the cell body and tended to have smaller somata and lower spontaneous firing rates than did type II ventral pallidal neurons, which displayed extensive local axonal arborizations. Subtypes of substantia innominata neurons could not be distinguished based on axonal morphology. These noncholineregic neurons exhibited local axon arborizations along a continuum that varied from no local collaterals to quite extensive arbors. Substantia innominata neurons had lower spontaneous firing rates, more variable interspike intervals, and different spontaneous firing patterns than did type II ventral pallidal neurons and could be antidromically activated from cortex or substantia nigra, indicating that they were projection neurons. Ventral pallidal neurons resemble, both morphologically and electrophysiologically, previously described neurons in the globus pallidus, whereas the substantia innominata neurons bore similarities to isodendritic neurons of the reticular formation. These results demonstrate the heterogeneous nature of noncholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain.
The organisation of the neural projections from the optic tectum and pretectal nuclei complex, n. subpretectalis / n. interstitio-pretecto-subpretectalis (SP/IPS), to the nucleus rotundus (Rt) in chicks was studied by using retrograde tracing techniques. After the injection of fluorescent retrograde tracers, rhodamine-conjugated latex microspheres, fluorescein-conjugated latex microspheres, True Blue, Fluoro-Gold, or rhodamine B isothiocyanate, into different regions of Rt and its middorsal extension, the nucleus triangularis (T), the distribution of retrogradely labelled neuronal cell bodies in the tectum and pretectal nuclei was assessed. Both the ipsilateral and contralateral tectorotundal projections were found to be organised topographically in as much as different sublaminas of the stratum griseum centrale (SGC) project in an orderly manner to Rt and T. The deepest stratum of SGC overlapping into the stratum album centrale projects to T. Deep SGC projects to the dorsal Rt and superficial SGC to the ventral Rt. A band running through the centre of Rt receives input from the central sublamina of SGC, and the caudal central Rt receives input from a deeper sublamina than does the rostral central Rt. The SP/IPS projects to the ipsilateral Rt only and the projection order is dorsal SP to dorsal Rt, ventral SP to ventral Rt and middle SP to the central band of Rt. The neurones in IPS and the nucleus of the tractus tectothalamicus project to T. Thus, Rt and T receive topographically both tecto- (excitatory) and SP/IPS- (inhibitory) projections. The possible functional implications for parallel information processing in these projections are discussed.
Sigma (sigma) receptors are located in limbic areas, including the prefrontal cortex, where decreased dopamine levels have been linked to negative symptoms. Although the endogenous ligands for sigma receptors are unknown, neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been named as the potential endogenous agonist at these receptors. NPY enhanced NMDA-stimulated [3H]dopamine release in rat prefrontal cortex. This was in contrast to the inhibition produced by the sigma agonists (+)pentazocine and BD737. However, four sigma antagonists, including one which is sigma1 selective, that reverse (+)pentazocine- or BD737-mediated inhibition all reversed the NPY-mediated enhancement. In addition, PYX-1, a Y receptor antagonist, reversed both the (+)pentazocine- and BD737-mediated inhibition and the NPY-mediated enhancement of release. Peptide YY (PYY), [Leu31,Pro34]NPY and NPY(13-36) did not mimic the effect of NPY. Our findings are consistent with NPY acting as an endogenous ligand for a subtype of sigma receptor with characteristics different from Y1, Y2 and Y3 receptors but sensitive to PYX-1. These findings suggest a role for NPY, via sigma receptors, as a modulator of dopamine levels in the prefrontal cortex.
Anhedonia and psychomotor slowing in schizophrenia have been attributed to a dysfunction of dopaminergic neurotransmission. To differentiate between disease and drug-induced negative symptoms, we examined eight drug-free and eight neuroleptic-treated schizophrenic patients. Positive and negative symptoms and extrapyramidal side effects were assessed using standardized rating scales (PSAS, AMDP, SANS). 'Reaction time' and 'motor speed' were measured using a computer-aided system and striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptor availability was assessed using [I-123]IBZM SPECT. Psychomotor reaction time, parkinsonism, affective flattening and avolition were increased in treated patients relative to the untreated cohort and were negatively correlated with dopamine D2/D3 receptor availability. Significant positive correlations were found between parkinsonism and affective flattening and between psychomotor slowing and avolition. Positive symptoms were not significantly associated with striatal IBZM binding. These findings support the hypothesis that neuroleptic-induced dopamine D2/D3 blockade in the striatum can mimic certain negative symptoms, such as affective flattening and avolition, and indicates that psychomotor testing may be helpful in differentiating between disease and drug-induced negative symptoms.

The relationship between limitations in different cognitive functions, measured with a neuropsychological test battery, and moving traffic violations among older drivers was investigated. Thirty-seven drivers aged 65 years or more, with temporarily suspended driving licenses (suspended drivers) were identified 23 were crash-involved and 14 were not. When compared to 31 controls with clean driving records, crash-involved suspended drivers performed less well on tests of visuoconstructive ability (p = 0.008), psychomotor speed (p = 0.019) and visuospatial memory (p = 0.036). Non-crash-involved suspended drivers did not differ from controls. A combination of three tests (of visuoconstructive ability, visuospatial memory and verbal episodic memory) succeeded in correctly classifying 65.2% of the crash-involved suspended drivers. The results support the idea of cognitive decrements as an important causal factor in crashes of older drivers.
We report the enhanced expression of early forms of microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) in cortical dysplasia in surgical resections from 17 children with intractable epilepsy. Large neurons, which represent one of the characteristic cellular features of cortical dysplasia, showed strong immunoreactivity for MAP1B, as well as the low-molecular-weight isoform of MAP2 (MAP2c). In situ hybridization with MAP1B antisense riboprobe showed markedly increased hybridization signal intensities in the large neurons, whereas neurons in the normal-appearing cortex and most of the normal-sized neurons in the dysplastic cortex had faint signals. Because MAP2c and MAP1B are early forms of MAPs, which are abundantly expressed in the developing brain and down-regulated in the adult, and are thought to be involved in neuronal outgrowth and plasticity, our results suggest that the structural remodeling of neuronal processes is activated in cortical dysplasia.
Small volumes of solutions injected into the hippocampus produce dramatic degeneration in dentate gyrus neurons, but not in neurons of the CA1 subfield. The aim of the present study was to ascertain whether solutions with different fragments of the beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) could produce further degeneration in areas beyond the dentate gyrus. It was found that 5 days after injection of an aqueous solution containing the Abeta 1-40 fragment into the hippocampus, long stretches of the CA1 subfield were either deprived of neurons or most of the neurons were degenerating. By contrast, in animals with deposits containing Abeta 1-28, Abeta 1-42 or water, neuronal degeneration or depletion only occurred in a reduced area around the place where the implant needle penetrated the CA1 subfield. In animals injected with Abeta 1-40, many profiles in the CA1 subfield and dentate gyrus were undergoing apoptosis, as seen using preparations processed by routine histology or the TUNEL technique for detection of fragmented DNA. In addition, there was higher infiltration by ED1-positive, activated microglia-macrophagic cells in Abeta 1-42 deposits than in deposits of Abeta 1-40. The present results suggest that the intrahippocampal injection of toxic Abeta fragments produces neuronal degeneration in the rat CA1 subfield when using the appropriate protocol, and, thus, can provide an in vivo model to investigate the neurotoxic effects of Abeta and for the evaluation of drugs with potential anti-neurodegenerative activity.
The relationships between midline brain morphology, anterior visual pathway morphology and hormonal status in children with impaired growth were studied. Intracranial morphology was studied by magnetic resonance imaging in 47 children (14F, 33M), median age 9.7y (range 2.6-18.7y) undergoing growth hormone treatment (GH; 0.1 U/kg/d). They were chosen to represent various birth sizes and a spectrum of hormone insufficiencies. There was a relationship between GH secretion and the morphology of the neurohypophysis, the pituitary stalk and the anterior visual pathways, i.e. the greater the GH insufficiency, the more abnormal were these structures. The children with anterior visual pathway abnormalities had the lowest GH levels and the smallest adenohypophysis. The association between abnormalities of the anterior visual pathways and the hypothalamo-pituitary structures may reflect a common prenatal neural damage in embryologically and anatomically closely related structures.
The properties of spontaneous tone in isolated preparations of guinea-pig tracheal smooth muscle were examined. Experiments with control preparations revealed that 5-15 min after stretching the muscle with 0.15 mN, the spontaneous tone assumed a plateau value from which it declined gradually during the following hour. During the plateau, the force amounted to approximately 35% and 1 h later to approximately 20% of a maximum KC1 contraction. The tone was independent of tetrodotoxin, atropine and propranolol. Indomethacin quickly and completely relaxed the tone in 15 of 21 preparations. However, four preparations retained some tone even after 1 h of treatment. Exposure to the C-fibre influencing drug capsaicin resulted in a dose-dependent, reversible suppression of spontaneous tone, normally preceded by a transient increase in force. No spontaneous tone at all remained after 1 h of 10 microM capsaicin. This effect was also found in preparations pretreated with tetrodotoxin, atropine and propranolol. Preparations, deprived of spontaneous tone by capsaicin-treatment, contracted distinctly when exposed to 10 microM arachidonic acid. This contraction was almost completely abolished by indomethacin, which indicates that the prostaglandin synthesis is functioning after capsaicin treatment and, thus, that inhibition of this synthesis is not responsible for the capsaicin effect. Exposure to phosphoramidon increased the spontaneous tone almost threefold. Addition of 3 nM neurokinin A in the permanent presence of capsaicin gave weaker contractions in preparations where prostaglandin synthesis had been abolished by indomethacin, as compared to contractions in preparations with intact prostaglandin synthesis. The data indicate that a continuous release of tachykinins from sensory C-fibres is essential for the generation of spontaneous tone and that a combination of tachykinins and prostaglandins determine the size of the tone in this preparation.
A double-blind study of the tryptophan depletion (TD) challenge was performed on a sample consisting of 20 patients with a major depressive disorder in clinical remission after citalopram treatment. TD was induced by the intake of 43 g of an amino acid mixture containing the five large neutral amino acids. The control group received the same mixture, to which 2.3 g tryptophan had been added. Five of the 12 challenged patients showed a worsening of depressive symptoms during the day of the test. In contrast, there was no mood alteration in the eight control patients. Baseline cortisol levels were significantly higher in responders to TD compared to those in non-responders and controls. Platelet serotonin-receptor function and plasma prolactin levels were correlated. There was a significant positive correlation in the baseline data between rated mood state and plasma cortisol and a significant inverse correlation between related mood state and plasma tryptophan concentration. Thus low mood appeared to be associated with low serotonin precursor availability as well as with high cortisol levels.
Consecutive male (n=100) and female (n=100) DSM-IV schizophrenics newly registered for treatment in a large psychiatric hospital were examined with regard to age at onset of the first psychotic symptom. Age at onset of the first psychotic symptom did not differ between the sexes regardless of whether schizophrenia was diagnosed by DSM-IV or by several alternative systems. Age at onset defined by other criteria, namely age at first contact with a physician, and age at first admission for psychiatric care, also did not show any differences between the sexes. Survival analysis of subjects having a documented date of birth revealed a female preponderance at younger ages. A higher positive symptom score predicted older age at onset of the first psychotic symptom in the total sample. These findings call into question the universality of the traditional view of a younger age at onset of schizophrenia among males. Tentative neurodevelopmental and cultural explanations are presented to explain why there is no sex difference in age at onset of schizophrenia in India.
As part of a Nordic comparative study on contact rates of new patients and use of services in seven catchment areas, contact rates and use of services for patients with a functional psychosis during a 1-year follow-up period were investigated. The highest contact rates were found in two large city catchment areas in Stockholm and Copenhagen. Compared to other patients in the cohorts, patients with a functional psychosis were more often found to be unemployed and living alone. They also showed more extensive service use in terms of both voluntary and compulsory admissions, and in the use of day-care facilities. In addition, they were more often multiple users of in-patient care (&gt; or =3 admissions during the follow-up period). Large differences in service use among patients with a functional psychosis were discovered between the catchment areas, with the most extensive use of voluntary in-patient care and day-care facilities in Frederiksberg. Patients most frequently had compulsory admissions in Bod and least frequently had them in Frederiksberg. Out-patient services were most frequently used in Stockholm. Correlations between levels of resources and use of services for patients with a functional psychosis were in general low, except for the rates of short-term beds, which showed a strong and significant correlation with the number of days in voluntary in-patient care (r=0.89).
Ethanol-naive Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) and Sardinian alcohol-non-preferring (sNP) rats were tested to evaluate the levels of serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindol-3-yl-acetic acid (5-HIAA) in the frontal cortex, hypothalamus, and nucleus accumbens, and the levels of dopamine (DA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the hypothalamus and nucleus accumbens. Compared with the sNP line, the sP rats had lower 5-HT and 5-HIAA concentrations in the frontal cortex, whereas no differences were found in the other brain areas tested, neither for neurotransmitters nor their metabolites. As the decreased 5-HT function is a feature shared by different alcohol-preferring strains, it could be linked to the genetic predisposition to voluntary ethanol consumption.
The present experiment examined ethanol self-administration in C57BL/6J (C57) and DBA/2J (DBA) mice using a continuous access operant procedure. Adult male C57 and DBA mice were initially trained to perform a lever press response to obtain access to 10% w/v sucrose solution. Subsequently, the mice were placed in operant chambers on a continuous (23 hr/day) basis with access to food (FR1), 10% v/v ethanol (FR4), and water from a sipper tube. C57 mice displayed greater rates of responding on the ethanol-associated lever compared with DBA mice. Responding on the food lever was the same in both strains, but DBA mice consumed greater amounts of water. C57 mice consistently displayed both prandial and nonprandial episodes (bouts) of ethanol responding. DBA mice did not respond for ethanol in bouts. Following 50 consecutive sessions, ethanol concentration was altered every 5 days. Response patterns were determined using 0, 5, 10, 20, and 30% v/v ethanol concentrations. C57 mice displayed concentration-dependent responding on the ethanol lever showing that ethanol was functioning as an effective reinforcer in this strain. In contrast, responding on the ethanol lever by DBA mice did not change as a function of ethanol concentration. Saccharin (0.2% w/v) was subsequently added to the ethanol mixture, and responding was examined at 0, 5, 10, and 20% ethanol concentrations. Overall, ethanol lever responding was increased in both strains. As before, C57 mice showed higher levels of ethanol responding, compared with DBA mice. C57 mice also showed higher responding for saccharin alone. These results are consistent with findings that suggest orally administered ethanol is a more effective reinforcer in C57 mice than in DBA mice. Furthermore, C57 mice engage in ethanol-reinforced responding over a broader range of conditions than DBA mice.



Children living in sub-Saharan Africa bear the brunt of the mortality from falciparum malaria, yet there is a dearth of relevant post-mortem data. Clinical studies from centers in Africa suggest that the pathophysiology of severe malaria is different in children and adults. Three overlapping clinical syndromes, metabolic acidosis manifesting as hyperpnea, cerebral malaria, and severe anemia, are responsible for nearly all the deaths in African children. Despite improvements in antimalarial treatment, there has not been a significant reduction in mortality. We review the pathology and pathophysiology of fatal falciparum malaria in African children. Many questions remain, the answers to which would facilitate the development and evaluation of new approaches to the management of this disease.
Microcolumn liquid chromatography (LC) was interfaced with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) for separation and identification of peptides present in single neurons from the brain of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The nanoliter microcolumn LC effluent, mixed off-line with nanoliter matrix solution, was deposited onto the sample target every 60 s, producing fractions of approximately 145 nL in volume, which, upon drying, produced spots of approximately 1 mm in size. At the end of the chromatographic separation, fractions from the sample target were scanned by MALDI-TOF-MS. Identification of peptide peaks was achieved on the basis of LC elution order and mass information. Further identification based on sequence information was carried out for a native peptide fractionated by microcolumn LC from a single neuron with the postsource decay technique.
The 45K subunit of platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase (PAFAH-45K) is the product of a candidate gene for Miller-Dieker lissencephaly. We studied the expression of this protein in the developing mouse cerebellar cortex by immunochemical and immunohistochemical methods. Western blotting studies indicated that PAFAH-45K is more abundant in the fetal than the postnatal period. Immunohistochemical studies revealed developmental changes in the localization of PAFAH-45K-immunoreactivity, which shifted from the somata of Purkinje cells to the neuropil of the molecular layer. Our findings indicate that PAFAH expression is developmentally regulated and suggest its role in histogenetic processes in the cerebellar cortex other than neuronal migration.
We routinely use a variety of real time signal acquisition, enhancement, and display techniques in the operating room to provide the surgeon with functional information. This enables reduction of surgical morbidity in cases which present a significant risk to the nervous system. Here we present regression based signal processing algorithms which produce considerable signal-to-noise-ratio enhancement with corresponding reduction in the time required to obtain an interpretable neurophysiological signal. We also present the approach we have applied to fault tolerance and distributed data display for our workstation cluster environment.
beta-Endorphin (beta-EP) and delta opioid receptor (DOR) agonists affect immune functions such as lymphocyte chemotaxis, proliferation, and cytokine production. Recent studies indicate that both neuronal DOR and novel G-protein-coupled receptors with high affinity for beta-EP and DOR agonists are expressed by mononuclear cells. In addition, proenkephalin A mRNA and enkephalin-related peptides are expressed by lymphocytes. These investigations were conducted to identify signal transduction pathways that mediate the effects of beta-EP and DOR agonists on T cells. Calcium mobilization was studied because it is central to T-cell activation initiated by antigen presentation to the T-cell receptor (TCR). Using the calcium-sensitive dye Fluo-3 and flow cytofluorometry to determine the concentration of free intracellular calcium, physiological concentrations of beta-EP were shown to enhance concanvalin. A (con A)-stimulated calcium mobilization by murine splenic T cells (p &lt; 0.01). The DOR antagonist, naltrindole, inhibited this, whereas CTAP, a selective mu OR antagonist, was ineffective. In addition, N-Ac-beta-EP and the mu OR agonist DAMGO, failed to mimic the effects of beta-EP. Although it was less potent than beta-EP, DADLE, a DOR agonist, also enhanced Con-A-induced calcium mobilization (p &lt; 0.01). A DOR-transfected human T-cell line (DOR-Jul.1) was developed to study signal transduction. Both DADLE and the selective DOR agonist, deltorphin, rapidly increased intracellular free calcium concentrations; ED50s were 10(-9) M. Pertussis toxin prevented the response, and EGTA significantly reduced it. In addition, DADLE inhibited forskolin-stimulated cAMP production (ED50: 10(-11) M). These findings with normal splenic T cells and DOR-transfected T-cell line indicate that beta-EP and DOR agonists affect calcium mobilization. This is likely to modulate downstream pathways that regulate T-cell activation and function.
The cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) appears to play a pivotal role in the orchestration of brain-mediated, nonspecific illness symptoms during an infection. In the present study, we examine the possibility that IL-1 is produced in the central nervous system itself, which may be responsible for the induction of brain-mediated responses. Using immunocytochemical techniques, we demonstrated that peripheral administration of bacterial endotoxin to rats caused a time- (1.5-24 hr) and dose-dependent (4 micrograms/kg-2.5 mg/kg) induction of IL 1 beta immunoreactivity in cells identified as macrophages in meninges and choroid plexus and microglial cells in various brain regions. At 8 hr after endotoxin (2.5 mg/kg), immunoreactive IL-1 alpha was observed in the same areas and cell types as IL-1 beta. Although no quantitative measurements have been performed, it appears that fewer cells express immunoreactive IL-1 alpha than IL-1 beta. Furthermore, IL-1ra was found to be constitutively expressed in neurons in the paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus, which is in accordance with mRNA data. After administration of endotoxin, we observed no additional cells that expressed immunoreactive IL-1ra. We conclude that IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta production in the brain is induced in the same cell types, whereas IL-1ra is expressed constitutively by a different cell type--probably neurons.
We have previously demonstrated that interleukin 3 (IL-3) has a neurotrophic effect on central cholinergic neurons and have demonstrated the presence of IL-3 receptor (IL-3R)beta subunits in septal cholinergic neurons by reverse-transcribed polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry. In order to confirm that the expressed IL-3R is functional, we conducted experiments to show an alpha subunit of IL-3R. The alpha subunit was clearly demonstrated by RT-PCR in the central cholinergic neuronal hybrid cell line SN6, but not in its mother cell line N18TG2, and the expression was slightly upregulated after IL-3 treatment. Choline acetyltransferase and vesicular acetylcholine transporter mRNAs were significantly increased in SN6 after treatment with IL-3. Immunohistochemically, IL-3R alpha-positive cells were mainly present in the medial septal and basal forebrain region, and the stained cells were similar to choline acetyltransferase-positive cells in shape and distribution. The IL-3R alpha-positive cells slightly increased two days after fimbria-fornix transection and decreased seven days after. These findings suggest that functional IL-3 receptors are expressed in the central cholinergic neurons and contribute to some physiological roles such as the differentiation and maintenance of these neurons.
Infections and endotoxin (LPS) can affect hypothalamic CRH neurons and activate the HPA system. This can be prevented by IL-1 receptor antagonist and mimicked by IL-1. Chronic activation of the HPA system by repeated or chronic administration of IL-1 (1 week) to rats is associated with plastic changes in hypothalamic CRH neurons. Single administration IL-1 beta (5 micrograms/kg i.p.) to male Wistar or Lewis rats induced a similar form of neuroplasticity 1-3 weeks later. This is characterized by a selective increase in coproduction, costorage, and cosecretion of AVP in hypothalamic CRH neurons. Exposure of IL-1-primed rats 1-2 weeks later to foot shocks or IL-1 resulted in exaggerated ACTH and CORT responses as compared to vehicle-primed controls. Thus, rats are hyperresponsive to stressors weeks after IL-1 exposure. In IL-1-primed animals, CRH binding and CRH- and V1b receptor mRNA levels in the pituitary glands are not altered by IL-1 exposure 2 weeks earlier. We conclude that IL-1-induced, long-lasting hyperresponsiveness to stressors is primarily caused by functional alterations in the brain that may be directly related to observed plasticity of hypothalamic CRH neurons.


When people see a visual scene, certain parts of the visual scene are treated as belonging together and we regard them as a perceptual unit, which is called a &quot;figure&quot;. People focus on figures, and the remaining parts of the scene are disregarded as &quot;ground&quot;. In Gestalt psychology this process is called &quot;figure-ground segregation&quot;. According to current perceptual psychology, a figure is formed by binding various visual features in a scene, and developments in neuroscience have revealed that there are many feature-encoding neurons, which respond to such features specifically. It is not known, however, how the brain binds different features of an object into a coherent visual object representation. Recently, the theory of binding by neuronal synchrony, which argues that feature binding is dynamically mediated by neuronal synchrony of feature-encoding neurons, has been proposed. This review article portrays the problem of figure-ground segregation and features binding, summarizes neurophysiological and psychophysical experiments and theory relevant to feature binding by neuronal/stimulus synchrony, and suggests possible directions for future research on this topic.

Abnormalities in the organization of brain circuits may underlie many types of epilepsy. This hypothesis can best be evaluated in the case of temporal lobe epilepsy, where evidence of rewiring (synaptic reorganization) can be found in the dentate gyrus. Computer modeling of normal and reorganized dentate gyrus was used to understand the functional consequences of these structural changes. Hyperexcitability appeared to be largely limited by the powerful intrinsic adaptation characteristic of granule cells, the principal cells in this area. Combining disinhibition with new recurrent excitatory circuitry was necessary to produce repeated firing of these cells. Paradoxically, continuing regenerative activity was only seen with a large reduction in the strength of the inciting stimulus. Validation of these findings will require further physiological correlation.
The present paper illustrates how modern techniques applied in neuroscience can help us to understand the processing of visual information in the human brain and, in turn, how they can be helpful to characterize functional deficits in patients with cortical lesions. Based on theoretical considerations, motion stimuli are developed that require very specific operations to be performed by the visual system. Computational models explaining the processing of these 'Fourier' and 'second-order' motion stimuli are characterized by increasing complexity. The same types of stimuli are used to map the distribution of cortical activity during motion perception by measuring the magnetic and electrical fields on the head surface. Clinical investigations of patients with lesions in the parietal cortex indicate specific deficits in the perception of such stimuli that can be related to the lesion sites.
Sex differences have been found in the anatomy of brains of a wide variety of vertebrates including humans. Common lore tells us that sex differences in the brain cause sex differences in behavior. This review entertains the possibility that sex differences in the brain may also do the exact opposite. Specifically, sex differences may allow males and females to display remarkably similar behaviors, despite major differences in their physiological and hormonal conditions. First, the difficulties in interpreting the relationship between structure and function will be illustrated by discussing the role of the sexually dimorphic medial preoptic area (MPOA) in male sexual behavior and parental behavior. Second, the sexually dimorphic vasopressin innervation of the brain will be presented as a system that appears to promote as well as prevent sex differences in behavior. Finally, basic and clinical aspects of sex differences in human brains will be discussed.
Reproduction depends on the co-ordinated expression of stereotypical behaviors and precisely timed physiological events, yet the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the integration of sensory and hormonal information that is crucial to this process have remained difficult to define. A variety of experimental approaches has provided compelling evidence that the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) of the preoptic region plays a particularly important role in the neural control of gonadotropin secretion. It is larger in female rats, contains high densities of neurons that express receptors for ovarian steroid hormones and appears to provide direct projections to gonadotropin releasing hormone neurons in the hypothalamus. Moreover, it receives inputs from a variety of distinct sensory systems known to influence secretion of luteinizing hormone from the anterior pituitary. Thus, the AVPV appears to represent an important nodal point in sexually dimorphic forebrain circuits for the integration of sensory and hormonal information that influence reproduction. Examples of neurohumoral integration at the level of functional neural systems, individual neurons in the AVPV, or at the molecular level have been identified which provide new insight into how the hypothalamus co-ordinates expression of sex specific reproductive behaviors with gonadotropin secretion.


Some noncompetitive inhibitors (e.g., ganglionic blockers) exhibit selectivity for the inhibition of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). This study characterizes the mechanism of selective long-term inhibition of neuronal and muscle-neuronal chimeric nAChRs by bis(2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinyl) sebacate (bis-TMP-10 or BTMPS), a bifunctional form of the potent ganglionic blocker tetramethylpiperidine. Long-term inhibition of neuronal nAChRs by bis-TMP-10 has been previously demonstrated to arise, at least in part, from the binding of the bis compound to neuronal beta-subunits. In this study, long-term inhibition is demonstrated to be dependent upon the presence of sequence element(s) within the pore-lining second transmembrane domain (tm2) of neuronal beta-subunits; however, the inhibitor binding site itself does not appear to be contained within the segment of the channel pore influenced by the membrane electric field. Specifically, our results imply that bis-TMP-10 interacts with an activation-sensitive element, the availability of which may be regulated by a sequence in the tm2 domain. Furthermore, we demonstrate a compound length requirement for long-term inhibition that would be consistent with binding to multiple sites located on the extracellular portion of the receptor.
The density of surface charge associated with the calcium channel pore was estimated from the effect of extracellular ionic strength on block by La3+. Currents carried by 2 mM Ba2+ were recorded from isolated frog sympathetic neurons by the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. In normal ionic strength (120 mM N-methyl-D-glucamine, NMG), La3+ blocked the current with high affinity (IC50 = 22 nM at 0 mV). La3+ block was relieved by strong depolarization in a time- and voltage-dependent manner. After unblocking, open channels reblocked rapidly at 0 mV, allowing estimation of association and dissociation rates for La3+: k(on) = (7.2 +/- 0.7) x 10(8) M(-1) s(-1), k(off) = 10.0 +/- 0.5 s(-1). To assess surface charge effects, La3+ block was also measured in low ionic strength (12.5 mM NMG) and high ionic strength (250 mM NMG). La3+ block was higher affinity and faster by two- to threefold in 12.5 mM NMG, with little effect of 250 mM NMG. The data could be described by Gouy-Chapman theory with a surface charge density of approximately 1 e-/3000-4000 A2. These results indicate that there is a small but detectable surface charge associated with the pore of voltage-dependent calcium channels.
Diaspirin cross-linked haemoglobin (DCLHb) is a new oxygen carrying blood substitute with vasoactive properties. Vasoactive properties may be mediated via high affinity binding of nitric oxide by the haem moiety. Using a rodent model of head injury combined with ischaemia, we studied the effects of DCLHb on cerebral blood flow (CBF) and intracranial pressure (ICP). Twenty anaesthetized rats were allocated randomly to receive treatment with DCLHb 400 mg kg-1 i.v. or placebo (oncotically matched plasma protein substitute 4.5% i.v.). To produce diffusely increased ICP, after a severe weight drop injury, all animals underwent a 30-min period of bilateral carotid ligation combined with a period of induced hypotension. After reperfusion, DCLHb or placebo was infused and the animals instrumented for measurement of intraventricular ICP and CBF in the region of the sensorimotor cortex using the hydrogen clearance technique. Mean arterial pressure (MAP), ICP, cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) (CPP = MAP - ICP) and CBF were measured 4 h after injury in all animals. DCLHb significantly reduced ICP from mean 13 (SEM 2) to 3 (1) mm Hg (P &lt; 0.001), increased CPP from 52 (8) to 95 (6) mm Hg (P &lt; 0.001) and increased CBF from 21 (2) to 29 (2) ml 100 g-1 min-1 (P = 0.032). We conclude that DCLHb improved CPP without a reduction in CBF in a rodent model of post-traumatic brain swelling.
1. Sabcomeline (SB-202026, 0.03 mg kg(-1), p.o.), a potent and functionally selective M1 receptor partial agonist, caused a statistically significant improvement in the performance of a visual object discrimination task by marmosets. No such improvement was seen after RS86 (0.1 mg kg(-1), p.o.). 2. Initial learning, which only required an association of object with reward and an appropriate response to be made, was not significantly affected. Reversal learning, which required both the extinction of the previously learned response and the acquisition of a new response strategy, was significantly improved after administration of sabcomeline (0.03 mg kg(-1), p.o.). 3. Sabcomeline (0.03 and 0.1 mg kg(-1), p.o.) had no significant effect on mean blood pressure measured for 2 h after administration in the conscious marmoset. 4. Sabcomeline (0.03 mg kg(-1), p.o.) caused none of the overt effects such as emesis or behaviours often seen after the administration of muscarinic agonists, e.g. face rubbing and licking. 5. This is the first study to demonstrate cognitive enhancement by a functionally selective M1 receptor partial agonist in a normal (i.e. non-cognitively impaired) non-human primate and this effect was seen at a dose which did not cause side effects. 6. Perseverative behaviour and deficient acquisition of new information are seen in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore the data suggest that sabcomeline might be of therapeutic benefit in the treatment of AD.
1. We have investigated the effects of a schizophrenomimetic drug phencyclidine (PCP) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-related agents alone or in combination on dopamine metabolism in the medial prefrontal cortex and striatum of the rats by measuring the tissue concentrations of dopamine and its metabolite, 3,4-dihyroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and the rate of dopamine disappearance (dopamine utilization) after its synthesis inhibition. 2. Systemic injection of PCP and selective, non-competitive, NMDA antagonists caused an increase of both tissue concentrations of DOPAC and dopamine utilization in the prefrontal cortex but not in the striatum. The PCP-induced augmentation of cortical dopamine metabolism was not influenced by selective lesion of ascending noradrenergic neurones. 3. Intra-prefrontal cortical infusion of PCP or selective competitive or non-competitive antagonists of the NMDA receptor mimicked the ability of systemic PCP injection to enhance DOPAC levels and dopamine utilization in the prefrontal cortex. However, an NMDA antagonist injected into the cell body area of the mesocortical dopaminergic neurones failed to affect dopamine metabolism in the prefrontal cortex. 4. The increasing effects of PCP and selective NMDA antagonists on cortical dopamine utilization were not additive, although a dopamine receptor antagonist, haloperidol, still accelerated the disappearance of dopamine, even in the presence of PCP. 5. Intra-cortical or intra-ventricular infusion of NMDA or D-alanine but not L-alanine, attenuated the ability of systemic PCP administration to facilitate prefrontal dopamine utilization. 6. These data suggest that PCP might activate prefrontal cortical dopaminergic neurones, at least in part, by blocking the NMDA receptor in the prefrontal cortex which participates in a tonic inhibitory control of the mesoprefrontal dopaminergic projections.
1. Our previous work has demonstrated that exogenously administered orphanin FQ (OFQ) antagonizes morphine analgesia and electroacupuncture analgesia (EAA) in the brain and potentiates morphine analgesia and EAA in the spinal cord of the rat. In the present study we evaluated the role of endogenously released OFQ in the development of tolerance to morphine and electroacupuncture (EA) and the analgesia produced by electroacupuncture, by use of the IgG fraction of an anti-OFQ antibody (OFQ-Ab) microinjected into the rat central nervous system (CNS). 2. EAA was produced by stimulating rats at a frequency of 100 Hz. Rats were classified as either high responders (HR) or low responders (LR) based on the analgesic effects of EA. LRs could be converted into HRs by the intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) microinjection of OFQ-Ab at both 1:1 and 1:10 dilutions but not 1:100. HRs could be changed into LRs by the intrathecal (i.t.) injection of OFQ-Ab at both 1:1 and 1:10 dilutions, but not 1:100. 3. Acute morphine tolerance was induced in rats by repeated subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of morphine (5 mg kg, every 2 h) for 16 h. When injected i.c.v. the OFQ-Ab (1:1 dilution) had no effect on the development of acute morphine tolerance. 4. Chronic morphine tolerance was produced in rats by repeated injection of morphine (5-60 mg kg, s.c., 3 x a day) for 6 days. I.c.v. injection of OFQ-Ab (1:1 dilution) reversed this type of morphine tolerance in rats by 50% (P &lt; 0.01). 5. Acute tolerance to the analgesia produced by EA developed after 6 h of continuous (100 Hz, 3 mA) stimulation. This tolerance was almost completely reversed by the i.c.v. injection of OFQ-Ab (1:1 dilution) (P &lt; 0.05). 6. Chronic tolerance to the analgesic effect of EA was produced by repeatedly administering increasing current (1, 2 and 3 mA, each lasting for 10 min, for a total of 30 min) at a frequency of 100 Hz once a day for 6 days. I.c.v. injection of OFQ-Ab (1:1 dilution) reversed this kind of tolerance by 50% (P &lt; 0.01). 7. Together these results suggest that 100 Hz EA may enhance the release of endogenous OFQ in the CNS of the rat, which in turn may act to antagonize EA-produced analgesia in the brain but potentiate EA produced analgesia in the spinal cord. Therefore, OFQ appears to play an important role in the development of tolerance to the analgesic effects produced by EA. 8. The mechanisms underlying the development of acute morphine tolerance and chronic morphine tolerance appear to be different. Central OFQ may play an important role in the development of tolerance after chronic morphine administration.
1. The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-modulatory and GABA-mimetic actions of etomidate at mammalian GABA(A) receptors are favoured by beta2- or beta3- versus beta1-subunit containing receptors, a selectivity which resides with a single transmembrane amino acid (beta2 N290, beta3 N289, beta1 S290). Here, we have utilized the Xenopus laevis oocyte expression system in conjunction with the two-point voltage clamp technique to determine the influence of the equivalent amino acid (M314) on the actions of this anaesthetic at an etomidate-insensitive invertebrate GABA receptor (Rdl) of Drosophila melanogaster. 2. Complementary RNA-injected oocytes expressing the wild type Rdl GABA receptor and voltage-clamped at -60 mV responded to bath applied GABA with a concentration-dependent inward current response and a calculated EC50 for GABA of 20+/-0.4 microM. Receptors in which the transmembrane methionine residue (M314) had been exchanged for an asparagine (RdlM314N) or a serine (RdlM314S) also exhibited a concentration-dependent inward current response to GABA, but in both cases with a reduced EC50 of 4.8+/-0.2 microM. 3. Utilizing the appropriate GABA EC10, etomidate (300 microM) had little effect on the agonist-evoked current of the wild type Rdl receptor. By contrast, at RdlM314N receptors, etomidate produced a clear concentration-dependent enhancement of GABA-evoked currents with a calculated EC50 of 64+/-3 microM and an Emax of 68+/-2% (of the maximum response to GABA). 4. The actions of etomidate at RdlM314N receptors exhibited an enantioselectivity common to that found for mammalian receptors, with 100 microM R-(+)-etomidate and S-(-)-etomidate enhancing the current induced by GABA (EC10) to 52+/-6% and 12+/-1% of the GABA maximum respectively. 5. The effects of this mutation were selective for etomidate as the GABA-modulatory actions of 1 mM pentobarbitone at wild type Rdl (49+/-4% of the GABA maximum) and RdlM314N receptors (53+/-2% of the GABA maximum) were similar. Additionally, the modest potentiation of GABA produced by the anaesthetic neurosteroid 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (Rdl = 25+/-4% of the GABA maximum) was not altered by this mutation (RdlM314N = 18+/-3% of the GABA maximum). 6. Etomidate acting at beta1 (S290)-containing mammalian GABA(A) receptors is known to produce only a modest GABA-modulatory effect. Similarly, etomidate acting at RdlM314S receptors produced an enhancement of GABA but the magnitude of the effect was reduced compared to RdlM314N receptors. 7. Etomidate acting at human alpha6beta3gamma2L receptors is known to produce a large enhancement of GABA-evoked currents and at higher concentrations this anaesthetic directly activates the GABA(A) receptor complex. Mutation of the human beta3 subunit asparagine to methionine (beta3 N289M found in the equivalent position in Rdl completely inhibited both the GABA-modulatory and GABA-mimetic action of etomidate (10-300 microM) acting at alpha6beta3 N289Mgamma2L receptors. 8. It was concluded that, although invertebrate and mammalian proteins exhibit limited sequence homology, allosteric modification of their function by etomidate can be influenced in a complementary manner by a single amino acid substitution. The results are discussed in relation to whether this amino acid contributes to the anaesthetic binding site, or is essential for transduction. Furthermore, this study provides a clear example of the specificity of anaesthetic action.
The present paper is a first attempt to integrate the classical brain lesion behavioral impairment approach of functional neuroanatomy and the electrophysiological brain mapping approach in the domain of syntactic processing. In a group of normal age-matched controls we identified three electrophysiological components previously observed in correlation with language comprehension processes: an early left anterior negativity normally seen in correlation with syntactic first-pass parsing processes (ELAN), a centroparietal negativity seen in correlation with processes of lexical-semantic integration (N400), and a late centroparietal positivity observed in correlation with secondary syntactic processes of reanalysis and repair (P600). The early left anterior negativity was absent in a patient with an extended lesion in the anterior part of the left hemisphere sparing the temporal lobe, although the late centroparietal positivity and the centroparietal N400 were present. In a patient with a left temporal-parietal lesion the early left anterior negativity was found to be present, whereas the N400 component was absent. These findings suggest that first-pass parsing and secondary processes are subserved by distinct brain systems.
In the adult mammalian central nervous system lost nerve cells are not replaced and there is no regeneration of injured axons in white matter. Together, these two facts mean that there are no spontaneous reparative mechanisms in operation. Instead, the adult central nervous system copes with the risks of injuries and diseases by protective encapsulation in bone, by a multitude of neuroprotective mechanisms, and finally by the fact that many important functions are represented by a much larger number of neurons than minimally needed. The long life expectancy of a human being nevertheless means that the risk that the central nervous system is affected by disease, injury or other forms of insults for which it cannot fully compensate is relatively high. Experimentally, two strategies are being pursued in order to develop ways of minimizing various forms of CNS damage, namely neuroprotective and reparative strategies. Here we present a possible reparative intervention applicable to spinal cord injury based on multiple white-to-gray matter peripheral nerve bridge grafts and work based on the specific role of Nurr1 for dopamine neuron development, suggesting that development of ligands to transcription factor might be a new inroad to neuroprotective treatments in Parkinson's disease.

An analysis at the network and membrane level has provided evidence that antagonistic interactions between adenosine A2A/dopamine D2 and adenosine A1/dopamine D1 receptors in the ventral and dorsal striatum are at least in part responsible for the motor stimulant effects of adenosine receptor antagonists like caffeine and for the motor depressant actions of adenosine receptor agonists. The results obtained in stably cotransfected cells also underline the hypothesis that the intramembrane A2A/D2 and A1/D1 receptor interactions represent functionally important mechanisms that may be the major mechanism for the demonstrated antagonistic A2A/D2 and A1/D1 receptor interactions found in vivo in behavioural studies and in studies on in vivo microdialysis of the striopallidal and strioentopeduncular GABAergic pathways. A major mechanism for the direct intramembrane A2A/D2 and A1/D1 receptor interactions may involve formation of A2A/D2 and A1/D1 heterodimers leading to allosteric changes that will alter the affinity as well as the G protein coupling and thus the efficacy to control the target proteins in the membranes. This is the first molecular network to cellular integration in the nerve cell membrane and may be well suited for a number of integrated tasks and can be performed in a short-time scale, in comparison with the very long-time scale observed when receptor heteroregulation involves phosphorylation or receptor resynthesis. Multiple receptor-receptor interactions within the membranes through formation of receptor clusters may lead to the storage of information within the membranes. Such molecular circuits can represent hidden layers within the membranes that substantially increase the computational potential of neuronal networks. These molecular circuits are biased and may therefore represent part of the molecular mechanism for the storage of memory traces (engrams) in the membranes.
Glutamate-gated cation selective channels mediate fast excitatory neurotransmission in the mammalian brain. Functionally critical channel positions contain amino acid residues not predicted from the exonic sequence for the channel subunits. The codons for these residues are created in the respective primary gene transcripts by the site selective deamination of adenosine to inosine. This type of RNA editing requires a short double-stranded RNA structure formed by the exonic sequence around the adenosine targeted for deamination with a complementary sequence in the downstream intron and hence, it precedes splicing. Candidate enzymes for nuclear transcript editing currently comprise three molecularly cloned mammalian RNA-dependent adenosine deaminases. Two of these are expressed in most body tissues, perhaps indicating that adenosine deamination in transcripts is more global than has been recognized. Indeed, numerous mRNAs in different tissues may contain inosine residues and encode proteins with amino acid substitutions and different properties relative to the exonically encoded forms. If so, RNA editing by adenosine deamination may significantly enlarge the functional repertoire of the mammalian genome.
The cellular bases of vertebrate locomotor behaviour is reviewed using the lamprey as a model system. Forebrain and brainstem cell populations initiate locomotor activity via reticulospinal fibers activating a spinal network comprised of glutamatergic and glycinergic interneurons. The role of different subtypes of Ca2+ channels, Ca2+ dependent K+ channels and voltage dependent NMDA channels at the neuronal and network level is in focus as well as the effects of different metabotropic, aminergic and peptidergic modulators that target these ion channels. This is one of the few vertebrate networks that is understood at a cellular level.
Nitric oxide is now appreciated to be a molecule with important signaling functions in the body. The purification and cloning of the first NO synthesizing enzyme, NO synthase (NOS), from brain has led to the characterization of the roles of NO in normal physiology and in pathogenic states. NO synthesis is regulated in a complex manner, involving the association of activatory and inhibitory proteins. The body appears to use at least one other, highly related gas in a signaling function, carbon monoxide (CO). The enzyme responsible for CO biosynthesis in brain, heme oxygenase-2 (HO2), is rapidly regulated by neurotransmitter stimulation. The role for CO as neurotransmitter is suggested by the altered intestinal motility in mice harboring a genomic deletion of HO2.
Using immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization methodologies the localization of neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) and two of its receptors, the Y1- and the Y2-receptor (R), has been analysed in various tissues in normal animals and animals subjected to different experimental procedures as well as animals with a genetic and an acquired disease. (1) Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons are discussed with special focus on the effect of peripheral nerve injury. In normal DRG neurons NPY cannot be detected, whereas Y1-R mRNA and Y1-R-like immunoreactivity (LI) are strongly expressed. The Y1-Rs decorate the membrane of the cell soma and are not transported peripherally into the axonal branches. Y2-R mRNA levels are low. After axotomy there is a marked increase in NPY, a decrease in Y1-Rs and an increase in Y2-Rs. The Y2-R is transported centrifugally. These findings suggest that NPY-ergic mechanisms participate in the adaptive changes of sensory neurons in response to injury. (2) Using specific antibodies the cellular and subcellular localization of the Y1-R protein have been analysed in cerebral blood vessels. The results demonstrate high concentrations of receptors in smooth muscle cells around pial arterioles with lower numbers in large vessels on the basal surface of the brain. In many regions the receptors 'disappear' after the arterioles have entered the brain tissue. At the ultrastructural level the receptors are found both on the endothelial and peripheral side of the muscle cells as well as laterally, where muscle cells oppose each other. The receptor protein is often associated with small vesicles. No NPY-positive nerve fibers were found around the Y1-R-rich arterioles, but they were only seen around the arteries with low Y1-R levels. The Y1-R-rich arterioles were, however, seen close to numerous NPY-positive fibers originating from central interneurons. These findings raise the possibility that centrally originating NPY can influence cerebral blood flow, possibly by stimulating NPY-Rs on the peripheral side of the muscle cells. However, also blood borne NPY, released under special conditions, such as stress from sympathetic nerves and the adrenal medulla and transported with blood, may stimulate receptors on the endothelial side of the smooth muscle cells. (3) In the arcuate nucleus Y1- and Y2-Rs are found, whereby the Y1-Rs are located in its ventro-medial portion and co-localized with POMC peptides, and the Y2-R in its ventromedial part, partly co-localized with NPY. NPY nerve endings makes synaptic contact with the POMC/Y1-R-positive neurons. In a mouse model for genetic anorexia very high levels of NPY were observed in arcuate neurons as compared to control mice. However, NPY mRNA levels were not different between the two groups. Taken together these findings are in good agreement with the view that NPY in the arcuate nucleus plays an important role in regulating feeding behaviour. (4) After intracerebral prion inoculation in mice an upregulation of NPY mRNA levels was observed in CA3 pyramidal neurons, and this effect was seen at a time point just before the first behavioural symptoms were manifested. At approximately the same time there was a dramatic decrease in Y2-R binding in strata oriens and radiatum of the CA1 region of the hippocampus, whereas in other regions no changes or much smaller changes were observed. Also, there was only a very slight decrease in Y2-R mRNA levels in CA3 neurons. It thus appears as if the prion disease prevents ligand binding to the Y2-R, perhaps by influencing traffic of receptor proteins, possibly at the level of cell membrane-associated caveolae, which have been implicated in the conversion of normal protein to scrapie protein. It is possible that these changes in NPY-ergic mechanisms may underlie some of the central symptoms associated with the prion disease. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
The question of what is a cortical area needs a thorough definition of borders both in the microstructural and the functional domains. Microstructural parcellation of the human cerebral cortex should be made on multiple criteria based on quantitative measurements of microstructural variables, such as neuron densities, neurotransmitter receptor densities, enzyme densities, etc. Because of the inter-individual variations of extent and topography of microstructurally defined areas, the final microstructurally defined areas appear as population maps. In the functional domain, columns, patches and blobs signifying synaptically active parts of the cortex appear as cortical functional fields. These fields are the largest functional entities of the cerebral cortex according to the cortical field hypothesis. In its strong version, the cortical field hypothesis postulates that all neurons and synapses within the fields perform a co-operative computation. A number of such fields together provide the functional contribution of the cerebral cortex. The functional parcellation of the human cerebral cortex must be based on field population maps, which after intersection analysis appear as functional domains. The major structural-functional hypothesis to be examined is whether these functional domains are equi-territorial to the microstructurally defined meta-maps. The cortical hypothesis predicts that, if two brain tasks make use of one or several identical or largely overlapping fields, they cannot be performed simultaneously without errors or increases in latency. Evidence for such interference is presented. This evidence represents a restriction in the parallel processing of the human brain. In the posterior part of the brain not only visual cortical areas may qualify for parallel processing, but also the somatosensory cortices appear to have separate functional streams for the detection of microgeometry and macrogeometry.
In order to systematically investigate differences in gene expression between sleep and waking, mRNA differential display was used to examine mRNAs from the cerebral cortex of rats who had been spontaneously asleep, spontaneously awake, or sleep deprived for a period of 3 h. It was found that, while the vast majority of transcripts were expressed at the same level among these three conditions, the expression of a subset of mRNAs was modulated by sleep and waking. Half of these transcripts had known sequences in databases. RNAs expressed at higher levels during waking included those for the transcription factors c-fos, NGFI-A, and rlf, as well as three transcripts encoded by the mitochondrial genome, those for subunit I of cytochrome c oxidase, subunit 2 of NADH dehydrogenase, and 12S rRNA. As shown by in situ hybridization, the level of RNAs encoded by the mitochondrial genome was uniformly higher during waking in many cortical regions and in several extracortical structures. By contrast, mRNA levels corresponding to two mitochondrial protein subunits encoded by the nuclear genome were unchanged. This finding suggests the hypothesis that an increase in the level of mitochondrial RNAs may represent a rapid regulatory response of neural tissue to adapt to the increased metabolic demand of waking with respect to sleep.
Our work on the role of glutamate in Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related neuronal vulnerability and death provided significant insight into the potential contribution of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmitter system as it participates in countering the neurotoxic effects of excessive glutamate receptor stimulation. Our previous studies demonstrate that beta2/3 GABAA receptor subunit immunoreactivity is relatively well preserved in hippocampi with AD pathology. To further elucidate the molecular basis for this observation, we employed in situ hybridization histochemistry to examine the levels of beta2 and beta3 receptor subunit mRNAs in the hippocampus of 19 elderly subjects presenting with a broad range of pathologic severity (i.e., Braak stage I-VI). Semi-quantitative analysis with film autoradiograms revealed that beta2 mRNA signal was highest in the granule cell layer, CA2 and CA1 subfields, while beta3 mRNA hybridization was highest in the granule cell layer, followed by CA2&gt;/=CA3&gt;/=CA1 regions. No significant difference in beta2 mRNA expression was detected among the pathologically mild, moderate or severe groups. In contrast, levels of beta3 mRNA in the pathologically severe group was significantly decreased compared to the mild group within all subregions examined except CA4. Our data suggest that alterations in the expression of GABAA receptor subunits in the AD hippocampus differ between specific receptor subunits with the amount of beta2 mRNA being relatively well-preserved, while beta3 mRNA levels were decreased.
The family of Tyr/Thr protein phosphatases, called dual-specificity phosphatases, have been implicated in the feedback regulation of the MAP kinase cascade by dephosphorylating the MAP kinases. Using low stringent cDNA screening we have isolated a chicken homologue of the CL100 phosphatase also called MAP kinase phosphatase 1 (MKP-1). The chicken MKP-1 has 84% and 85.5% identity to the rat and human amino acid sequence, respectively. Using RNase protection assay and in situ hybridization we have found that MKP-1 mRNA is expressed at low levels in most tissues during development. In embryonic dorsal root and sympathetic ganglia MKP-1 mRNA expression increases with age. The expression in large cells in dorsal root ganglia suggests that it is neurons which express MKP-1 mRNA. We also show that MKP-1 mRNA is induced in dissociated embryonic sympathetic neurons after nerve growth factor stimulation. In addition, our results show that MKP-1 mRNA is induced after NGF stimulation of fibroblasts expressing the NGF receptor TrkA, suggesting that MKP-1 is upregulated after activation of the TrkA receptor. These data show that the MKP-1 gene is regulated in a tissue and temporal specific fashion with strong expression in the developing peripheral ganglia, and suggest that the activation of MKP-1 mRNA expression by NGF is a ubiquitously induced response to TrkA activation, independent of the cellular origin or type on which the TrkA receptor is active.
Calcium is an important second messenger that affects metabolic and physiological activities of developing and mature neurons. It has been reported that electrical activity is abnormal in cultured hippocampal and DRG neurons from the trisomy 16 (Ts16) mouse, a model for Down syndrome (trisomy 21-Ts21 in human). Whole-cell voltage-clamp, radiolabeled ligand binding techniques and mRNA measurements were used to study the effect of Ts16 on voltage-dependent calcium currents in cultured fetal hippocampal neurons from the Ts16 mouse. In neither Ts16 nor control diploid neurons were low-voltage-activated calcium currents detected. However, a high-voltage-activated (HVA) calcium current was identified and shown to be dihydropyridine sensitive. The density of this HVA calcium current was 80% greater in Ts16 neurons than in control. This difference correlated with a 70% increase in binding of radiolabeled dihydropyridine, PN200-110, a marker of L-type calcium channels. However, mRNA levels encoding the alpha1C and alpha1D subunits were unchanged in the Ts16 neurons. In contrast, mRNA level of the myo-inositol transporter, the gene for which is located on mouse chromosome 16, was elevated in Ts16 neurons due to a gene-dosage effect. Therefore, it is likely that posttranscriptional regulation of dihydropyridine-sensitive voltage-dependent calcium channels is abnormal in Ts16. As dihydropyridine sensitive HVA Ca channels are implicated in heterosynaptic long-term depression and long-term potentiation, the differences reported here, if also present in the Down syndrome brain, may contribute to mental retardation in that disorder.
It is well established that the opioid neuropeptide and dopamine systems are altered following the use of cocaine. However very little information is available about their possible involvement during cocaine abstinence. In the present study, the mRNA expression of the dopamine receptors, D1 and D2, and the opioid peptides, prodynorphin and proenkephalin, were analyzed in the rat striatum using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Saline or cocaine (30 mg/kg, i.p.) were administered to rats once daily for 1 or 10 days. To examine cocaine abstinence, animals were treated for 10 days as described followed by a 10-day drug free period. Acute and intermittent cocaine administration elevated the prodynorphin mRNA expression in the dorsal striatum, consistent with previous reports, while the abstinent phase resulted in a significant reduction of prodynorphin mRNA levels in the ventrorostral striatum. The D1-receptor mRNA was decreased in the caudorostral striatum during cocaine withdrawal, a finding opposite to the increase observed following a single injection of the drug. Proenkephalin and the D2-receptor mRNAs were not altered during cocaine abstinence, though proenkephalin was elevated following acute but not repeated cocaine administration. These results show long-term suppression on prodynorphin and D1-receptor systems in specific striatal populations localized mainly in rostral areas during withdrawal from cocaine.
Microglia, the intrinsic immune cells of the central nervous system, are activated in a variety of inflammatory brain diseases in which they play a pathogenetic role. However, mechanisms underlying activation are largely unknown. To begin elucidating molecular mechanisms associated with activation, we characterized the pattern of gene expression in virtually pure dissociated microglial cultures, using RT-PCR differential display. Microglia were activated with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a traditional stimulant, and the profile of gene expression was compared to that in basal, control cultures. Activation resulted in altered expression of six genes. The cDNAs were isolated, sequenced and characterized. Homology searches identified three novel genes, and two that exhibited very high sequence similarity to the gene encoding squamous cell carcinoma antigen (SCCA). SCCA (1 and 2) are tandemly arranged genes that encode two serine proteinase inhibitors (serpins). SCCA has been detected exclusively in cancer cells, and is a plasma marker for squamous cell carcinoma. Immunoblot analysis indicated that gene expression was accompanied by a 5-fold increase in the synthesis of SCCA protein in LPS-activated microglia. To assess potential biological actions of the SCCA serpins, SCCA1 protein was added to cultures. SCCA1 altered microglial morphology, and elicited a dramatic, 5-fold increase in cell number within 72 h. The effects appeared to be cell-specific, since the protein had no effect on other cell types: cortical astrocytes and neurons from cortex or basal forebrain were unaffected. We tentatively conclude that SCCA1 may play a cell-specific role in increasing cell number, a critical early step in microglial activation and brain inflammation. More generally, differential display of genes in the microglial model system may help define patterns of expression associated with CNS disease, thereby identifying pathogenetic mechanisms and new therapeutic targets.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is an inducible type of enzyme that is involved in prostaglandin biosynthesis. In the present study, we examined whether or not COX-2 is involved in fever that is induced by tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and, if so, where in the brain COX-2 is induced by this factor. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of TNF-alpha into rats evoked a fever that started 1 h after the TNF injection, peaked 3 h after the injection, and then gradually declined. The fever was suppressed by pretreatment with a COX-2-specific inhibitor. With a time course similar to that of fever, COX-2 mRNA was induced in brain blood vessels. On the other hand, in some of the telencephalic neurons, COX-2 mRNA was constitutively expressed under the normal condition; but its level gradually decreased during the course of fever. Fever was also evoked by an intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of TNF-alpha. This febrile response was also suppressed by a COX-2 specific inhibitor and was associated with the induction of COX-2 mRNA in the brain blood vessels. On the other hand, the telencephalic neurons did not show consistent change in COX-2 mRNA level after i.c.v. injection of TNF-alpha or saline. COX-2-like immunoreactivity was found in some cells of the brain blood vessels 3 h after the TNF-alpha injection by either i.p. or i.c.v. route. Most of the COX-2-like immunoreactive cells were endothelial cells since COX-2-like immunoreactivity was colocalized with von Willebrand factor, an endothelial cell marker, in the same cells. These results suggest that the brain blood vessels are the major sites where TNF-alpha enhances PG biosynthesis after peripheral as well as after central injection, and provides further evidence supporting the hypothesis that COX-2 induced in the brain blood vessels is involved in fever.
A small number of mRNAs, including Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II alpha-subunit (CamKIIalpha) mRNA and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) mRNA, are present in the dendrites of neurones as well as in the cell bodies. We show here that the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampal perforant path/granule cell synapses in anaesthetised rats is associated with increased levels of CamKIIalpha mRNA and MAP2 mRNA in the granule cell dendrites after 2 h. Similarly, induction of LTP in the Schaffer collateral/CA1 pyramidal cell synapses in hippocampal slices maintained in vitro also results in elevated dendritic levels of CamKIIalpha mRNA and MAP2 mRNA 2 h later. In both models, the levels of various other mRNA species restricted to the cell body region were unaffected by the induction of LTP. Increased expression of dendritic CamKIIalpha mRNA and MAP2 mRNA appears to be a general feature of hippocampal plasticity, since it occurs following LTP induction in both the dentate gyrus and the CA1 region. The elevation of mRNA levels in a restricted region close to the afferent synapses would allow a highly-localised enhancement of the synthesis of the corresponding proteins, providing an elegant mechanism for protein-synthesis-dependent synaptic plasticity to maintain a high degree of anatomical specificity.




Using in situ hybridization with a pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC)-mRNA probe and immunocytochemistry with antisera to POMC and to various POMC-derived peptides, it is shown that melanotrope cells in the pars intermedia of the hypophysis of the South African aquatic toad Xenopus laevis contain POMC, alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), gamma-MSH, acetylated and non-acetylated endorphins and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). With the exception of gamma-MSH, these peptides are also found in the corticotrope cells in the rostral pars distalis. In the Xenopus brain, neuronal cell bodies in the ventral hypothalamic nucleus express POMC, alpha-MSH, gamma-MSH, non-acetylated endorphins and ACTH, neurones in the anterior preoptic area reveal POMC, alpha-MSH, gamma-MSH and non-acetylated endorphin, neurones in the suprachiasmatic nucleus contain alpha-MSH, non-acetylated endorphin and ACTH and neurones in the posterior tubercle show alpha-MSH, non-acetylated endorphin and ACTH immunoreactivities. In the locus coeruleus POMC and ACTH coexist, whereas alpha-MSH and non-acetylated endorphin occur together in the nucleus accumbens, the striatum and the nucleus of the paraventricular organ. Finally, alpha-MSH alone is present in the olfactory bulb, the medial septum, the medial and lateral parts of the amygdala, the ventromedial and posterior thalamic nuclei, the optic tectum and the anteroventral tegmental nucleus, and non-acetylated endorphin alone appears in the epiphysis. It is suggested that neurones that form POMC-derived peptides may play a direct or indirect role in the control of POMC-producing hypophyseal cells and/or in the physiological processes these endocrine cells regulate. This idea is supported by the fact that the suprachiasmatic nucleus and the locus coeruleus, both involved in melanotrope cell control, show POMC and POMC-peptide expression. A possible involvement in melanotrope and/or corticotrope control of the anterior preoptic and ventral hypothalamic nuclei, which both express POMC and various POMC-derived peptides, deserves future attention.
The myelin of central and peripheral nervous system of UDP-galactose-ceramide galactosyltransferase deficient mice (cgt-/-) is completely depleted of its major lipid constituents, galactocerebrosides and sulfatides. The deficiency of these glycolipids affects the biophysical properties of the myelin sheath and causes the loss of the rapid saltatory conduction velocity of myelinated axons. With the onset of myelination, null mutant cgt-/- mice develop fatal neurological defects. CNS and PNS analysis of cgt-/- mice revealed (1) hypomyelination of axons of the spinal cord and optic nerves, but no apoptosis of oligodendrocytes, (2) redundant myelin in younger mice leading to vacuolated nerve fibers in cgt-/- mice, (3) the occurrence of multiple myelinated CNS axons, and (4) severely distorted lateral loops in CNS paranodes. The loss of saltatory conduction is not associated with a randomization of voltage-gated sodium channels in the axolemma of PNS fibers. We conclude that cerebrosides (GalC) and sulfatides (sGalC) play a major role in CNS axono-glial interaction. A close axono-glial contact is not a prerequisite for the spiraling and compaction process of myelin. Axonal sodium channels remain clustered at the nodes of Ranvier independent of the change in the physical properties of myelin membrane devoid of galactosphingolipids. Increased intracellular concentrations of free ceramides do not trigger apoptosis of oligodendrocytes.
The project was an investigation into whether changes in the expression of G-proteins underlie altered cell signaling in migraine and cluster headache. The basis for this assumption is that altered physiological responses are seen in migraineurs and that differences in cell signaling are detected biochemically in various cell types isolated from peripheral blood. Levels of three G-protein mRNAs--Gs alpha, Gi alpha, and Gq alpha, were quantified in lymphocytes from clinically well-defined migraine and cluster headache patients and correlated with headache type and influence of drug treatment. Gi alpha mRNA was reduced by 50% in all migraine patients compared with control subjects; similarly in patients with or without aura, in patients with a migraine headache at the time of sampling, and patients in a quiescent state. No reduction in the levels of Gs alpha of Gq alpha mRNA were seen in migraine patients. A smaller reduction was seen in cluster headache patients, most marked in those without medication. Levels of Gs alpha mRNA were significantly reduced in cluster headache patients compared with migraine patients. The marked down-regulation of Gi alpha mRNA in migraine, whether quiescent or acute, indicates either an adaptive response to headache in this group of patients or that low levels of Gi alpha mRNA make individuals more susceptible to migraine.
We report the case of a 54-year-old woman, with atrial fibrillation and mechanical heart valves, who suffered a left-hemispheric stroke while she was under warfarin. Daily bilateral simultaneous transcranial Doppler monitoring of the middle cerebral arteries showed the presence of microembolic signals (MES), whose number remained unchanged after adding aspirin 100 mg daily. We conclude that anticoagulant plus antiplatelet therapy does not influence the number of MES in the acute phase of stroke in patients with prosthetic heart valves, suggesting the gaseous origin of MES in these patients.
Haemodynamic cerebral ischaemic symptoms secondary to occlusive atheromatous disease of the internal carotid artery may resolve with revascularization. We describe a case of symptomatic internal carotid artery occlusion and ipsilateral subclavian stenosis with duplex and angiographically demonstrated vertebrobasilar steal and a patent ipsilateral posterior communicating artery with flow towards the steal. The patient suffered frequent ipsilateral middle cerebral artery territory transient ischaemic attacks and one minor stroke. Transcranial Doppler demonstrated markedly impaired ipsilateral carbon dioxide reactivity (13.8%, lower-limit normal range &gt;32.6%). Percutaneous angioplasty to the subclavian artery stenosis resulted in resolution of symptoms and an improvement in reactivity to near the lower limit of the normal range (33.5%). This case demonstrates that normalization of vertebral artery steal by subclavian artery revascularization may benefit anterior circulation haemodynamic symptoms in the presence of a functioning posterior communicating artery. The measurement of middle cerebral artery reactivity using transcranial Doppler can identify such cases of haemodynamic impairment and monitor the effect of therapy.
Some children with severe motor disorders have unintelligible speech, and may be recommended augmentative communication systems, such as a symbol chart or a voice output aid. The paper reports the outcome after 15-18 months for 35 children of recommendations for augmentative communication. Using structured questionnaires, parents were asked whether equipment was provided as recommended. Their perception of success in children's use of augmentative aids was recorded and related to potentially influential factors. Twenty-five symbol systems, 10 speech output devices and 11 switches were received; 18 symbol systems were used for communication and 10 were used frequently. Seven speech output devices were used for communication but only two were reported to be used frequently. Factors leading to more successful outcomes include early receipt of the aid, perceived adequate local training in the use of the aid, and children aged 6 years or more at initial assessment. The findings also suggest that referring professionals will need to be better informed about the nature and limitations of augmentative communication aids, and that improved local professional input and careful interagency planning and co-ordination are required to achieve optimal outcome.
The difficulty in processing two stimuli at once increases with their separation. Therefore to demonstrate constraints in dividing attention between objects, the effects of their spatial separation must be controlled. Duncan used superimposed objects to achieve this, and showed that judging two attributes is more accurate if they concern one object than if they concern two objects (Duncan, J. 1984. Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 113, 501-517). However, critics claim that differences in the spatial or spatial-frequency extent of attention exist between these conditions. We studied transparent motion defined by two sets of differently colored dots that were interspersed in the same region of space, and matched in spatial and spatial frequency properties. Each set moved in a distinct and randomly chosen direction. We found that simultaneous judgments of speed and direction were more accurate when they concerned only one set than when they concerned different sets. Furthermore, appraisal of the directions taken by two sets of dots is more difficult than judging direction for only one set, a difficulty that increases for briefer motion. We conclude that perceptual grouping by common fate exerted a more powerful constraint than spatial proximity, a result consistent with object-based attention. Evidence that this type of object-based attention operates at early stages of vision is examined.
Mash1, a transcription factor of the basic helix-loop-helix class, is expressed during embryogenesis in restricted regions of the nervous system. An essential role for Mash1 in neural development was demonstrated previously in mice carrying a targeted disruption of the Mash1 gene. Regulation of the precise temporal and spatial expression of Mash1 is thus likely to be important for proper neural development. In this study, sequences that regulate Mash1 expression in the central nervous system were characterized by assaying the expression of lacZ reporter genes in transgenic embryos. A 1158-bp enhancer localized approximately 7 kb upstream of the Mash1 coding region was identified. Deletions within this enhancer region reveal the presence of both positive and negative cis-acting elements. Analysis of multiple sequences within the enhancer demonstrate that different elements preferentially function in different regions within the Mash1-specific CNS expression domain. In addition, a role for sequences 3' of the Mash1 coding region is revealed, providing evidence for posttranscriptional control of Mash1 expression in multiple CNS domains.
During Drosophila pupal metamorphosis, the motoneurons and muscles differentiate synchronously, providing an opportunity for extensive intercellular regulation during synapse formation. We examined the existence of such interactions by developmentally delaying or permanently eliminating synaptic partners during the formation of indirect flight muscles. When we experimentally delayed muscle development, we found that although adult-specific primary motoneuron branching still occurred, the higher order (synaptic) branching was suspended until the delayed muscle fibers reached a favourable developmental state. In reciprocal experiments we found that denervation caused a decrease in the myoblast pool. Furthermore, the formation of certain muscle fibers (dorsoventral muscles) was specifically blocked. Exceptions were the adult muscles that use larval muscle fibers as myoblast fusion targets (dorsal longitudinal muscles). However, when these muscles were experimentally compelled to develop without their larval precursors, they showed an absolute dependence on the motoneurons for their formation. These data show that the size of the myoblast pool and early events in fiber formation depend on the presence of the nerve, and that, conversely, peripheral arbor development and synaptogenesis is closely synchronized with the developmental state of the muscle.
The early pathophysiology of diabetic retinopathy and the involvement of neural and vascular malfunction are poorly understood. Glial cells provide structural and metabolic support for retinal neurons and blood vessels, and the cells become reactive in certain injury states. We therefore used the streptozotocin rat model of short-term diabetic retinopathy to study glial reactivity and other glial functions in the retina in the first months after onset of diabetes. With a two-site enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, we measured the expression of the intermediate filament glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). After 1 month, GFAP was largely unchanged, but within 3 months of the beginning of diabetes, it was markedly induced, by fivefold (P &lt; 0.04). Immunohistochemical staining showed that the GFAP induction occurred both in astrocytes and in Mller cells. Consistent with a glial cell malfunction, the ability of retinas to convert glutamate into glutamine, assayed chromatographically with an isotopic method, was reduced in diabetic rats to 65% of controls (P &lt; 0.01). Furthermore, retinal glutamate, as determined by luminometry, increased by 1.6-fold (P &lt; 0.04) after 3 months of diabetes. Taken together, these findings indicate that glial reactivity and altered glial glutamate metabolism are early pathogenic events that may lead to elevated retinal glutamate during diabetes. These data are the first demonstration of a specific defect in glial cell metabolism in the retina during diabetes. These findings suggest a novel understanding of the mechanism of neural degeneration in the retina during diabetes, involving early and possibly persistent glutamate excitotoxicity.
Neurotrophins and their Trk receptors play a crucial role in the development and maintenance of the vertebrate nervous system, but to date no component of this signalling system has been found in invertebrates. We describe a molluscan Trk receptor, designated Ltrk, from the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The full-length sequence of Ltrk reveals most of the characteristics typical of Trk receptors, including highly conserved transmembrane and intracellular tyrosine kinase domains, and a typical extracellular domain of leucine-rich motifs flanked by cysteine clusters. In addition, Ltrk has a unique N-terminal extension and lacks immunoglobulin-like domains. Ltrk is expressed during development in a stage-specific manner, and also in the adult, where its expression is confined to the central nervous system and its associated endocrine tissues. Ltrk has the highest sequence identity with the TrkC mammalian receptor and, when exogenously expressed in fibroblasts or COS cells, binds human NT-3, but not NGF or BDNF, with an affinity of 2.5 nM. These findings support an early evolutionary origin of the Trk family as neuronal receptor tyrosine kinases and suggest that Trk signalling mechanisms may be highly conserved between vertebrates and invertebrates.
Although glucocorticoids inhibit inflammation and are used to treat painful inflammatory rheumatic diseases, the contribution, if any, of endogenous pituitary-adrenocortical activity to the control of pain remains unclear. We report that injection of dilute formalin into the hindpaw not only evokes inflammation and pain-related behavior, but it also increases ACTH and corticosterone to a greater extent than restraint and saline injection alone. This difference was particularly robust during the final periods of pain-related behavior in the formalin test, when the ACTH and corticosterone (B) levels in the restraint/saline control group had returned to normal. These results indicate that formalin-evoked increases in ACTH and B reflect nociceptive input, rather than the stress associated with handling. To test the hypothesis that the formalin-induced increase in corticosterone reduces pain and inflammation, we next evaluated the effect of adrenalectomy (to prevent activation of glucocorticoid receptors) or high-dose dexamethasone (to saturate glucocorticoid receptors) on nociceptive processing in the formalin test. Neither adrenalectomy nor dexamethasone changed behavioral or cardiovascular nociceptive responses. Furthermore, the increases in blood pressure and heart rate produced by formalin may not be mediated by adrenomedullary catecholamine release. In addition, we conclude that the nociceptive component of the formalin stimulus is sufficient to activate the pituitary-adrenocortical system in the awake rat, but that the resulting release of corticosterone does not feed back and reduce nociceptive processing.
Melanocortins (alphaMSH and ACTH-related peptides) influence the physiological functions of certain peripheral organs, including exocrine and endocrine glands. This study was designed to determine the identity and anatomical localization of the melanocortin receptors (MC-R) expressed in these organs in the rat. MC5-R messenger RNA was found in exocrine glands, including lacrimal, Harderian, preputial, and prostate glands and pancreas, as well as in adrenal gland, esophagus, and thymus, as demonstrated by ribonuclease protection assays. In exocrine glands, MC5-R messenger RNA expression was restricted to secretory epithelia. MC-R protein was likewise present in secretory epithelia of exocrine glands, as determined by 125I-labeled [Nle4,D-Phe7]alphaMSH ([125I]NDP-MSH) binding and autoradiography in tissue sections. Specific [125I]NDP-MSH binding was also observed in adrenal cortex, thymus, spleen, and esophageal and trachealis muscle. MC receptors in these sites are accessible to circulating MC-R agonists in vivo, as specific binding of [125I]NDP-MSH was observed in exocrine and adrenal glands after systemic injection in vivo. Taken together, these findings show that the MC5 receptor is commonly and selectively expressed in exocrine glands and other peripheral organs. Based on these findings and compelling evidence from other studies, a functional coherence is suggested between central and peripheral actions of melanocortins and melanocortin receptors in physiological functions, including thermoregulation, immunomodulation, and sexual behavior.
To help elucidate the physiological role of leptin during somatic and sexual maturation, circulating concentrations of leptin were measured in 36 male rhesus monkeys of ages ranging from 0-20 yr. The body weight of these animals showed a steady increase of approximately 1 kg/yr during the first decade of life and reached a plateau at approximately 13 yr. In contrast, serum leptin concentrations showed a biphasic developmental pattern, which was highlighted by a strong negative correlation with body weight (r = -0.74, P &lt; 0.001) before the onset of puberty (at approximately 3.5 yr) and by a strong positive correlation afterward (r = 0.77, P &lt; 0.001). Overall, the developmental changes in serum leptin concentrations closely mimicked the expected developmental changes in serum testosterone concentrations (r = 0.62, P &lt; 0.001), which were highly elevated at birth, fell to basal levels during the juvenile phase of development, and gradually rose again after the initiation of puberty. However, mean serum leptin concentrations during the peripubertal period itself (3-5 yr) were significantly lower (P &lt; 0.01) than those observed during the first year of life or those observed in fully mature adults (i.e. &gt; 7 yr) (3.5 +/- 0.3, 1.4 +/- 0.2, and 3.3 +/- 0.6 ng/ml, respectively). These data demonstrate that the role of leptin in energy homeostasis of primates is more than a simple linear relationship, being highly dependent upon the developmental age. Furthermore, the data do not support the hypothesis that leptin plays a major role in triggering the onset of puberty in primates, although the strong correlation between serum concentrations of leptin and testosterone suggests that the secretion of these two hormones may be causally linked.

Understanding the relationship between seizure frequency, seizure type and scores obtained from quality of life (QOL) measures is important if the incorporation of QOL measures into epilepsy clinical trials is to become standard practice. There is also a need to consider cross-cultural differences obtained from QOL measures, particularly in the context of multicentre international trials. In this study, 300 patients recruited from UK, Germany and France completed the Functional Status Questionnaire (FSQ); information about patients' clinical and demographic status was also collected. Results from the study highlighted that seizure type and seizure frequency, as well as country of origin, were significant predictors of scores on the FSQ. It is important to measure the effect of seizure type, not just seizure frequency, on QOL when testing for differences between antiepileptic therapies in the context of clinical trials.
Germline mutations of the hMLH1 gene are estimated to account for a large fraction of kindreds affected by hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC). In a significant number of cases, hMLH1 mutations result in the expression of truncated proteins. We report here two novel alternatively spliced forms of hMLH1 mRNA in normal lymphocytes. One of these novel isoforms lacks the coding region of the gene between codons 557 and 578, corresponding to the entire exon 15. The deletion introduces a frameshift that results in a premature stop signal. The other isoform is characterised by an in-frame deletion spanning codons 578-632, corresponding to loss of the entire exon 16. Further studies are necessary to establish the biological significance of these alternative splicings. The presence of alternatively spliced hMLH1 transcripts that mimic pathogenic mutations should be taken into account in the mutational screening of the hMLH1 gene by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction methodologies.

To elucidate the role of NK cells and TCR gamma delta+ T cells in acute experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced in Lewis rats, the distribution, number and function of these cells were studied using several methods. Immunohistochemical and flow cytometric analysis revealed that a certain number of NK cells (17 of the total inflammatory cells) infiltrated the central nervous system (CNS) at the peak stage of EAE and were mainly located in the perivascular region. On the other hand, virtually no TCR gamma delta+ T cells were found in the CNS. NK-T (NKR-P1+TCR alpha beta+) cells were few and did not increase in number in the CNS and lymphoid organs. In the cytotoxic assay using YAC-1 cells, effector cells isolated from the spleen of rats at the peak of EAE showed essentially the same cytotoxicity as those isolated from normal controls although the total number of NK cells decreased to one fifth of that of normal rats. Furthermore, in vivo administration of anti-NK cell (3.2.3 and anti-asialo GM1), but not of anti-TCR gamma delta (V65), antibodies exacerbated the clinical features of EAE and induced fatal EAE in some rats. These findings suggest that NK cells play a suppressive role in acute EAE whereas TCR gamma delta+ T cells are not involved in the development of or recovery from the disease.
A local inflammatory reaction may play an important role in the development of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury. One important participant in the inflammatory response of injured peripheral nerve may be nitric oxide (NO). In this work, we examined physiological and morphological evidence for nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activation in the chronic constriction injury model of neuropathic pain in rats. Physiological evidence of local NO action was provided by studying NO-mediated changes in local blood flow associated with the injury site. Immunohistochemistry was used to localize isoforms of NOS that might generate NO. Sciatic nerve injury associated with behavioural evidence of neuropathic pain had substantial rises in local blood flow. The NOS inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), but not NG-nitro-D-arginine methyl ester (D-NAME), reversed the hyperaemia in a dose-dependent fashion proximal to the constriction at 48 h and distally at 14 days post-operation when applied systemically or topically. Aminoguanidine, a NOS inhibitor with relatively greater selectivity for the inducible NOS (iNOS) isoform, reversed nerve hyperaemia distal to the constriction only at 14 days. NOS-like immunoreactivity of the neuronal and endothelial isoforms was identified just proximal to the constriction at 48 h. iNOS-like immunoreactivity was observed at 7 and 14 days at the constriction and distal sites, respectively. This work provides evidence for local NOS expression and NO action in the chronic constriction injury model of neuropathic pain. NO has local physiological actions that include vasodilatation of microvessels and that may be important in the development of pain sensitivity.
Ca2+ channels diversity of cultured rat embryo motoneurons was investigated with whole-cell current recordings. In 5-20 mM Ba2+, the whole-cell currents were separated in low- (LVA) and high-voltage-activated (HVA) current. The LVA current was evident since the first day in culture, while the HVA component was small and increased with time. Recordings after 4 days revealed approximately 20% L-, approximately 45% N- and approximately 35% P- and R-type currents. P-type currents were revealed only in 40% of motoneurons, in which 20-200 nM omega-Aga-IVA caused 20% irreversible block of total current. The remaining 60% of cells were insensitive even to higher doses of the toxin (500 nM in 5 mM Ba2+), suggesting weak expression and heterogeneous distribution of P-type channels compensated by high densities of HVA Ca2+ channels resistant to all the antagonists (R-type). A significant residual current could also be resolved after prolonged applications of 5 microM omega-CTx-MVIIC, which allowed separation of N- and P-type currents by the distinct onset of toxin block. The antagonists-resistant current reveals biophysical characteristics typical of HVA channels, but distinct from the alphaE channel. The current activates around -20 mV in 20 mM Ba2+; inactivates slowly and independently of Ca2+; is blocked by low [Cd2+] and high [Ni2+]; and is larger with Ba2+ than Ca2+. The uncovered R-type calcium current can account for part of the presynaptic Ca2+ current controlling neurotransmitter release at the mammalian neuromuscular junction whose activity is resistant to DHP-and omega-CTx-GVIA, and displays anomalous sensitivity to omega-Aga-IVA and omega-CTx-MVIIC.
Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta9-THC), the psychoactive principle of marijuana, has been shown to upregulate the mRNA levels of immediate-early genes in the rat brain. Using electrophoretic mobility-shift assay and one-dimensional Western blot, we here report that delta9-THC increases Activator protein-1 (AP-1) DNA-binding and Fos-related antigen activity in discrete areas of the rat brain. One hour after the intraperitoneal administration of delta9-THC at a dose of 10 or 15 mg/kg, AP-1 DNA-binding activity in the nucleus accumbens increased by 33 and 49%, respectively, while Western blot showed an increase in both c-Fos, FosB, Fra-1 (Fos-related antigen) and Fra-2. In the cingulate cortex and caudate-putamen, delta9-THC significantly increased AP-1 DNA-binding activity only at the highest dose used (57 and 71%, respectively). While in the caudate-putamen the increase in AP-1 DNA binding was mainly due to an elevation of the c-Fos and FosB proteins, the same phenomenon depended on the FosB, Fra-1 and Fra-2 peptides in the cingulate cortex. The effect of delta9-THC on the AP-1 DNA binding and the Fos-related antigens in the nucleus accumbens was blocked by the specific cannabinoid antagonist SR141716 A (3 mg/kg i.p.). delta9-THC failed to modify Specificity protein 1 (Sp1) DNA-binding activity. The results indicate that delta9-THC activates gene coding for AP-1 DNA-binding proteins by acting on cannabinoid receptors, and induces a different transcriptional program on the early-immediate gene of the Fos family, in different areas in the rat brain, suggesting that this mechanism might be involved in the central actions of cannabinoids.
The behavioural consequences of neonatal lesions of the frontal cortex are limited as compared with similar lesions performed in adulthood. The present study has investigated, using unbiased quantitative methods with randomized systematic sampling, the total neuronal cell numbers in the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus after aspiration lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex performed in neonatal and in adult rats. It was found that the reduction in total cell numbers after neonatal prefrontal cortex lesions was similar to that found after adult cortex lesions. In neonatally lesioned animals the neuronal cell density was significantly increased by 13%, whereas in adult lesioned animals it was unchanged. On the other hand, the volume of the mediodorsal nucleus was reduced by 27% in neonatally, and 20% in adult lesioned animals. Total neuronal cell number of the mediodorsal nucleus was significantly decreased in neonatally as well as in adult lesioned rats, by 14% and 21%, respectively. These findings are discussed in the light of the previously proposed role of the thalamus as a neural substrate of functional sparing after neonatal cortical lesions.
The study of excitatory amino acids (EAAs) has recently resulted in new and fundamental concepts in neuroscience. This progress has led to a growing awareness of the crucial role that brain EAAs systems play in a variety of physiological and pathological processes. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, presently the most well understood subtype of EAAs receptors, has been implicated in crucial physiological processes such as synaptogenesis, learning and memory. Dysfunctions of NMDA receptors seem to play a crucial role in the neurobiology of disorders such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy and ischemic stroke. This paper is a review of emerging data indicating that alterations of NMDA receptor function may be pivotal to the pathophysiology of four common psychiatric syndromes: schizophrenia, major depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, and alcoholism. Special emphasis is placed on the current state of development of pharmacological strategies aiming at the modulation of NMDA receptor-mediated neurotransmission in these disorders.
Fibroblasts cultured in mechanically stressed collagen matrices proliferate, whereas cells in floating collagen matrices become quiescent. Previous research indicated that one factor contributing to cell quiescence in floating matrices was reduced receptor autophosphorylation in response to PDGF stimulation (i.e., PDGF receptor desensitization). To learn more about the mechanism of PDGF receptor desensitization, we analyzed changes in PDGF receptor autophosphorylation and receptor kinase activity after stressed collagen matrices were switched to floating conditions, which results in rapid cell contraction and dissipation of mechanical stress. PDGF receptor desensitization occurred during contraction stimulated by serum but not in the absence of serum, and desensitization was prevented by inhibitors of contraction but not by inhibitors of the contraction-activated cyclic AMP signaling pathway. Receptor desensitization resulted from decreased receptor kinase activity rather than from elevated protein tyrosine phosphatase activity, and only receptors unoccupied at the time of contraction were affected. After contraction, radiolabeled PDGF binding to the cells was decreased, which suggested that receptor desensitization resulted from a contraction-dependent change in receptor availability or affinity.
Tiger salamanders have been used in visual science because of the large size of their cells and the ease of preparation and maintenance of in vitro retinal preparations. We have found that salamanders over 27 cm in length show a variety of visual abnormalities. Compared to smaller animals (15-23 cm), large animals exhibited a decrease in visual responses determined by tests of the optomotor reflex. Small animals responded correctly an average of 84.5% of the time in visual testing at three light levels compared to an average of 68.4% for the large animals with the poorest visual performance at the lowest level of illumination. In addition, large animals contained (i) histological degeneration of the outer retina, in particular, loss and disruption of outer segments and abnormalities of the retinal pigmented epithelium, (ii) loss of cells, including photoreceptors, by apoptosis as evaluated with the TUNEL technique, and (iii) an increase in the number of macrophages and lymphocytes within the retina as determined by morphological examination. These histological changes were present in all large animals and all quadrants of their retinas. In contrast, small animals showed virtually no retinal degeneration, no TUNEL-positive cells, and few immune-like cells in the retina. Since large animals are also older animals. the visual changes are age-related. Loss of visual function and histological degeneration in the outer retina also typify aged human eyes. Thus, we propose that large salamanders serve as an animal model for age-related retinal degeneration. In addition to providing a source of aging retina that is readily accessible to experimental manipulation, the salamander provides a pigmented retina with a mixed (2:1, rod:cone) population of photoreceptors, similar to the degeneration-prone parafoveal region of the human eye.
The perirhinal cortex (PRh) has been suggested as a substrate for the expression of generalized clonic seizures in the late stages of kindling development (stages 4-5). Using the induction of Fos as a marker of neuronal activation, the PRh region was investigated after kindling or nonkindling electrical stimulation. Nonkindling electrical stimulation of the PRh elicited stimulus-locked behaviors, without afterdischarge. These behaviors were characterized by rearing and bilateral forelimb clonus which were terminated upon electrical stimulus offset in half of the rats displaying this behavior (with the other half expressing self-sustained seizures). In these animals, Fos immunoreactivity was found throughout neocortical and subcortical structures in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the stimulating electrode. By contrast, Fos-immunoreactivity in the contralateral hemisphere was localized primarily in the PRh and frontal motor cortex. Likewise, similar patterns of Fos immunoreactivity were observed in both hemispheres of rats following kindling to one generalized clonic seizure from several limbic and paleocortical structures. These results suggest that the bilateral involvement of the PRh is critical in producing the bilateral behaviors associated with generalized clonic seizure expression. In support of this interpretation, infusion of 3 M KCl directly into the contralateral PRh of rats kindled to a single stage 4-5 (generalized clonic) seizure from the ipsilateral amygdala reduced seizure manifestations from a generalized clonic seizure (stage 4-5) to a unilateral clonic seizure (stage 3) without affecting measures of focal excitability. Taken together, these data indicate a role for the bilateral involvement of the PRh in generalized clonic seizure expression whether evoked from the naive or kindled state. These results further indicate that bilateral behaviors require the bilateral involvement of the structures necessary for the expression of these behaviors.
Overactivity of the substantia nigra zona reticulata and the medial segment of the globus pallidus are responsible for the generation of symptoms in Parkinson's disease. Reducing the activity of these regions has been shown to be a viable alternative to dopamine replacement in the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease. 5-HT2C receptors in the substantia nigra zona reticulata are excitatory. In this study we have shown that intracerebral infusion of the selective 5-HT2C receptor antagonist SB 206553 (50 nmol) into the substantia nigra zona reticulata has an antiparkinsonian action in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease. SB 206553 did not affect locomotion when injected into the nonparkinsonian substantia nigra. Furthermore, we have demonstrated that systemic administration of selective 5-HT2C receptor antagonists SB 200646A (20 mg/kg) and SB 206553 (20 mg/kg) can potentiate the antiparkinsonian action of the dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat. Hence, 5-HT2C receptor antagonists may be useful adjuncts to dopamine agonists in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
1. In a simple discrimination test using a two-compartment shuttle box with mice, we examined the action properties of dependence-liable drugs. In mice trained to discriminate morphine from saline, neither methamphetamine (MAP) nor cocaine (COCA) was generalized to the discriminative stimulus effects of morphine. 2. Similarly, in mice trained to discriminate MAP from saline, COCA, which is known to have neuronal mechanisms in common with MAP, was generalized to the stimulus effects of MAP, but morphine was not. 3. Dihydroetorphine (DHE), which has receptor mechanisms in common with morphine, was generalized to the discriminative stimulus effects of morphine, whereas it was not generalized to the effects of MAP. Thus, the present discrimination test might be useful for the first screening of compounds with unknown neuronal mechanisms, particularly for classification into groups having separate neuropharmacological mechanisms in common.
In light of a recent interest in the transplantation of cultured microglial cells, we have examined the use of the fluorescent dye Fluoro-Gold (FG) as a tracer for these cells. Following injection into the adult rat brain, FG prelabeled microglial cells were readily traceable for up to 2 weeks with minimal labeling of endogenous cell populations. Some of the injected cells differentiated into ramified microglial cells as a result of exposure to the adult CNS environment. Injection of free FG into the adult rat brain resulted in the widespread labeling of neurons and perivascular cells, but not endogenous microglial cells, indicating that perivascular cells, but not resting microglia, are actively pinocytotic cells of the CNS. Our results show that FG is an effective label for the tracing of transplanted microglial cells.
The dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) has been shown to project to a region of the nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis (PnC) critical for the evocation of startle in rats, suggesting a possible modulatory influence of the DCN on startle. This study examined the involvement of the DCN in the acoustic startle reflex and various other forms of behavioral plasticity seen with this response. Animals received bilateral electrolytic lesions of the DCN and were tested for acoustic startle responses, background noise facilitation, short-term habituation, prepulse inhibition and facilitation, and fear conditioning. Compared to sham lesioned rats, DCN lesioned rats showed a significant reduction in startle amplitude at the two highest startle-eliciting intensities (110 and 115 dB SPL) and normal responses on all other measures. Hence, the DCN appears to contribute to a high intensity component of the acoustic startle response in rats.

In a prospective study, partial pulpotomy was performed on six permanent molars with deep carious lesions and pulpal involvement. The bleeding pulp was irrigated with normal tap water until bleeding had stopped and the exposed pulp was covered with calcium hydroxide followed by zinc oxide eugenol, and finally covered with a semipermanent restoration. All teeth showed hard tissue barrier formation, both clinically and radiographically, within three months and were free from subjective and objective symptoms through the observation period (average observation period was 26 months). The patients also experienced the therapy positively. These findings and those of others have helped gain more recognition for partial pulpotomy as a strong possible alternative therapy when pulps are exposed by deep carious lesions and a bleeding pulp is exposed during the excavation process. The rationale for this therapy is to remove the infected and/or inflamed pulpal areas beneath the carious lesion and disintegrated tissue. A rapid and simplified procedure would allow the general practitioner to perform this procedure when necessary at dental clinics, without specialist facilities under conditions that avoid unnecessary contamination of the pulp.
Time-dependent atrophy of cerebral space and enlargement of the lateral ventricles were noted in healthy rats 1 to 100 days after the induction of seizures by a single systemic injection of lithium and pilocarpine. The rate of atrophy was most strongly correlated (0.90) with the log (base 10) of the time in days. Most of the degeneration had occurred within about 20 to 30 days after the seizure-induced brain trauma. Concomitant reduction in the area of the substantia nigra reticulata was the most powerful predictor of ventricular enlargement at the level of the caudate-putamen.
Freezing is a common and disabling symptom in patients with Parkinsonism. It affects most commonly the gait in the form of start hesitation and sudden immobility often resulting in falling. A higher incidence of freezing occurs in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) which is characterized clinically by a constellation of symptoms including supranuclear ophthalmoplegia, postural instability, axial rigidity, dysarthria, Parkinsonism, and pseudobulbar palsy. Pharmacologic therapy of PSP is currently disappointing and the disease progresses relentlessly to a fatal outcome within the first decade after onset. This report concerns a 67 year old woman with a diagnosis of PSP in whom freezing and frequent falling were the most disabling symptoms of the disease at the time of presentation. Both symptoms, which were rated 4 on the Unified Parkinson Rating Scale (UPRS) which grades Parkinsonian symptoms and signs from 0 to 4, with 0 being normal and 4 being severe symptoms, were resistant to treatment with dopaminergic drugs such as levodopa, amantadine, selegiline and pergolide mesylate as well as with the potent and highly selective noradrenergic reuptake inhibitor nortriptyline. Weekly transcranial applications of AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of picotesla flux density was associated with approximately 50% reduction in the frequency of freezing and about 80-90% reduction in frequency of falling after a 6 months follow-up period. At this point freezing was rated 2 while falling received a score of 1 on the UPRS. In addition, this treatment was associated with an improvement in Parkinsonian and pseudobulbar symptoms with the difference between the pre-and post EMF treatment across 13 measures being highly significant (p &lt; .005; Sign test). These results suggest that transcranial administration AC pulsed EMFs in the picotesla flux density is efficacious in the treatment of PSP.
The pregnancy and birth records of 79 schizophrenic patients, from whom adult electrodermal data were available, were systematically evaluated for obstetric complications using 34 criteria of nonoptimality in pregnancy, delivery, and postpartum periods. Patients with many obstetric complications had lower levels of electrodermal activity. For frequency of skin conductance responses and spontaneous fluctuations in skin conductance, the association was more evident for women than for men. However, the ratio of stimulus-elicited to spontaneous skin conductance responses showed a reliable association with obstetric complications without any gender differences. The relationship between obstetric complications and electrodermal activity was interpreted in terms of neurodevelopmental insults resulting in structural brain abnormalities interfering with orienting and electrodermal activity.
Connexin 43 (Cx43) has been reported to be expressed in vascular smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells. Evidence for possible variations in Cx43 distribution within different parts of the vascular system is limited. We have therefore investigated the expression of Cx43 in the endothelia and media of 11 vessels of different size and function in the rat, using immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy. The results showed that punctate Cx43 staining was abundant in the endothelia and media of all of the 5 elastic arteries examined. In the media, the amount of Cx43 staining decreased as the size of the elastic arteries became smaller. In the 6 muscular arteries examined, 2 different patterns of Cx43 staining were observed. In the first type, Cx43 expression was high in the endothelium but virtually absent from the media. Mesenteric resistance, hepatic and tail arteries were examples. In the second type, Cx43 staining was absent from both the media and the endothelia. The coronary, basilar, and middle cerebral arteries showed this appearance. The results suggest that expression of Cx43 is largely restricted to elastic arteries in the arterial system of the rat. The lack of immunodetectable Cx43 from the media of all muscular arteries examined, and from the endothelia of some of these arteries, raises the possibility of significant differences in the form of expression of Cx43 in these vessels or the presence of other connexins.
Observations have been made on the rabbit sciatic nerve distal to a transection, with survival periods of up to 26 mo and prevention of reinnervation. It was confirmed that the nerve becomes compartmented by fibroblast processes and that a zone of fine collagen fibrils develops around the Schwann cell columns that constitute the Bngner bands. The Schwann cells become progressively more atrophic but after 6 mo of denervation still expressed low affinity p75 nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR), the latest stage at which this was examined. NGFR was also expressed by the processes of the fibroblasts producing the endoneurial compartmentation. By 26 mo after transection the site of previous nerve fibres was indicated by sharply demarcated domains of approximately circular outline in transverse section consisting of densely packed longitudinally oriented collagen fibrils. Some of these domains still possessed centrally situated Schwann cells or residual basal lamina but many were acellular. The central collagen fibrils in these domains were of smaller diameter than those situated peripherally but were of larger size than those that form around the Bngner bands during wallerian degeneration. The peripherally located fibrils in the domains were of the same calibre as for normal endoneurial collagen. The collagen domains were encircled by fibroblast processes or at times enclosed in a perineurial cell ensheathment. Long-standing axonal loss therefore leads to a striking reorganisation of the internal architecture of peripheral nerve trunks. The findings may be relevant for the interpretation of the appearances in chronic peripheral neuropathies in man.
We hypothesized that muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) and cardiovascular responses to the conventional head-up tilt (HUT) are different from those to head-up suspension (HUS) because of antigravity muscle activity. The MSNA from the tibial nerve, heart rate, blood pressure, stroke volume, cardiac output, and calf blood flow were measured in 13 healthy young subjects. Left atrial diameter was measured by two-dimensional echocardiography in another nine subjects. The resting MSNA and cardiovascular responses at a low level (20 degrees) of orthostasis were similar during both modes. At higher levels (40 and 60 degrees), the responses of MSNA, heart rate, stroke volume, and cardiac output were significantly stronger and there was a smaller reduction in calf blood flow during HUT than during HUS (P &lt; 0.05). Left atrial diameter was decreased significantly from the resting values during HUT and HUS without any significant difference between the modes of orthostasis. The results provide evidence that the engagement of antigravity muscles during HUT may have additive effects on sympathetic vasoconstrictor and cardiovascular responses to orthostatic stress.
We performed interictal brain 99m Tc-HMPAO study in eight cases of chronic epilepsy. SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) study showed abnormality in seven cases. As compared to computed tomography (CT) scan and electroencephalogram (EEG) which were positive in 25% and 62% cases respectively it showed abnormality in 87%. In two cases where CT scan and EEG both were normal, SPECT showed areas of hypoperfusion. In one case where EEG indicated a bilateral focus, SPECT study showed a clearly defined unilateral focal hypoperfusion defect. Areas of hyperperfusion were not seen in any of our cases. Our results indicate that HMPAO SPECT is more sensitive than CT scan and EEG, in localising an epileptogenic focus in cases of chronic epilepsy.
We have characterized a group of cis-regulatory elements that control muscle-specific expression of the rat skeletal muscle type 1 sodium channel (SkM1) gene. These elements are located within a 3. 1-kilobase fragment that encompasses the 5'-flanking region, first exon, and part of the first intron of SkM1. We sequenced the region between -1062 and +311 and determined the start sites of transcription; multiple sites were identified between +1 and +30. The basal promoter (-65/+11) lacks cell-type specificity, while an upstream repressor (-174/-65) confers muscle-specific expression. A positive element (+49/+254) increases muscle-specific expression. Within these broad elements, two E boxes play a pivotal role. One E box at -31/-26 within the promoter, acting in part through its ability to bind the myogenic basic helix-loop-helix proteins, recruits additional factor(s) that bind elsewhere within the SkM1 sequence to control positive expression of the gene. A second E box at -90/-85 within the repressor controls negative regulation of the gene and acts through a different complex of proteins. Several of these cis-regulatory elements share both sequence and functional similarities with cis-regulatory elements of the acetylcholine receptor delta-subunit; the different arrangement of these elements may contribute to unique expression patterns for the two genes.
Pharmacological studies have demonstrated that various purinoceptors are involved in the control of the cerebral vascular tone in many species. In this study, the existence of P2X purinoceptors in the postmortem human cerebral arteries was investigated with organ-bath pharmacology, autoradiography, and immunohistochemistry. Specimens were obtained from the M2 region of the middle cerebral arteries from human cadavers with an age range of 53-91 years and postmortem time of 37-54 h. Application of alpha,beta-methylene adenosine triphosphate (ATP) produced concentration-dependent contraction in the arterial ring, whereas transmural nerve stimulation and noradrenaline did not elicit contraction. Autoradiography using [3H]alpha,beta-methylene ATP (a radioligand for P2X purinoceptors) showed specific [3H]alpha,beta-methylene ATP binding sites in the smooth-muscle cells of the postmortem human cerebral arteries. Immunohistochemistry with specific P2X1 purinoceptor antibodies revealed positive staining exclusively in the smooth muscle of the same specimens. All these results demonstrate the existence of P2X purinoceptors in human cerebral arteries, which were still functionally active despite the long postmortem time. The results from this study suggest that the postmortem human cerebral arteries can be useful specimens for studying the P2X purinoceptor-mediated responses.
Previous work from this laboratory has established a method for maintaining physiological contractility of dissociated avian smooth muscle in a defined medium at low density. The present report emphasizes the dramatic potency of serum to alter smooth muscle phenotype and induce a loss of contractility. Vitronectin, a molecule purified from plasma, mimicked these effects of serum via an integrin that is RGD-sensitive. Studies utilizing blocking antibodies against vitronectin demonstrated that the presence of this specific adhesion molecule was necessary for the serum-induced loss of contractility. Based on the actions of function-blocking antibodies and RGD-containing peptides, the integrin alphavbeta1 appears to be the primary receptor involved in vitronectin's ability to induce phenotypic transformation in amniotic smooth muscle. The influence of vitronectin on smooth muscle contractility is particularly relevant, because this molecule is abundant in whole blood and plasma (approx. 400 microg/ml). The results suggest that smooth muscle needs to be continually protected from normal blood constituents in vivo. The implications of these results for smooth muscle-related diseases like atherosclerosis, restenosis and Kaposi's sarcoma are discussed.
Dynamin proteins containing a GTPase domain, a pleckstrin homology motif and a proline-rich tail participate in receptor-mediated endocytosis in organisms ranging from insects to vertebrates. In addition, dynamin-related GTPases, such as the yeast Golgi protein Vps1p, which lack both the pleckstrin homology motif and the proline-rich region, participate in vesicular transport within the secretory pathway in lower eukaryotes. However, no data is available on the existence of Vps1p-like proteins in mammalian cells. In this study, we report the identification and characterization of a novel gene encoding a human dynamin-related protein, DRP1, displaying high similarity to the Golgi dynamin-like protein Vps1p from yeast and to a Caenorhabditis elegans protein deposited in the databank. These proteins are highly conserved in their N-terminal tripartite GTPase domain but lack the pleckstrin homology motif and proline-rich region. Northern blot analysis reveals that the DRP1 mRNA is detected at high levels in human muscle, heart, kidney and brain. Immunolocalization studies in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells using an epitope-tagged form of DRP1 and confocal microscopy show that this protein is concentrated in a perinuclear region that labels with the endoplasmic reticulum marker DiOC6(3) and the Golgi marker C5-DMB-Cer. In addition, the localization of DRP1 is highly similar to the localization of the endoplasmic reticulum and cis-Golgi GTPase Rab1A, but not to the staining for the trans-Golgi GTPase Rab6. Furthermore, overexpression of a cDNA encoding a GTP binding site mutant of DRP1 (DRP1(K38E)) in CHO cells decreases the amount of a secreted luciferase reporter protein, whereas the overexpression of wild-type DRP1 increases the secretion of this marker. Together, these results constitute the first structural and functional characterization of a mammalian protein similar to the yeast dynamin-related GTPase Vps1p and indicate that the participation of these proteins in secretion has been conserved throughout evolution.
The major classes of glial cells, namely astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglial cells were compared in parallel for their susceptibility to damage after combined hypoxia and hypoglycemia or hypoxia alone. The three glial cell types were isolated from neonatal rat brains, separated, and incubated in N2/CO2-gassed buffer-containing glucose or glucose substitutes, 2-deoxyglucose or mannitol (both nonmetabolizable sugars). The damage to the cells after 6 hours' exposure was determined at 0, 1, 3, 7 days based on release of lactate dehydrogenase and counting of ethidium bromide-stained dead cells, double-stained with cell-type specific markers. When 2-deoxyglucose replaced glucose during 6 hours of hypoxia, both oligodendrocytes and microglia rarely survived (18% and 12%, respectively). Astroglia initially increased the release of lactate dehydrogenase but maintained 98% to 99% viability. When mannitol, a radical scavenger and osmolarity stabilizer, replaced glucose during 6 hours of hypoxia, oligodendrocytes rarely survived (10%), astroglia survival remained at 99%, but microglia survival increased to 50%. After exposure to 6 and 42 hours, respectively, of hypoxic conditions alone, oligodendrocytes exhibited 10% survival whereas microglia and astroglia were only temporarily stressed and subsequently survived. In conclusion, oligodendrocytes, then microglia, are the most vulnerable glial cell types in response to hypoxia or hypoglycemia conditions, whereas astrocytes from the same preparations recover.




Patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD) have severe difficulties in tasks requiring the use of semantic knowledge. The semantic deficits associated with AD have been extensively studied by using behavioral methods. Many of these studies indicate that AD patients have a general deficit in voluntary access to semantic representations but that the structure of the representations themselves might be preserved. However, several studies also provide evidence that to some extent semantic representations in AD may in fact be degraded. Recently, a few studies have utilized event-related brain potentials (ERPs) that are sensitive to semantic factors in order to investigate the electrophysiological correlates of the semantic impairment in AD. Interest has focused on the N400 component, which is known to reflect the on-line semantic processing of linguistic and pictorial stimuli. The results from studies of N400 changes in AD remain somewhat controversial: Some studies report normal or enlarged N400 components in AD, whereas others report diminished ones. One issue not reported in previous studies is whether word-elicited ERPs other than N400 remain normal in AD. In the present study our aim was to find out whether the ERP waveforms N1, P2, N400, and Late Positive Component (LPC) to semantically congruous and incongruous spoken words are abnormal in AD and whether such abnormalities specifically reflect deficiencies in semantic activation in AD. Auditory ERPs from 20 scalp sites to semantically congruous and incongruous final words in spoken sentences were recorded from 17 healthy elderly adults and 9 AD patients. The early ERP waveforms N1 and P2 were relatively normal for the AD patients, but the N400 and LPC effects (amplitude difference between congruous and incongruous conditions) were significantly reduced. We interpret the present results as showing that semantic-conceptual activation and other high-level integration processes are defective in AD. However, a word congruity effect earlier than N400 (phonological mismatch negativity), reflecting lexical selection processes, is at least to some extent preserved in AD.
Three studies tested the claim that H.M. exhibits a &quot;pure memory deficit&quot; that has left his ability to comprehend language unimpaired relative to memory-normal controls. In Study 1, H.M. and memory-normal controls of comparable intelligence, education, and age indicated whether sentences were ambiguous or unambiguous, and H. M. detected ambiguities significantly less often than controls. In Study 2, participants identified the two meanings of visually presented sentences that they knew were ambiguous, and relative to controls, H.M. rarely discovered the ambiguities without help and had difficulty understanding the first meanings, experimenter requests, and his own output. Study 3 replicated these results and showed that they were not due to brain damage per se or to cohort effects: Unlike H.M., a patient with bilateral frontal lobe damage detected the ambiguities as readily as young and same-cohort older controls. These results bear on two general classes of theories in use within a wide range of neurosciences and cognitive sciences: The data favor &quot;distributed-memory theories&quot; that ascribe H.M.'s deficit to semantic-level binding processes that are inherent to both language comprehension and memory, over &quot;stages-of-processing theories,&quot; where H.M.'s defective storage processes have no effect on language comprehension.
One of the important questions cognitive theories of reasoning must address is whether logical reasoning is inherently sentential or spatial. A sentential model would exploit nonspatial (linguistic) properties of representations whereas a spatial model would exploit spatial properties of representations. In general terms, the linguistic hypothesis predicts that the language processing regions underwrite human reasoning processes, and the spatial hypothesis suggests that the neural structures for perception and motor control contribute the basic representational building blocks used for high-level logical and linguistic reasoning. We carried out a [(15)O] H(2)O PET imaging study to address this issue. Twelve normal volunteers performed three types of deductive reasoning tasks (categorical syllogisms, three-term spatial relational items, and three-term nonspatial relational items) while their regional cerebral blood flow pattern was recorded using [(15)O] H(2)O PET imaging. In the control condition subjects semantically comprehended sets of three sentences. In the deductive reasoning conditions subjects determined whether the third sentence was entailed by the first two sentences. The areas of activation in each reasoning condition were confined to the left hemisphere and were similar to each other and to activation reported in previous studies. They included the left inferior frontal gyrus (Brodmann area 45, 47), a portion of the left middle frontal gyrus (Brodmann area 46), the left middle temporal gyrus (Brodmann areas 21, 22), a region of the left lateral inferior temporal gyrus and superior temporal gyrus (Brodmann areas 22, 37), and a portion of the left cingulate gyrus (Brodmann areas 32, 24). There was no significant right-hemisphere or parietal activation. These results are consistent with previous neuroimaging studies and raise questions about the level of involvement of classic spatial regions in reasoning about linguistically presented spatial relations.
It is crucial to determine the effects on the network level of a modulation of intrinsic membrane properties. The role calcium-dependent potassium channels, KCa, in the lamprey locomotor system has been investigated extensively. Earlier experimental studies have shown that apamin, which affects one type of KCa, increases the cycle duration of the locomotor network, due to effects on the burst termination. The effects of apamin were here larger when the network had a low level of activity (burst frequency 0.5 to 1 Hz) as compared to a higher rate (&gt; 2 Hz). By using a previously developed simulation model based on the lamprey locomotor network, we show that the model could account for the frequency dependence of the apamin modulation, if only the KCa conductance activated by Ca2+ entering during the action potential was altered and not the KCa conductance activated by Ca2+ entering through NMDA channels. The present simulation model of the spinal network in the lamprey can thus account for earlier experimental results with apamin on the network and cellular level that previously appeared enigmatic.
The Langerhans cell is one of the antigen-presenting cells in the immune system. To study the presence of cutaneous Langerhans cells in prurigo nodularis, age- and sex-matched prurigo nodularis patients and healthy volunteer skin biopsies were investigated by an HLA-DR and S-100 immunohistochemical double staining method. The results showed that the HLA-DR- and S-100-immunoreactive (IR) Langerhans cells were altered in prurigo nodularis epidermis and dermis. The number of epidermal Langerhans cells in the prurigo nodularis patients was decreased in five and increased in two cases. In the dermis, the HLA-DR- and S-100-IR cells were apparently more numerous than in the controls. In the involved skin there were also more S-100-IR coarse nerve fibres in the dermis as compared to controls. The results indicate that dermal Langerhans cells (HLA-DR and S-100 double-labeled) as well as other dermal HLA-DR- and S-100-IR dendritic cells, but most likely not epidermal Langerhans cells, may be critically involved in the development or persistence of prurigo nodularis.
The purpose of this study was to examine the appearance and activation of collagenase-1 (MMP-1) in the wound environment. We found that MMP-1 accumulates in the fluid phase of the burn wound environment within 2 d of injury and reaches maximal levels by day 4. Two forms of the enzyme were evident; one that corresponded to proMMP-1 and another that corresponded to a group of high molecular mass (approximately 200 kDa and &gt;200 kDa doublet) MMP-1 containing complexes. ProMMP-1 and MMP-1 containing complexes also occurred in wound fluid from venous stasis ulcers, but neither was detected in mastectomy fluid or in plasma. Levels of the proteinase inhibitor alpha2-macroglobulin in burn fluid and chronic ulcer wound fluid were almost as high as in plasma, and the high molecular mass MMP-1 containing complexes in burn fluid appeared to result from binding between alpha2-macroglobulin and activated MMP-1. These observations provide direct evidence that active MMP-1 in the fluid phase of the wound environment becomes complexed to alpha2-macroglobulin.
Mice with a null mutation introduced in the desmin gene were used to study the mechanical role of intermediate filaments in smooth muscle cells. Vas deferens (VD), urinary bladder (UB) and portal vein (PV) preparations were obtained from adult animals lacking desmin (Des -/-) and from age- and weight-matched wild-type animals (Des +/+). Active force per cross-sectional area was decreased in the smooth muscle of the Des -/- compared with Des +/+ mice (VD to 42%; UB to 34%). Quantitative gel electrophoresis suggests a marginally lower cellular content of myosin, but the organization of the contractile apparatus appeared unchanged by electron microscopy. A similar reduction in stress was measured in Des -/- skinned fibres showing that altered activation mechanisms were not involved. The results indicate that the reduced active force is caused by low intrinsic force generation of the contractile filaments or subtle modifications in the coupling between the contractile elements and the cytoskeleton. The relationship between length and passive stress was less steep in the Des -/- samples and a second length force curve after maximal extension revealed a loss of passive stress. The maximal shortening velocity was reduced in Des -/- skinned VD and UB preparations by approximately 25-40%. This was associated with an increased relative content of the basic essential myosin light chain, suggesting that alterations in the contractile system towards a slower, more economical muscle had occurred. PV preparations showed no difference in mechanical properties in Des +/+ and Des -/- animals, a result that was consistent with the predominance of vimentin instead of desmin in this vascular tissue. In conclusion, the results show that, although intermediate filaments in smooth muscle are not required for force generation or maintenance of passive tension, they have a role in cellular transmission of both active and passive force.
This study examined mRNAs encoding regulators of G protein signaling (RGSs) expressed within the striatum and determined whether their expression in the caudate putamen was altered by amphetamine. RT-PCR techniques were used to clone cDNA probes of RGSs expressed within the rat striatum. Northern blot analysis of caudate putamen and nucleus accumbens RNA determined the relative abundance of RGS mRNA expressed within the caudate putamen and adjacent nucleus accumbens to be RGS 2 &gt; RGS 5 &gt; RGS 16 &gt; RGS 4 = RGS 9 &gt; RGS 8 = RGS 3. A single injection of amphetamine rapidly and transiently induced RGS 2 mRNA. The temporal pattern of induction of RGS 2 strongly resembled that of the immediate early gene c-fos. Levels of mRNAs of RGS 3 and 5 steadily increased over a 4-h interval, as did that of the 6.6-kb transcript of RGS 8. The level of RGS 9 mRNA, which shows strong striatal-specific expression, steadily decreased over a 4-h interval, whereas RGS 4 and 16 and the 3.9-kb transcript of RGS 8 were not significantly affected at any point examined. The ability of amphetamine to alter RGS mRNA expression within the caudate putamen suggests these proteins may play an important role in adaptive processes to psychostimulant exposure.
Phosphorylation of G protein-coupled receptors is considered an important step during their desensitization. In SK-N-BE cells, recently presented as a pertinent model for the studies of the human delta-opioid receptor, pretreatment with the opioid agonist etorphine increased time-dependently the rate of phosphorylation of a 51-kDa membrane protein. Immunological characterization of this protein with an antibody, raised against the amino-terminal region of the cloned human delta-opioid receptor, revealed that it corresponded to the delta-opioid receptor. During prolonged treatment with etorphine, phosphorylation increased as early as 15 min to reach a maximum within 1 h. Phosphorylation and desensitization of adenylyl cyclase inhibition paralleled closely and okadaic acid inhibited the resensitization, a result strongly suggesting that phosphorylation of the delta-opioid receptor plays a prominent role in its rapid desensitization. The increase in phosphorylation of the delta-opioid receptor, as well as its desensitization, was not affected by H7, an inhibitor of protein kinase A and protein kinase C, but was drastically reduced by heparin or Zn2+, known to act as G protein-coupled receptor kinase (GRK) inhibitors. These results are the first to show, on endogenously expressed human delta-opioid receptor, that a close link exists between receptor phosphorylation and agonist-promoted desensitization and that desensitization involves a GRK.
The functional modulation of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors by protein kinase C (PKC) was investigated in cultures enriched in retinal amacrine-like cells. The kainate-evoked [Ca2+]i increase is due to Ca2+ entry through open AMPA receptor channels, because it was blocked by the active isomer of a 2,3-benzodiazepine (LY 303070), an AMPA receptor antagonist. The AMPA receptor response to kainate was potentiated by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, which specifically stimulates PKC, and it was decreased by bisindolylmaleimide I, a selective inhibitor of PKC, as well as by PKC down-regulation. The results indicate not only that the AMPA receptor activation has a PKC requirement, but also that PKC amplifies maximal receptor activation by 100 microM kainate. The effect of PKC activation or inhibition on voltage-gated Ca2+-channel activity was also investigated. Activation of PKC caused inhibition of Ca2+ channels, and the same effect was produced by inhibition of PKC, whereas the inactive analogue of the phorbol ester did not affect channel activity. Our results show an important role for PKC in regulating the function of both AMPA receptors and Ca2+ channels in cultured retina cells.
The present study further investigated whether nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes differ in their ability to up-regulate following chronic exposure to nicotinic agonists. Seven nicotinic agonists were studied for their ability to influence the number of chick alpha4beta2 nAChR binding sites stably transfected in fibroblasts (M10 cells) following 3 days of exposure. The result showed a positive correlation between the Ki values for binding inhibition and EC50 values for agonist-induced alpha4beta2 nAChR up-regulation. The effects of epibatidine and nicotine were further investigated in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells (expressing alpha3, alpha5, beta2, and beta4 nAChR subunits). Nicotine exhibited a 14 times lower affinity for the nAChRs in SH-SY5Y cells as compared with M10 cells, whereas epibatidine showed similar affinities for the nAChRs expressed in the two cell lines. The nicotine-induced up-regulation of nAChR binding sites in SH-SY5Y cells was shifted to the right by two orders of magnitude as compared with that in M10 cells. The epibatidine-induced up-regulation of nAChR binding sites in SH-SY5Y cells was one-fourth that in M10 cells. The levels of mRNA of the various nAChR subunits were measured following the nicotinic agonist exposure. In summary, the various nAChR subtypes show different properties in their response to chronic stimulation.
Findings in vivo and in culture suggest that neuronal activity selectively regulates GABA(A) receptor delta subunit mRNA expression in cerebellar granule neurons. For example, the onset of delta subunit mRNA expression during postnatal maturation coincides with innervation. Furthermore, depolarizing conditions (25 mM KCl) in culture initiate and maintain increases in the delta subunit transcript level. We have now examined whether similar changes in delta subunit mRNA expression occur in cultured neurons after activation of glutamate receptors of the NMDA subtype, an event that mimics granule neuron depolarization by mossy fiber innervation in vivo. Our studies demonstrate that addition of 50 microM NMDA to cultured rat granule neurons maintained in defined, serum-free medium specifically initiates delta subunit transcript expression. Whereas the level of the delta subunit mRNA is increased fourfold by this treatment, levels of other GABA(A) receptor subunit transcripts are not significantly changed. The level of the delta subunit transcript is further increased when NMDA receptor activation is enhanced by maintaining neurons in a Mg2+-free medium to alleviate Mg2+ blockade of the receptor channel. The NMDA-induced elevation in delta subunit transcript expression involves activation of a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase pathway. These findings suggest that activation of an excitatory pathway may regulate the expression of an inhibitory receptor phenotype in cerebellar granule neurons in vivo.
Inorganic phosphate (Pi) plays a vital role in intracellular energy metabolism. Its many effects include stimulation of glucose use, enhancement of high-energy phosphate concentrations, and modulation of cytosolic free [Ca2+]. Cultured fetal rat cortical neurons constitutively import Pi, and cytosolic levels positively correlate with [ATP], [NADPH], and energy charge. In the present study, we demonstrate that the concentration of intracellular Pi is an important determinant of acute neuronal survival after an excitotoxic or oxidative insult to cultured fetal rat cortical neurons. Extracellular Pi dose-dependently enhanced survival of cortical neurons after exposure to NMDA at early (&lt; or = 6 h) time points after termination of the insult. Pi similarly increased neuronal survival after exposure to kainic acid or H2O2. Pi-exposed neurons had higher basal intracellular [Pi], [ATP], and [GSH], and slightly lower cytosolic free [Ca2+], compared with Pi-deprived neurons. Pi-exposed neurons maintained increased [ATP] after exposure to NMDA and displayed reduced formation of reactive oxygen species after exposure to kainic acid or H2O2, compared with Pi-deprived neurons. These findings demonstrate that changes in extracellular and intracellular Pi can affect neuronal survival after excitotoxic or oxidative insults.
The nature of sleep is one of the major sources of dissatisfaction with the quality of life among patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Difficult sleep maintenance (light and fragmented sleep) and difficulties with sleep initiation are the earliest and most frequent sleep disorders observed in these patients. Sleep disorders are also common in the normal elderly population, suggesting that normal aging may play a role in the etiology of sleep disorders in PD. Factor et al. examined the frequency of various sleep disorders in PD and compared them to those of normal elderly subjects. Sleep fragmentation and spontaneous daytime dozing occurred much more frequently in PD patients than in controls. Sleep fragmentation in PD may be due to an increased skeletal muscle activity, disturbed breathing and REM/non-REM variations of the dopaminergic receptor sensitivity. In parkinsonian patients who developed motor fluctuations (on-off phenomenon, wearing-off) during the day, other common sleep-related motor complaints including nocturnal akinesia, dystonia and painful cramps are observed. In a double-blind cross-over study, we compared the efficacy of a single dose of a chronic release formulation of levodopa/carbidopa (Sinemet CR) with that of a placebo in improving sleep-related motor disturbances in a group of 40 fluctuating PD patients. Sinemet CR significantly improved nocturnal akinesia and increased the hours of sleep in this group of patients. Initiation and maintenance of sleep are problems that may not be solved with antiparkinsonian treatment.


We reviewed the incidence studies of intracranial tumors to compare their methodology and identify whether there was evidence of true differences in incidence by time, place, age, or sex. Studies were identified from Medline (1966-95), bibliographies of relevant articles, and personal knowledge. For each study, various methodological details were recorded, along with the age-standardized incidence of all primary tumors and the crude and age/sex-specific incidences of different types of intracranial tumor. Methodological factors which significantly influenced the reported incidence were identified and the results of different studies were compared and combined in a meta-analysis if appropriate. Twenty studies (over 20,000 primary tumors) were included. Higher incidences of primary tumors were found in studies that: used many methods to identify cases (odds ratio [OR] 1.92); included a high percentage of asymptomatic patients (OR 2.03); did not require histologic confirmation of the diagnosis (OR 1.69). Studies from the 1980's reported higher incidences than in previous decades (OR 1.51), probably because of improved methodology. Comparable studies from the 1980's gave widely different incidence rates for all primary tumors (7.1-18.6 per 100,000 per year). In all studies, the incidence of neuroepithelial and meningeal tumors increased dramatically with age. Neuroepithelial tumors were 40% more common in men, whilst meningeal and cranial nerve tumors were about 80% and 40% more common in women, respectively. Further incidence studies are required to establish geographical and secular variations in the incidence of primary intracranial tumors but these must use comparable methodologies. Provisional guidelines for future studies are given.
In passerine songbirds, the lateral portion of the magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (LMAN) plays a vital role in song learning, possibly by encoding sensory information and providing sensory feedback to the vocal motor system. Consistent with this, LMAN neurons are auditory, and, as learning progresses, they evolve from a broadly tuned initial state to a state of strong preference for the bird's own song and acute sensitivity to the temporal order of this song. Moreover, normal synaptic activity in LMAN is required during sensory learning for accurate tutor song copying to occur (). To explore cellular and synaptic properties of LMAN that may contribute to this crucial stage of song acquisition, we developed an acute slice preparation of LMAN from zebra finches in the early stages of sensory learning (18-25 days posthatch). We used this preparation to examine intrinsic neuronal properties of LMAN neurons at this stage and to identify two independent excitatory inputs to these neurons and compare each input's pharmacology and short-term synaptic plasticity. LMAN neurons had immature passive membrane properties, well-developed spiking behavior, and received excitatory input from two sources: afferents from the medial portion of the dorsolateral thalamus (DLM), and recurrent axon collaterals from LMAN itself (&quot;intrinsic&quot; input). These two inputs differed in both their pharmacology and temporal properties. Both inputs were glutamatergic, but LMAN responses to intrinsic inputs exhibited a larger N-methyl--aspartate component than responses to DLM inputs. Both inputs elicited temporal summation in response to pairs of stimuli delivered at short intervals, but -2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) significantly reduced the temporal summation only of the responses to intrinsic inputs. Moreover, responses to DLM inputs showed consistent paired-pulse depression, whereas the responses to intrinsic inputs did not. The differences between these two inputs suggest that intrinsic circuitry plays an important role in transforming DLM input patterns into the appropriate LMAN output patterns, as has been suggested for mammalian thalamocortical networks. Moreover, in LMAN, such interactions may contribute to the profound temporal and spectral selectivity that these neurons will acquire during learning.
The initial processing of corneal sensory input in the rat occurs in two distinct regions of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, at the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition (Vi/Vc) and in laminae I-II at the subnucleus caudalis/spinal cord transition (Vc/C1). Extracellular recording was used to compare the effects of morphine on the evoked activity of corneal-responsive neurons located in these two regions. Neurons also were characterized by cutaneous receptive field properties and parabrachial area (PBA) projection status. Electrical corneal stimulation-evoked activity of most (10/13) neurons at the Vi/Vc transition region was increased [146 +/- 16% (mean +/- SE) of control, P &lt; 0.025] after systemic morphine and reduced after naloxone. None of the Vi/Vc corneal units were inhibited by morphine. By contrast, all corneal neurons recorded at the Vc/C1 transition region displayed a naloxone-reversible decrease (55 +/- 10% of control, P &lt; 0.001) in evoked activity after morphine. None of 13 Vi/Vc corneal units and 7 of 8 Vc/C1 corneal units tested projected to the PBA. To determine if the Vc/C1 transition acted as a relay for the effect of intravenous morphine on corneal stimulation-evoked activity of Vi/Vc units, morphine was applied topically to the dorsal brain stem surface overlying the Vc/C1 transition. Local microinjection of morphine at the Vc/C1 transition increased the evoked activity of 4 Vi/Vc neurons, inhibited that of 2 neurons, and did not affect the remaining 12 corneal neurons tested. In conclusion, the distinctive effects of morphine on Vi/Vc and Vc/C1 neurons support the hypothesis that these two neuronal groups contribute to different aspects of corneal sensory processing such as pain sensation, autonomic reflex responses, and recruitment of descending controls.
Recordings were made from large neurons located in the ventral horn of transverse spinal cord slices from young rats (7-15 days). Whole cell recordings were made simultaneously with two electrodes from the soma of these neurons, visualized using infra-red differential interference contrast optics. Positive identification of motoneurons could not always be achieved. The response of a neuron to a brief pulse of current delivered by one electrode, and recorded by the other electrode, were matched optimally to responses of a compartmental model of the same neuron with an identical current pulse as input. The compartmental model was based on a reconstruction of the neuron, using Biocytin staining. The compartmental model had three free parameters: specific membrane capacitance (Cm), membrane resistivity (Rm), and cytoplasmatic resistivity (Ri), all assumed to be uniform throughout the neuron. The experimental and model responses could be matched unequivocally for four neurons, giving Cm = 2.4 +/- 0.5 microF/cm2, Rm = 5.3 +/- 0. 9 kOmega/cm2, and Ri = 87 +/- 22 Omega/cm. No somatic shunt was required. For the remaining six neurons, a less perfect fit (but still within 95% confidence limits) was indicative of nonhomogeneous membrane properties. The electrotonic length of uncut dendrites was 0.85 +/- 0.14 lambda. The results resolve the issue of a somatic shunt conductance for motoneurons, relegating it to a microelectrode impalement artifact. They are consistent with previous reports on the electrical compactness of motoneurons to steady state currents and voltages. However, the much higher value of Cm (than the previously assumed 1 microF/cm2) implies much greater dendritic attenuation of fast synaptic potentials, and a much enhanced integrative response of motoneurons to synaptic potentials.
Families of peptide neuromodulators are believed to play important roles in neural networks that control behaviors. Here, we investigate the expression and role of one such group of modulators, the myomodulins, in the feeding system of Lymnaea stagnalis. Using a combination of in situ hybridization and antibody staining, expression of the myomodulin gene was confirmed in a number of identified behaviorally significant neuronal types, including the paired B2 motor neurons. The B2 cells were shown to project axons to the proesophagus, where they modulate foregut contractile activity. The presence of the five myomodulin peptide structures was confirmed in the B2 cells, the proesophagus, and the intervening nerve by mass spectrometry. Using a sensitive cell culture assay, evidence that the B2 cells are cholinergic also is presented. Application of four of the five myomodulin peptides to the isolated foregut increased both contraction frequency and tonus, whereas the main effect of acetylcholine (ACh) application was a large tonal contraction. The fifth myomodulin peptide (pQIPMLRLamide) appeared to have little or no effect on gut motility. Coapplication of all five myomodulin peptides gave a greater increase in tonus than that produced by the peptides applied individually, suggesting that corelease of the peptides onto the gut would produce an enhanced response. The combined effects that the myomodulin peptides and ACh have on foregut motility can mimic the main actions of B2 cell stimulation.
The convergence pattern of cardiac receptors, pulmonary C-fibers, carotid chemoreceptor, and baroreceptor afferents onto neurons within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) was studied in the anesthetized (pentobarbitone sodium, 40 mg/kg,) paralyzed and artificially ventilated cat. Extra- and intracellular recordings were made from NTS neurons while stimulating both cardiac receptors by aortic root injections of veratridine (1-3 micrograms/kg) and pulmonary C-fibers by a right atrial injection of phenylbiguanide (10-20 micrograms/kg). The ipsilateral carotid body was stimulated by using arterial injection of CO2-saturated bicarbonate solution, whereas inflation of the ipsilateral carotid sinus was used to activate baroreceptors. The ipsilateral cardiac vagal branch, cervical vagus, and carotid sinus nerves were stimulated electrically (1 Hz, 0.2-1 ms, 1-35 V). In 78 NTS neurons recorded either extracellularly (n = 47) or intracellularly (n = 31), electrical stimulation of the cardiac branch of the vagus nerve evoked synaptic potentials (spikes and/or excitatory postsynaptic potentials) with an onset latency between 4 and 220 ms. Some neurons displayed both short and long latency inputs(15.5 +/- 1.8 and 160.0 +/- 8.5 ms; n = 14). Of these 78 neurons, 24 responded to veratridine stimulation of cardiac receptors (i.e., cardioreceptive neurons) by exhibiting an augmenting-decrementing discharge of 37 +/- 4 s in duration with a peak frequency of 30 +/- 5 Hz. Convergence from other cardiorespiratory receptors was noted involving either carotid chemoreceptors (n = 7) or pulmonary C-fibers (n = 4) or from both carotid chemoreceptors and pulmonary C-fibers (n = 6). In contrast, only one cardioreceptive NTS neuron was activated by distension of the carotid sinus. Recording sites recovered were confined to the medial NTS at the level of the area postrema and extended caudally into the commissural subnucleus. Our results indicate a convergence of carotid chemoreceptor and pulmonary C-fiber afferent inputs to cardioreceptive NTS neurons. With the paucity of baroreceptor inputs to these neurons it is suggested that sensory integration within the NTS may reflect regulatory versus defensive or protective reflex control.
Dorsal root afferents form synaptic connections on motoneurons a few days after motoneuron clustering in the rat lumbar spinal cord, but frequent spontaneous synaptic potentials are detected only after birth. To increase our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the differentiation of synaptic transmission, we examined the developmental changes in properties of spontaneous synaptic transmission at early stages of synapse formation. Spontaneous postsynaptic currents (PSCs) and tetrodotoxin (TTX)-resistant miniature PSCs (mPSCs) were measured in spinal motoneurons of embryonic and postnatal rats using whole cell patch-clamp recordings. Spontaneous PSC frequencies were higher than mPSC frequencies in both embryonic and postnatal motoneurons, suggesting that even at embryonic stages, when action-potential firing rate was low, presynaptic action potentials played an important role in triggering spontaneous PSCs. After birth, the twofold increase in spontaneous PSC frequency was attributed to an increase in action-potential-independent quantal release rather than to a higher rate of action-potential firing. In embryonic motoneurons, the fluctuations in peak amplitude of spontaneous PSCs were normally distributed around single peaks with modal values similar to those of mPSCs. These data indicated that early in synapse differentiation spontaneous PSCs were primarily composed of currents generated by quantal release. After birth, mean mPSC amplitude increased by 50% but mean quantal current amplitude did not change. Synchronous, multiquantal release was apparent in postnatal motoneurons only in high-K+ extracellular solution. Comparison of the properties of miniature excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs and mIPSCs) demonstrated that mean mEPSC frequency was higher than mIPSC frequency, suggesting that either excitatory synapses outnumbered inhibitory synapses or that the probability of excitatory transmitter release was higher than the release of inhibitory neurotransmitters. The finding that mIPSC duration was several-fold longer than mEPSC duration implied that despite their lower frequency, inhibitory currents could modulate motoneuron synaptic integration by shunting incoming excitatory inputs for prolonged time intervals.
Dentate granule cells communicate with their postsynaptic targets by three distinct terminal types. These include the large mossy terminals, filopodial extensions of the mossy terminals, and smaller en passant synaptic varicosities. We examined the postsynaptic targets of mossy fibers by combining in vivo intracellular labeling of granule cells, immunocytochemistry, and electron microscopy. Single granule cells formed large, complex &quot;mossy&quot; synapses on 11-15 CA3 pyramidal cells and 7-12 hilar mossy cells. In contrast, GABAergic interneurons, identified with immunostaining for substance P-receptor, parvalbumin, and mGluR1a-receptor, were selectively innervated by very thin (filopodial) extensions of the mossy terminals and by small en passant boutons in both the hilar and CA3 regions. These terminals formed single, often perforated, asymmetric synapses on the cell bodies, dendrites, and spines of GABAergic interneurons. The number of filopodial extensions and small terminals was 10 times larger than the number of mossy terminals. These findings show that in contrast to cortical pyramidal neurons, (1) granule cells developed distinct types of terminals to affect interneurons and pyramidal cells and (2) they innervated more inhibitory than excitatory cells. These findings may explain the physiological observations that increased activity of granule cells suppresses the overall excitability of the CA3 recurrent system and may form the structural basis of the target-dependent regulation of glutamate release in the mossy fiber system.
AMPA receptors are hetero-oligomers composed of subsets of four distinct subunits, termed GluR1, GluR2, GluR3, and GluR4. Using quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analysis, we have found that light-induced degeneration of rat retina dramatically suppresses developmental progression of the flip-to-flop alternative splicing switch of retinal GluR1 mRNA. When animals were raised under standard conditions of a 12 hr light/dark cycle (LD 12:12), the flop-to-flip ratio in GluR1 and GluR2 dramatically increased between postnatal day 10 (P10) and P28, and the ratios continued to increase gradually up to P84. When animals were raised in complete darkness, this increase was delayed in GluR1 between P21 and P42. In addition, the increase of the flop-to-flip ratio in GluR1 was strongly suppressed after P21 under conditions of continuous illumination from P2. This is significant because P21 is just after the eye opening and is the timing of the onset of light-induced retinal degeneration. This suppression of the increase of the flop-to-flip ratio was specific to GluR1 and was not observed in GluR2-4. Immunocytochemistry and immunoblot analysis suggested no changes in either the distribution or expression of GluR1 protein in the light-damaged retina measured at P84. When rats were raised under continuous illumination from P2 to P21 followed by LD 12:12 from P22 to P84, retinal degeneration did not progress after P22. In such animals the flop-to-flip ratio, once decreased to approximately 50% of the control (LD 12:12) at P21, was restored to the control level at P84. These findings demonstrate that developmental progression of the flip-to-flop exon switch in retinal GluR1 is affected by lighting conditions, and that light-induced retinal degeneration contributes to the mechanism of suppression of this splicing switch.
Proper motor function requires the precise matching of motoneuron and muscle fiber properties. The lack of distinguishing markers for early motoneurons has made it difficult to determine whether this matching is established by selective innervation during development or later via motoneuron-muscle fiber interactions. To examine whether chick motoneurons selectively innervate regions of their target containing either fast or slow muscle fibers, we backlabeled neurons from each of these regions with lipophilic dyes. We found that motor axons projecting to fast and slow muscle regions sorted into separate but adjacent fascicles proximally in the limb, long before they reached the muscle. More distally, these fascicles made divergent pathfinding decisions to course directly to the appropriate muscle fiber region. In contrast, axons projecting to different areas of an all-fast muscle did not fasciculate separately and became more intermingled as they coursed through the limb. Selective fasciculation of fast- and slow-projecting motoneurons was similar both before and after motoneuron cell death, suggesting that motoneurons specifically recognized and fasciculated with axons growing to muscle regions containing the appropriate muscle fiber type. Taken together, these results strongly support the hypothesis that &quot;fast&quot; and &quot;slow&quot; motoneurons are molecularly distinct before target innervation and that they use these differences to selectively fasciculate, pathfind to, and branch within the correct muscle fiber region from the outset of neuromuscular development.
The second messengers cAMP and inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate have been implicated in olfaction in various species. The odorant-induced cGMP response was investigated using cilia preparations and olfactory primary cultures. Odorants cause a delayed and sustained elevation of cGMP. A component of this cGMP response is attributable to the activation of one of two kinetically distinct cilial receptor guanylyl cyclases by calcium and a guanylyl cyclase-activating protein (GCAP). cGMP thus formed serves to augment the cAMP signal in a cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) manner by direct activation of adenylate cyclase. cAMP, in turn, activates cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) to negatively regulate guanylyl cyclase, limiting the cGMP signal. These data demonstrate the existence of a regulatory loop in which cGMP can augment a cAMP signal, and in turn cAMP negatively regulates cGMP production via PKA. Thus, a small, localized, odorant-induced cAMP response may be amplified to modulate downstream transduction enzymes or transcriptional events.
The role of L-type Ca2+ channels in the induction of synaptic plasticity in hippocampal slices of aged (22-24 months) and young adult (4-6 months) male Fischer 344 rats was investigated. Prolonged 1 Hz stimulation (900 pulses) of Schaffer collaterals, which normally depresses CA3/CA1 synaptic strength in aged rat slices, failed to induce long-term depression (LTD) during bath application of the L-channel antagonist nifedipine (10 microM). When 5 Hz stimulation (900 pulses) was used to modify synaptic strength, nifedipine facilitated synaptic enhancement in slices from aged, but not young, adult rats. This enhancement was pathway-specific, reversible, and impaired by the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5). Induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in aged rats, using 100 Hz stimulation, occluded subsequent synaptic enhancement by 5 Hz stimulation, suggesting that nifedipine-facilitated enhancement shares mechanisms in common with conventional LTP. Facilitation of synaptic enhancement by nifedipine likely was attributable to a reduction ( approximately 30%) in the Ca2+-dependent K+-mediated afterhyperpolarization (AHP), because the K+ channel blocker apamin (1 microM) similarly reduced the AHP and promoted synaptic enhancement by 5 Hz stimulation. In contrast, apamin did not block LTD induction using 1 Hz stimulation, suggesting that, in aged rats, the AHP does not influence LTD and LTP induction in a similar way. The results indicate that, during aging, L-channels can (1) facilitate LTD induction during low rates of synaptic activity and (2) impair LTP induction during higher levels of synaptic activation via an increase in the Ca2+-dependent AHP.
The substructure and responses of individual 100-nm synaptic vesicles to osmotic stress have been probed with an atomic force microscope (AFM) operating in tapping mode. Cholinergic synaptic vesicles from the electric organ of Torpedo californica were imaged continuously as the osmolarity of the buffer was decreased. Vesicles in hyposmotic buffer lysed to form flat circular structures on the mica surface with a diameter about two times that of intact vesicles and a thickness of 7.2 +/- 1.7 nm, which can accommodate the lipid bilayer plus the internal proteoglycan. Images of intact vesicles in air reveal creases in the membrane surface. Phase mode AFM images of lysed vesicles in air show the presence of a material not seen on intact vesicles that might be intravesicular proteoglycan released from the membrane at very low osmotic and ionic strength.

Loss of cholinergic neurotransmission is implicated in memory impairment and cognitive dysfunction after head injury. The aim of the present study was to investigate presynaptic markers, particularly in relation to cholinergic neurotransmission in human postmortem brain from patients who died following a head injury and age-matched controls. Choline acetyltransferase activity and high-affinity nicotinic receptor binding sites were assayed in the inferior temporal gyrus, cingulate gyrus, and superior parietal cortex of 16 head-injured patients and 8 controls. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was determined in the left cingulate gyrus from the same patient groups. In the head-injured group, choline acetyltransferase activity was consistently reduced in each cortical region compared to control subjects. The presence of a subdural haematoma and a prolonged survival period after head injury tended to be associated with lower choline acetyltransferase activity. In contrast to the marked reduction in choline acetyltransferase activity, nicotine receptor binding was unchanged in head-injured compared to control patients. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the cingulate gyrus was reduced by approximately 30% (p &lt; 0.05) in the head-injured group compared to controls. Correlation of choline acetyltransferase activity with synaptophysin immunoreactivity indicated there is a deficit of cholinergic presynaptic terminals in postmortem human brain following head injury.

5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) administration enhances GABAergic synaptic activity recorded in pyramidal neurons of the CA1 region of hippocampus. Previous studies have attributed this effect to the activation of HT-5(3) receptors located on GABAergic interneurons. During unrelated experiments, we noticed that under our recording conditions, 5-HT can still increase GABAergic synaptic activity after the complete blockade of 5-HT3 receptors. This indicated the involvement of an additional 5-HT receptor subtype. Therefore, we reinvestigated the effects of 5-HT on GABAergic synaptic activity recorded in pyramidal cells of the CA1 region. The ability of 5-HT to increase GABAergic synaptic activity in the presence of 5-HT3 receptor blockade was mimicked by the selective 5-HT2 agonist (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane and blocked by the selective 5-HT2 antagonist ketanserin. This indicated that the additional 5-HT receptor belongs to 5-HT2 receptor family. 5-HT2 receptor activation resulted in an increase in the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents as well as a shift in their amplitude distribution toward larger sizes. These effects were absent in the presence of tetrodotoxin. We interpret these results to indicate that 5-HT2 receptors activate GABAergic interneurons in the slice, leading to an increase in GABAergic synaptic activity onto pyramidal cells of the CA1 region.
Hypersecretion of cortisol occurs in numerous patients with major depression and normalizes with clinical recovery during the course of chronic antidepressant treatment. These clinical data suggest that investigation of the effects of antidepressant treatments on the regulation of the brain-pituitary-adrenal axis may assist in elucidating the therapeutic basis of antidepressant actions. In the present investigation, both swim stress and acute fluoxetine challenge increased release of corticosterone and progesterone to reflect an activation of the brain pituitary-adrenal axis. The effects of chronic antidepressant treatment (21 days) on corticosterone and progesterone secretion induced by these challenges were investigated. Chronic fluoxetine treatment (5 mg/kg/day) completely blocked the increased secretion of corticosterone and progesterone in response to the acute fluoxetine challenge. Chronic treatment with desipramine, imipramine or amytriptyline (15 mg/kg/day) also markedly attenuated fluoxetine-induced corticosterone and progesterone secretion. However, chronic treatment with the monoamine oxidase inhibitors, phenelzine (5 mg/kg) and tranylcypromine (5 mg/kg), did not affect this hormonal response to acute fluoxetine challenge. Plasma levels of fluoxetine after acute challenge were not significantly different for the various chronic antidepressant treatment conditions from the chronic saline controls; therefore, an increase in the metabolism of fluoxetine can not explain the antagonism of the fluoxetine-induced hormonal response after chronic antidepressant treatment. In contrast to the effects of selected antidepressants on acute fluoxetine-induced steroid release, chronic treatment with imipramine (20 mg/kg/day), fluoxetine (5 mg/kg/day) or phenelzine (5 mg/kg) did not significantly alter this swim stress-induced corticosterone or progesterone secretion. Because chronic fluoxetine and tricyclic antidepressant drugs blocked the acute action of fluoxetine to increase adrenal cortical secretion, but did not alter swim stress-induced secretion of these steroids, we propose that distinct neurochemical mechanisms control fluoxetine and swim stress-induced steroid release. We speculate that the substantial adaptive response to those chronic antidepressant treatments, which minimize the effect of acute fluoxetine challenge to increase in corticosterone and progesterone secretion, may be relevant to the therapeutic actions of these drugs.
The present study investigated whether spinal administration of S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba (S-(+)-3-IBG) or its stereoisomer, R-(-)-3-isobutylgaba (R-(-)-3-IBG), are effective in reducing the hyperalgesia and swelling observed after injection of kaolin and carrageenan into the knee joint of the rat. The effects of pretreatment and post-treatment of S-(+)-3-IBG, R-(-)-3-IBG and artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) on the swelling, pain-related behavior scores and the heat hyperalgesia induced by knee joint inflammation were compared. Infusion of either S-(+)-3-IBG or R-(-)-3-IBG through a microdialysis fiber, implanted in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, for 1.5 h before injection of kaolin and carrageenan resulted in a 20 to 30% reduction in joint swelling compared with aCSF-treated controls, and prevented the development of heat hyperalgesia and spontaneous pain. In contrast, infusion of either stereoisomer after the development of inflammation reduced the hyperalgesia but did not reduce the amount of joint swelling compared with aCSF-treated animals. In summary, S-(+)-3-IBG and R-(-)-3-IBG are effective antihyperalgesic agents when administered both before and after joint inflammation. In addition, if administered before injection of kaolin and carrageenan into the knee joint this drug can attenuate joint inflammation. Both the antihyperalgesic and anti-inflammatory properties of this drug probably are mediated through a central neurogenic mechanism.
PNU-151774E [(S)-(+)-2-(4-(3-fluorobenzyloxy) benzylamino) propanamide, methanesulfonate] is a structurally novel anticonvulsant having Na+ channel-blocking and glutamate release-inhibiting properties, as well as being a MAOB inhibitor. Its anticonvulsant activity was evaluated in the maximal electroshock (MES) test and in chemically induced seizures (bicuculline, BIC; picrotoxin, PIC; 3-mercaptopropionic acid, 3-MPA; pentylenetetrazole, PTZ; strychnine, STRYC). Behavioral toxicity was evaluated in the rotorod test with measurements of spontaneous locomotor activity and passive avoidance responding. The anti-MES activity of PNU-151774E in both mice and rats, respectively, produced ED50 values of 4.1 mg/kg and 6.9 mg/kg after i.p. administration or 8.0 mg/kg and 11.8 mg/kg after p.o. administration. Oral anti-MES activity in rats peaked between 1 and 2 h after administration and was evident up to 4 h. This activity was related to brain levels of unchanged drug which peaked at 37 mM within 1 h. Oral ED50 values (mg/kg) effective in blocking tonic extension seizures by chemical convulsants in mice were: BIC (26.9), PIC (60.6), 3-MPA (21.5), STRYC (104.1) and PTZ (26.8). This potency was associated with high therapeutic indices relative to: MES (78.2), BIC (23.3), PIC (10.3), 3-MPA (29.1) and STRYC (6.0). No evidence of tolerance to anti-MES activity after repeated dosing was observed. PNU-151774E did not show anti-absence seizure activity as assessed by i.v. infusion of PTZ. PNU-151774E impaired spontaneous activity in rats only at the oral rotorod ED50 dose of 700 mg/kg p.o. PNU-151774E did not impair passive avoidance responding at doses up to 40 times the oral MES ED50 dose in rats. These results indicate that PNU-151774E is an anticonvulsant effective in various seizure models with a wide therapeutic window, and with a low potential to induce tolerance and locomotor or cognitive side effects.
By examining the literature concerning early intervention with antipsychotic medications, and how it affects long-term morbidity, this article will review the concept that early intervention with antipsychotic medications improves the long-term course of schizophrenia. It also looks at the potential long-term effects of discontinuing antipsychotic medications early in the course of schizophrenia. It appears that early intervention with antipsychotic medications decreases some of the long-term morbidity associated with schizophrenia. Some of the implications of this finding are discussed in the context of both clinical practice and clinical research.

Transient linear acceleration stimuli have been shown to elicit eighth nerve vestibular compound action potentials in birds and mammals. The present study was undertaken to better define the nature of the adequate stimulus for neurons generating the response in the chicken (Gallus domesticus). In particular, the study evaluated the question of whether the neurons studied are most sensitive to the maximum level of linear acceleration achieved or to the rate of change in acceleration (da/dt, or jerk). To do this, vestibular response thresholds were measured as a function of stimulus onset slope. Traditional computer signal averaging was used to record responses to pulsed linear acceleration stimuli. Stimulus onset slope was systematically varied. Acceleration thresholds decreased with increasing stimulus onset slope (decreasing stimulus rise time). When stimuli were expressed in units of jerk (g/ms), thresholds were virtually constant for all stimulus rise times. Moreover, stimuli having identical jerk magnitudes but widely varying peak acceleration levels produced virtually identical responses. Vestibular response thresholds, latencies and amplitudes appear to be determined strictly by stimulus jerk magnitudes. Stimulus attributes such as peak acceleration or rise time alone do not provide sufficient information to predict response parameter quantities. Indeed, the major response parameters were shown to be virtually independent of peak acceleration levels or rise time when these stimulus features were isolated and considered separately. It is concluded that the neurons generating short latency vestibular evoked potentials do so as &quot;jerk encoders&quot; in the chicken. Primary afferents classified as &quot;irregular&quot;, and which traditionally fall into the broad category of &quot;dynamic&quot; or &quot;phasic&quot; neurons, would seem to be the most likely candidates for the neural generators of short latency vestibular compound action potentials.
Far-field recordings of short latency vestibular responses to pulsed cranial translation are composed of a series of positive and negative peaks occurring within 10 ms following stimulus onset. In the bird, these vestibular evoked potentials (VsEPs) can be recorded noninvasively and have been shown in the chicken and quail to depend strictly upon the activation of the vestibular component of the eighth nerve. The utility of the VsEP in the study of vestibular systems is dependent upon a clear understanding of the neural sources of response components. The primary aim of the current research in the chicken was to critically test the hypotheses that 1) responses are generated by both peripheral and central neurons and 2) peaks P1 and N1 originate from first order vestibular neurons, whereas later waves primarily depend on activity in higher order neurons. The principal strategy used here was to surgically isolate the eighth nerve as it enters the brainstem. Interruption of primary afferents of the eighth nerve in the brainstem substantially reduced or eliminated peaks beyond P2, whereas P1 and N1 were generally spared. Surgical sections that spared vestibular pathways had little effect on responses. The degree of change in response components beyond N1 was correlated with the extent of damage to central vestibular relays. These findings support the conclusion that responses are produced by both peripheral and central elements of the vestibular system. Further, response peaks later than N1 appear to be dependent upon central relays, whereas P1 and N1 reflect activity of the peripheral nerve. These findings clarify the roles of peripheral and central neurons in the generation of vestibular evoked potentials and provide the basis for a more useful and detailed interpretation of data from vestibular response testing.
Three astronauts underwent preflight, inflight, and postflight testing of spontaneous ocular torsion and of ocular counterrolling (OCR), reflexes governed by the gravity-responsive otolith organs in the inner ear. One astronaut, A, had a 30-day space mission on Euromir '94 and was examined monocularly with SensoMotoric Instruments video-oculography (VOG). The other two astronauts, B and C, were studied with a binocular VOG and flew an 180-day mission on Euromir '95. In space, spontaneous eye torsion in the upright position was found to be substantially offset from baseline Earth-based recordings in all three subjects for the duration of the flights. In addition, the binocular studies showed a marked torsional disconjugacy. On return to Earth, offset and torsional disconjugacy persisted for many days. OCR in response to 30 degrees right and left tilt was examined preflight and postflight. Compared to preflight, Astronaut A showed reduced OCR immediately postflight, which increased over the next few days. Both Astronauts B and C had increased OCR postflight, which gradually approached but did not achieve the preflight values over 13 days postflight. The adaptation of ocular torsion in space in one astronaut and not in the other two, and slow adaptation postflight, may reflect the lack of visual feed-back and the open loop nature of the otolith-ocular torsion reflex.
Sensory-motor control of upright human posture may be organized in a top-down fashion such that certain head-trunk coordination strategies are employed to optimize visual and/or vestibular sensory inputs. Previous quantitative models of the biomechanics of human posture control have examined the simple case of ankle sway strategy, in which an inverted pendulum model is used, and the somewhat more complicated case of hip sway strategy, in which multisegment, articulated models are used. While these models can be used to quantify the gross dynamics of posture control, they are not sufficiently detailed to analyze head-trunk coordination strategies that may be crucial to understanding its underlying mechanisms. In this paper, we present a biomechanical model of upright human posture that extends an existing four mass, sagittal plane, link-segment model to a five mass model including an independent head link. The new model was developed to analyze segmental body movements during dynamic posturography experiments in order to study head-trunk coordination strategies and their influence on sensory inputs to balance control. It was designed specifically to analyze data collected on the EquiTest (NeuroCom International, Clackamas, OR) computerized dynamic posturography system, where the task of maintaining postural equilibrium may be challenged under conditions in which the visual surround, support surface, or both are in motion. The performance of the model was tested by comparing its estimated ground reaction forces to those measured directly by support surface force transducers. We conclude that this model will be a valuable analytical tool in the search for mechanisms of balance control.
Pseudorabies virus (PRV), a swine neurotropic alphaherpesvirus, is known to invade the central nervous system (CNS) of a variety of animal species through peripherally projecting axons, replicate in the parent neurons, and then pass transsynaptically to infect other neurons of a circuit. Studies of the human pathogen herpes simplex virus type 1 have reported differences in the direction of transport of two strains of this virus after direct injection into the primate motor cortex. In the present study we examined the direction of transport of virulent and attenuated strains of PRV, utilizing injections into the rat prefrontal cortex to evaluate specific movement of virus through CNS circuitry. The data demonstrate strain-dependent patterns of infection consistent with bidirectional (anterograde and retrograde) transport of virulent virus and unidirectional (retrograde) transport of attenuated PRV from the site of injection. The distribution of infected neurons and the extent of transsynaptic passage also suggest that a release defect in the attenuated strain reduces the apparent rate of viral transport through neuronal circuitry. Finally, injection of different concentrations of virus influenced the onset of replication within a neural circuit. Taken together, these data suggest that viral envelope glycoproteins and virus concentration at the site of injection are important determinants of the rate and direction of viral transport through a multisynaptic circuit in the CNS.


The cloning of the full-length cDNA encoding meltrin beta (ADAM19), one of the metalloprotease-disintegrins expressed in mouse myogenic cells, revealed that the meltrin beta gene encodes a membrane protein closely related to meltrin alpha (ADAM12) which participates in myotube formation in vitro. To delineate the functions of meltrin alpha and beta, we examined the expression patterns of their transcripts during embryogenesis. The meltrin alpha gene is activated in condensed mesenchymal cells that give rise to skeletal muscle, bones and visceral organs. Meltrin beta mRNA, in contrast, is markedly expressed in craniofacial and dorsal root ganglia and ventral horns of the spinal cord, where peripheral neuronal cell lineages differentiate. Heart, skeletal muscle, intestine and lung also express meltrin beta mRNA transiently. Although the meltrin alpha and beta transcripts exhibit distinct expression patterns during embryogenesis, both genes are mainly activated in mesenchymal cells that are derived from both mesoderm and ectoderm.
In this study we investigate the gene regulatory functions of Drosophila Fish-hook (Fish), a high mobility group (HMG) Sox protein that is essential for embryonic segmentation. We show that the Fish HMG domain binds to the vertebrate Sox protein consensus DNA binding sites, AACAAT and AACAAAG, and that this binding induces an 85 degrees DNA bend. In addition, we use a heterologous yeast system to show that the NH2-terminal portion of Fish protein can function as a transcriptional activator. Fish directly regulates the expression of the pair rule gene, even-skipped (eve), by binding to multiple sites located in downstream regulatory regions that direct formation of eve stripes 1, 4, 5, and 6. Fish may function along with the Drosophila POU domain proteins Pdm-1 and Pdm-2 to regulate eve transcription, as genetic interactions were detected between fish and pdm mutants. Finally, we determined that Fish protein is expressed in a dynamic pattern throughout embryogenesis, and is present in nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments.
This article presents a large-scale study that collected word identification thresholds and errors in the fragmentation task for all four-letter French words. In the first part of this article, we identify some of the variables (e.g., word frequency, neighborhood size, letter confusability) that affect performance in the fragmentation task. In the second part, we analyze individual response performance and identify different response strategies. We demonstrate that the interactive activation model can account for individual response strategies by adapting two of its original parameters: word-letter feedback and letter-word inhibition. In the third part, we demonstrate that the adaptation of the interactive activation model to the fragmentation task makes it possible to successfully simulate a facilitatory frequency effect on identification thresholds, an inhibitory neighborhood size effect on error rates, and an inhibitory letter confusability effect on identification thresholds. When the task-specific processes of the fragmentation task are specified and individual response strategies are considered, the interactive activation model provides a parsimonious architecture for modeling the task-independent processes involved in word perception.
The small GTPase RhoA plays a critical role in signaling pathways activated by serum-derived factors, such as lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), including the formation of stress fibers in fibroblasts and neurite retraction and rounding of soma in neuronal cells. Previously, we have shown that ectopic expression of v-Crk, an SH2/SH3 domain-containing adapter proteins, in PC12 cells potentiates nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth and promotes the survival of cells when NGF is withdrawn. In the present study we show that, when cultured in 15% serum or lysophosphatidic acid-containing medium, the majority of v-Crk-expressing PC12 cells (v-CrkPC12 cells) display a flattened phenotype with broad lamellipodia and are refractory to NGF-induced neurite outgrowth unless serum is withdrawn. v-Crk-mediated cell flattening is inhibited by treatment of cells with C3 toxin or by mutation in the Crk SH2 or SH3 domain. Transient cotransfection of 293T cells with expression plasmids for p160ROCK (Rho-associated coiled-coil-containing kinase) and v-Crk, but not SH2 or SH3 mutants of v-Crk, results in hyperactivation of p160ROCK. Moreover, the level of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate is increased in v-CrkPC12 cells compared to the levels in mutant v-Crk-expressing cells or wild-type cells, consistent with PI(4)P5 kinase being a downstream target for Rho. Expression of v-Crk in PC12 cells does not result in activation of Rac- or Cdc42-dependent kinases PAK and S6 kinase, demonstrating specificity for Rho. In contrast to native PC12 cells, in which focal adhesions and actin stress fibers are not observed, immunohistochemical analysis of v-CrkPC12 cells reveals focal adhesion complexes which are formed at the periphery of the cell and are connected to actin cables. The formation of focal adhesions correlates with a concomitant upregulation in the expression of focal adhesion proteins FAK, paxillin, alpha3-integrin, and a higher-molecular-weight form of beta1-integrin. Our results indicate that v-Crk activates the Rho-signaling pathway and serves as a scaffolding protein during the assembly of focal adhesions in PC12 cells.
We studied early changes in gene expression during fibroblast contraction of stressed collagen matrices. The level of c-fos mRNA increased dramatically and peaked 50 to 60 min after matrix contraction was initiated. This response did not require serum and could not be accounted for simply by disruption of the actin cytoskeleton. Increased c-fos mRNA levels required Ca2+ influx but not the cyclic AMP or extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK 1/2) signaling pathways, both of which are activated when fibroblasts contract stressed collagen matrices. The levels of two other immediate-early genes, fosb and c-jun, also increased transiently after fibroblast contraction, whereas the levels of fra-1, fra-2, c-myc, and the transcription factor NF-kappaB remained the same, indicating that fibroblast contraction caused changes in a selective group of genes. The increase in c-fos mRNA during contraction of stressed collagen matrices may reflect a unique role for c-fos in mechanoregulated events at the end of wound repair.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) mediates neuronal survival through a receptor complex composed of the c-Retproto-oncogene and GFR alpha-1, a member of a family of GPI-anchored receptors. The extent of cross-talk between GDNF and GFR alpha receptors and its possible significance for c-Ret activation is presently unclear. Using chemical crosslinking we demonstrate here a specific interaction between GDNF and GFR alpha-2 expressed in COS cells, albeit of a lower affinity than the one between GDNF and GFR alpha-1. In addition, GFR alpha-2 mediated crosslinking of GDNF of c-Ret as well as ligand-dependent stimulation of c-Ret tyrosine phosphorylation. We also describe the isolation of a novel, more divergent member of the GFR alpha family, GFR alpha-3, which did not bind GDNF directly, but was able to mediate crosslinking of GDNF to c-Ret when both receptors were coexpressed in COS cells. Thus, all three GFR alpha receptors mediate GDNF binding to c-Ret with efficiencies GFR alpha-1 &gt; GFR alpha-2 &gt; GFR alpha-3. c-Ret showed high levels of constitutive tyrosine autophosphorylation upon overexpression in COS cells, which was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by coexpression with any of the GFR alpha receptors, suggesting that GFR alpha s may also provide a gain control mechanism to increase the signal-to-noise ratio of the response to ligand. GFR alpha-2 showed a dynamic pattern of expression in rat brain, distinct from that of GFR alpha-1, characterized by high expression in cortex, basal forebrain, and specific layers of the olfactory bulb, and low or no expression in substantia nigra, cerebellum, and motor nuclei. GFR alpha-2, but not GFR alpha-3 mRNA expression was highly induced in several nuclei after stimulation with kainic acid. In contrast to GFR alpha-1 and GFR alpha-2, GFR alpha-3 expression in postnatal and adult brain was highly restricted. Developmentally regulated expression of GFR alpha-3 was, however, detected in several peripheral organs and ganglia. Together, these results indicate complementary roles for GFR alpha receptors in the regulation of c-Ret activity and the maintenance of distinct neuronal circuits in the central and peripheral nervous systems.
Transient cerebral ischemia (5 min) releases unesterified fatty acids from membrane phospholipids, increasing brain concentrations of fatty acids for up to 1 h following reperfusion. To understand the reported anti-ischemic effect of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761), we monitored its effect on brain fatty acid reincorporation in a gerbil-stroke model. Both common carotid arteries in awake gerbils were occluded for 5 min, followed by 5 min of reperfusion. Animals were infused intravenously with labeled arachidonic (AA) or palmitic acid (Pam), and rates of incorporation of unlabeled fatty acid from the brian acyl-CoA pool were calculated by the model of Robinson et al. (1992), using quantitative autoradiography and biochemical analysis of brain acyl-CoA. Animals were treated for 14 d with 50 or 150 mg/kg/d EGb 761 or vehicle. Ischemia-reperfusion had no effect on the rate of unlabeled Pam incorporation into brain phospholipids from palmitoyl-CoA; this rate also was unaffected by EGb 761. In contrast, ischemia-reperfusion increased the rate of incorporation of unlabeled AA from brain arachidonoyl-CoA by a factor of 2.3-3.3 compared with the control rate; this factor was further augmented to 3.6-5.0 by pretreatment with EGb 761. There is selective reincorporation of AA compared with Pam into brain phospholipids following ischemia. EGb 761 further accelerates AA reincorporation, potentially reducing neurotoxic effects of prolonged exposure of brain to high concentrations of AA and its metabolites.
beta1- and beta3-adrenergic receptors (AR) are the predominant beta-AR subtypes in adipocytes, and analysis of native and recombinant beta-AR has revealed several pharmacological and biochemical differences between these subtypes. This study used chimeric and mutated rat beta-AR expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells to examine the basis of certain characteristic differences in the agonist properties of catecholamines and prototypic beta3-AR agonists. The exchange of sequence beyond transmembrane (TM) region 6 between the beta-AR subtypes had dramatic and reciprocal effects on the affinity and efficacy of the prototypic beta3-AR agonists BRL 37,344 and CL 316,243, without affecting the interactions with catecholamines. Mutation of Phe350 and Phe351 in TM7 of the beta1-AR to Ala and Leu found in the beta3-AR was sufficient to allow activation by prototypic beta3-AR agonists. Interestingly, this mutation did not affect catecholamine action and it did not impair the ability of propranolol to block the actions of isoproterenol or the selective beta3-AR agonists. beta1-AR containing beta3-AR sequence from predicted TM5 through TM6 exhibited reduced affinity for catecholamines without altering agonist potency, suggesting enhanced coupling efficiency. Inclusion of the homologous beta1-AR sequence in the beta3-AR, however, did not produce reciprocal effects. These results are the first to define a major determinant of beta3-AR subtype-selective agonism in TM7 and demonstrate that the determinants of selective phenethanolamines, catecholamines, and propranolol action are distinct.
The effects of the neuroleptic flupenthixol on the expression of the genes coding for the mitochondrial ubiquinone and cytochrome b5 reductases have been studied because of the importance of these enzymes in energy metabolism, oxidative stress and also because similar but oppositely directed changes have been previously observed in the cerebral cortex from schizophrenics. The neuroleptic flupenthixol reduces the expression in rats of the gene coding for NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase as measured by in situ hybridisation and its enzymic manifestation. Flupenthixol also reduces the enzymic activity of the mitochondrial NADH-ubiquinone reductase, and it has been previously shown that mRNA from the mitochondrially coded parts of the enzyme are reduced by the drug. Both the cis- and therapeutically less active trans-flupenthixol were found to produce these changes in rats. Post-mortem brain tissue from schizophrenics who have received neuroleptic medication have reduced levels of both reductases as measured enzymically, Lymphocyte samples from schizophrenics also have reduced levels of both reductases compared with normals. The superoxide anion O2- is the principle agent of oxidative stress and both the cytochrome b5 and the ubiquinone reductase enzymes were semi-purified from sheep liver and shown to produce appreciable amounts of superoxide. Superoxide production is reduced in brain homogenates from rats treated with flupenthixol. Its production is also reduced in brain tissue and lymphocytes from schizophrenics receiving neuroleptic medication. We conclude that neuroleptic medication reduces the expression of both the ubiquinone and cytochrome b5 reductase and among the effects of this reduction is a decrease in the production of neurotoxic superoxide.
The prevalence of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) in an area of Northwestern Italy (Socio-Sanitary District of Cossato, 61,830 inhabitants) was analyzed and the reliability of &quot;drug tracer methodology&quot; evaluated. The patients were identified by both conventional epidemiological methodology (general practitioners, consultant neurologist, computerized archives) and drug tracer methodology (registered levodopa prescriptions). The diagnosis of PD was clinically verified by examining all patients. Of 146 patients examined, 104 were affected by PD; the remaining by other types of parkinsonism. The crude point prevalence rate (October 20, 1991) was 168 per 100,000 population (95% confidence interval [95% CI] 138-204), with a progressive increase up to the 80-89 age group. Using &quot;tracer&quot; methodology, the estimated crude point prevalence rate was 196 (95% CI 163-235), with an overestimation of the prevalence in older patients and women and an underestimation in younger and less seriously affected cases. The uneven distribution of PD in Italy appears to be the result of, at least in part, methodological factors. &quot;Tracer&quot; methodology may cause biases in the evaluation of the epidemiological characteristics of PD, especially if the clinical diagnosis of cases identified by this method is not carefully verified. Nevertheless, it appears useful as an additional source of cases for descriptive surveys.
The basal lamina of muscle fibers plays a crucial role in the development and function of skeletal muscle. An important laminin receptor in muscle is integrin alpha7beta1D. Integrin beta1 is expressed throughout the body, while integrin alpha7 is more muscle-specific. To address the role of integrin alpha7 in human muscle disease, we determined alpha7 protein expression in muscle biopsies from 117 patients with unclassified congenital myopathy and congenital muscular dystrophy by immunocytochemistry. We found three unrelated patients with integrin alpha7 deficiency and normal laminin alpha2 chain expression. To determine if any of these three patients had mutations of the integrin alpha7 gene, ITGA7, we cloned and sequenced the full-length human ITGA7 cDNA, and screened the patients for mutations. One patient had splice mutations on both alleles; one causing a 21-bp insertion in the conserved cysteine-rich region, and the other causing a 98-bp deletion. A second patient was a compound heterozygote for the same 98-bp deletion, and had a 1-bp frame-shift deletion on the other allele. A third showed marked deficiency of ITGA7 mRNA. Clinically, these patients showed congenital myopathy with delayed motor milestones. Our results demonstrate that mutations in ITGA7 are involved in a form of congenital myopathy.

As we move through the environment, the pattern of visual motion on the retina provides rich information about our movement through the scene. Human subjects can use this information, often termed &quot;optic flow&quot;, to accurately estimate their direction of self movement (heading) from relatively sparse displays. Physiological observations on the motion-sensitive areas of monkey visual cortex suggest that the medial superior temporal area (MST) is well suited for the analysis of optic flow information. To test whether MST is involved in extracting heading from optic flow, we perturbed its activity in monkeys trained on a heading discrimination task. Electrical microstimulation of MST frequently biased the monkeys' decisions about their heading, and these induced biases were often quite large. This result suggests that MST has a direct role in the perception of heading from optic flow.
Synapsins, a family of synaptic vesicle proteins, have been shown to regulate neurotransmitter release; the mechanism(s) by which they act are not fully understood. Here we have studied the role of domain E of synapsins in neurotransmitter release at the squid giant synapse. Two squid synapsin isoforms were cloned and found to contain a carboxy (C)-terminal domain homologous to domain E of the vertebrate a-type synapsin isoforms. Presynaptic injection of a peptide fragment of domain E greatly reduced the number of synaptic vesicles in the periphery of the active zone, and increased the rate and extent of synaptic depression, suggesting that domain E is essential for synapsins to regulate a reserve pool of synaptic vesicles. Domain E peptide had no effect on the number of docked synaptic vesicles, yet reversibly inhibited and slowed the kinetics of neurotransmitter release, indicating a second role for synapsins that is more intimately associated with the release process itself. Thus, synapsin domain E is involved in at least two distinct reactions that are crucial for exocytosis in presynaptic terminals.


In this study we tested the hypothesis that the efficacy of L-glutamate to stimulate [3H]MK-801 binding to the NMDA receptor/channel complex is altered as a function of aging. L-Glutamate, or related excitatory amino acid (EAA), is the endogenous neurotransmitter of the NMDA receptor/channel complex. These studies examined the efficacy and potency with which L-glutamate produces receptor activation, channel opening and subsequent MK-801 binding as a function of increasing age by comparing dose-response curves (EC50 and Emax) from 6-, 12-, and 24-month-old F-344 rats. The number of NMDA receptors, as determined by [3H]MK-801 binding in the presence of a saturating concentration of L-glutamate, was reduced in the inner frontal cortex, entorhinal cortex and the lateral striatum in aged rats when compared with young adults. When a range of L-glutamate concentrations were used, differences in Emax were noted in the same brain regions in addition to several others in aged and middle-aged animals when compared with young-adult animals. No changes in EC50 values were noted in any of the brain regions at either age when compared with young-adults.
Complex motor skill learning, but not mere motor activity, leads to an increase in synapse number within the cerebellar cortex. The present experiment used quantitative electron microscopy to determine which synapse types were altered in number. Adult female rats were allocated to either an acrobatic condition (AC), a voluntary exercise condition (VX), or an inactive condition (IC). AC animals were trained to traverse an elevated obstacle course requiring substantial motor coordination to complete. VX animals were housed with unlimited access to running wheels and IC animals received no motor training but were handled briefly each day. Results showed the AC animals to have significantly more parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapses than both the VX and IC animals. No other synapse type was significantly altered. Thus, the learning-dependent increase in synapse number observed within the cerebellar cortex is accomplished primarily through the addition of parallel fiber synapses.
The interaction of the nicotinic agonist (R,S)-3-pyridyl-1-methyl-2-(3-pyridyl)-azetidine (MPA) with different nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes was studied in cell lines and rat cortex. MPA showed an affinity (Ki = 1.21 nM) which was higher than anatoxin-a &gt; (-)-nicotine &gt; (+)-[R]nornicotine &gt; (-)-[S]nornicotine &gt; and (+)-nicotine, but lower than cytisine (Ki = 0.46 nM) in competing for (-)-[3H]nicotine binding in M10 cells, which stably express the recombinant alpha4beta2 nAChR subtype. A one-binding site model was observed in all competing experiments between (-)-[3H]nicotine binding and each of the agonists studied in M10 cells. MPA showed a 13-fold higher affinity for (-)-[3H]nicotine binding sites compared to the [3H]epibatidine binding sites in rat cortical membranes. In human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, which predominantly express the alpha3 nAChR subunit mRNA, MPA displaced [3H]epibatidine binding from a single population of the binding sites with an affinity in the same nM range as that observed MPA in displacing [3H]epibatidine binding in rat cortical membranes. Chronic treatment of M10 cells with MPA significantly up-regulated the number of (-)-[3H]nicotine binding sites in a concentration dependent manner. Thus MPA appears to have higher affinity to alpha4-subunit containing receptor subtype than alpha3-subunit containing receptor subtype of nAChRs. Furthermore MPA binds to alpha4beta2 receptor subtype with higher affinity than (-)-nicotine and behaves, opposite to cytisine, as a fult agonist in up-regulating the number of nAChRs.
Alpha-Bungarotoxin (alpha-BuTx) binds with high affinity to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) of most species, mainly to sequences around the two cysteines at positions 192 and 193 of the alpha-subunit, but other sequences of the alpha-subunit and of the adjacent gamma- or epsilon- and delta-subunits are also important in the native molecule. Alpha-BuTx binds strongly to human AChR but the short alpha neurotoxins, for instance Erabutoxin B, are relatively ineffective at the human neuromuscular junction. In this article we compare the affinity of 125I-alpha-BuTx for Torpedo and human muscle AChR and the ability of neurotoxins to inhibit this binding. We examine the contribution to alpha-BuTx binding of the three amino acids that differ between human and Torpedo AChR alpha-185-196. In addition, we show that an alpha-185-199, peptide that binds strongly to 125I-alpha-BuTx and can inhibit its binding in solution, is also capable of protecting the AChR on a cell line or at the neuromuscular junction. Such peptides might be useful in the treatment of acute envenoming or the autoantibody-mediated block of AChR function that can occur in human disorders.
Stearyl-Nle-VIP (SNV) is a novel agonist of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) exhibiting a 100-fold greater potency than the parent molecule and specificity for a receptor associated with neuronal survival. Here, the developmental and protective effects of SNV were investigated in vivo using two models of developmental retardation, hypoxia and cholinergic blockade. In both cases chronic administration of SNV during development provided protective effects. Water maze experiments on the weaned animals have demonstrated a prophylactic action for SNV and enhancement of spatial memory in animals exposed to a cholinotoxin. SNV may act by providing neuroprotection, thereby improving cognitive functions. This work is dedicated to Prof. R.J. Wurtman whose inspiration and leadership in the field of neuroscience and cognition is beyond comparison.
Dopamine (DA) has been suggested to be a protective factor in the gastrointestinal tract but neither a source of DA nor its exact targets of action have been identified. In this study, we demonstrate high levels of DA (and DOPA) which persist after chemical sympathectomy in the gastric juice of rats. Immunostaining and in situ hybridization histochemistry reveal the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), DA transporter and vesicular monamine transporters in the acid-producing parietal cells. Like DA, TH enzyme activity remains after chemical sympathectomy. We also demonstrate active reuptake and storage of DA that indicates a regulated release of this neurohormone from parietal cells. DA D1b receptor mRNA is the most abundant DA receptor subtype in gastric and duodenal epithelium. Therefore, we suggest that selective DA D1b receptor agonists may be useful adjuncts in the treatment of duodenal and gastric ulcers. Gastric epithelia possess the hallmarks of functional DA neuroendocrine cells, suggesting that DA has an important role in self-protective mechanisms of the gastrointestinal tract. These findings should allow elucidation of DA role in normal and disease states in the stomach and duodenum.
Working memory is a fundamental cognitive building block involved in the short-term maintenance and transformation of information. In neuropsychological studies, working memory has been shown to be of limited capacity; however, the neurophysiological concomitants of this capacity limitation have not been explored. In this study we used the [15O] water PET rCBF technique and statistical parametric mapping to examine normal subjects while they performed two cognitive tasks, both individually and simultaneously. One task was the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, a complex reasoning task involving working memory, and the other was a rapidly paced auditory verbal shadowing task. When both tasks were performed simultaneously, there were significant decrements in performance compared with the individual task performance scores, indicating that cognitive workload had been increased. Analysis of the rCBF maps showed that when the two tasks were performed together, in contrast to when they were performed separately, there was less prefrontal activation. These results suggest that increases in cognitive workload do not necessarily recruit and then sustain cortical neurophysiological resources to a maximum, but rather may actually be accompanied by a diminution in cortical activity.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an investigator-initiated disorder that serves as an animal model for the common human demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis. Both diseases are typified by disseminated perivascular and submeningeal cuffs in the central nervous system (CNS). It was shown recently that chemokines are integral to the pathogenesis of EAE. In the present study we analyzed the gene expression of three chemokines, RANTES, MIP-1alpha and GRO-alpha, at the onset of acute EAE, and correlated that expression with the intensity of inflammatory changes in the CNS. We showed that all three chemokines are upregulated simultaneously with symptom onset of acute EAE, and that chemokine expression correlates with the intensity of inflammation in the CNS. This consistent relationship supports the hypothesis that chemokines are relevant to leukocyte accumulation in CNS parenchyma.

Kumagusu Minakata (1867-1941), a Japanese genius devoted to natural history and folklore, is famous for his immense range of works, including his discovery of many new varieties of mycetozoa, or slime molds. His diary reveals that he was affected by epilepsy. In this study of his brain, we adopted a method of measuring the volume of the hippocampi by MRI of postmortem brain and found evidence of right hippocampal atrophy. This finding, together with the striking parallels between his behavior and the known behavioral syndrome in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), suggests that he was affected by TLE. The postmortem imaging analysis of brain, as performed in this study, offers a bridge between neuroscience and classic psychopathologic approaches to the creativity of geniuses.
It has been shown previously that some patients with chronic fatigue syndrome show an abnormal increase in plasma lactate following a short period of moderate exercise, in the sub-anaerobic threshold exercise test (SATET). This cannot be explained satisfactorily by the effects of 'inactivity' or 'deconditioning', and patients with abnormal lactate responses to exercise (SATET +ve) have been found to have significantly fewer Type 1 muscle fibres in quadriceps biopsies than SATET -ve patients. We performed phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy on forearm muscles of 10 SATET +ve patients, 9 SATET -ve patients and 13 sedentary volunteers. There were no differences in resting spectra between these groups but at the end of exercise, intracellular pH in the SATET +ve patients was significantly lower than in both the SATET -ve cases and controls (P &lt; 0.03), and the SATET +ve patients also showed a significantly lower ATP synthesis rate during recovery (P &lt; 0.01), indicating impaired mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. These observations support other evidence which indicates that chronic fatigue syndrome is a heterogeneous disorder, and confirms the view that some chronic fatigue syndrome patients have a peripheral component to their fatigue.
Presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) modulate the release of transmitter from most central synapses. However, difficulties in recording from presynaptic structures has lead to an incomplete understanding of the mechanisms underlying these fundamental processes. By recording directly from presynaptic reticulospinal axons and postsynaptic motoneurons of the lamprey spinal cord, we have obtained electrophysiological and optical evidence that vertebrate presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors modulate neurotransmitter release at this synapse through two distinct mechanisms: (1) mGluR activation in the presynaptic terminal depresses transmitter release by activating a presynaptic K+ current, and (2) mGluR activation enhances transmitter release by amplifying the action potential-evoked presynaptic Ca2+ signal by rapidly releasing Ca2+ from intracellular stores in a Ca2+-dependent manner. Furthermore, this effect is mediated by physiological release of glutamate from the presynaptic terminals. These autoreceptor-mediated processes are likely to generate complex effects on transmitter release evoked by repetitive stimulation.
One model of neuronal polarity (Dotti and Simons, 1990) proposes that neurons and polarized epithelia use similar mechanisms to sort membrane proteins. To explore this hypothesis, we used viral vectors to express proteins in cultured neurons and assessed their distribution using quantitative immunofluorescence microscopy. Basolateral epithelial proteins were polarized to dendrites; more significantly, mutations of sequences required for their basolateral targeting in epithelia also disrupted dendritic targeting. Unexpectedly, apical proteins were not polarized to axons but were expressed at roughly equal amounts in dendrites and axons. These data provide strong evidence that targeting of basolateral and dendritic proteins depends on common mechanisms. In contrast, the sorting of proteins to the axon requires signals that are not present in apical proteins.
Previous studies have suggested that the representation of space is distorted in patients with hemispatial neglect. To examine the nature of the altered spatial representation, we developed an analog of neglect in normal subjects using bisections of the Judd visual illusion (e.g., &lt;---&lt;) whose direction (facing left/right/both) and fin angle (14 degrees/45 degrees/76 degrees) were orthogonally varied. Subjects made bisection errors that deviated significantly in a direction opposite to that in which the fins pointed, and these deviations decreased as fin angle increased. We replicated these findings in a second task in which subjects were given the midpoint and placed the two fins at the ends of an imaginary shaft (e.g., &lt; x &lt;, note: dot = true center). These findings suggest that the geometric properties of the display have a strong influence on the representation of space, and thus may be used to induce a distorted perception of space analogous to that observed in patients with visuospatial neglect.
Event-related potentials from 61 scalp sites were used to examine the brain processes subserving recognition memory for object forms and spatial locations. Subjects memorized line drawings of highly familiar objects and their spatial locations within a two-dimensional matrix. Prior to the test phases a cue indicated whether object-based or spatially-based recognition judgements were required. Recognition judgements were faster and more accurate for spatially-based than for object-based judgements. A variety of topographical differences in the ERP waveforms as a function of recognition task emerged: First, when the cue indicated that object-based judgements were required, negative slow wave activity extending for several hundred ms with a maximum at frontal recording sites was obtained. Conversely when spatially-based judgements were required, slow wave activity developed over parieto-occipital areas. Second, early portions of the old/new effects evoked by the test items (i.e. 300-600 ms after stimulus onset) showed a similar anterior-posterior dissociation as a function of recognition task. Third, for object-based, but not for spatially-based, judgements, late old/new effects (i.e. 700-1600 ms) were found with a clear maximum at right frontal recordings. The results are consistent with the view that functionally and anatomically different brain systems are involved in recognition memory for object form and spatial location. They further suggest that the retrieval of object forms involves conceptual semantic integration processes.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from rat ventral pallidal (VP) and mediodorsal thalamic (MD) cells in vivo and the effects of antipsychotic drugs on their basal and evoked electrophysiological characteristics were assessed. Administration of either haloperidol or clozapine caused a significant decrease in the average firing rate, accompanied by a hyperpolarization of the membrane potential in the VP cells recorded. However, neither drug induced a substantial change in the other basic membrane properties of the MD cells or VP cells tested. In addition, in 50% of the MD cells tested, both antipsychotic drugs caused a change in spike discharge from an oscillatory pattern to a tonic discharge mode. In rats that had received ibotenic acid lesions of the prefrontal cortex (PFCtx) 4-8 weeks prior to recording, cells in the VP exhibited similar changes in firing frequency in response to haloperidol administration as those in the intact rats. However, in contrast to the intact rats, MD cells recorded from rats with PFCtx lesions exhibited a significant increase in firing rate after haloperidol administration. The results from this study suggest that the prefrontal cortex plays a role in modulating the response of the thalamus to antipsychotic drugs.
Over the last 30 years, studies of the in vivo activity of neurotransmitters and other endogenous factors in the brain have comprised a major effort in the neurosciences. Historically, the technology of push-pull perfusion was utilized as a major approach to investigations in this field. In the last 10 years, cerebral dialysis has been used as an alternative method essentially for the same scientific purpose, since the perfusion technique was viewed as difficult and excessively damaging to tissue. This review considers the representative literature in which both systems have been used to study local neurochemical responses to a drug or other chemical factor, a physiological condition or other situation. In addition, new experiments have been undertaken to compare, in the same animal and at the same time, the utility and properties inherent in the techniques of push-pull perfusion and cerebral dialysis in terms of the profile of a neurotransmitter activity and their local histopathological effects. A miniaturized 33/26 ga push-pull needle and a 24 ga dialysis probe were implanted simultaneously in the left and right caudate nuclei, respectively, in the anesthetized rat. An artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was perfused simultaneously through both devices at a rate of 10 microliters/min in the push-pull cannula and at 1.0 or 2.0 microliters/min in the dialysis probe. Within a series of 8-10 successive perfusions, excess K+ ions in a concentration of either 30 or 60 mM were incorporated in the CSF and delivered simultaneously to both the push-pull cannula and dialysis probe. Samples of perfusate and dialysate were assayed chromatographically by coulometric HPLC detector and quantitated in terms of the pg/min efflux of dopamine (DA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). The results showed that the resting level of DA was almost undetectable in dialysate samples from either structure; in push-pull perfusates the recovery of DA ranged between 7.0 to 10.0 pg/min, which was increased threefold by excess K+ ions. The recovery of DA and the three metabolites in samples of push-pull perfusate was two to four times that in samples of dialysate during the condition of excess K+ ions. Post-mortem histological analysis of the sites of perfusion and dialysis revealed little or no differences in the cytological damage induced by either the perfusion needle or dialysis probe. Finally, the advantages and limitations of each of these two experimental approaches to in vivo analysis of neurotransmitter efflux are reviewed in relation to the selection of an open or closed system for the on-line study of in vivo neurochemical events.
Whole-cell recordings were obtained from cuneate neurons in anesthetized, paralysed cats. Stimulation of the contralateral medial lemniscus permitted us to separate projection cells from presumed interneurons. Pericruciate motor cortex electrical stimulation inhibited postsynaptically all the projection cells (n=57) and excited all the presumed interneurons (n=29). The cuneothalamic cells showed an oscillatory and a tonic mode of activity. Membrane depolarization and primary afferent stimulation converted the oscillatory to the tonic mode. Hyperpolarizing current steps applied to projection neurons induced a depolarizing sag and bursts of conventional spikes in current-clamp records. This indicates the probable existence of low-threshold and hyperpolarization-activated inward currents. Also, the hyperpolarization induced on projection cells by motor cortex stimulation deinactivated a low-threshold conductance that led to bursting activity. The presumed cuneate interneurons had larger and more proximally located peripheral receptive fields than the cuneothalamic cells. Finally, experiments specifically designed to test whether motor cortex-induced presynaptic inhibition could be postsynaptically detected gave negative results. These results demonstrate, for the first time, that the cuneothalamic cells possess both bursting and tonic firing modes, and that membrane depolarization, whether produced by injection of positive current or by primary afferent stimulation, converts the oscillatory into the tonic mode.
Tenascin-C is an extracellular matrix glycoprotein involved in cell adhesion and migration, and neurite outgrowth. Since these processes have been found to be under thyroid control in the developing rat brain, we have investigated the effect of congenital hypothyroidism on tenascin-C expression. At birth, in situ hybridization studies in hypothyroid rats show an abnormal up-regulation of tenascin-C in some areas (caudate-putamen, geniculate nuclei, ependymal epithelium of the lateral ventricles, hippocampus) and down-regulation in others (occipital and retrosplenial cortex, subiculum). With subsequent development, hypothyroid animals show higher tenascin-C expression also in the upper layers of the cerebral cortex and subplate, and the Bergmann glia of the cerebellum. Significantly, thyroxine treatment of hypothyroid rats led to normalization of tenascin-C levels in most areas. In agreement with the messenger RNA data, hypothyroid rats contain an uniformly higher level of immunoreactive tenascin-C protein throughout the brain, particularly in the cerebellum. Suggesting a direct cellular effect, thyroid hormone also decreases tenascin-C expression in two glial cell lines (C6, B3.1) expressing thyroid receptors. Our results show that congenital hypothyroidism causes specific alterations in the pattern of tenascin-C expression in the rat brain which may at least partially be responsible for some of the developmental disturbances observed in this syndrome.
Fas (APO-1/CD95) is a cell surface receptor, initially identified in lymphoid cells, but more recently detected in the central nervous system under pathologic conditions. Ligation of the fas receptor by fas ligand or by agonist antibodies induces apoptotic cell death in most fas-expressing cells. In the current study, using dissociated cultures of human fetal central nervous system-derived cells, we detected fas expression on astrocytes but not on neurons. Such expression differs from our previous results using cultures of human adult central nervous system-derived cells, which demonstrated fas expression on oligodendrocytes but not on astrocytes; the oligodendrocytes were susceptible to cell death via this pathway. Using multiple assays of cell death, including nuclear propidium iodide and TUNEL staining to detect nuclear-directed injury, cytofluorometric propidium iodide inclusion, and lactate dehydrogenase release to detect membrane-directed injury, we found that fas ligation, however, did not induce cell death in the cultured fetal astrocytes. Cytokines that augmented (gamma-interferon) or inhibited (interleukin-4) fetal astrocyte proliferation did not alter fas expression or resistance to fas ligation. Cells obtained immediately ex vivo from human fetal but not from adult central nervous system tissue expressed fas; such expression was restricted to astrocytes as assessed by dual-stain immunohistochemistry. The fetal central nervous system cells did not express fas ligand. Our findings indicate that fas expression on central nervous system cells may reflect their state of maturity; expression may not, however, always be coupled to susceptibility to cell death via this pathway.
The ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is implicated as a component of the neuronal network for audiogenic seizure. This implication is based on immunocytochemical labeling of the proto-oncogene, c-fos, and microinjection studies in the severe substrain of genetically epilepsy-prone rats that exhibits tonic seizures. The present study examines changes in acoustically evoked neuronal responses within the periaqueductal gray in the awake and behaving genetically epilepsy-prone rat as compared to normal Sprague Dawley rats. Two populations of neuronal response were observed in the periaqueductal gray of both genetically epilepsy-prone and normal rats. Most of the neurons exhibited long latencies (&gt;10 ms) and lower thresholds, and were more responsive to the acoustic stimulus. The remainder of the periaqueductal gray neurons exhibited short latencies (&lt;10 ms) and higher thresholds, and exhibited minimal responsiveness to the acoustic stimulus. The mean threshold of periaqueductal gray acoustically evoked neuronal firing of short-latency neurons was significantly higher than normal in the genetically epilepsy-prone rat. The number of acoustically evoked action potentials was significantly elevated in the genetically epilepsy-prone rat, particularly at the highest acoustic intensity and at a repetition rate of 1/2 s. In the genetically epilepsy-prone rat, the number of action potentials exhibited adaptation (habituation) at 1/s as compared to 1/2 s across stimulus intensities. Habituation in normal rats was observed primarily at high intensities (95 dB sound pressure level or above). During wild running and tonic seizures in the genetically epilepsy-prone rat, periaqueductal gray neurons. which had diminished firing rates due to habituation, exhibited a tonic firing pattern. Just (1-5 s) prior to the onset of tonic convulsive behaviors, an increase in the rate of periaqueductal gray tonic firing was observed. These patterns of abnormal neuronal firing suggest that periaqueductal gray neurons may be involved in generation of the tonic seizure behavioral component of audiogenic seizure in the genetically epilepsy-prone rat, which will need confirmation in other audiogenic seizure models.
To elucidate the mechanisms of neural damage after brain ischemia, rat neocortical slices were exposed to anoxia at room temperature for 1 h, and other slices were prepared from the neocortical blocks exposed to anoxia at room temperature for 1 h. Field potentials elicited by the stimulation of layer IV were recorded in supragranular layers in these slices. No clear damage was observed electrophysiologically or morphologically in these slices. In contrast, a complete loss of the trans-synaptic field potentials and a decrease in the density of the cells stained with Neutral Red were elicited by injecting an anoxic medium into the neocortical blocks at room temperature for 1 h. In the slice preparations, the injection of the anoxic medium failed to reproduce clear neural damage, while a combination of mechanical stress and anoxia elicited a complete loss of trans-synaptic potentials; this was alleviated by Gd3+ (50 microM) and D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (100 microM). These results indicate that a combination of mechanical stress and anoxia produces acute and severe neural damage even at room temperature in vitro. The mechanism of the damage and the relationship between the neural damage in vitro and in vivo are discussed.
Mechanisms underlying the development of acute tolerance to the analgesic effect of opiates were investigated. In the rat tail-flick test, administration of naloxone (1 mg/kg, s.c.) 40 min after heroin (1 mg/kg, s.c.) was shown to induce hyperalgesia, indicative of a short-onset, opiate-activated pain facilitatory systems masking the opiate analgesia. Pretreatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate blocked, in a dose-dependent manner, the naloxone-induced hyperalgesia and potentiated the heroin-induced analgesia. Using a schedule of two successive injections of 1 mg/kg heroin, acute tolerance was indicated by a marked reduction (-52%) in analgesia induced by the second dose. After pretreatment with dizocilpine maleate, the acute tolerance was abolished and the analgesic effects of both injections of heroin were strongly potentiated. These observations indicate that acute tolerance appears after the first exposure to opiates and stems from opiate activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent pain facilitatory systems.
Capsaicin, the vanilloid responsible for the pungent taste of hot peppers, binds to receptors found primarily in polymodal nociceptors. Capsaicin initially stimulates polymodal nociceptors and subsequently inhibits them from responding to a variety of stimuli. This property makes it useful clinically as an analgesic and anti-inflammatory compound. There is mounting, albeit indirect, evidence for the existence of several subtypes of vanilloid receptors. One such piece of evidence comes from studying analogues of capsaicin, such as phorbol 12-phenylacetate 13 acetate 20-homovanillate. This compound binds to (capsaicin) vanilloid receptors on sensory neurons, but unlike capsaicin it is non-pungent and does not produce hypothermia. To determine how sensory neurons respond to phorbol 12-phenylacetate 13 acetate 20-homovanillate, and to compare these responses with those evoked by capsaicin, whole-cell patch-clamp measurements were performed on cultured rat trigeminal ganglion neurons. It was found that 63% of the neurons held at -60 mV were activated by 3 microM, phorbol 12-phenylacetate 13 acetate 20-homovanillate, and 87% of these were also activated by 1 microM capsaicin. In a given neuron, phorbol 12-phenylacetate 13 acetate 20-homovanillate, like capsaicin, could activate kinetically distinct inward currents. The current-voltage curves characterizing phorbol 12-phenylacetate 13 acetate 20-homovanillate responses were asymmetric and had reversal potentials at -5.8 +/- 6.0 mV and 10.4 +/- 4 mV. The averaged dose-response curves for phorbol 12-phenylacetate 13 acetate 20-homovanillate were fit to the Hill equation and had binding constants (K(1/2)s) of 2.73 microM and 0.96 microM and Hill coefficients (ns) of approximately 1 for a rapidly- and slowly-activating current, respectively. These parameters are consistent with those obtained from binding experiments and calcium-influx experiments on sensory nerves. Repeated applications of phorbol 12-phenylacetate 13 acetate 20-homovanillate every 3 min caused a complete reduction in the rapidly-activating currents leaving only a reduced slowly-activating current. This provides strong evidence for the independence of these currents and the existence of subtypes of vanilloid receptors. Additional evidence for the existence of receptor subtypes is that 10 microM capsazepine, a specific and competitive inhibitor of capsaicin-evoked responses, did not inhibit the phorbol 12-phenylacetate 13 acetate 20-homovanillate-induced currents in some neurons and partially inhibited them in other neurons. Thus, there are capsazepine-sensitive and capsazepine-insensitive subtypes of vanilloid receptors. In summary, we have obtained electrophysiological and pharmacological evidence for distinct subtypes of vanilloid receptors.
This paper provides the first detailed description of the trigeminal innervation of the inner ear vasculature. This system provides a newly discovered neural substrate for rapid vasodilatatory responses of the inner ear to high levels of activity and sensory input. Moreover, this discovery may provide an alternative mechanism for a set of clinical disturbances (imbalance, hearing loss, tinnitus and headache) for which a central neural basis has been speculated. Iontophoretic injections of biocytin were made via a glass microelectrode into the trigeminal ganglion in guinea-pigs. Tissue for histological sections was obtained 24 h later. Labeled fibers from the injection site were observed as bundles around the ipsilateral spiral modiolar blood vessels, as individual labeled fibers in the interscala septae, and in the ipsilateral stria vascularis. The dark cell region of the cristae ampullaris in the vestibular labyrinth was also intensively labeled. No labeled fibers were observed in the neuroepithelium of the cristae ampullaris or the semicircular canals. These results confirm and localize an earlier indirect observation of the trigeminal ganglion projection to the cochlea. This innervation may play a role in normal vascular tone and in some inner ear disturbances, e.g., sudden hearing loss may reflect an abnormal activity of trigeminal ganglion projections to the cochlear blood vessels.
The anatomical relationship between vagal afferents and brain nitric oxide synthase containing terminals in the nucleus tractus solitarii was studied by means of anterograde tracing combined with immunocytochemistry and immuno-electron microscopy. Biotinylated dextran amine was injected into the nodose ganglion with a glass micropipette. Four to eight days following the injection, regions of the nucleus tractus solitarii containing biotinylated dextran amine-labelled vagal afferents and those containing nitric oxide synthase-immunopositive terminals were congruent. Many neurons exhibiting nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity were found within the biotinylated dextran amine-containing terminal field. However dense labeling of terminals with biotinylated dextran amine precluded determination if the terminals were nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive. Therefore, we combined degeneration of vagal afferents after removal of one nodose ganglion with nitric oxide synthase immuno-electron microscopy. Axon terminals that possessed characteristic vesicle clusters and were partially or completely engulfed by glial processes were identified as degenerating vagal afferents. Degenerating axon terminals comprised 38% of the total axon terminals in the nucleus tractus solitarii in a sample of sections; and of the degenerating axon terminals, 67% were nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive. Nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity was present in 41% of the non-degenerating axon terminals. Prominent staining of dendrites for nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity indicated that much of the nitric oxide synthase in the nucleus tractus solitarii is not derived from peripheral afferents. Of the total number of dendritic profiles sampled, half were nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive. Our data support the hypothesis that nitric oxide or nitric oxide donors may be present in primary vagal afferents that terminate in the nucleus tractus solitarii. While this study confirms that vagal afferents contain brain nitric oxide synthase, it demonstrates for the first time that the majority of nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity in the nucleus tractus solitarii is found in intrinsic structures in the nucleus. In addition, our data show that second or higher order neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii may be nitroxidergic and receive both nitroxidergic and non-nitroxidergic vagal input.
The distribution of the calcium-binding protein calretinin in the thalamus of normal human individuals was studied with immunohistochemistry. Calretinin immunoreactivity was weak in the geniculate bodies and in nuclei of the ventral and posterior groups, moderate in the reticular nucleus and in nuclei of the anterior, medial, and lateral groups, and strong in nuclei of the midline group and anterior intralaminar nuclei. The mediodorsal nucleus was unique among thalamic nuclei because it contained a wide variety of intensely immunostained perikarya embedded in a moderately-labelled neuropil. The reticular nucleus displayed several small and uniformly distributed neuronal clusters composed of immunostained perikarya lying in a moderately-labelled neuropil. Intense and uniform immunostaining was observed in all midline nuclei and in the anterior intralaminar nuclei, including the paracentral and central lateral nuclei. These nuclei, which harboured numerous intensely-stained perikarya lying in a dense immunoreactive neuropil, were the most strongly-immunoreactive structures of the entire human thalamus. At the level of the posterior intralaminar nuclei, the central median nucleus was virtually free of immunostaining whereas the parafascicular nucleus was moderately labelled. The nucleus submedius located just beneath the central median/parafascicular complex displayed a very intense calretinin immunostaining. This study has provided evidence for the presence of the protein calretinin in the human thalamus. The pattern of distribution of calretinin, as delineated in the present study, suggests that this calcium-binding protein may participate in various subcortical and cortical thalamic systems involved in the modulation of emotional and motivational states.
Run-down of GABA activated Cl- currents was found when rat cerebellar granule cells in culture were studied by the whole-cell patch-clamp technique in the absence of ATP in the pipette medium. This event could be prevented, even in the absence of ATP, by using the perforated-patch technique or by adding to the pipette medium either a blocker of protein tyrosine phosphatase, sodium vanadate, or deltamethrin, a blocker of the protein serine/threonine phosphatase calcineurin. Conversely, run-down could be partially induced, even in the presence of ATP, by blockers of tyrosine kinases. A reduction of GABA(A) receptor activity was also found in outside-out membrane patches when ATP was not on the membrane inside. The run-down phenomenon involved all three conductance levels found in these patches: 11, 20 and 30 pS. In all three cases it was due to a reduction of channels' open probability. The single-channel experiments showed that also in this case run-down was prevented by either sodium vanadate or deltamethrin on the membrane cytoplasmic side. Overall, through relatively unphysiological conditions (cells in culture and patch-clamp techniques), the study of the run-down phenomenon shows that the tyrosine phosphorylation state of GABA(A) receptors is of importance in maintaining it in a proper functional state. The data also show that tyrosine phosphorylation state is controlled by a protein tyrosine phosphatase, whose activity in turn is blocked via serine/threonine phosphorylation.
Expression of the glycine receptor was investigated in membranes prepared from primary cultures of mouse cerebellar granule cells and postnatal mouse cerebellum using the antagonist [3H]strychnine for ligand binding. Scatchard analysis of the binding data obtained from P17 cerebellum showed a single population of binding sites (K(D) approximately 6 nM) and [3H]strychnine binding to membranes prepared from cultured neurons and P17 cerebellum was found to have the same sensitivity to the glycinergic agonists glycine, beta-alanine and taurine. The development of [3H]strychnine binding sites in cultured cerebellar granule cells and cerebellum showed opposing profiles. [3H]strychnine binding to primary cultures increased significantly during the culture period whereas during development in vivo the number of binding sites decreased over time and was hardly detectable in the adult cerebellum. Release of preloaded D-[3H]aspartate evoked by 40 mM K+ from granule cells cultured for seven days was inhibited by glycine by about 50%. Beginning after seven days in culture the ability of glycine to inhibit transmitter release declined to no inhibition after 17 days in culture. Experiments with the non-competitive antagonist, picrotoxinin, showed no blocking effect of 150 microM picrotoxinin on the glycine-induced inhibition of transmitter release. This contrasted with the inhibitory effect of 100 microM picrotoxinin in whole-cell patch-clamp recordings on responses to 500 microM glycine (56% block). Furthermore, it was demonstrated that the amplitude of the glycine activated peak current had the same size after six to seven days and after 16-17 days in culture. Northern blot analysis, and co-injection of messenger RNA plus antisense oligonucleotides into Xenopus oocytes revealed glycine receptor alpha2 and beta messenger RNAs in the cultured granule cells. These findings suggest that granule cells in culture express glycine receptor isoforms containing alpha2 picrotoxinin-sensitive and alpha2/beta picrotoxinin-insensitive receptors.
The regulation of striatal cholinergic function by dopamine D1 receptor activation was examined in vivo in urethane-anaesthetized rats with microdialysis probes. Extracellular acetylcholine levels were enhanced by activation of D1 receptors either directly by a striatal application of the D1 receptor agonist (+)-SKF-38393 (3 microM) or indirectly by the release of dopamine evoked by striatal application of neurotensin (0.1 microM) under D2 receptor blockade. SR 144190, a new potent and selective non-peptide neurokinin-2 receptor antagonist (0.03-1 mg/kg, i.p.), dose-dependently reduced the acetylcholine release induced by (+)-SKF-38393 or neurotensin. Furthermore, intrastriatal application of SR 144190 (1 nM) blocked the increase in acetylcholine release induced by the local application of (+)-SKF-38393 (3 microM), neurokinin A (1 microM) or substance P (1 microM). Finally, a role for nitric oxide in mediating the effects of D1 neurokinin-2 receptor activation on acetylcholine release is proposed since local infusion of the competitive inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (0.01-10 microM), blocked the increase in acetylcholine release induced by (+)-SKF-38393 (3 microM), neurotensin (0.1 microM) or neurokinin A (1 microM) without affecting the enhancing effect of the neurokinin-1 agonist septide (0.1 microM).
We examined the effects of 3-nitropropionic acid-induced succinate dehydrogenase inhibition on neuronal ATP content, N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced neuronal death, resting membrane potential, and N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced changes in cytosolic calcium concentration ([Ca2+]c) in cultured rat striatal neurons. Exposure of cultures to 3 mM 3-nitropropionic acid for 3 h did not cause overt toxicity, but reduced ATP content by 35%. Treatment with 3-nitropropionic, or removal of Mg2+ from the medium, enhanced subsequent N-methyl-D-aspartate toxicity, reducing the LC50 from 250 microM to 12 microM or 30 microM, respectively. Even after Mg2+ removal, enhancement of N-methyl-D-aspartate toxicity by 3-nitropropionic acid remained pronounced, with the LC50 further decreasing to 3 microM. The mean resting membrane potential of neurons treated with 3-nitropropionic acid was -37 mV, while that in control neurons was -61 mV. Treatment with 3-nitropropionic did not affect baseline [Ca2+]c as determined by fura-2 microfluorimetry. N-methyl-D-aspartate (30 microM) caused a rapid rise in [Ca2+]c, the initial magnitude of which was not affected by 3-nitropropionic acid. However, after a 1-h treatment, [Ca2+]c was dramatically higher in 3-nitropropionic acid-treated neurons. This increased calcium load was washed out slowly and only partially, although calcium in control neurons washed out rapidly and almost completely. These results suggest that in striatal neurons, the enhancement of N-methyl-D-aspartate toxicity caused by succinate dehydrogenase inhibition may be due to synergism between partial relief of the Mg2+ blockade of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and other mechanisms, including disruption of neuronal calcium regulation. This synergism may be relevant to the neuronal death observed in neurodegenerative disorders.
Phencyclidine, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist and indirect dopamine agonist, has neuroprotective properties. Phencyclidine, however, can also exert toxic effects and causes degeneration of neurons in the retrosplenial cortex. In this paper we demonstrate that acute administration of a high dose of phencyclidine to rats, (80 mg/kg), also causes death of a subpopulation of striatal neurons. The dying cells exhibited many of the morphological and biochemical features of cells undergoing apoptosis as revealed by a silver methenamine stain, propidium iodide fluorescence histochemistry and a TUNEL procedure. The majority of the dying cells tended to be clustered within the dorsomedial aspect of the striatum. The type of striatal cell undergoing apoptosis was determined by stereotaxically injecting a colloidal gold retrograde anatomical tracer into the major areas of striatal termination prior to the administration of phencyclidine. This procedure demonstrated that phencyclidine induced striatal apoptosis is almost exclusively limited to striatopallidal neurons. A similar series of experiments was conducted to determine whether the synthetic corticosteroid, dexamethasone, also induces apoptosis of striatal neurons. Corticosteroids are known to be toxic to hippocampal neurons and interact with striatal dopamine transmission. Acute administration of dexamethasone, (20 mg/kg), induced apoptosis of a subpopulation of striatal cells. As was the case with phencyclidine, most of the dexamethasone-induced apoptotic striatal cells were striatopallidal neurons located within the dorsomedial striatum. The pathology during the early stages of Huntington's disease is restricted to an equivalent subpopulation of striatal neurons. Many Huntington's patients are extremely psychotic during this stage in the progression of the disease. Psychosis is also associated with the acute administration of both phencyclidine and dexamethasone to humans. We accordingly speculate that the selective loss of striatopallidal neurons in the dorsomedial striatum may represent the neural substrate of many forms of psychosis.
Senile plaques are a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. The major component of senile plaques is beta-amyloid which consists of approximately 4000 mol. wt of peptide. Accumulating evidence suggests that beta-amyloid may represent the underlying cause of Alzheimer's disease. In vitro, beta-amyloid has been shown either to be directly neurotoxic or to potentiate neurotoxic effects of excitatory amino acids. However, beta-amyloid toxicity in vivo has not always been reproducible. In this study, we injected beta-amyloid fragment 1-40 or 25-35 alone or in combination with a small amount of ibotenic acid, an excitatory amino acid, into rat hippocampus, and examined the histological and immunohistochemical changes two weeks after injection. Although beta-amyloid alone or ibotenic acid alone exerted only minimal degenerating effects on neurons just around the injection site, the co-injection of beta-amyloid 1-40 or beta-amyloid 25-35 with ibotenic acid produced drastic neuronal loss; the haematoxylin-eosin staining revealed that most neurons not only around the injection site but also in distant areas including CA1, CA4 and dentate gyrus were depleted. The neuronal loss occurred in a dose-dependent manner with respect to ibotenic acid. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that beta-amyloid with ibotenic acid induced great depletion of microtubule-associated protein-2 immunoreactivity and infiltration of astrocytes and microglia on neuronal loss. In addition, some apoptotic neuronal death indicated by DNA fragmentation and nucleic condensation was observed. Beta-amyloid depositions detected by two different types of anti-human beta-amyloid antibodies were limited to the injection site. Dizocilpine maleate (MK-801), an antagonist for an excitatory amino acid receptor, completely inhibited the neuronal death in rat hippocampus. These results suggest that the co-injection of beta-amyloid with a small amount of ibotenic acid provides a useful model for investigation of the pathogenetic mechanisms leading to Alzheimer's disease.
Dystrophin and dystroglycan messenger RNAs are expressed in specific brain areas, including regions of the cortex and the hippocampus, and in such neurons dystrophin has been localized to postsynaptic densities. In the present study we examined by in situ hybridization the effect of neuronal activation and neurotoxicity induced by kainate and pentylenetetrazole administered in vivo on dystrophin and dystroglycan expression in the rat brain. Kainate injection resulted in a transient but dramatic decrease in dystrophin transcript levels in the dentate gyrus granule cells, neurons not affected by kainate neurotoxicity, 6 h after injection. There was also a strong, concomitant increase in dystrophin messenger RNA levels in the CA3 subfield. At 24-72 h after kainate injection, the dystrophin transcript in the dentate granule cells returned to control levels, while it decreased gradually in the CA subfields, coinciding with the neurodegeneration observed in these areas. Comparable results were obtained with pan-dystrophin probes and probes specific to the short, G-dystrophin (Dp71) isoform that predominates in the dentate gyrus. This indicates that any dystrophin transcript that might be expressed in these areas responds to kainate in the same manner. In contrast, kainate insult had no significant effect on the dystroglycan messenger RNA levels in these hippocampal areas at 6 h post-injection. At later times. however, there was a gradual decrease in the dystroglycan messenger RNA in those areas which respond to the kainate insult with extensive neuronal death. For comparison, seizures which are not associated with progressive neurodegeneration were induced by pentylenetetrazole: in this situation the dystrophin and dystroglycan messenger RNA levels remained unchanged in all areas of the hippocampal formation. Since activation of glutamate receptors is thought to be involved in some forms of synaptic plasticity in the adult hippocampus, our data indicate that the dystrophin gene behaves as a candidate plasticity-related gene responding to glutamate.
The present study examined, in rats with N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced lesions of the basolateral amygdala, the effects of long-term adrenalectomy (i.e. 12-13 weeks) on memory for spatial and cued learning in a water maze. In sham amygdala-lesioned rats, adrenalectomy induced impairments in acquisition and retention performance for the spatial, but not the cued water-maze task. The adrenalectomized rats sustained selective degeneration and death of granule cells in the dentate gyrus dorsal blade. Continuous supplementation of the animals' drinking water with an extremely low dose of corticosterone (20 microg/ml) did not block the retention deficit, but blocked the acquisition deficit and the dentate gyrus neurodegenerative changes. The finding that the memory impairments and dentate gyrus neurodegeneration are dissociable supports the view that the adrenalectomy-induced memory effects are due to the loss of activational effects of circulating adrenal hormones at the time of learning. In adrenalectomized rats which received corticosterone as well as those which did not, lesions of the basolateral amygdala blocked the impairing effects of adrenalectomy on spatial learning and memory. However, the basolateral amygdala lesions did not affect the neurodegenerative changes in the dentate gyrus. In conclusion, the present findings provide further evidence that the basolateral amygdala is involved in regulating stress hormone effects on learning and memory.
Several neuropsychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, are characterized by sensorimotor gating deficits. Prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response is an operational measure assessing sensorimotor gating and has been found to be reduced in schizophrenic patients. Much attention has therefore been paid to the neuronal mechanisms underlying the disruption of prepulse inhibition. The activity of limbic forebrain structures such as the septohippocampal system, the prefrontal cortex, and the nucleus accumbens has been the main focus of recent research into the regulation of prepulse inhibition in rats. We here provide a functional anatomical picture of forebrain structures probably involved in the regulation of prepulse inhibition. Stimulation of the ventral hippocampus with a subconvulsive dose of N-methyl-D-aspartate caused a significant and long-lasting disruption of prepulse inhibition. Immunostaining of the c-Fos protein revealed a characteristic pattern of neuronal activity in various forebrain areas, including the nucleus accumbens and different frontal cortical areas after hippocampal stimulation. Based on the present findings, we conclude that the overactivity within a network of cortico-limbic forebrain structures compromises the normal processing of sensory stimuli by disrupting a neuronal filter mechanism. Interestingly, there is a considerable overlap between the pattern of neuronal activity observed in our study and the brain pathology in schizophrenics reported in the literature.
Latent inhibition is a measure of retarded conditioning to a previously presented nonreinforced stimulus that is impaired in schizophrenic patients and in rats treated with amphetamine. In terms of neural substrates, latent inhibition depends on the integrity of the nucleus accumbens and the inputs to this structure from the hippocampal formation and adjacent cortical areas. Since another major source of input to the nucleus accumbens is the medial prefrontal cortex, and there are numerous demonstrations that manipulations of this region can modify ventral striatal dopamine, we investigated the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate lesion to the medial prefrontal cortex on latent inhibition, assessed in an off-baseline conditioned emotional response procedure in rats licking for water. In addition, the effects of the medial prefrontal cortex lesion were assessed on a battery of tasks potentially sensitive to medial prefrontal cortex damage, including spontaneous and amphetamine-induced activity, elevated plus maze exploration, food hoarding, prepulse inhibition, and active avoidance. The lesion decreased hoarding behaviour and increased spontaneous exploratory activity in the open field, while exerting only mild effects on amphetamine-induced activity. Prepulse inhibition, exploration of the elevated plus maze, and the acquisition of two-way active avoidance were unaffected by the lesion. Likewise, latent inhibition was left intact following the lesion, suggesting that neither the destruction of the intrinsic cells of the medial prefrontal cortex nor any potential lesion-induced changes in subcortical dopamine, affect latent inhibition.
In the present study, a novel and exceptionally sensitive method of high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to coulometric detection, together with concentric dialysis probes, was exploited for an examination of the role of autoreceptors and heteroceptors in the modulation of dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin levels in single samples of the frontal cortex of freely-moving rats. The selective D3/D2 receptor agonist, CGS 15855A [(+/-)-trans-1,3,4,4a,5,10b-hexahydro-4-propyl-2H-[1]benzopyrano[3 ,4-b]-pyridin-9-ol], and antagonist, raclopride, respectively decreased (-50%) and increased (+60%) levels of dopamine without significantly modifying those of serotonin and noradrenaline. The selective alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist, dexmedetomidine, markedly decreased noradrenaline levels (-100%) and likewise suppressed those of serotonin and dopamine by -55 and -45%, respectively. This effect was mimicked by the preferential alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist, guanabenz (-100%, -60% and -50%). Furthermore, the alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, RX 821,002 [2(2-methoxy-1,4-benzodioxan-2-yl)-2-imidazoline], and the preferential alpha2A-adrenergic receptor antagonist, BRL 44408 [2-(2H-(1-methyl-1,3-dihydroisoindole)methyl)-4,5-dihydroimidaz ole], both evoked a pronounced elevation in levels of noradrenaline (+212%, +109%) and dopamine (+73%, +85%). In contrast, the preferential alpha(2B/2C)-adrenergic receptor antagonist, prazosin, did not modify noradrenaline and dopamine levels. RX 821,002 and BRL 44408 did not significantly modify levels of serotonin, whereas prazosin decreased these levels markedly (-55%), likely due to its alpha1-adrenergic receptor antagonist properties. The selective serotonin-1A receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), reduced serotonin levels (-65%) and increased those of dopamine and noradrenaline by +100%), and +175%, respectively. The selective serotonin-1A antagonist, WAY 100,635 [N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclo- hexanecarboxamide], which had little affect on monoamine levels alone, abolished the influence of 8-OH-DPAT upon serotonin and dopamine levels and significantly attenuated its influence upon noradrenaline levels. Finally, the selective serotonin-1B agonist, GR 46611 [3-[3-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)-1H-indol-5-yl]-N-(4-methoxybenzyl)acrylamid e], decreased serotonin levels (-49%) and the serotonin-1B antagonist, GR 127,935 [N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)phenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-me thyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-biphenyl-4-carboxamide], which did not significantly modify serotonin levels alone, abolished this action of GR 46611. Levels of dopamine and noradrenaline were not affected by GR 46611 or GR 127,935. In conclusion, there is a complex pattern of reciprocal autoreceptor and heteroceptor control of monoamine release in the frontal cortex. Most notably, activation of alpha2-adrenergic receptors inhibits the release of noradrenaline, dopamine and serotonin in each case, while stimulation of serotonin-1A receptors suppresses serotonin, yet facilitates noradrenaline and dopamine release. In addition, dopamine D2/D3 autoreceptors restrain dopamine release while (terminal-localized) serotonin-1B receptors reduce serotonin release. Control of serotonin release is expressed phasically and that of noradrenaline and dopamine release tonically.
In this study, we have investigated the changes in the number of individual presynaptic boutons in the neocortex of rats and correlated them with cognitive performance. Brown Norway x Fischer 344 F1 hybrid rats, aged from one to 24 months, were used. Using synaptophysin as a marker for presynaptic boutons, we found that in the parietal II region of the neocortex an age-related decrease in the density of immunostained punctae representing presynaptic boutons occurred. Regression analysis showed that this decline in the number of presynaptic boutons correlates with ageing (r=0.495, P&lt;0.05). Interestingly, we found that this age-related depletion of presynaptic boutons was more intense in the deeper cortical lamina, such as laminae V and VI (mean decrease of 18%), than in the superficial laminae (mean decrease of 8% in laminae I-IV). Using the Morris water maze test, we observed that young rats acquired the task at twice the speed of aged animals (48.9 +/- 9.0 s and 91.0 +/- 4.9 s for young and aged animals, respectively). Furthermore, at the end of the training period, the aged cohort still showed significantly higher escape latencies in the Morris water maze. The present findings support the concept that the decline in cognitive performances in ageing is related to the loss of synapses in the cerebral cortex.
The effect of synaptic inputs on somatodendritic interactions during action potentials was investigated, in the cat, using in vivo intracellular recording and computational models of neocortical pyramidal cells. An array of 10 microelectrodes, each ending at a different cortical depth, was used to preferentially evoke synaptic inputs to different somatodendritic regions. Relative to action potentials evoked by current injection, spikes elicited by cortical microstimuli were reduced in amplitude and duration, with stimuli delivered at proximal (somatic) and distal (dendritic) levels evoking the largest and smallest decrements, respectively. When the inhibitory postsynaptic potential reversal was shifted to around -50 mV by recording with KCl pipettes, synaptically-evoked spikes were significantly less reduced than with potassium acetate or cesium acetate pipettes, suggesting that spike decrements are not only due to a shunt, but also to voltage-dependent effects. Computational models of neocortical pyramidal cells were built based on available data on the distribution of active currents and synaptic inputs in the soma and dendrites. The distribution of synapses activated by extracellular stimulation was estimated by matching the model to experimental recordings of postsynaptic potentials evoked at different depths. The model successfully reproduced the progressive spike amplitude reduction as a function of stimulation depth, as well as the effects of chloride and cesium. The model revealed that somatic spikes contain an important contribution from proximal dendritic sodium currents up to approximately 100 microm and approximately 300 microm from the soma under control and cesium conditions, respectively. Proximal inhibitory postsynaptic potentials can present this dendritic participation thus reducing the spike amplitude at the soma. The model suggests that the somatic spike amplitude and shape can be used as a &quot;window&quot; to infer the electrical participation of proximal dendrites. Thus, our results suggest that inhibitory postsynaptic potentials can control the participation of proximal dendrites in somatic sodium spikes.
The peripheral sympathetic and parasympathetic cholinergic innervation was investigated with antibodies directed against the C-terminus of the rat vesicular acetylcholine transporter. Immunohistochemistry for the vesicular acetylcholine transporter resulted in considerably more detailed visualization of cholinergic terminal fields in the peripheral nervous system than reported previously and was well suited to also identify cholinergic perikarya. Vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunoreactivity completely delineated the preganglionic sympathetic terminals in pre- and paravertebral sympathetic ganglia, and in the adrenal medulla as well as postganglionic cholinergic neurons in the paravertebral chain. Cholinergic terminals of sudomotor and vasomotor nerves of skeletal muscle were optimally visualized. Mixed peripheral ganglia, including periprostatic and uterovaginal ganglia, exhibited extensive preganglionic cholinergic innervation of both noradrenergic and cholinergic postganglionic principal neurons which were intermingled in these ganglia. Varicose vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive fibres and terminals, representing the cranial parasympathetic innervation of the cerebral vasculature, of salivary and lacrimal glands, of the eye, of the respiratory tract and of the upper digestive tract innervated various target structures including seromucous gland epithelium and myoepithelium, respiratory epithelium, and smooth muscle of the tracheobronchial tree. The only macrovascular elements receiving vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive innervation were the cerebral arteries. The microvasculature throughout the viscera, with the exception of lymphoid tissues, the liver and kidney, received vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive innervation while the microvasculature of limb and trunk skeletal muscle appeared to be the only relevant somatic target of vesicular acetylcholine transporter innervation. Vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunoreactivity was particularly useful for identification of parasympathetic intrinsic ganglia, and their terminal fields, in heart, uterus, and other peripheral organs receiving parasympathetic innervation. Extensive vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive terminal fields were apparent in both atrial and ventricular tissues of the heart targeting cardiomyocytes as well as cardiac microvessels. Pericardiac brown adipose tissue was also supplied by vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive varicose fibres. The enteric ganglia of the myenteric and submucous plexus, their synaptic junctions with circular and longitudinal smooth muscle, and terminal fields of the lamina propria of the stomach and intestine and of the local microvasculature were intensely vesicular acetylcholine transporter positive. Vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive innervation was delivered to the exocrine and endocrine pancreas originating from vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive intrapancreatic ganglia. Vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunoreactivity in urogenital organs revealed the patterns of terminal cholinergic fields arising from the sacral parasympathetic innervation of these structures. Components of the cholinergic nervous system in the periphery whose existence has been controversial have been confirmed, and the existence of new components of the cholinergic nervous system has been documented, with vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunohistochemistry. Visualization of vesicular acetylcholine transporter will allow documentation of changes in synaptic patency during development, in disease, and during changes in neurotransmission accompanying injury and dystrophy, in the peripheral nervous system.
Antibodies directed against the C-terminus of the rat vesicular acetylcholine transporter mark expression of this specifically cholinergic protein in perinuclear regions of the soma and on secretory vesicles concentrated within cholinergic nerve terminals. In the central nervous system, the vesicular acetylcholine transporter terminal fields of the major putative cholinergic pathways in cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, amygdala, olfactory cortex and interpeduncular nucleus were examined and characterized. The existence of an intrinsic cholinergic innervation of cerebral cortex was confirmed by both in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry for the rat vesicular acetylcholine transporter and choline acetyltransferase. Cholinergic interneurons of the olfactory tubercle and Islands of Calleja, and the major intrinsic cholinergic innervation of striatum were fully characterized at the light microscopic level with vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunohistochemistry. Cholinergic staining was much more extensive for the vesicular acetylcholine transporter than for choline acetyltransferase in all these regions, due to visualization of cholinergic nerve terminals not easily seen with immunohistochemistry for choline acetyltransferase in paraffin-embedded sections. Cholinergic innervation of the median eminence of the hypothalamus, previously observed with vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunohistochemistry, was confirmed by the presence of vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunoreactivity in extracts of median eminence by western blotting. Cholinergic projections to cerebellum, pineal gland, and to the substantia nigra were documented by vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive punctate staining in these structures. Additional novel localizations of putative cholinergic terminals to the subependymal zone surrounding the lateral ventricles, and putative cholinergic cell bodies in the sensory mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, a primary sensory afferent ganglion located in the brainstem, are documented here. The cholinergic phenotype of neurons of the sensory mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus was confirmed by choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry. A feature of cholinergic neurons of the central nervous system revealed clearly with vesicular acetylcholine transporter immunohistochemistry in paraffin-embedded sections is the termination of cholinergic neurons on cholinergic cell bodies. These are most prominent on motor neurons of the spinal cord, less prominent but present in some brainstem motor nuclei, and apparently absent from projection neurons of the telencephalon and brainstem, as well as from the preganglionic vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons visualized in the intermediolateral and intermediomedial columns of the spinal cord. In addition to the large puncta decorating motor neuronal perikarya and dendrites in the ventral horn, vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive terminal fields are distributed in lamina X surrounding the central canal, where additional small vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive cell bodies are located, and in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. Components of the central cholinergic nervous system whose existence has been controversial have been confirmed, and the existence of new components documented, with immunohistochemistry for the vesicular acetylcholine transporter. Quantitative visualization of terminal fields of known cholinergic systems by staining for vesicular acetylcholine transporter will expand the possibilities for documenting changes in synaptic patency accompanying physiological and pathophysiological changes in these systems.
While neuronal activity is important in CNS development, little is known of the behaviour of the actual neurotransmitters released during this period. None the less, indirect evidence has suggested that the neurotransmitter dopamine actually has a morphogenic role. This study is the first attempt to monitor directly and in real-time, the release of dopamine from midbrain neurons developing as an isolated organotypic slice culture. The observed release of dopamine was both spontaneous and synchronized and occurred with an average periodicity that is two orders of magnitude longer than the characteristic neuronal discharge activity of midbrain dopamine cells. Moreover, elevations in the extracellular concentrations of dopamine were markedly more prolonged in these and other developing systems than in axon terminal regions in mature striatum in which dopaminergic innervation is fully established. Thus, dopamine may have an action in developing circuits over spatial and temporal scales that vastly exceed those in mature, synaptic-like transmission.
An immunocytochemical approach with specific glial markers was used to investigate the temporal and spatial patterns of differentiation of ensheathing glia wrapping axon fascicles along the primary olfactory pathway of the rat during development. The two glial markers tested, the proteins S-100 and glial fibrillary acidic protein, are known to be expressed at different stages of maturation in glial cells. The S-100 protein was first weakly expressed in cells accompanying the olfactory axons at embryonic day 14 (E14), while a first faint glial fibrillary acidic protein staining was detected along the olfactory axons at E15 and along the vomeronasal nerves at E16. A strong S-100 immunoreactivity was already present from E16 onwards along the axon fascicles through their course in both the nasal mesenchyme and the subarachnoid space before entering the olfactory nerve layer of the olfactory bulb. A gradual increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein expression was observed along this part of the developing olfactory pathway from E16 up to E20, when an adult-like pattern of staining intensity was seen. By contrast, most of the ensheathing cells residing in the olfactory nerve layer exhibited some delay in their differentiation timing and also a noticeable delayed maturation. It was only from E20 onwards that a weak to moderate S-100 expression was detected in an increasing number of cells throughout this layer, and only few of them appeared weakly glial fibrillary acidic protein positive at postnatal days 1 and 5. The immunocytochemical data indicate that there is a proximodistal gradient of differentiation of ensheathing cells along the developing olfactory pathway. The prolonged immaturity of ensheathing cells in the olfactory nerve layer, which coincides with the formation of the first glomeruli, might facilitate the sorting out of olfactory axons leading to a radical reorganization of afferents before they end in specific glomeruli.
The family of chromogranins/secretogranin peptides comprises three major subtypes: chromogranin A, chromogranin B and secretogranin II. We have characterized these proteins in rat vas deferens and pelvic ganglia by using two approaches. Firstly, extracts of rat vas deferens were subjected to molecular sieve chromatography followed by radioimmunoassay. The results indicate that, in the peripheral nerves of this organ, chromogranin B and secretogranin II are processed to small peptides, i.e. PE-11 and secretoneuron, respectively. Secondly, we investigated the localization of each of these peptides in the rat pelvic ganglia and vas deferens. Comparisons with the distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase, choline acetyltransferase, vesicular acetylcholine transporter and SV2 were carried out in double labelling studies. All tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons contained neuropeptide Y, but many neuropeptide Y-containing neurons were negative for tyrosine hydroxylase. In the pelvic ganglia, chromogranin A was widely localized in the neuropeptide-positive neurons and 65% of chromogranin A-containing neurons were positive for tyrosine hydroxylase, suggesting their adrenergic nature. However, in nerve terminals of the vas deferens, chromogranin A was present at very low, or undetectable, levels. The chromogranin B-derived peptide PE-11, on the other hand, was absent from the large-sized, tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons, but present in some small-sized neurons that were choline acetyltransferase/vesicular acetylcholine transporter-positive and tyrosine hydroxylase-negative. In the vas deferens, PE-11 was present with intense immunoreactivity in nerve terminals of the lamina propria beneath the epithelium, but it was very sparse in the muscular layer and co-localized with vesicular acetylcholine transporter-like immunoreactivity, suggesting a cholinergic nature. The secretogranin II-derived peptide secretoneurin was distributed with strong immunoreactivity in the somata of pelvic ganglion neurons, 72% of which also contained tyrosine hydroxylase, as well as in nerve terminals in the muscular layer and the lamina propria of the vas deferens. Most, if not all, secretoneurin-positive terminals in the pelvic ganglia and the vas deferens were positive for choline acetyltransferase/vesicular acetylcholine transporter-like immunoreactivity. Retrograde tracing with FluoroGold demonstrated that the majority of FluoroGold-labelled neurons in the pelvic ganglia were positive for either chromogranin A or secretoneurin. The present study indicates that chromogranins A and B and secretogranin II are proteolytically processed to a high degree in the nerves of the rat vas deferens. Furthermore, they are heterogeneously localized in subsets of neurons of the pelvic ganglia and in different sets of nerve terminals in the vas deferens, suggesting that each of these peptides may play distinct roles in neurons of the autonomic nervous system to the vas deferens.
The tissues of the large intestine which receive an innervation by neurons of the major pelvic ganglia were identified following in vivo and in vitro anterograde labelling with the lipophilic tracer 1,1'didodecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate in the male rat. The primary target in the gut of major pelvic ganglion neurons is the myenteric plexus of the distal colon and the rectum. The serosal ganglia, on the surface of the most distal region of the rectum and the circular muscle of the distal colon and rectum were less densely innervated. The pelvic ganglia do not innervate the longitudinal muscle, submucosal blood vessels, submucosal plexus, or mucosa. The pelvic supply reaches the bowel via two groups of rectal nerves and branches of the penile nerves. All of these connections also carry the axons of viscerofugal neurons from the bowel, some of which have terminal axons in the major pelvic ganglia. Finally, the different nerves supplied different targets. In particular, while the rectal nerves carried pelvic axons supplying the myenteric plexus, circular muscle, and serosal ganglia, the penile nerves only innervated the serosal ganglia. In addition, the two groups of rectal nerves innervated slightly different regions of the bowel and provided different projection patterns. However, successful in vivo labelling was achieved in only 6/12 animals and while all in vitro experiments resulted in successful labelling, it was clear that only a proportion of pelvic projections in any given nerve were labelled. These studies have shown that the major pelvic ganglia are primarily involved in the control of motility, but not of vascular and secretomotor functions. Thus pelvic neurons do not innervate the same range of target tissues within the bowel as the prevertebral ganglia. This study has also shown that the different pathways to the gut from the major pelvic ganglia innervate different tissues, suggesting that the autonomic innervation of the gut is not homogeneous along its length.
Changes in the rostral ventrolateral medullary neurotransmitter levels and associated cardiovascular functions in response to local administration of brain natriuretic peptide were investigated in urethane-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. Unilateral injections of various doses of brain natriuretic peptide into the rostral ventrolateral medulla region led to significant reductions in both blood pressure and heart rate. To identify the changes occurring in the extracellular neurochemical profile, brain natriuretic peptide was perfused at the rate of 1.5 microliters/min for a period of 1 h through a microdialysis probe implanted stereotaxically into the rostral ventrolateral medulla area and the dialysate was assayed every 15 min for both catechols and indoleamine. Both norepinephrine and epinephrine concentrations were significantly reduced. Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentration showed no significant change in response to brain natriuretic peptide perfusion. On the other hand, serotonin turnover estimated by the measurement of its metabolite (5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid) concentration increased during the perfusion of brain natriuretic peptide. Blood pressure and heart rate also showed significant reduction during the perfusion of brain natriuretic peptide. These results suggest that brain natriuretic peptide may be relevant in the central regulation of cardiovascular functions by modulating monoamine neurotransmitters.
The functional somatotopic reorganization of the lumbar spinal cord dorsal horn after nerve injury was studied in the rat by mapping the stimulus-evoked distribution of neurons expressing proto-oncogene c-fos. In three different nerve injury paradigms, the saphenous nerve was electrically stimulated at C-fibre strength at survival times ranging from 40 h to more than six months: 1) Saphenous nerve stimulation from three weeks onwards after ipsilateral sciatic nerve transection resulted in an increase in the number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons within the dorsal horn saphenous territory in laminae I-II, and an expansion of the saphenous territory into the denervated sciatic territory until 14 weeks postinjury. 2) Saphenous nerve stimulation from five days onwards after ipsilateral sciatic nerve section combined with saphenous nerve crush resulted in an increase in the number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons within the dorsal horn saphenous nerve territory, and an expansion of the saphenous nerve territory into the denervated sciatic nerve territory. 3) Stimulation of the crushed nerve (without previous adjacent nerve section) at five days, but not at eight months resulted in a temporary increase in the number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons within the territory of the injured nerve, and no change in area at either survival time. The results indicate that nerve injury results in an increased capacity of afferents in an adjacent uninjured, or regenerating nerve, to excite neurons both in its own and in the territory of the permanently injured nerve in the dorsal horn. The onset and duration of the increased postsynaptic excitability and expansion depends on the types of nerve injuries involved. These findings indicate the complexity of the central changes that follows in nerve injuries that contain a mixture of uninjured, regenerating and permanently destroyed afferents.
The involvement of nitric oxide in the modulation of nicotinic activation was investigated in vitro in isolated rabbit coeliac ganglion. The electrical activity of the ganglionic neurons was recorded using intracellular recording techniques. When a train of pulses of supramaximum intensity was applied to the splanchnic nerves, gradual depression of fast nicotinic activation occurred: the pulses do not systematically elicit action potentials, but very often elicit excitatory postsynaptic potentials only. This phenomenon appeared between 15 and 20 Hz and increased with the frequency of stimulation. It was not related to any change in the membrane potential of the ganglionic neurons. For a given frequency, the depression appeared progressively and it was particularly strong at the end of the train. The use of pharmacological agents that interfere with the nitric oxide pathway, such as L-arginine (precursor of nitric oxide), D-arginine (non-precursor of nitric oxide) N(omega_-nitro-L-arginine and N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase), and 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (nitric oxide scavenger), demonstrated that nitric oxide modulated this depression phenomenon by exerting a dual effect on the nicotinic activation, i.e. facilitation or inhibition. Agents interfering with the guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate pathway, such as oxadiazolo[4,3-a] quinoxalin-1-one (selective inhibitor of the nitric oxide-activated soluble guanylate cyclase) and zaprinast (selective inhibitor of the phosphodiesterases involved in the guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate pathway) demonstrated that only the facilitatory effect of nitric oxide on the nicotinic activation was mediated through the guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate pathway. The mechanism sustaining the inhibitory effect remains to be determined. By modulating the nicotinic activation, nitric oxide plays a role in the integrative properties of the prevertebral ganglia. This opens new perspectives with regard to the control of visceral functions by the prevertebral level of regulation.
In the striatum, adenosine A2A and dopamine D1 receptors are segregated in striatopallidal and striatonigral projection neurons, respectively. In this study, we have examined the effects of activating adenosine A2A and dopamine D1 receptors on the state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of mol. wt 32,000), a potent endogenous regulator of protein phosphatase-1 that is highly expressed in striatal medium-sized spiny neurons. In rat striatal slices, the D1 receptor agonist SKF 81297 and the A2A receptor agonist CGS 21680 transiently increased the levels of phosphorylated DARPP-32 in a concentration-dependent manner. In the same preparation, the two agonists were also able to induce a significant increase in cyclic AMP formation. When striatal slices were incubated with a combination of CGS 21680 and SKF 81297, the effects of the two agonists on both DARPP-32 phosphorylation and cyclic AMP formation were additive. The maximal effects of SKF 81297 and CGS 21680 on DARPP-32 phosphorylation were of similar magnitude, and were completely abolished by the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor, Rp-cAMPS. The present results show that DARPP-32 phosphorylation in the striatum is stimulated by adenosine, acting on A2A receptors, and dopamine, acting on D1 receptors, and that cyclic AMP is the mediator in both cases. Our data also suggest that dopamine and adenosine regulate the state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 in distinct sub-populations of medium-sized spiny neurons expressing dopamine D1 and adenosine A2A receptors, respectively.
Functional recovery following a complete unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway in adult rats was studied. We examined the effect of training on the spontaneous or induced postural bias following the lesion. Two tasks measuring lateralization were used to assess the lesion-induced postural bias: spontaneous asymmetry was evaluated in the Y-maze, whereas induced body bias was measured by hanging the rat by its tail. Recovery was assessed at three different times following the lesion. The effects of lesion in adult rats in the short, medium and long term were evaluated and compared with the effects of dopaminergic transplants. In adult lesioned rats, destruction of dopaminergic innervation of the neostriatum induced initially an ipsilateral bias as measured in the &quot;tail hang test&quot; and the Y-maze. Recovery of function was observed in the tail hang test as ipsilateral bias declined on repeated testing. Apart from this effect, there was a post-lesion interval effect, since the postural bias disappeared more rapidly on repeated testing in the long-term lesioned rats. This spontaneous recovery was impaired by intrastriatal dopaminergic grafts. Furthermore, no spontaneous recovery was observed in the Y-maze test. These observations show that repeated testing can influence the long-term effects of damage to the nigrostriatal dopamine system.
The dopamine antagonist haloperidol can cause tardive side-effects that may persist after the drug is withdrawn. We studied the time course of changes in dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area following withdrawal of haloperidol. Rats received daily intraperitoneal injections of saline or haloperidol for eight weeks and were killed at two, four or 12 weeks after the final injection. Sections of substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area were processed for tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Quantitative morphometric analysis was carried out blinded in order to determine the number, cell body size and topography of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells, and the immunoreactive area of the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. In haloperidol-treated rats, tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell counts were normal in ventral tegmental area but were decreased in substantia nigra by 34% at two weeks withdrawal and by 52% at four weeks withdrawal; cell counts were almost fully recovered by 12 weeks withdrawal. Cross-sectional area of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity within the substantia nigra demonstrated a similar pattern of reduction, with full recovery by 12 weeks withdrawal. Mean cell size, by contrast, was essentially unchanged at two and four weeks withdrawal, but was significantly decreased in sub-regions of substantia nigra at 12 weeks withdrawal. These results indicate that haloperidol can produce selective changes in midbrain dopamine neurons that persist long after discontinuation of the drug. This decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cell counts may play a role in the neurobiology of the persistent tardive syndromes associated with the use of neuroleptics.
This study investigated the effects of stress on brain dopamine receptor densities in two inbred strains of mice. Analysis of [3H]SCH23390 binding by quantitative autoradiography revealed that repeated restraint stress significantly increases D1-like receptor density in the nucleus accumbens of mice of the DBA/2 strain whist reducing it in the caudate-putamen of C57BL/6 mice. No significant changes in D2-like receptor quantified by [3H](-)-sulpiride binding were observed in caudate, substantia nigra and accumbens of stressed C57BL/6 mice. Instead, in DBA/2 mice, stress significantly increased D2-like receptor density in the nucleus accumbens whilst reducing it in the substantia nigra. Finally, stress significantly increased D2-like receptor density within the ventral tegmental area of C57BL/6 mice whilst significantly reducing it in mice of the DBA/2 strain. These results indicate that stress promotes major changes in mesoaccumbens and nigrostriatal dopamine receptor densities. The direction of these changes depends on receptor subtype, brain area and strain. Moreover, the opposite changes of D2-like receptor densities promoted by stress in the ventral tegmental area of the two inbred strains of mice suggest that mesoaccumbens dopamine autoreceptors density might be controlled by a major genotype x stress interaction.
The ultrastructural appearance of gonadotropin releasing hormone-immunoreactive elements was studied in the external zone of the median eminence of adult female Wistar rats. On the one hand, the purpose of the study was to determine the distribution of gonadotropin releasing hormone terminals towards the parenchymatous basal lamina at the level of hypothalamo-hypophyseal portal vessels, throughout the estrous cycle. On the other hand, we have semi-quantified the gonadotropin releasing hormone content in nerve terminals or preterminals during this physiological condition. A morphometric study was coupled to a colloidal 15 mn gold postembedding immunocytochemistry procedure. Animals were killed at 09.00 on diestrus II, 0.900, 10.00, 13.00, 17.00 and 18.00 on proestrus and 09.00 on estrus (n = 4-8 rats/group). A preliminary light microscopic study was carried out to identify an antero-posterior part of median eminence strongly immunostained by anti-gonadotropin releasing hormone antibodies but which was, in addition, easily spotted. This last condition was necessary to make a good comparison between each animal. Contacts between gonadotropin releasing hormone nerve terminals and the basal lamina were observed only the day of proestrus. Such contacts, however, were rare and in the great majority of cases, gonadotropin releasing hormone terminals are separated from basal lamina by tanycytic end feet. The morphometric analysis showed no significant variation in average distance between gonadotropin releasing hormone terminals and capillaries throughout the estrous cycle. Consequently, it did not appear that a large neuroglial plasticity exists during the estrous cycle. However, the observation of contacts only on proestrus together with some ultrastructural images evoke the possibility of a slight plasticity. The semi-quantitative results show that the content of gonadotropin releasing hormone in the nerve endings presented two peaks on proestrus: one at 09.00 (23 +/- 5 particles/micrograms2, P &lt; 0.03) before the onset of luteinizing hormone surge, and the second at 18.00 (16 +/- 2 particles/micrograms2, P &lt; 0.01) concomitantly with the luteinizing hormone surge, when compared to baseline values on proestrus 10.00 (8 +/- particles/micrograms2).
The expression of c-Jun, JunB, JunD, c-Fos and ATF-2 transcription factors was studied in L4/L5 dorsal root ganglion neurons of adult rats, in order to determine the extent to know to which extend the expression of transcription factors in vitro parallels the pathophysiological expression in vivo. First, dorsal root ganglia were dissociated and cultured for up to 15 days in vitro (culture). Second, the dorsal root and the peripheral nerve fibres were transected close at the dorsal root ganglia, and the completely axotomized dorsal root ganglia were kept in artificial cerebrospinal fluid for up to 24 h. This procedure (explantation) preserves the intraganglionic morphology intact. Culture evoked a persistent expression of c-Jun and JunD in the majority of small neurons independent on neurite extension, In contrast, the number of large neurons with c-Jun decreased and with JunD increased with incubation time. JunB and c-Fos, which were also visible in the majority of neurons, strongly decreased with culture time in both small and large neurons. ATF-2 was visible in the vast majority of neurons and did not change during the observation period. Incubation with brain-derived neurotrophic factor for 15 days reduced JunB expression and raised c-Fos expression, but did not affect c-Jun or JunD labelings. Explantation of dorsal root ganglia evoked a dramatic and rapid induction of c-Jun in neurons located in the periphery of the ganglia, an area that showed prominent apoptosis as visualized by transferase dUTP nick end-labelling, followed by a delayed increase in neurons of the central parts of dorsal root ganglia. Expression of JunB showed a dramatic increase within 2 h in the whole ganglion, but disappeared within the following hours. JunD dropped from its basal levels within 4 h and was almost absent after 8 h. c-Fos did not appear until 6 h, when transferase dUTP nick end-labelling also became detectable, and remained visible in a rather small number of neurons. As with culture, incubation of explanted dorsal root ganglia with brain-derived neurotrophic factor prevented the initial rise in JunB, accelerated and enhanced c-Fos expression, but did not alter c-Jun and JunD expression. Immunoreactivity of ATF-2 declined or disappeared in those dorsal root ganglia compartments that showed a rise in c-Jun and transferase dUTP nick end-labelling. These findings demonstrate that inducible transcription factors such as Jun and Fos proteins are differentially expressed in adult neurons in vitro when compared to pathophysiological conditions in vivo such as nerve fibre transection (axotomy or rhizotomy). Moreover, the comparison between the explantation and culture experiments suggests that it is the complete axotomy of neurons that provokes those expression patterns found in neuronal cultures of adult neurons. The rapid and persisting expression of c-Jun during neurite extension and apoptosis points at the activation of a pivotal program that might be determined by the presence or absence of ATF-2 and that is involved in regeneration or degeneration.
In partially denervated skeletal muscle, spared motor fibres sprout, enlarging motor unit size. Neuritogenesis and sprouting are known to depend on the synaptic input to the neurons. This suggests that spared motoneuron reaction to partial muscle denervation might be controlled by primary sensory neurons which directly or indirectly project to motoneurons. In two groups of rats, different surgical procedures were carried out: partial denervation of the extensor digitorum longus muscle without or with homolateral dorsal rhizotomy. Spared motoneuron peripheral field was evaluated by nerve-evoked tension measures. Following partial muscle denervation, spared motoneurons enlarged their projection peripheral field five to six times, innervating most of the denervated portion of the muscle. When dorsal rhizotomy was carried out together with partial denervation, the enlargement of the motoneuron's peripheral field occurred later; however, the peripheral field size was the same or greater than that found in partially denervated muscles without dorsal rhizotomy in the long term. Excitatory postsynaptic potential recordings at neuromuscular junctions consistently showed that innervation of denervated muscle cells by spared motoneurons was impaired when the dorsal roots were cut. Finally, in both groups of operated rats an increase in motor unit number occurred early after surgery, anticipating a process normally occurring in the same age range. These findings are consistent with the idea that sensory input trans-synaptically controls motoneuron peripheral field size.
Three months after facial nerve transection, total numbers of motoneurons in the facial nucleus of six month (adult) Fischer 344 and Wistar rats were reduced to 83% and 75% of contralateral values, respectively (P &lt; 0.05). This procedure in 22-26 month (ageing) Fischer 344 rats and Wistar rats resulted in a reduction of motoneuron numbers to 77% and 60% of the respective contralateral values (P &lt; 0.05). Compared to adults, contralateral facial nuclei of aging Fischer 344 rats contained 10% fewer motoneurons (non-significant), while ageing Wistar rats had 22% fewer (P &lt; 0.05). No significant changes were found in the proportion of surviving motoneurons expressing calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin, receptor tyrosine kinase-C or the alpha subunit of the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor. We conclude that ageing reduces facial motoneuron number and increases their vulnerability to axotomy in Wistar rats, but not in Fischer 344 rats. In neither strain, however, does the proportion of surviving motoneurons expressing the above neuropeptides or neurotrophic factor receptors change. This information may be relevant to those hypotheses of age-related neuronal degenerations which assume that decreased neurotrophic support renders ageing neurons more vulnerable to injury.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), members of distinct families of polypeptide growth factors, have been shown to support motoneurons under various in vitro and in vivo conditions. We used a model of motoneuron cell death induced by sciatic nerve section in newborn rats and compared the efficacy of BDNF and GDNF administered alone or simultaneously in order to determine whether combinations of neurotrophic proteins can produce more potent motoneuron rescue than individual factors. The factors were administered by different methods, including (i) a single dose on to the transected nerve, (ii) continuous delivery from implanted slow-release polymer rods (BDNF) or encapsulated cells (GDNF), and (iii) repeated systemic injections (BDNF). Irrespective of the method of administration, either factor alone produced rescue effects which dramatically declined at two weeks as compared to one week post-lesion. In contrast, this decrease was significantly reduced when BDNF and GDNF were used simultaneously provided that one factor was applied on to the nerve while the other was continuously released from the rods or capsules. Other combinations in which GDNF was replaced by ciliary neurotrophic factor or axokine-1 failed to reproduce such additive activity. Two conclusions can be made from these experiments. First, when BDNF and GDNF are administered simultaneously but by distinct routes of delivery, their survival-promoting effects on the injured developing motoneurons are potentiated; second, even continuous delivery of each of these trophic factors alone cannot completely abrogate the time-dependent decline in rescue effects in this model of motoneuron cell death.
To identify production sites and action targets of neurotrophins during neurogenesis, we investigated immunoreactivities of neurotrophins and their tyrosine kinase receptors in the cerebral cortex of rat embryos. Two sets of ligand-receptor systems, brain-derived neurotrophic factor/TrkB and neurotrophin-3/TrkC, were expressed simultaneously in Cajal-Retzius, subplate neurons and ventricular multipotent stem cells at embryonic days 13 and 15. Intraventricular administration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor or neurotrophin-3 at embryonic day 16 markedly modulated microtubule-associated protein II and/or Hu protein expression in different ways in the cortical plate cells by embryonic day 20. These observations indicate the involvement of autocrine and/or local paracrine action of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and/or neurotrophin-3 during formation of the cerebral cortex.
The neurotrophin family of trophic factors influences survival and function of neurons in both the peripheral and central nervous systems. Critical information regarding physiological function of these factors may be gained by examining their localization in the brain. Here we report the immunocytochemical characterization of antisera directed against brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, and neurotrophin 4/5. These antisera provide important tools to localize the bioactive neurotrophin proteins. Correspondence between protein distribution and previously determined messenger RNA expression was observed in some brain regions, such as hippocampus and cortex. However, neurotrophin proteins were also detected in neurons which have no apparent corresponding messenger RNA, indicating that the proteins may be transported from the sites of synthesis in certain populations. Immunocytochemical double-labelling analysis also indicated that a sub-population of neurotrophin-positive cells were labelled with an astrocyte marker (glial fibrillary acidic protein) as well, demonstrating that trophic molecules are localized to glial cells as well as neurons in vivo. Thus, the use of antisera specific for individual neurotrophic factors has indicated potential cellular sites of action.
Using an organotypic slice culture system of neonatal rat cerebellum, we examined developmental stage-specific mechanisms of cell death of granule neurons. This culture system allows a serial process of granule neuron development including their proliferation during the early culture period and the proceeding migration from the external granular layer to the internal granular layer in the presence of a supraphysiological concentration (5 micrograms/ml) of insulin. Insulin deprivation induced apoptosis of granule neurons in external granular layer but not in internal granular layer. A truncated analogue of insulin-like growth factor-I (des (1-3) insulin-like growth factor-I) prevented this apoptosis at a concentration of 65-650 ng/ml. Some apoptotic granule neurons expressed proliferating cell nuclear antigen but not TAG-1, a marker protein of the postmitotic and premigratory granule neurons. Thus, this apoptosis occurred at a specific stage in granule neuron development: at the stage before TAG-1 expression and at least partly at the proliferative state. Ac-YVAD-CHO, an inhibitor of interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme (caspase-1)-like proteases, had a protective effect on this apoptosis. Interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme (caspase-1)-like protease activity increased under the apoptosis-induced condition. High concentration of K+, which is known to prevent granule neuron apoptosis in dissociated cultures, had a partial protective effect on this apoptosis. These findings suggest that (i) cerebellar granule neurons fall into apoptosis at the specific developmental stage unless stimulated by insulin-like growth factor-I (analogue), (ii) this apoptosis is mediated through an interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme-like protease, and (iii) this apoptosis consists of K(+)-sensitive and K(+)-insensitive components.
Administration of inhibitors of neuronal nitric oxide synthase or deletion of the encoding gene in rodents provided evidence that neuronal nitric oxide synthase activity may contribute to neuronal cell death following global and focal cerebral ischemia. In the present study, we investigated by in situ hybridization the expression of an endogenous inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase activity, designated protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and homologous to cytoplasmic dynein light chain, in the post-ischemic rat brain. Following global ischemia induced by cardiac arrest, messenger RNA expression of protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase was rapidly induced in pyramidal neurons of the hippocampal CA3 region and granule cell of the dentate gyrus which are resistant to ischemic damage. In vulnerable CA1 pyramidal neurons however, protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression remained at basal level after global ischemia and was associated with an increase in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase activity and subsequent DNA fragmentation indicating ischemia-mediated neuronal cell death. Following focal cerebral ischemia induced by permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery, transcripts of protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase progressively accumulated in cortical neurons bordering the infarct area. After transient middle cerebral artery occlusion however, messenger RNA levels of protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase increased in the reperfused neocortex. Our findings indicate that cerebral ischemia leads to an increase in neuronal expression of protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in brain regions where sustained or &quot;uncoupled&quot; nitric oxide synthase activity may be detrimental to neurons. Lack of post-ischemic induction of protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in CA1 pyramidal neurons may result in high nitric oxide synthase activity after global ischemia and could contribute to delayed neuronal cell death.
Whole-cell patch-clamp and extracellular field recordings were obtained from 450-microns-thick brain slices of infant rats (10-13 days postnatal) to determine the actions of corticotropin-releasing hormone on glutamate- and GABA-mediated synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. Synthetic corticotropin-releasing hormone (0.15 microM) reversibly increased the excitability of hippocampal pyramidal cells, as determined by the increase in the amplitude of the CA1 population spikes evoked by stimulation of the Schaffer collateral pathway. This increase in population spike amplitude could be prevented by the corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonist alpha-helical (9-41)-corticotropin-releasing hormone (10 microM). Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings revealed that, in the presence of blockers of fast excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission, corticotropin-releasing hormone caused only a small (1-2 mV) depolarization of the resting membrane potential in CA3 pyramidal cells, and it did not significantly alter the input resistance. However, corticotropin-releasing hormone, in addition to decreasing the slow afterhyperpolarization, caused an increase in the number of action potentials per burst evoked by depolarizing current pulses. Corticotropin-releasing hormone did not significantly change the frequency, amplitude or kinetics of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. However, it increased the frequency of the spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents in CA3 pyramidal cells, without altering their amplitude and single exponential rise and decay time constants. Corticotropin-releasing hormone did not change the amplitude of the pharmacologically isolated (i.e. recorded in the presence of GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline) excitatory postsynaptic currents in CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells evoked by stimulation of the mossy fibers and the Schaffer collaterals, respectively. Current-clamp recordings in bicuculline-containing medium showed that, in the presence of corticotropin-releasing hormone, mossy fiber stimulation leads to large, synchronized, polysynaptically-evoked bursts of action potentials in CA3 pyramidal cells. In addition, the peptide caused a small, reversible decrease in the amplitude of the pharmacologically isolated (i.e. recorded in the presence of glutamate receptor antagonists) evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents in CA3 pyramidal cells, but it did not significantly alter the frequency, amplitude, rise and decay time constants of spontaneous or miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents. These data demonstrate that corticotropin-releasing hormone, an endogenous neuropeptide whose intracerebroventricular infusion results in seizure activity in immature rats, has diverse effects in the hippocampus which may contribute to epileptogenesis. It is proposed that the net effect of corticotropin-releasing hormone is a preferential amplification of those incoming excitatory signals which are strong enough to reach firing threshold in at least a subpopulation of CA3 cells. These findings suggest that the actions of corticotropin-releasing hormone on neuronal excitability in the immature hippocampus may play a role in human developmental epilepsies.
Blockade of adenosine A2 receptors has been shown to significantly reduce the level of tetanus-induced long-term potentiation in area CA1 of rat hippocampus [Kessey K. et al. (1997) Brain Res. 756, 184-190; Sekino Y. et al. (1991) Biochem. biophys. Res. Commun. 181, 1010-1014]. In the present study, the effects of A2 receptor activation and blockade on the modulation of normal synaptic transmission and tetanus-induced long-term potentiation were examined at the Schaffer-CA1 synapse in rat hippocampal slices. A2 receptor activation reversibly enhanced synaptic transmission evoked by low-frequency test pulses as measured by the dendritic field excitatory postsynaptic potential. In the presence of A1 receptor blockade, A2 activation further enhanced the excitatory postsynaptic potential, while A2 receptor blockade resulted in a reversible decrease of the excitatory postsynaptic potential. The A2a receptor agonist, CGS21680, had no effect on the excitatory postsynaptic potential, suggesting that tonic activation of A2b receptors contributes to synaptic transmission under normal physiological conditions. Furthermore, we investigated the contribution of A2 receptors to the level of tetanus-induced long-term potentiation. Under control conditions, a single tetanus potentiated the excitatory postsynaptic potential by 63.5% relative to baseline 30 min post-tetanus. In contrast, tetanus-induced long-term potentiation during A2 blockade was 21.3%. A2 receptor activation increased the level of tetanus-induced long-term potentiation to 90.2%. Because A2 receptors are known to stimulate cyclic-AMP accumulation, the possible involvement of cyclic-AMP was examined. Forskolin, a direct adenylate cyclase activator, and 8-bromo-cyclic-AMP, a membrane-permeable analog of cyclic-AMP, were able to reconstitute tetanus-induced long-term potentiation during A2 receptor blockade; however, the inactive analog 1,9-dideoxyforskolin had no effect, indicating that the effects of A2 activation on synaptic transmission were mediated largely through the regulation of intracellular cyclic-AMP. Because A1 receptors exert an opposing effect on synaptic transmission relative to A2 receptors, these results suggest that the stoichiometry of A1 versus A2 receptor activation appears to play an important role in the modulation of normal synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation in the CA1 region of the hippocampus.
The relationship between hippocampal activity and the extracellular level of excitatory amino acids in the median raphe nucleus has been studied in urethane anaesthetized rats, using the in vivo microdialysis technique. Dialysates were collected from the median raphe nucleus during two to eight sampling periods of equal length (20 min) and hippocampal electroencephalogram was continuously monitored. For each observation period, the average glutamate level in the median raphe nucleus was determined and the percentage of theta and non-theta segments in the hippocampal recordings was calculated. Theta synchronization, in these experiments, either developed spontaneously or it was elicited by injection of anticholinesterase (Physostigmine or Sintostigmine, i.p.) or by a series of short tail pinches. The relationship between hippocampal activity and glutamate release in the median raphe nucleus was characterized by comparison of the direction of changes in these two parameters in consecutive sampling periods. We found that as long as theta/non-theta ratio changed spontaneously or under the effect of anticholinesterase (n = 7), the extracellular level of glutamate in the median raphe nucleus was elevated during periods dominated by desynchronized hippocampal activity as compared with those mostly containing long and/or frequently occurring theta segments. Such relationship was not observed in the adjacent reticular formation (n = 4) and in the median raphe nucleus during sensory stimulation (n = 2). The present data complete those found earlier indicating that the desynchronizing serotonergic influence originating from the brainstem is maintained by a tonic excitatory input to the median raphe nucleus. Since the majority of glutamatergic afferents to the median raphe nucleus originates from the lateral habenula and the interpeduncular nucleus, known to connect limbic forebrain to the brainstem, theta associated changes in median raphe nucleus glutamate levels might reflect descending forebrain influences, suggesting therefore a feedback regulation of the hippocampal activity involving brainstem structures.
A variety of voltage-gated ion channels are expressed on principal cell dendrites and have been proposed to play a pivotal role in the regulation of dendritic excitability. Previous studies at the light microscopic level demonstrated that the K+ channel subunit Kv2.1 expression was polarized to the cell soma and dendrites of principal neurons throughout the central nervous system. Here, using double immunostaining we now show that Kv2.1 protein is similarly expressed in the majority of cortical and hippocampal parvalbumin, calbindin and somatostatin-containing inhibitory interneurons. At the electron microscopic level Kv2.1 immunoreactivity was primarily observed on the plasma membrane of the somata and proximal dendrites of both principal neurons and inhibitory interneurons; expression was low on smaller dendritic branches, and absent on axons and presynaptic terminals. Kv2.1 subunit expression was highly concentrated on the cell surface membrane immediately facing astrocytic processes. Kv2.1 expression was also concentrated in specific cytoplasmic compartments and on the subsurface cisterns underlying the plasma membrane facing astrocytes. In addition, Kv2.1 subunit immunoreactivity was associated with postsynaptic densities of a fraction of inhibitory symmetric synapses; while expression at asymmetric synapses was rare. These data demonstrate that channels formed by Kv2.1 subunits are uniquely positioned on the soma and principal dendrites of both pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons at sites immediately adjacent to astrocytic processes. This close apposition to astrocytes will ensure a rapid removal and limit the influence of K+ released into the extracellular space. This expression pattern suggests that channels formed by Kv2.1 are poised to provide a role in the regulation of neuronal dendritic excitability.
The contribution of intracortical inhibition to orientation tuning in the cat striate cortex (area 17) was studied by responses to flashing light bars of different orientations and lengths in 68 single-units before and during microiontophoretical application of bicuculline, a GABAA antagonist, A three-fold increase in the background activity (13.3 +/- 1.3 vs 4.4 +/- 0.5 imp/s) and 4.4-fold increase in the maximal discharge frequency (264.4 +/- 22.3 vs 60.6 +/- 5.3 imp/s) was found in 96.0% of the cells studied during microiontophoresis. In most units all characteristics of orientation tuning significantly changed during application of bicuculline: i) tuning width increased in 76.3% of cells from 52.7 +/- 2.8 degrees in control to 85.2 +/- 4.6 degrees, ii) tuning selectivity diminished in 63.6% of cells by a factor of 1.5, and iii) tuning quality dropped in 68.5% of cases by a factor of 2.5. The threshold ejection current of bicuculline for widening of tuning was in 2/3 of the cells in the range from +10 to +40 nA (+31.0 +/- 4.5 nA) and the maximum effect was obtained in 3/4 of units with +30(-) + 100 nA (+67.1 +/- 6.0 nA). Unmasking of additional excitatory inputs to the studied cells due to blockade of the inputs from inhibitory interneurons in considered as the main mechanism of the described bicuculline effects.
Orientation tuning of some neurons in cat visual cortex (area 17) revealed successive shifts of the preferred orientation and widening of tuning in time during the first 150 ms after onset of a flashing light bar. The mechanisms of these dynamics and the possible role of intracortical inhibition are still under discussion. In this study we analysed the dynamics using the time slice method before and during blockade of GABAergic inhibition by microiontophoretic application of bicuculline and observed two main types of neuronal behaviour. The first group of neurons (39 of 68 units or 57.4%) with relatively sharp tuning and absence or relatively small shifts of preferred orientation under control conditions increased or developed this shift during bicuculline application. Changes in tuning were observed between 30 and 150 ms after stimulus onset when inhibition was blocked. Neurons of the second group (29 units or 42.6% of cases) displayed pronounced shifts of preferred orientation under control conditions which was typically diminished or lost during blockade of inhibition. The results indicate different contributions of intracortical inhibition to different neurons distinguishing by stability or time dependence of their orientation preference during normal response generation. In one group of striate cells orientation tuning was kept narrow and constant in time by intracortical inhibition, while in another group orientation tuning dynamics are induced by inhibitory mechanisms.
Post-menopausal estrogen replacement therapy is associated with a reduction in the risk of Alzheimer's disease and has been reported to improve cognitive functioning in several small clinical trials. The present study evaluates the dependence of estrogenic neuroprotection on the presence of estrogen receptors using the murine neuronal cell line, HT-22, exposed to the neurotoxic beta-amyloid peptide. These cells lack functional estrogen receptors. The amyloid peptide killed 50-60% of these cells and concurrent treatment with either of three estratrienes, beta-estradiol, alpha-estradiol, or estratrien-3-ol, resulted in a dose-dependent protection. The potency of this estrogen neuroprotection was dependent on the presence of glutathione in the culture media. The presence of reduced glutathione in the media increases the neuroprotective potency of estrogens by an average of 400-fold. These results demonstrate that a nuclear estrogen receptor is not necessary for the neuroprotective actions of estrogens; however, the presence of an appropriate antioxidant in the extracellular milieu is needed for estratriene neuroprotection at physiologically and pharmacologically relevant doses. These data suggest the possibility of combined estrogen-antioxidant therapy for neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
Conditioned taste aversion, a long-lasting type of learning established after a single pairing of a novel taste and subsequent internal malaise, is an adaptive behavior to prevent animals from repeated intakes of poisonous substances. The present study was designed to identify the time-dependent excitability changes of cortical neurons to gustatory stimuli after the acquisition of conditioned taste aversion in freely behaving rats. Conditioned taste aversion to saccharin was established by an intraperitoneal injection of lithium chloride, a sickness-inducing agent, soon after an intraoral infusion of saccharin. Twenty minutes after the pairing, 25 (29%) of 86 rats showed aversive taste reactivities to saccharin, and 30 min after the pairing, all of the rats showed aversive behaviors to saccharin; these behavioral changes lasted throughout the test session (over 360 min). When unit activities were recorded from the insular cortex simultaneously with the behavioral test, 14 (11%) of 122 neurons showed a significant enhancement of excitability in response to saccharin, but not to other taste stimuli, after the acquisition of taste aversion. Eight of these 14 neurons showed a short-term enhancement: significant effects were detected only 30 min after the pairing. The remaining six neurons exhibited a long-term enhancement: the effects lasted over 360 min after the pairing. The existence of such short-term and long-term excitability changes suggests that the gustatory insular cortex is involved in different aspects of taste aversion learning.
In a mouse model of transplacental cocaine exposure we have demonstrated alterations in brain structure and function of offspring including disturbances of brain growth, disruption of neocortical cytoarchitecture, and transient as well as persistent behavioral deficits. One mechanism by which cocaine may alter fetal brain development is through cocaine-induced alpha-adrenergic-mediated (uterine) arterial vasoconstriction. In this study pregnant Swiss Webster (SW) mice were injected with cocaine HCl (20 or 40 mg/kg, SC) without any changes evident in mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) measurements. These physiology results suggest that in our mouse model, cocaine's transplacental effects on the fetus are not due to cocaine-induced maternal vasoconstriction, nor concomitant hypoperfusion of the fetus. In a separate series of experiments, pregnant SW dams were administered cocaine HCl at 40 mg/kg/day (COC 40), 20 mg/kg/day (COC 20), or 10 mg/kg/day (COC 10) [SC, divided in two daily doses, from embryonic day (E) 8 to E17 inclusive]. Additional groups of cocaine-treated dams were administered phentolamine (5 mg/kg, SC), a short-acting alpha-adrenergic antagonist, 15 min prior to each cocaine dose (Phent COC 40, Phent COC 20, Phent COC 10). Animals born to Phent COC 40 dams demonstrated transient postnatal brain growth retardation and behavioral deficits in first-order conditioning of P9 mice comparable to mice born to COC 40 dams, which received the same regimen of cocaine injections without phentolamine pretreatment. Like COC 40 offspring, Phent COC 40 offspring also demonstrated a persistent deficit in the blocking paradigm. The behavioral and growth findings confirm and extend the physiology data, and imply that in our rodent model, alpha-adrenergic mechanisms (including maternal vasoconstriction) are unlikely to mediate these toxic effects of transplacental cocaine exposure on developing brain.
We have utilized a mouse model of transplacental cocaine exposure to investigate the effects of cocaine dose and gestational timing in altering brain and body growth and postnatal behavior in exposed offspring. Pregnant dams were injected with cocaine HCl at 40 mg/kg/day (COC 40) or 20 mg/kg/day (COC 20), or 10 mg/kg/day (COC 10) SC from embryonic day (E) 8 to E17, or cocaine HCl at 40 mg/kg/day SC from E8 to E13 (COC Early) or from E13 to E17 (COC Late) divided in two daily doses. COC 40 and COC Late dams, as well as dams in nutritionally paired control groups (injected with saline vehicle and pair-fed with the COC dams: SPF 40, SPF 20, SPF 10), demonstrated less weight gain than SAL controls (injected with saline vehicle and allowed access to food ad lib). The surrogate fostered offspring of COC 40 and SPF 40 dams demonstrated brain and body growth retardation [on postnatal day (P) 1 and P9] when compared to pups born to SAL dams. Offspring of COC Late, SPF 20, and SPF 10 dams demonstrated brain and body growth retardation on P1 when compared to pups born to SAL dams. Pups from all groups were tested for first-order Pavlovian conditioning on P9, or for the ability to ignore redundant information in a blocking paradigm on P50. Only COC 40 mice (i.e., offspring born to COC 40 dams) were unable to acquire an aversion to an odor previously paired with shock on P9. When compared with SAL controls, COC 40 mice (and to a less significant extent SPF 40 mice) demonstrated a persistent behavioral deficit in the blocking paradigm on P50, which may reflect alterations in selective attention. Correlation analyses indicated that the dose and gestational timing of transplacental cocaine exposure, and varying degrees of malnutrition, had effects on blocking performance, with greater prenatal cocaine exposure and increased prenatal malnutrition resulting in more significant behavioral impairments. A path regression analysis demonstrated independent and significant effects of prenatal cocaine as well as prenatal malnutrition in contributing to impaired performance in the blocking paradigm. As suggested by the clinical literature, our preclinical data support a model whereby the dose and duration of prenatal cocaine exposure have direct effects on offspring brain and body growth and on behavioral performance.
To characterize the transplacental effects of cocaine on the developing brain, we have developed a mouse model of gestational cocaine exposure. Pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that cocaine and its metabolites (BE, BNE, and NC) were found in fetal brain and plasma at 30 and 120 min following SC administration to embryonic day (E) 17 pregnant Swiss Webster mice. Pregnant dams injected twice daily with cocaine HCl at 20 mg/kg SC from gestational day E8 to E17 (COC) demonstrated less food intake and lower percentage weight gain than vehicle-injected dams allowed access to food ad lib (SAL). A nutritionally paired control group of dams injected with saline vehicle and pair-fed with the COC dams (SPF) demonstrated the lowest percentage weight gain of all three groups. The surrogate fostered offspring of COC and SPF dams demonstrated persistent growth retardation [on postnatal days (P) 1, P9, and P50] and transient brain growth retardation (on P1 and P9) when compared to pups born to SAL dams. We conducted behavioral tests that allowed us to dissociate the indirect effect of cocaine-induced malnutrition from a direct effect of prenatal cocaine administration in altering postnatal behavior. Pups from all three groups were tested for first-order Pavlovian conditioning on P9 or P12, or for the ability to ignore redundant information in a blocking paradigm on P50 or P100. Unlike the SPF and SAL controls, COC mice (i.e., mice born to COC dams) were unable to acquire an aversion to an odor previously paired with shock on P9. This learning deficit was transient because on P12, COC mice trained on the same conditioning task displayed an aversion to the odor that was indistinguishable from the SPF and SAL controls. P50 and P100 COC mice (and to a lesser extent, SPF mice) demonstrated a persistent behavioral deficit in the blocking paradigm, which may reflect alterations in selective attention. We discuss how these findings in our rodent model have developmental implications for human infants exposed to cocaine in utero.
The injection of 2.0 mg chymopapain into the adolescent rabbit knee causes severe loss of articular cartilage proteoglycans (PG). Although chondrocytes attempt to restore lost PG, failure to repair ensues. Pure chondroitin 4,6-sulfate (Condrosulf, IBSA Lugano, Switzerland) has been used in clinical studies of human osteoarthritis (OA) as a slow-acting drug for OA (SYSADOA). Using our model of articular cartilage injury, we examined the effects of oral and intramuscular administration of Condrosulf after chymopapain-induced cartilage injury. In this study, animals received an injection of 2.0 mg chymopapain (Chymodiactin, Boots Pharmaceuticals) into the left knee and were sacrificed after 84 days. The contralateral right knee served as a noninjected control. Some animals received oral Condrosulf while others received intramuscular injections of Condrosulf. Serum keratan sulfate (KS) levels were monitored to ensure degradation of the cartilage PG. Those animals not exhibiting at least a 100% increase of serum KS following chymopapain injection were excluded from the study. At sacrifice, cartilage PG contents were markedly reduced in animals receiving an injection of 2.0 mg chymopapain with no further treatment. In contrast, oral administration of Condrosulf beginning 11 days prior to chymopapain injury resulted in significantly higher (P = 0.0036) cartilage PG contents. Intramuscular administration of Condrosulf resulted in higher, but less significantly so (P = 0.0457), cartilage PG contents. These results suggest that daily Condrosulf treatment prior to and continuing after chymopapain injury may have a protective effect on the damaged cartilage, allowing it to continue to re-synthesize matrix PG after the treatment is discontinued.
The generation of knock-out and transgenic mice offers a promising approach to the identification of novel biochemical factors that contribute to persistent pain conditions. To take advantage of these mice, however, it is important to demonstrate that the traditional models of persistent pain, which were largely developed for studies in the rat, can be used in the mouse. Here, we combined behavioral and anatomical methods to characterize the pathophysiology of a partial nerve injury-evoked pain condition in the 'normal' mouse. In male C57BL6 mice we tied a tight ligature around 1/3 to 1/2 of the diameter of the sciatic nerve and evaluated the time-course and magnitude of the ensuing mechanical and thermal allodynia. We also used immunocytochemistry to analyze nerve injury-induced changes in substance P (SP) and NK-1 (SP) receptor expression in the spinal cord. As in the rat, partial nerve injury markedly decreased paw withdrawal thresholds to both mechanical and thermal stimuli on the injured side. We detected threshold changes one day after the injury. The thermal allodynia resolved by 49 days, but the mechanical allodynia persisted for the duration of the study (70 days). We found no changes contralateral to the nerve injury. Sympatholytic treatment with guanethidine significantly reduced both the thermal and mechanical allodynia. We observed a reduction of SP immunoreactivity in the superficial dorsal horn on the injured side at 7 and 14, but not at 3 or 70 days after the nerve injury, and we observed an increase of NK-1 receptor expression at 3, 7, 14 and 42, but not at 70 days after the injury. We conclude that partial injury to the sciatic nerve produces a comparable allodynia and neurochemical plasticity in the rat and mouse. These results establish a valuable model for future studies of the biochemical basis of neuropathic pain in mice with specific gene modifications.
Gabapentin (GP) has been shown to have antihyperalgesic properties and the site of drug action is reported to be the central nervous system. The goal of the present study was to determine whether GP also has a peripheral site of action. Rats received intraplantar 20-microl injections of 6, 60 or 600 microg GP + 2% formalin, 300 or 600 microg S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba + 2% formalin, 600 microg R-(-)-3-isobutylgaba + 2% formalin or formalin alone. The two lower doses of GP significantly reduced flinching and lifting/licking behavior during phase 2; however, phase 1 behaviors were unaffected, 600 microg GP significantly reduced these nociceptive behaviors during both phases. 600 microg S-(+)-3-isobutylgaba also reduced formalin-induced nociceptive behaviors; however, 600 microg of the isomer R-(-)-3-isobutylgaba had no effect. The antihyperalgesic effect of GP (1) was not due to a systemic effect since animals injected with 600 microg GP in one hindpaw and 2% formalin into the contralateral hindpaw developed nociceptive behaviors which were no different than those seen in animals injected with formalin alone; (2) was not due to a local anesthetic effect since needle sticks within the drug-injected region evoked paw withdrawal behavior which was not different from pre-drug levels; (3) was blocked by 20 microl D-serine but not by L-serine. Although the mechanism of action of GP has yet to be elucidated, these results indicate that GP has a peripheral site of action and thus may offer a novel therapeutic agent for topical or local treatment of pain of peripheral origin.
Gaucher's disease, the inherited deficiency of glucocerebrosidase, manifests with vast phenotypic variation. Even among patients with type 2 (acute neuronopathic) Gaucher's disease, there is a spectrum of clinical presentations. DNA samples from 14 patients with type 2 Gaucher's disease with a course ranging from intrauterine death at 22 wk of gestation to survival until age 30 mo were studied. L444P was the only common mutation identified, found in 15 patients' alleles. Sequencing of genomic DNA amplified by long template PCR revealed that mutation L444P occurred as a single point mutation in seven mutant alleles and as part of a recombinant allele in eight mutant alleles. Two patients had a deletion of 55 bp in exon 9; in one patient the deletion was part of a recombinant allele, and in a second the deletion occurred alone. Direct sequencing identified R120W on one allele, P415R on another, and one fetus was homoallelic for a deletion of a C nucleotide at codon 139 in exon 5. Eight of the mutant alleles remain unidentified. Northern blots revealed an appropriately sized mRNA in all except one of the patients studied. Of the 14 type 2 Gaucher patients, three had hydrops fetalis and died in utero or at birth, five had congenital ichthyosis, and seven survived 5 mo or more. Patients who died in the neonatal period had decreased protein detected by Western blot, regardless of genotype observed. These studies demonstrate that genotypic heterogeneity exists in patients with type 2 Gaucher's disease, even among infants with the most severe phenotypes.
Neuroleptic-induced orofacial movements in rats have been widely utilized as an animal model of tardive dyskinesia (TD). The present study investigated the role of the oral motor cortex in these movements by applying direct cortical stimulation in rats exposed to chronic haloperidol. Rats received depot i.m. injections of haloperidol decanoate or sesame oil vehicle every 3 weeks (10 rats per group). After 24 weeks of injections and a 3-week withdrawal period, bilateral guide cannulae were implanted into the primary oral motor cortex. After a 1-week recovery, bilateral microinfusions of saline vehicle followed by 1, 3, and 10 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) were given and observations of oral activity, locomotion, rearing, and grooming were recorded. Haloperidol-treated rats displayed a significant emergence of NMDA stimulated oral activity (nondirected oral movements, oral tremor, audible teeth grinding, and directed oral movements). In addition, rearing and locomotion were significantly elevated in these animals. In contrast to haloperidol-treated rats, sesame oil-treated rats showed no significant emergence of any motor activity. These results suggest that chronic haloperidol administration alters primary motor cortex efferents, and that this effect may be a factor in the manifestation of chronic neuroleptic induced motor side effects, such as TD.
Knowledge about the differences in structure, function, and reactivity of the brain and body between Nijmegen high responders to novelty and Nijmegen low responders to novelty may help us to understand which factors give rise to the vulnerability and/or susceptibility to drugs of abuse. For that purpose, this contribution provides a short overview of the outcome of the available studies on Nijmegen high responders to novelty and Nijmegen low responders to novelty. These animals can be selected using three major behavioral paradigms: (a) the open-field test (which allows the separation of high and low responders to novelty); (n) the intruder test (which allows the separation of fleeing and nonfleeing rats); (c) the apomorphine test (which allows the separation of apomorphine-susceptible and apomorphine-unsusceptible rats). Data to date suggest that the same traits have been selected by all three paradigms, and point to the hypothesis that the neurochemical state of the nucleus accumbens directs the sensitivity to drugs of abuse. In addition, recent evidence suggests that the sensitivity to the psychostimulant and/or reinforcing effects of dexamphetamine and ethanol is smaller in HR than in LR under certain experimental conditions, whereas the reverse is found when different experimental conditions are chosen. The data all together lay the foundation for the overall hypothesis that there are three factors ultimately determining the individual-specific sensitivity to drug of abuse: (a) the genetic background that predisposes an individual to become a HR or a LR, (b) early postnatal factors that direct the phenotypic expression of a particular genotype at adult age, and (c) the degree of stress during exposure to the drug of abuse. Further testing of this hypothesis may provide important information about the factors that contribute to individual differences in vulnerability to drugs of abuse.
Anxiolytic-like effects produced by the novel, water-soluble AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist, LY326325 (3RS,4aRS,6RS,8aRS)-6-[2-(1(2)H-tetrazole-5-yl)e thyl]decahydro-isoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid), were examined in the elevated plus-maze and in a conflict-suppressed drinking situation. Administration of low doses (0.5, 1.2, and 5 mg/kg; i.p., -30 min) of LY326325 to Sprague-Dawley rats did not alter the percentage of entries into the open arms of the plus-maze, whereas only one dose of LY326325 (1 mg/kg) produced a slight, but significant, increase of the time spent in the open arms of the plus maze. In the conflict-suppressed drinking test, similar doses of LY326325 (2.5 and 5 mg/kg; i.p., -30 min) caused a dose-dependent and significant increase of punished drinking behavior without having any significant effects on unpunished drinking. The anxiolytic-like effects of LY326325 in the plus-maze and in the anticonflict tests were observed at doses, which, by themselves, had no influence on various measures of locomotor activity, i.e., horizontal activity, forward locomotion, and corner time. Our data suggest that the putative AMPA/glutamate receptor antagonist, LY326325, produces anxiolytic-like effects similar to those of diazepam in the conflict-suppressed drinking test, but displays considerably weaker anxiety-reducing properties compared to diazepam in the elevated plus-maze.
This study examines the types of information used by mice to detect changes in their environment. After a period of habituation to an open field containing three bicolored cube-shaped objects, we modified the spatial configuration of the objects or rotated the objects 180 degrees, or both. We noted that whatever the modification, mice reexplored the objects. This shows that mice are able to detect both topological changes and, in particular, changes in the orientation of objects. This is possible only if mice can establish a local view of the objects in relation to a stable element of their environment. A second experiment showed that this stable element is in fact a pattern within the open field and not an element of the distal environment. These two experiments demonstrate the importance of local views in spatial representation for rodents.
The pancreatic polypeptide (PP-fold) family of peptides consists of the endocrine peptides, pancreatic polypeptide (PP) and peptide YY (PYY), and the neuroneally derived peptide, neuropeptide Y (NPY). All three peptides are found in the circulation, with PP found primarily in the pancreas and PYY found principally in the gut. NPY is released into the circulation from neuroneal stores in response to stress. These peptides have broad peripheral actions on a number of organs. Not surprisingly, PYY and PP are believed to play an important role in the function of the gastrointestinal tract while NPY is a potent vasconstrictor and may have effects on the gut through the enteric nervous system. In the brain, NPY has been implicated in anxiety and depression, feeding and obesity, memory retention, neuroneal excitability, endocrine function, and metabolism. Recent advances in the molecular biology of the receptors for these peptides have resulted in the identification of at least six receptor subtypes with varying peptide pharmacology. Compared to other G-protein coupled receptor families, the PP-fold peptide receptors exhibit a relatively low level of sequence identity. Further advances in the development of selective agonists and antagonists for individual receptor subtypes will be needed to understand further their role in physiological function.
Axon injury rapidly activates microglial and astroglial cells close to the axotomized neurons. Following motor axon injury, astrocytes upregulate within hour(s) the gap junction protein connexin-43, and within one day glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Concomitantly, microglial cells proliferate and migrate towards the axotomized neuron perikarya. Analogous responses occur in central termination territories of peripherally injured sensory ganglion cells. The activated microglia express a number of inflammatory and immune mediators. When neuron degeneration occurs, microglia act as phagocytes. This is uncommon after peripheral nerve injury in the adult mammal, however, and the functional implications of the glial cell responses in this situation are unclear. When central axons are injured, the glial cell responses around the affected neuron perikarya appears to be minimal or absent, unless neuron degeneration occurs. Microglia proliferate, and astrocytes upregulate GFAP along central axons undergoing anterograde, Wallerian, degeneration. Although microglia develop into phagocytes, they eliminate the disintegrating myelin very slowly, presumably because they fail to release molecules which facilitate phagocytosis. During later stages of Wallerian degeneration, oligodendrocytes express clusterin, a glycoprotein implicated in several conditions of cell degeneration. A hypothetical scheme for glial cell activation following axon injury is discussed, implying the injured neurons initially interact with adjacent astrocytes. Subsequently, neighbouring resting microglia are activated. These glial reactions are amplified by paracrine and autocrine mechanisms, in which cytokines appear to be important mediators. The specific functional properties of the activated glial cells will determine their influence on neuronal survival, axon regeneration, and synaptic plasticity. The control of the induction and progression of these responses are therefore likely to be critical for the outcome of, for example, neurotrauma, brain ischemia and chronic neurodegenerative diseases.
1. In vitro receptor autoradiography was used to examine the long-term effects of a typical (fluphenazine), atypical (clozapine), or potential atypical antipsychotic (S[+]-N-n-propylnorapomorphine; [+]-NPA) on different dopamine (DA) receptor subtypes. 2. D1-Like and D3 receptor levels were not changed with any treatment in any brain region examined. 3. D2 Receptors in caudate-putamen (CPu), nucleus accumbens (NAc) and olfactory tubercle (OT) were significantly increased by long-term treatment with fluphenazine, but not with clozapine or S[+]-NPA. 4. D2 Receptor levels in medial prefrontal cortex (MPC), but not dorsolateral frontal cortex (DFC), were elevated after repeated daily administration of fluphenazine, clozapine, and S[+]-NPA. 5. D4-Like receptors, assayed under D4-selective conditions, were increased by fluphenazine, clozapine and S(+)-NPA in both NAc and CPu, but by none of these treatments in OT, DFC or MPC. 6. These results support a common role for medial prefrontal cortical D2 and striatolimbic D4 receptors in mediating the clinical actions of typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs.



These studies investigate whether the neurosteroid and 5 alpha-reduced metabolite of testosterone (T), 5 alpha-androstane-3 alpha, 17 beta-diol (3 alpha-Diol), has anti-seizure effects similar to its parent compound. In experiment 1, ovariectomized (ovx) Long-Evans rats (n = 20) were subcutaneously (s.c.) administered 32 mg/kg kainic acid or saline vehicle 10 min following 0.0, 3.0, or 7.5 mg/kg 3 alpha-Diol in 10% ethanol, propylene glycol vehicle (veh). During 2 h of observation of ictal activity, 3 alpha-Diol (3.0 and 7.5 mg/kg) prior to kainic acid significantly decreased the number and duration of partial and full seizures compared to the 0.0 3 alpha-Diol conditions and produced ictal activity that was comparable to 0.0 mg/kg 3 alpha-Diol no kainic acid controls (procedure controls). Animals that received 7.5 mg/kg 3 alpha-Diol prior to kainic acid had shorter latencies and distances to the hidden platform in a Morris Water Maze task than those that received 0.0 3 alpha-Diol, 1 week following ictal activity. Administration of 3 alpha-Diol (3.0 or 7.5 mg/kg) prior to kainic acid stimulation resulted in a greater number of identifiable neurons in the hilar region of the hippocampus, compared to 0.0 3 alpha-Diol condition. Experiment 2 was conducted to ascertain whether 3 alpha-Diol's anti-seizure effects were comparable to T and possibly a result of metabolism from T. Ovx rats (n = 36) were stereotaxically implanted with bipolar electrodes into the perforant pathway. One hour prior to perforant pathway stimulation, six rats were s.c. injected with either T (7.5 mg/kg), 3 alpha-Diol (7.5 mg/kg), 7.5 mg/kg T + 4MA (a 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor, 17 beta-N,N-diethylcarbamoyl-4-methyl-4aza,5 alpha-androstan-3-one), 4MA alone, 10% propylene glycol vehicle (veh) with perforant pathway stimulation, or veh without perforant pathway stimulation. 3 alpha-Diol and T produced similar seizure activity, water maze performance, and neuronal integrity in the hilar region of the hippocampus that were comparable to unstimulated controls. Because the T and 3 alpha-Diol groups were not different from T + 4MA but tended to be different from 4MA alone on these measures, this suggests that 3 alpha-Diol and T can have similar anti-seizure effects which may be due to actions of neurosteroids.
The nature and early time course of the initial processing differences between visually matched linguistic and nonlinguistic images were studied with event-related potentials (ERPs). The first effect began at 90 ms when ERPs to written words diverged from other objects, including faces. By 125 ms, ERPs to words and faces were more positive than those to other objects, effects identified with the P150. The amplitude and scalp distribution of P150s to words and faces were similar. The P150 seemed to be elicited selectively by images resembling any well-learned category of visual patterns. We propose that (a) visual perceptual categorization based on long-term experience begins by 125 ms, (b) P150 amplitude varies with the cumulative experience people have discriminating among instances of specific categories of visual objects (e.g., words, faces), and (c) the P150 is a scalp reflection of letterstring and face intracranial ERPs in posterior fusiform gyrus.

Several studies have shown an increased mortality rate among psychiatric patients. Morbidity, however, has been studied less often. In this study, the authors examined the number of hospitalizations with somatic diagnoses in 722 patients with affective psychoses and 472 with a paranoid disorder. Every patient had an age- and sex-matched control subject who did not have a psychiatric illness. Both groups of patients exhibited an increased number of somatic diagnoses compared with their control subjects, and this was true for the majority of the 14 different groups classified according to the International Classification of Diseases the authors studied. The pattern of somatic diagnoses was similar to that presented in one of the authors' prior studies of schizophrenic patients.


An unresolved question in neuroscience and psychology is how the brain monitors performance to regulate behavior. It has been proposed that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), on the medial surface of the frontal lobe, contributes to performance monitoring by detecting errors. In this study, event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to examine ACC function. Results confirm that this region shows activity during erroneous responses. However, activity was also observed in the same region during correct responses under conditions of increased response competition. This suggests that the ACC detects conditions under which errors are likely to occur rather than errors themselves.



The publication of the delta opioid receptor sequence led to the cloning of three homologous receptors: the mu and kappa opioid receptors, and a novel opioid-like orphan receptor. The orphan receptor's endogenous ligand, a 17-amino-acid peptide that resembles dynorphin, was named 'orphanin FQ' and 'nociceptin' (OFQ/N1-17). The OFQ/N1-17 receptor is expressed widely in the nervous system, and it is becoming clear that the peptide is likely to participate in a broad range of physiological and behavioral functions. At the cellular level, OFQ/N1-17 has much in common with the classical opioids; however, functional studies are now revealing distinct actions of this peptide. Identified only two years ago, OFQ/N1-17 has already attracted a great deal of attention. The number and diversity of papers focused on OFQ/N1-17 at the recent meeting of the Society for Neuroscience augur an exciting future for this new peptide.
The structure of brain extracellular space resembles foam. Diffusing molecules execute random movements that cause their collision with membranes and affect their concentration distribution. By measuring this distribution, the volume fraction (alpha) and the tortuosity (lambda) can be estimated. The volume fraction indicates the relative amount of extracellular space and tortuosity is a measure of hindrance of cellular obstructions. Diffusion measurements with molecules &lt;500 Mr show that alpha approximately 0.2 and lambda approximately 1.6, although some brain regions are anisotropic. Molecules &gt; or =3000 Mr show more hindrance, but molecules of 70000 Mr can move through the extracellular space. During stimulation, and in pathophysiological states, alpha and lambda change, for example in severe ischemia alpha = 0.04 and lambda = 2.2. These data support the feasibility of extrasynaptic or volume transmission in the extracellular space.
A century ago, Camillo Golgi discovered in neurons an intracellular network of anastomosing threads, impregnated by the chromoargentic reaction he had devised to stain the nervous tissue. This structure, designated by Golgi as 'internal reticular apparatus', was soon detected in a wide variety of eukaryotic cells. However, skepticism arose on the existence of the Golgi apparatus in the first decades of this century, when it was fiercely debated whether this structure represented a genuine new cell constituent or an artifact due to the deposit of metallic impregnation on diverse cytoplasmic structures. The reality of the Golgi apparatus became established unequivocally only with the application of electron microscopy; with the visualization of its fine structure, the apparatus finally achieved the status of cytoplasmic organelle, and thus, linked with Golgi's name, entered the modern era of investigation on its components, chemistry and function.

Biochemical studies of human fibroblasts from patients with neurological disorders have revealed a wealth of information on how such disorders occur. In this review, Gerald Connolly describes how recently developed fluorescence video imaging techniques have been used to study the physiology of skin fibroblasts isolated from patients with certain neurological disorders, including those produced by Alzheimer's disease, Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, mitochondrial disorders, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and lysosomal disorders. The results of these studies indicate disruptions in cell homeostasis, particularly specific changes in Ca2+ homeostasis and autofluorescence, which mirror changes thought to occur in the CNS of neurologically impaired patients. More extensive studies of these 'systemic changes' using new fluorescent indicators, combined with advances in imaging techniques, are predicted to increase the potential usefulness of human skin fibroblasts as experimental models and to help diagnose and treat neurological disorders.
Electroretinogram (ERG) flicker photometry was used to measure the spectral properties of cones in three common ungulates-cattle (Bos taurus), goats (Capra hircus), and sheep (Ovis aries). Two cone mechanisms were identified in each species. The location of peak sensitivity of an S-cone mechanism varied from about 444 to 455 nm for the three species; analogous values for an M/L-cone were tightly clumped at about 552-555 nm. Each of these three species has the requisite photopigment basis for dichromatic color vision and they are, thus, similar to other ungulates examined earlier.
Ever since being described by Mountcastle (Mountcastle, 1957), columnar organization of sensory cortical areas has provided key leverage into understanding the functional organization of neocortex. Columnar or clustered organization of neurons sharing like properties is now known to be widespread, and probably universal in primary sensory areas. Visual cortex in primates consists of a primary area and a large number of secondary areas, which are organized in a manner both hierarchical and parallel (Felleman &amp; Van Essen, 1991; Young, 1993; Young et al., 1995). One major component in the organization of extrastriate visual cortex appears to be the division into dorsal and ventral &quot;streams&quot; of processing (Ungerleider &amp; Mishkin, 1982), each of which is organized hierarchically. Within each, columnar organization exists at early stages, but becomes less clear at higher levels. Columnar organization has been described at the highest level of the ventral stream, inferotemporal cortex (IT, Saleem et al., 1993; Fujita &amp; Fujita, 1996; Tanaka, 1996), but has not been well characterized at the higher levels of the dorsal stream. Hints of such organization are found in the literature (Saito et al., 1986; Lagae et al., 1994), but systematic measurements are needed. In this paper, I report the existence of clustered organization in the medial superior temporal area (MST) of the dorsal stream, which is arguably the highest dominantly visual area on this pathway. I have measured the selectivity of both single- and multiple-unit activity along oblique electrode penetrations through this area to three different kinds of optic flow stimuli, and find that nearby neurons are more similar in their tuning than are more distant ones. This observation documents the existence of some form of clustered organization and supports the importance of this area in the processing of optic flow information.
To define brain regions involved in feature extraction or elementary form perception, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured using positron emission tomography (PET) in subjects viewing two classes of achromatic textures. Textures composed of local features (e.g. extended contours and rectangular blocks) produced activation or increased rCBF along the occipitotemporal pathway relative to textures with the same mean luminance, contrast, and spatial-frequency content but lacking organized form elements or local features. Significant activation was observed in striate, extrastriate, lingual, and fusiform cortices as well as the hippocampus and brain stem. On a scan-by-scan basis, increases in rCBF shifted from the occipitotemporal visual cortices to medial temporal (hippocampus) and frontal lobes with increased exposure to only those textures containing local features. These results suggest that local feature extraction occurs throughout the occipitotemporal (ventral) pathway during extended exposure to visually salient stimuli, and may indicate the presence of similar receptive-field mechanisms in both occipital and temporal visual areas of the human brain.
Direction selectivity and orientation selectivity were examined in the direction-selective (DS) and orientation-selective (OS) ganglion cells in the rabbit retina. Spike activities were recorded in vivo using tungsten-in-glass electrodes. Three types of visual stimuli (flashing slit, moving edges behind a slit, and whole-field drifting gratings) were used to distinguish these attributes. Fourier analysis was performed on data obtained using drifting gratings as proposed by Worgotter and Eysel (1987). Results from both angular and Fourier (polar angle frequency) domains were consistent. DS cells had strong directional components and varying strength of orientational components; they also had intact inhibitory surrounds. The phase of the biased orientation did not have a consistent relationship with the preferred direction. OS cells had predominant orientational components and very weak directional components. We conclude that the orientation bias does not contribute to the generation of direction selectivity, and that the mechanism of this bias of DS cells is rather different from the mechanism that generates orientation selectivity in rabbit OS cells. There are indications that it is similar to the mechanism shown to cause orientation bias in cat concentric cells.
In the kitten, as little as a week of monocular lid suture during early life causes a remarkable remodeling of the geniculocortical projections serving the deprived eye (Antonini &amp; Stryker, 1993a, 1996). While the physiological effects of monocular deprivation have been shown to be due to competitive interactions between the projections serving the two eyes, it is not known whether these morphological changes are due to competitive interactions or to sensory disuse. We addressed this question by analyzing the morphology of geniculocortical arbors in kittens deprived of patterned vision by binocular lid suture for 1 week or 2 weeks ending at 6 weeks of age. Such deprivation would be expected to affect the afferents serving the two eyes equally, giving neither eye a competitive advantage. The arbors were anterogradely filled with Phaseolus lectin iontophoretically injected into lamina A of the lateral geniculate nucleus. The lectin was visualized immunohistochemically, and single geniculocortical arbors were serially reconstructed in three dimensions. Arbors reconstructed in binocularly deprived animals were compared with arbors serving the deprived and nondeprived eye in animals monocularly deprived by lid suture of one eye for a week and with arbors obtained in age-matched normal controls. Geniculocortical arbors in binocularly deprived animals did not suffer the drastic remodeling of the deprived arbors in monocularly deprived animals. Indeed, arbors in binocularly deprived animals were indistinguishable from arbors in normal kittens or nondeprived arbors in short-term monocularly deprived animals. These results support the notion that competitive mechanisms rather than sensory disuse are responsible for gross morphological remodeling of geniculocortical arbors.
The survival of axotomized RGCs was increased by intravitreal NT-4/5 given by repeated injections or osmotic minipumps, but the effects were less complete than predicted. Compared to a single injection of the neurotrophin on day 0, second injections on days 3 or 7 only sustained an additional 10-20% of the RGCs on day 10. Minipumps augmented RGC survival up to 4-fold (50%) at 2 weeks but most RGCs were lost by 1 month. Thus, specific neurotrophins can rescue many RGCs soon after injury but long-term neuronal survival may require a better understanding of changes in neurotrophin receptors and interactions with other molecules.
The cone 'synaptic complex' is a unique structure in which a single presynaptic axon secretes glutamate onto processes of bipolar cells (both ON and OFF) and horizontal cells. In turn, the horizontal cell processes antagonize cone and bipolar responses to glutamate (probably by GABA). What still remains largely unknown is the molecular identity of the postsynaptic receptors and their exact locations. We identified several subunits of the glutamate receptor and the GABAA receptor expressed at the cone synaptic complex and localized them ultrastructurally. Glutamate receptors: (i) Invaginating (probably ON) bipolar dendrites in the monkey and rat express the metabotropic glutamate receptor, mGluR6. The stain is intense on the dendritic membrane where it first enters the invagination, and weak at the tip nearest to the ribbon. The cone membrane is electron-dense where it apposes the intense stain for mGluR6. Surprisingly, invaginating bipolar dendrites in the cat also express the AMPA receptor subunits, GluR2/3 and GluR4. (ii) Dendrites forming basal contacts in the cat (probably OFF) express the AMPA subunits GluR2/3, GluR4, and also the kainate subunit, GluR6/7. The stain is especially intense at the dendritic tips in apposition to electron-dense regions of cone membrane. (iii) Horizontal cells in the cat express the AMPA subunits GluR2/3, GluR4 and the kainate subunit, GluR6/7. The stain is strongest in the cytosol of somas and primary dendrites, but is also present in the invaginating terminals where it localizes to the membrane subjacent to the ribbon. GABAA receptors: (i) ON and OFF bipolar dendrites in the monkey express the alpha 1 and beta 2/3 subunits. The stain is localized to the bipolar cell membrane in apposition to horizontal cell processes. (ii) Cones did not express the GABAA subunits tested by immunocytochemistry, but beta 3 mRNA was amplified by RT-PCR from rat photoreceptors. Conclusions: (i) mGluR6 receptors concentrate on dendrites at the base of the invagination rather than at the apex. This implies that receptors at both 'invaginating' and 'basal' contacts lie roughly equidistant from the release sites and should therefore receive similar spatiotemporal concentrations of glutamate. (ii) The 'cone' membrane is electron-dense opposite to the receptor sites on both ON and OFF bipolar cells. This suggests a special role for this region in synaptic transmission. Possibly, these densities signify a transporter that would regulate glutamate concentration at sites remote (&gt; 200 nm) from the locus of vesicle release.
Photoreceptors of the lizard parietal eye, unlike rods and cones but like most invertebrate photoreceptors, respond to light under dark-adapted conditions with a depolarization. Using excised-patch recordings, we have nonetheless found a cGMP-gated, non-selective cation channel present at high density at the presumptive light-sensitive part (the outer segment) of these cells. This channel resembles the rod cGMP-gated channel in its activation characteristics, and by showing a relative non-selectivity among alkali monovalent cations, a high permeability to Ca2+, a high sensitivity to L-cis-diltiazem, as well as a negative modulation by Ca(2+)-calmodulin. This channel appears to mediate phototransduction by opening in the light to produce the depolarizing response.
Although numerous studies have examined the relationship between smooth-pursuit eye movements and motion perception, it remains unresolved whether a common motion-processing system subserves both perception and pursuit. To address this question, we simultaneously recorded perceptual direction judgments and the concomitant smooth eye-movement response to a plaid stimulus that we have previously shown generates systematic perceptual errors. We measured the perceptual direction biases psychophysically and the smooth eye-movement direction biases using two methods (standard averaging and oculometric analysis). We found that the perceptual and oculomotor biases were nearly identical, suggesting that pursuit and perception share a critical motion processing stage, perhaps in area MT or MST of extrastriate visual cortex.
ECL cells produce histamine and chromogranin A, and are restricted to the oxyntic mucosa of the stomach. ECL cell ontogeny has been studied in some detail in the rat. Using histidine decarboxylase immunostaining, the first ECL cells can be demonstrated at embryonic day 17. Immunoreactive histamine and chromogranin A appear one day later. At embryonic day 20, the vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 is also present in the ECL cells. Neonatally the ECL cell proliferation is slow; however, one to three weeks postnatally there is a rapid growth of ECL cells to populate the basal half of the glands. Gastrin is known to be an important stimulator of ECL cell activity and growth in the adult rat. As revealed in recent mouse gene knock out models gastrin does not seem to play a role in the early ECL cell differentiation and development.

We demonstrate that immediate exposure to gp120 (5 min; 0.1 microg/ml) results in a significant shift of the macrophage population to an amoeboid and motile category (P&lt;0.01; 91.7+/-5.5 vs. a control value of 42.4+/-4.2) and prior exposure with anti-gp120 antagonizes this shift. Acute exposure of the macrophages to morphine (10(-6) M) or anandamide (10(-6) M) resulted in the cells rounding up (shape factors of 0.84 and 0.87 respectively) and becoming non-motile. The action is blocked by prior treatment with the specific antagonists naloxone and SR 141716A. Chronic exposure (6 h) of the cells to all three agents resulted in a random migration pattern. Further, all agents blocked chemotaxis induced by DAMA and IL-1. Observation of the cells behavior during chronic exposure revealed a sporadic activity pattern with gp120 whereas morphine and anandamide first induced a period of inactivity which is followed by a period of activity (chemokinesis). Recent work from our laboratory has demonstrated that both morphine and anandamide acutely stimulate constitutive macrophage nitric oxide (NO) release, which then induces macrophage rounding and inactivity. It was therefore of interest to examine their behavior by exposing macrophages to the NO-donor SNAP. In a concentration dependent manner SNAP exhibited the same behavioral actions as both substances of abuse. Given this, we next determined if macrophages exposed to gp120 would release NO. We demonstrated that NO was released only when exposed to morphine and anandamide not gp120. Thus. the chemokinetic inducing activities of these agents may be the basis for excitotoxin liberation in neural tissues and/or a higher viral load in various organ systems since cellular adherence and random migration are stimulated.
We have used a combination of autoradiographic and immunohistochemical techniques to investigate the distribution of binding sites for substance P in relation to the distribution of substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibres and specific functional populations of neurons in the sympathetic ganglia of guinea-pigs. There was considerable heterogeneity in the density of binding sites for Bolton Hunter labelled 125I - substance P (BHSP). Binding sites were more dense in the prevertebral ganglia, such as the coeliac and inferior mesenteric ganglia, than in the paravertebral ganglia, such as the superior cervical or lumbar chain ganglia. The binding sites tended to be clumped within the ganglia. Within the prevertebral ganglia, they were associated predominantly with neurons projecting to the enteric plexuses. Many of these neurons contained somatostatin immunoreactivity. In the lumbar sympathetic chain ganglia, there was a weak association of binding sites with neurons containing immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide. Overall, the density of binding sites matched the density of nerve fibres containing immunoreactivity to substance P in different ganglia. However, within particular ganglia, there was little, if any, correlation between the distribution of binding sites and nerve fibres containing substance P. Most of the binding sites in the ganglia had the pharmacological characteristics of NK1 receptors. Our results show that there is considerable heterogeneity in the expression of NK1 receptors in the sympathetic ganglia of guinea-pigs. However, given the relatively poor spatial correlation between the distribution of binding sites and potential sites of substance P release from intraganglionic nerve fibres, we suggest that substance P may diffuse for relatively large distances through the ganglia, with actions only on those neurons selectively expressing NK1 receptors.
A systematic analysis of the localization of objects in extra-personal space requires a three-dimensional method of documenting location. In auditory localization studies the location of a sound source is often reduced to a directional vector with constant magnitude with respect to the observer, data being plotted on a unit sphere with the observer at the origin. This is an attractive form of data representation as the relevant spherical statistical and graphical methods are well described. In this paper we collect together a set of spherical plotting and statistical procedures to visualize and summarize these data. We describe methods for visualizing auditory localization data without assuming that the principal components of the data are aligned with the coordinate system. As a means of comparing experimental techniques and having a common set of data for the verification of spherical statistics, the software (implemented in MATLAB) and database described in this paper have been placed in the public domain. Although originally intended for the visualization and summarization of auditory psychophysical data, these routines are sufficiently general to be applied in other situations involving spherical data.
The serotonin 5-HT1B/1D-receptor family comprises of two closely related receptors encoded by two distinct genes. There are no pharmacological ligands which can adequately distinguish between these two receptor subtypes in human tissues. Therefore, we have developed human 5-HT1B- and 5-HT1D-receptor subtype specific polyclonal antibodies. Rabbits were immunised with synthetic peptides identical to unique amino acid sequences located in the third intracellular loops of these receptors. Polyclonal antibodies were subjected to immunoaffinity purification and were characterised using ELISA, dot blot analysis and immunostaining of stably-transfected CHO cell lines expressing either human 5-HT1B-receptors or 5-HT1D-receptors and in human trigeminal ganglia. The antibodies were specific for either the 5-HT1B- or 5-HT1D-receptors and did not cross-react. Both 5-HT1B- and 5-HT1D-immunoreactivities were detected on cell bodies in human trigeminal ganglia. In the absence of selective pharmacological agents, these antibodies represent unique and essential research tools to study the anatomical distribution of 5-HT1B/1D-receptor subtypes in human tissue.
Choleragenoid (cholera toxin B-fragment; CTB) is an anterograde, retrograde and transganglionic neuronal tracer. We describe a method for detecting CTB-labeled neuronal cell bodies, neurites and boutons at the ultrastructural level, using postembedding immunogold techniques on freeze-substituted Lowicryl HM20 embedded nervous tissue. Primary afferents and motoneurons were labeled by injection of CTB in the dorsal ramus of the C2 spinal nerve of the rat. Following fixation with paraformaldehyde (4%) and glutaraldehyde (0.25%), tissue sections from the spinal cord C2 segment were freeze-substituted and embedded in Lowicryl HM20 and subsequently processed with postembedding immunocytochemistry for CTB and glutamate. Immunogold particles indicating CTB immunoreactivity were found over primary afferents and motoneurons. In primary afferents in the central cervical nucleus (CCN) and motor nuclei, immunogold labeling was seen in boutons over vesicle-containing axoplasm and to a lesser extent over axoplasm devoid of vesicles, but not over mitochondria or axolemma. In motoneurons, immunogold particles were seen over the Golgi apparatus in the soma and over lysosomes in both soma and dendrites. Quantification of glutamate-like immunoreactivity in 20 CTB-labeled and 20 CTB-negative boutons in the neuropil was found similar, indicating that CTB does not interfere with the immunocytochemical detection of neuronal epitopes such as the transmitter substance glutamate.
Oscillatory dynamics are found at all levels of the nervous system. The goal of our current research on the control of rhythmic motor output by the lamprey spinal cord is to determine the features of neuronal coupling that lead to stable oscillatory activity and precisely-controlled intersegmental phase. Since our experimental manipulations can greatly increase the variability of the ventral root bursting pattern, it is important for us to employ a data analysis method which remains valid independent of this variability. Traditional analysis approaches which rely on identification of burst event times do not generally satisfy this requirement. In this paper, we illustrate the application of a straightforward statistically-based method for determining important parameters of oscillatory motor circuits using Fourier spectral analysis of spike trains. The frequency, phase, and their variabilities can be quantified; and the relative strength of coupling between different parts of the circuit can be tested for statistical significance. The approach we adopt is highly convenient for neuroscientists who study oscillatory systems as it operates directly on trains of action potentials stored as lists of event times (point-processes). Basic concepts and practical issues concerning use of Fourier analysis are discussed.
Malignant glioblastomas grow very rapidly and are generally resistant to either DNA-damaging drugs or gamma-irradiation. If tumor cells could be made more susceptible to cell death with treatments, this would clearly represent a significant improvement in the success of treatment. Recently, telomerase has become a focus of interest among oncologists as a target for treating cancer cells. Telomerase elongates telomeric DNA repeats (TTAGGG)n and is important in protecting and replicating DNA. The vast majority of tumor cells, indeed, express telomerase activity whereas normal somatic cells, except for a few cells, do not. Since telomerase is essential for protecting DNA, we may be able to make tumors more sensitive to treatments with DNA-damaging drugs by inhibiting telomerase activity. In this study, we used cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (cisplatin)-sensitive U87-MG cells and cisplatin-resistant U251-MG of human malignant glioblastoma cell lines. U87-MG cells did not express telomerase activity, whereas telomerase was highly detected in U251-MG cells. Interestingly, inhibition of telomerase with an antisense telomerase expression vector not only decreased telomerase activity but also increased susceptibility to cisplatin-induced apoptotic cell death in U251-MG cells. These findings suggest that treatment with antisense telomerase may represent a new chemosensitisation for tumors resistant to anticancer drugs.
Peripheral nerve injury markedly regulates expression of neurotrophins and their receptors in the lesioned nerve. However, the role of endogenously produced neurotrophins in the process of nerve regeneration is unclear. Expression of a multifunctional neurotrophin, pan-neurotrophin-1 (PNT-1), was targeted to the peripheral nerves of transgenic mice by using a gene promoter that is specifically activated after nerve lesion but that is otherwise silent in all other tissues and during development. PNT-1 is a chimeric neurotrophin that combines the active sites of the neurotrophins nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and neurotrophin-3 and binds and activates all known neurotrophin receptors. In adult transgenic mice, PNT-1 was highly expressed in transected but not in intact sciatic nerve. Morphometric analyses at the electron microscopy level showed increased and accelerated recovery of axon diameter of myelinated fibers in crushed peripheral nerves of transgenic mice compared with wild type. Examination of nerve bundles in target tissues indicated accelerated reinnervation of foot pad dermis and flexor plantaris muscle in transgenic mice. Moreover, transected sensory and motor axons of transgenic mice showed faster and increased return of neurophysiological responses, suggesting an accelerated rate of axonal elongation. Importantly, transgenic mice also showed a markedly ameliorated loss of skeletal muscle weight, indicating functional regeneration of motor axons. Together, these data provide evidence, at both the anatomical and functional levels, that neurotrophins endogenously produced by the lesioned nerve are capable of significantly accelerating the regeneration of both sensory and motor axons after peripheral nerve damage. In addition, our results indicate that exogenous PNT-1 administration may be an effective therapeutic treatment of peripheral nerve injuries.
The majority of investigations into the degree of restoration of neural circuitry following transplantation of the embryonic ventral mesencephalon to the striatum have focused upon the particular neurochemical subtypes of the fibers exchanged between graft and host. Visualization of neurites of specific neurotransmitter type while informative regarding the specificity of graft-host interactions, vastly underrepresents overall synaptogenesis as it may occur in the grafting situation. The present approach of using a molecular marker characteristic of all normal, functional synapses provides broader information about the synaptic remodeling that occurs after tissue grafting. Synaptophysin (SY), an integral membrane protein of the synaptic vesicle, is a reliable marker of nerve terminal differentiation. Immunohistochemical staining with antibodies directed against SY and the dopamine synthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) was used to assess overall synaptic differentiation as well as the relationship between SY immunoreactivity and the distribution of grafted dopamine (DA) neurons and processes in mesencephalic grafts and mesencephalic-striatal co-grafts implanted in the striatum of MPTP-treated African green monkeys. Grafted embryonic cerebellar tissue was used as a comparison graft type that does not normally exchange prominent direct projections with striatum. Dense pericellular arrays of SY-positive terminals were associated with TH-positive neurons in mesencephalic grafts. In mixed mesencephalic-striatal co-grafts, TH-positive fiber patches within the striatal portion of the graft demonstrated a high degree of correspondence with SY immunoreactivity. In contrast, grafts of cerebellar tissue did not display the same pattern of prominent pericellular arrays of SY staining. These observations suggest that functional synapses are abundantly present within grafted mesencephalon, and that these contacts are enriched in areas of the graft occupied by DA neurons. Implantation of an inappropriate striatal target, the cerebellum, results in visibly diminished innervation. The pattern of SY labeling observed suggests that tissue grafts are extensively innervated, probably both from extrinsic and intrinsic sources, and that the pattern and density of this innervation corresponds to the appropriateness of the graft-host interaction.
Recent studies have shown a close association between reactive oxygen species and DNA fragmentation and that delayed neuronal death after transient forebrain ischemia manifests as DNA fragmentation-like apoptosis. We examined the effect of indomethacin on ischemic-induced delayed hippocampal neuronal death in gerbils using the TUNEL staining method, since indomethacin is neuroprotective in a variety of degenerative processes, such as Alzheimer's disease. Indomethacin (5 mg/kg, i.p.), administered 5 min before the ischemic insult, significantly decreased the number of TUNEL-positive hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons and delayed the appearance of TUNEL-positive neurons. Our results indicate that indomethacin is effective in inhibiting DNA fragmentation after transient forebrain ischemia.
We compared in Wistar rats collateral blood flow through leptomeningeal anastomoses after middle cerebral artery occlusion using craniotomy ('extravasal occlusion'), which results in a small volume of cerebral infarction, and after intraluminal thread occlusion ('intravasal occlusion'), which produces a large volume of cerebral infarction. Simultaneous laser-Doppler flowmetry with two probes placed on the cerebral cortex was used to measure and compare collateral blood flow. Extravasal occlusion caused a cortical blood flow reduction along a gradient in lateral direction, whereas blood flow reduction after intravasal occlusion was more uniformly distributed. It is concluded that permanent intravasal occlusion compromises collateral blood flow and therefore may not be a suitable model for measuring the ability of pharmacotherapeutic agents, if any, to improve collateral blood flow acutely after middle cerebral artery occlusion. The two models can be useful for testing drugs on parenchymal neuroprotective properties. Thereby, the intraluminal technique is preferred because of the possibility to study reperfusion damage when transient occlusion is applied.
D-Fenfluramine is a serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) releaser and reuptake inhibitor. It is used to study the neurochemical control of feeding and has been used to treat obesity. It has also been employed as a pharmacological tool to study changes in serotonergic function in psychiatric patients. Brain sites activated by D-fenfluramine via the release of 5-HT have been mapped via the expression of the immediate early gene c-fos. Studies in our laboratory have indicated that D-fenfluramine induces Fos in the hypothalamus and cortex through 5-HT release. The present study investigated whether 5-HT released by D-fenfluramine induces Fos expression in the brain by activating 5-HT1A or 5-HT2A/2C receptors. Rats were pretreated either with WAY-100635, a 5-HT1A antagonist, or ritanserin, a 5-HT2A/2C antagonist, prior to d-fenfluramine injection. Blockade of either 5-HT1A or 5-HT2A/2C receptors was not sufficient to suppress the Fos response to D-fenfluramine in any region of the brain examined, including the cingulate cortex, frontal cortex, caudate-putamen, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, amygdala, and brainstem. These results indicate that Fos response elicited by D-fenfluramine may be mediated by other receptors, in addition to the 5-HT1A or 5-HT2A/2C receptors.
Rhythms in the expression of the nuclear phosphoprotein Fos, have been demonstrated in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of nocturnal rodents. When rats are housed in a 12:12-h light/dark (LD) cycle the number of Fos-immunoreactive (-IR) cells within the SCN is higher during the day than at night [9,23]. In the two experiments reported here, Fos-IR was examined in the SCN of a diurnal murid rodent, Arvicanthis niloticus. First, thirty-six adult male A. niloticus housed in a 12:12-h LD cycle were perfused at six equally spaced time points beginning 1 h after lights on (n=6 per time point). Brains were sectioned and treated with immunohistochemical procedures for the identification of Fos. The number of Fos-IR cells in the SCN varied significantly as a function of time, and was highest 1 h after lights on and decreased thereafter. The distribution of Fos-IR within the SCN overlapped with that of arginine-vasopressin-IR (AVP-IR) and vasoactive intestinal peptide-IR (VIP-IR), but not with that of gastrin-releasing peptide-IR (GRP-IR). In the second study, double-labeling techniques revealed extensive Fos expression within SCN neurons containing AVP-IR, but not neurons containing GRP-IR. In conclusion, although the overall rhythm of Fos-IR in the SCN is similar in diurnal and nocturnal rodents, differences may exist with respect to the relative distribution of Fos-immunoreacte cells within different SCN cell populations.
Recent pharmacological studies indicate that aminoglycoside-induced hearing loss may be an excitotoxic process modulated by a polyamine-like activation of cochlear NMDA receptors. Aminoglycoside antibiotics are constituted by a series of glycosidically linked aminocyclitols and aminosugars. We report here on the actions of these individual aminocyclitols and aminosugars on wild type NMDA receptors from rat brain. Compared to the parent molecules, neither aminocyclitols (e.g., 2-deoxystreptamine, streptamine, and streptidine) nor aminosugars (e.g., D-glucosamine and kanosamine) were effective at enhancing [3H]dizocilpine ([3H]MK-801) binding or inhibiting [3H]ifenprodil at NMDA receptors. Moreover, the appropriate combinations of aminosugars and aminocyclitols did not reconstitute the activity of the parent aminoglycoside at NMDA receptors. These data indicate that the polyamine-like actions of aminoglycosides are attributable to the conformation of the parent molecule rather than a particular amine containing constituent. Thus, it may be possible to synthesize or isolate aminoglycoside antibiotics devoid of ototoxicity.
Angiotensin II infused at low doses into the cerebral ventricles decreases cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) production. Since central angiotensin II also activates the sympathetic nervous system and promotes vasopressin release, the roles of these two factors in mediating the inhibitory effect of angiotensin II on CSF formation were studied. CSF production was measured in rats by the ventriculocisternal perfusion method. During central angiotensin II infusion (5 pg min(-1)), the following adrenoceptor antagonists were administered intravenously (i.v.): phentolamine (alpha1/alpha2, 2 mg/kg per h), prazosin (alpha1, 1 mg/kg per h), and propranolol (beta, 1 mg/kg per h). None of these agents affected the inhibitory effect of angiotensin II on CSF formation. In comparison, in animals administered i.v., the vasopressin V1 receptor antagonist, d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)Arg-vasopressin (10 microg/kg per h), the angiotensin II-induced decrease in CSF production was abolished. Our observations indicate, therefore, that vasopressin mediates the inhibitory effect of central angiotensin II on CSF formation.
The effects of the systemic (i.p.) administration of the selective adenosine A1 receptor agonist N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) and the selective adenosine A2A receptor agonist sodium 2-p-carboxyethyl)phenylamino-5'-N-carboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680) on different dopamine receptor agonist-induced behaviours were studied in the male rat. CGS 21680 (1 micromol/kg), but not CPA, was found to counteract the stereotypies induced by the non-selective dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (0.25 mg/kg s.c.). Low doses of CGS 21680 (0.1 micromol/kg) and high doses of CPA (3 micromol/kg) counteracted yawning induced by the dopamine D2 selective agonist quinpirole (0.05 mg/kg). On the other hand, low doses of CPA (0.3 micromol/kg) antagonized grooming induced by the selective dopamine D1 receptor-selective agonist SKF 38393 (10 mg/kg i.p.), while CGS 21680 was ineffective. These results are consistent with the proposed existence of a selective antagonistic modulation of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors by adenosine A1 and A2A receptors, respectively. The ability of CGS 21680 to counteract apomorphine-induced stereotypies is weaker compared to its previously reported antagonistic effect of amphetamine-induced motor activity. This supports the hypothesis that adenosine A2A receptor agonists may be potential antipsychotic drugs with a low potential for extrapyramidal side effects.
Caveolae are plasma membrane invaginations where key signaling elements are concentrated. In this report, both biochemical and histochemical analyses demonstrate that the amyloid precursor protein (APP), a source of Abeta amyloid peptide, is enriched within caveolae. Caveolin-1, a principal component of caveolae, is physically associated with APP, and the cytoplasmic domain of APP directly participates in this binding. The characteristic C-terminal fragment that results from APP processing by alpha-secretase, an as yet unidentified enzyme that cleaves APP within the Abeta amyloid sequence, was also localized within these caveolae-enriched fractions. Further analysis by cell surface biotinylation revealed that this cleavage event occurs at the cell surface. Importantly, alpha-secretase processing was significantly promoted by recombinant overexpression of caveolin in intact cells, resulting in increased secretion of the soluble extracellular domain of APP. Conversely, caveolin depletion using antisense oligonucletotides prevented this cleavage event. Our current results indicate that caveolae and caveolins may play a pivotal role in the alpha-secretase-mediated proteolysis of APP in vivo.
A method for the determination of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) at concentrations as low as 1.5 nM in microdialysis samples is described. A high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) autosampler was used for precolumn derivatizations of samples with phthalaldehyde-2-mercaptoethanol reagent, as well as for automated injections of acetonitrile to wash the microbore column between injections. This permitted the use of only one isocratic pump and reduced the run-to-run analysis time to below 20 min, without any risk for late-eluting peaks. Three different microbore columns were evaluated. The optimal column was a 150 x 1 mm I.D., C18 reversed-phase silica column with a particle size of 3 microm, operated at a flow-rate of 50 microl/min. The mobile phase was 0.1 M sodium acetate buffer, pH 5.4, containing 20% acetonitrile. Under these conditions, the column exhibits a low back-pressure of about 11.1 MPa and is usable for at least 1000 injections. Good correlation was found between fluorescence and electrochemical detector responses for o-phthaldialdehyde-GABA derivatives, although the latter detector type generally required more skill and maintenance for routine use. Microdialysis samples of 10-20 microl, recovered from various rat brain nuclei, were assayed using the described method.
Five different systems for fast determination of aspartate and glutamate in microdialysis samples are described: (I) a high-speed HPLC using a gradient pump with a sharp elution profile, (II) a column switching technique, (III) an isocratic pump with a low-pressure switching valve for one-step gradients, (IV) microbore chromatography using injections of acetonitrile as a wash-out step, (V) on-line connection of microdialysis and HPLC/derivatization. In all cases, automated precolumn derivatization with o-phthalaldehyde-2-mercaptoethanol reagent were used. Both fluorescence and electrochemical detection techniques were evaluated in terms of reproducibility, sensitivity, interference, maintenance and troubleshooting. The electrochemical detection method required a second derivatization step with 0.2 M iodoacetamide to remove excess of a thiol moiety and regular recalibrations after each six to ten injections. Under these conditions the correlation coefficients for electrochemical vs. fluorescence detectors were 0.918 for Asp and 0.988 for Glu for 65 microdialysis samples. Coefficients of variation for six analyses between calibrations were below 3% for both detectors. The limits of detection for both amino acids were about 0.4 pmol for electrochemical detection with a thiol scavenger step, 50 fmol for fluorescence detection using conventional columns and about 20-30 fmol for the microbore system. All systems are suitable for detecting basal levels of Asp and Glu in 5-10 microl microdialysis samples from a rat brain where typical concentrations lie around 1-10 pmol or more. It is concluded that a microbore setup with one isocratic pump and an autosampler optimized for injections of washing solvent between samples is the most practical and economical. The system allows analysis of minute sample volumes down to 1-2 microl.
Previous experiments have shown that conditioning in aversive situations is associated with specific changes in excitability of hippocampal-septal synaptic transmission and that these changes might be related to a modulation of this synaptic transmission by afferents originating from the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and from the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. Accordingly, the aim of the present experiment was to assess changes in excitability of hippocampal-septal synapses by varying the interval between the application of a conditioning pulse in either the BNST or the PVN, and a test pulse in fimbria fibers (FF). Electrical stimulation of FF, induces in the lateral septum (LS) a field potential characterized by two negative waves (N2 and N3) the magnitude of which is an index of excitability of two populations of target cells located in the ventral and dorsal lateral septum, respectively. Results showed that prestimulation of both the BNST and the PVN produced an increase in the amplitude of the N3 wave, although the optimal interpulse interval required for producing maximal increase was different as a function of the two structures. Only prestimulation of the BNST induced a significant increase in the amplitude of the N2 wave. These results suggest that the PVN projects mainly to the dorsal aspect of the LS, while the BNST projects to both dorsal and ventral parts of the LS. Together with results from previous experiments conducted in behaving mice exposed to conditioned aversive stimuli, it is concluded that these projections might play a role in the relief of contextual conditioned fear.
The integrin alpha 8 beta 1 has been reported to bind to fibronectin, vitronectin, and tenascin-C in cell adhesion or neurite outgrowth assays. Here, we describe cDNA cloning of the murine alpha 8 subunit, purification of a recombinant soluble heterodimer consisting of the extracellular domains of the murine alpha 8 and beta1 subunits, and development of a sensitive binding assay using a modified form of this heterodimer fused to alkaline phosphatase (AP). In binding assays, the purified alpha 8 beta 1-AP chimera exhibited the same divalent ion requirements for activation and binding specificity as cell surface alpha 8 beta 1: in the presence of Mn2+ it bound to fibronectin and vitronectin in an RGDS-peptide inhibitable manner. Contrary to previous reports, we found no evidence that alpha 8 beta 1, expressed on K562 cells or as an AP chimera, interacts strongly with native tenascin-C. In binding, adhesion, and spreading assays, significant interactions were observed only to short fragments of tenascin-C containing the third fibronectin type III repeat which contains an RGD sequence. Full length tenascin-C and longer fragments containing this repeat did not appear to serve as ligands, implying that the RGD site in native tenascin-C is a cryptic binding site for this integrin, exposed by removal of adjacent domains. Soluble integrin-AP chimeras should be generally useful for identifying and characterizing integrin interactions with ligands.
GABAA receptor activation augments stimulated release of 3H-norepinephrine (NE) in brain slices from female rats. This effect is not blocked by acetazolamide or MK-801, indicating that permeability of the GABAA chloride channel to bicarbonate ions and NMDA receptor activation do not mediate GABA-induced NE release. Furthermore, GABA augments 3H-NE release from slices, but not from isolated nerve terminals (synaptosomes), indicating that interneurons mediate GABA effects on 3H-NE release.
Dopamine (DA), produced by tubero-infundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurons of the arcuate nucleus (ARN) is the established inhibitor of the secretion of prolactin (PRL). Changes in dopaminergic (DAergic) neuronal activity in the median eminence-long portal vessels (ME-LPV) and/or the concentration of DA in the anterior lobe (AL) are inversely related to the secretion of PRL. However, conflicting reports concerning DAergic neuronal activity during the suckling-induced release of PRL persist. In addition to TIDA neurons, PeVN-hypophysial DAergic (PHDA) and tubero-hypophysial DAergic (THDA) neurons which, respectively, innervate the intermediate lobe (IL) and the IL/neural lobe (NL) also have a significant role. We measured the concentrations of DA and its main metabolite, 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), in the median eminence and the three pituitary lobes of lactating mothers. Concentrations of DA and DOPAC from tissues and the concentration of PRL in plasma were measured by HPLC-EC and RIA, respectively. There were no changes in the concentration of DA and DOPAC of the IL due to the suckling stimulus. In the NL, a decrease in the concentration of DOPAC was detected due to the suckling stimulus. In addition, there were no changes of DA or DOPAC in the outer zone of the AL (AL-OZ) due to suckling. However, a decrease in the concentrations of DA and DOPAC was detected in the inner zone of the AL (AL-IZ). These data suggest lactotrophs from the AL-IZ are responsible for the changes in the concentration of plasma PRL in response to the suckling stimulus. In addition TIDA and THDA neurons, but not PHDA neurons, regulate the control of the secretion of PRL in response to suckling.
Trypanosoma cruzi and Toxoplasma gondii are protozoan parasites capable of causing infections of the nervous system. In order to determine effects of infection by these organisms on intercellular communication in the brain, dye coupling and connexin abundance and distribution were examined in leptomeningeal cells and astrocytes infected with T. cruzi or T. gondii. For both cell types infected with either type of protozoan parasite, intercellular diffusion of intracellularly injected Lucifer Yellow was dramatically reduced. Immunocytochemistry with antibodies specific for connexin43 (in astrocytes) or both connexin43 and connexin26 (for leptomeningeal cells) demonstrated that punctate gap junctional staining was much reduced in infected cells, although uninfected neighbors could display normal connexin abundance and distribution. Western blot analyses revealed that connexin43 abundance in both cell types infected with either parasite was similar to that in uninfected cells. Phosphorylation state of connexin43 (inferred from electrophoretic mobility of connexin43 isoforms) was not significantly affected by the infection process. Immunocytochemistry of whole brains from animals acutely infected with either parasite also showed a marked reduction in connexin43 expression. We conclude that infection of both types of brain cells with either protozoan parasite results in a loss of intercellular communication and organized gap junction plaques without affecting expression levels or posttranslational processing of gap junction proteins. Presumably, these changes in gap junction distribution result from altered targeting of the junctional protein to the plasma membrane, and/or from changes in assembly of subunits into functional channels.
Although there are several reports on the alteration of intracellular signal transduction during heat shock in somatic cells, the long term effects of heat shock on neuronal cells remain unknown. In this report, we investigated cyclic AMP (cAMP) accumulation and the expression of heat shock proteins following heat shock in mouse neuroblastoma N18TG2 cells. Basal cAMP accumulation, or that stimulated by serotonin (10 microM), cholera toxin (1 microg/ml), and forskolin (1 microM) was suppressed at 0, 3, and 6 h following heat shock (45 degrees C for 30 min). The cAMP levels were restored at 15 and 24 h after heat shock, corresponding with the expression of stress-induced heat shock protein 72 (HSP72). Quercetin, an inhibitor of HSP expression, decreased the expression of HSP72 and inhibited the recovery of cAMP levels 24 h after heat shock. Quercetin also decreased the basal expression of the constitutive heat shock cognate protein 70 (HSC70) and suppressed cAMP accumulation in non-heat shocked cells. These results suggest that stress-induced HSP72 restores cAMP accumulation to control levels following heat shock and that constitutive HSC70 is related to cAMP levels in non-stress conditions.
Calpains have been previously shown to regulate AMPA receptor properties by producing partial truncation of the C-terminal domains of several receptor subunits. We now report that NMDA receptor subunits, in particular NR2 subunits, are also subjected to calpain-mediated truncation. Treatment of synaptic membranes with calpain I resulted in truncation of both NR1 and NR2 subunits, with the appearance of NR2 species with lower mol.wt. than native subunits, but still recognized by antibodies directed at the C-terminal domain. This treatment did not modify the binding of several ligands of the NMDA receptors, such as glutamate, glycine or TCP. Incubation of thin frozen-thawed brain sections with calcium resulted in calpain-mediated selective degradation of NR2 subunits, as truncation into smaller fragments was totally blocked by calpain inhibitors. Under the same conditions, TCP binding to sections was decreased by about 50%, an effect also blocked by calpain inhibitors. Treatment of hippocampal slices in culture with the excitotoxin, kainic acid, also produced calpain-mediated truncation of the C-terminal domain of NR2 but not NR1 subunits of the NMDA receptors. The results indicate that calpain activation produces several modifications of NMDA receptors, including the truncation of the C-terminal domain of NR2 subunits, and changes in channel binding properties. They suggest that calpain-mediated regulation of NMDA receptors might represent a feed-back regulation of the receptors which could be used to limit receptor activation.
The free radical hypothesis for the pathogenesis and/or progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) has gained wide acceptance in recent years. Although it is clear that dopamine (DA) agonists cannot completely replace levodopa therapy, they can be beneficial early in the course of PD by reducing the accumulation of DA which undergoes auto-oxidation and generates cytotoxic free radicals. In the present study we demonstrate that pergolide, a widely used DA agonist, has free radical scavenging and antioxidant activities. Using a direct detection system for nitric oxide radical (NO.) by electron spin resonance (ESR) spectrometry in an in vitro .NO-generating system, we examined the quenching effects of pergolide on the amount of NO. generated. Pergolide dose-dependently scavenged NO.. In the competition assay, the IC50 value for pergolide was estimated to be about 30 microM. Pergolide also dose-dependently attenuated the hydroxyl radical (.OH) signal in an in vitro FeSO4-H2O2 ESR system with an approximate IC50 value of 300 microM. Furthermore, this agent significantly inhibited phospholipid peroxidation of rat brain homogenates in in vitro experiments and after repeated administration (0.5 mg/kg/24 h, i.p. for 7 days). Our findings suggest a neuroprotective role for pergolide on dopaminergic neurons due to its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties.
It is known that Substance P (SP) enhances glutamate- and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced activity in spinal cord dorsal horn neurons and that this enhancement is important in the generation of wind-up and central sensitization. It is now known that SP and glutamate receptors are present on sensory axons in rat glabrous skin. This raises the issue as to whether SP and glutamate interact in the periphery. Using the tail skin in rats, the present study demonstrates 1) that unmyelinated axons at the dermal-epidermal junction immunostain for antibodies directed against NMDA, non-NMDA or SP (NK1) receptors; 2) that glutamate injected into the tail skin results in dose-dependent nociceptive behaviors interpreted as mechanical hyperalgesia, mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia, which are blocked following co-injection with glutamate antagonists; 3) that peripheral injection of SP potentiates glutamate-induced nociceptive behaviors in that the co-injection of SP+glutamate results in a significantly longer duration of behavioral responses compared to the responses seen following injection of either substance alone. These data provide support for the hypothesis that primary afferent neurons might well be subject to similar mechanisms that result in wind-up or central sensitization of spinal cord neurons.
The development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and hyperactive voiding in rats with urethral obstruction are characterized by abnormal smooth muscle growth, increased tissue levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) and altered patterns of innervation. The present study was undertaken to determine if bladder smooth muscle from SHRs contains and secretes elevated levels of NGF, and if so, whether the augmented NGF contributes to changes in bladder innervation and function without tissue hypertrophy. Voiding behavior was monitored using specially designed metabolic cages. NGF levels in tissue homogenates and conditioned cell culture media were measured by ELISA. NGF mRNA in cultured bladder smooth muscle cells (BSMCs) was quantified using reverse transcriptase PCR. Noradrenergic innervation was assessed by staining with glyoxylic acid and assaying norepinephrine (NE) content in bladders with high performance liquid chromatography. SHRs voided more frequently than WKY rats. NGF content was higher in bladders from adult SHRs when compared to Wistar-Kyoto normotensive rats (WKYs). No significant difference in NGF mRNA content was observed between SHR and WKY BSMCs. However, SHR BSMCs secreted NGF at a higher rate and amount per unit mRNA than did WKY BSMCs. SHR bladders contained more NE and were more densely stained for catecholaminergic fibers than bladders from WKY rats. The results support the hypothesis that elevated NGF secretion by bladder smooth muscle is associated with hyperinnervation of bladder and hyperactive voiding in SHRs. Thus, the SHR strain may represent a genetic model to study changes in bladder function resulting from altered patterns of innervation.
The midbrain periaqueductal gray is a key structure for the mediation of an integrated defence behaviour. Although a prominent role for glutamate in PAG mechanisms is supported by both behavioural and morphological studies, whether PAG afferents conveying somatosensory information constitute a source of glutamatergic input to the PAG remains unknown. Here, we have compared the projection pattern of orthogradely-labelled spinoannular fibres with the distribution of glutamate-like immunoreactivity in the PAG at the light microscopic level. Transaxonal labelling was observed throughout the whole rostrocaudal axis of the PAG except for the dorsolateral regions. Cell-processes and terminal-reminiscent puncta were strongly immunoreactive in all PAG regions, including the dorsolateral areas. To ascertain whether glutamate-immunoreactive puncta observed at light microscopy indeed constituted axon terminals of the spinoannular system, glutamate-like immunoreactivity was assessed in orthogradely-labelled synaptic terminals using a post-embedding immunogold procedure for electron microscopy. Quantitative analysis of gold particle densities revealed over twice as strong an immunoreactivity in anatomically-identified spinoannular axon terminals as in dendrites postsynaptic to them, perikarya and inhibitory Gray II synapses, as well as an over 5-fold heavier immunolabelling than in glial profiles. These findings reveal that glutamate is accumulated in synaptic terminals of the spinoannular system, supporting a neurotransmitter role for this acidic amino acid in spinofugal afferents to the PAG.
The anorexia (anx) mutation causes reduced food intake in preweanling mice, resulting in death from starvation within 3-4 weeks. In wild-type rodents, starvation induces increased neuropeptide Y (NPY) mRNA levels in the arcuate nucleus that promotes compensatory hyperphagia. Despite severely decreased body weight and food intake at 3-weeks age, anx/anx mice do not show elevated NPY mRNA levels in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus compared to wild-type/heterozygous littermates. The NPY mRNA levels can be upregulated in normal mice at this chronological age, because 24-h food deprivation increased arcuate NPY mRNA in wild-type littermates. The unresponsiveness of NPY expression in the arcuate of anx/anx mice was paralleled by serotonergic hyperinnervation of the arcuate nucleus, comparable to the serotonergic hyperinnervation previously reported in the rest of the anx/anx brain. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that wasting disorders are accompanied by disregulation of NPY mRNA expression in the arcuate nucleus, and suggests that reduced food intake, the primary behavioral phenotype of the anx/anx mouse, may be the result of altered hypothalamic mechanisms that normally regulate feeding.
The present study examined (1) whether the neostriatum is involved in a drug-induced conditioned locomotor response and; (2) whether this structure participates in the development of behavioral sensitization. Moreover, the present study addressed the question whether the development of behavioral sensitization is necessary for the induction of conditioning. Rats received injections of either apomorphine (2 microg) or vehicle (solution of 0.1% ascorbate/saline) into the dorsal neostriatum daily for 7 days. These treatments were performed immediately prior to (apomorphine-paired group and vehicle group) or 30 min following (apomorphine-unpaired group) 10-min placement in an open field which served as the test environment. After a 3-day drug withdrawal period, the animals were given a 10-min non-drug vehicle test trial in the test environment. Three days later, a drug test with apomorphine was administered to the animals of the paired and unpaired treatment groups; the vehicle group again received an injection of vehicle. The analysis of locomotor activity in the open field (measured as the distance traversed) revealed that locomotor activity in the apomorphine-paired group was higher than in the other groups. There were no indications for behavioral sensitization to intrastriatal apomorphine, since the locomotor response in the apomorphine-paired group did not increase, but rather decreased with daily repeated injections of apomorphine. Furthermore, only the apomorphine-paired animals showed a higher locomotor response when tested after an intrastriatal injection of vehicle in the previously apomorphine-paired environment, which is indicative of a conditioned drug effect. These results suggest that the neostriatum is directly involved in the development of drug-induced conditioning of locomotor behavior but not in the establishment of behavioral sensitization.
Granule cell progenitors in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation have the unusual capacity to be able to divide in the brains of adult rats and primates. The basal proliferation rate of granule cell progenitors in the adult rat is low compared with development, however, it is possible that this rate may become significantly altered under pathological conditions such as epilepsy. We have investigated whether the proliferation of granule cell progenitors is increased in adult rats in a model of temporal lobe epilepsy, by using systemic bromodeoxyuridine injections to label dividing cells. We report here for the first time that granule cell neurogenesis is increased bilaterally 1 week after a single unilateral intracerebroventricular injection of kainic acid. Bromodeoxyuridine labeled neurons increased at least 6-fold on the side ipsilateral to the kainic acid injection compared to controls, but significantly, were also increased, by at least 3-fold on the side contralateral to the injection. The dividing cells in the subgranular zone were identified as neurons since they expressed Class III beta tubulin but not glial fibrillary acidic protein.
After injury, the peripheral nervous system (PNS) is capable of full regeneration and recovery of function. Many molecular events that are the hallmarks of the regenerating PNS are recapitulations of developmental processes. The expression of one such molecule, the POU transcription factor suppressed cAMP-inducible POU protein (SCIP), is required for the establishment of normal nerves and is reexpressed during regeneration. Here we describe markedly accelerated regeneration and hypertrophy of both myelin and axons in transgenic mice that express an amino-terminal deletion of the SCIP molecule. This mutant SCIP molecule retains the POU-specific and POU homeodomain moieties, which allow for both DNA binding and some protein-protein interaction. We demonstrate that the transgene indirectly effects dramatic axonal changes. This is the first demonstration of a genetically controlled acceleration of neural regeneration.
Synapses at larval neuromuscular junctions of the flies Drosophila melanogaster and Sarcophaga bullata are not distributed randomly. They have been studied in serial electron micrographs of two identified axons (axons 1 and 2) that innervate ventral longitudinal muscles 6 and 7 of the larval body wall. The following fly larvae were examined: axon 1--wild-type Sarcophaga and Drosophila and Drosophila mutants dunce(m14) and fasII(e76), a hypomorphic allele of the fasciclin II gene; and axon 2--drosophila wild-type, dunce(m14), and fasII(e76). These lines were selected to provide a wide range of nerve terminal phenotypes in which to study the distribution and spacing of synapses. Each terminal varicosity is applied closely to the underlying subsynaptic reticulum of the muscle fiber and has 15-40 synapses. Each synapse usually bears one or more active zones, characterized by dense bodies that are T-shaped in cross section; they are located at the presumed sites of transmitter release. The distribution of synapses was characterized from the center-to-center distance of each synapse to its nearest neighbor. The mean spacing between nearest-neighbor pairs ranged from 0.84 microm to 1.05 microm for axon 1, showing no significant difference regardless of genotype. The corresponding values for axon 2, 0.58 microm to 0.75 microm, were also statistically indistinguishable from one another in terminals of different genotype but differed significantly from the values for axon 1. Thus, the functional class of the axon provides a clear prediction of the spacing of its synapses, suggesting that spacing may be determined by the functional properties of transmission at the two types of terminals. Individual dense bodies were situated mostly at least 0.4 microm away from one another, suggesting that an interaction between neighboring active zones could prevent their final positions from being located more closely.
Patients with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) report cognitive difficulties (impaired attention, memory and reasoning). Neuropsychological tests have failed to consistently find cognitive impairments to the degree reported by CFS patients. We tested patients with CFS and sedentary controls in protocols designed to measure sensory reactivity and acquisition of the classically conditioned eyeblink response. Patients with CFS exhibited normal sensitivity and responsivity to acoustic stimuli. However, CFS patients displayed impaired acquisition of the eyeblink response using a delayed-type conditioning paradigm. Sensitivity and responsivity to the airpuff stimulus were normal. In the absence of sensory/motor abnormalities, impaired acquisition of the classically conditioned eyeblink response indicates an associative deficit. These data suggest organic brain dysfunction within a defined neural substrate in CFS patients.
Low-stringency PCR was used to isolate the chicken homologue of the human bone morphogenetic protein receptor type II (BMPR-II). In situ hybridization localized mRNA expression for this serine/threonine kinase receptor. It was weakly expressed in the vitreal side of the neural retina at E6. In the E7 chicken, fairly strong labelling was found in cells of the internal part of the neural retina. At E9, strong labelling was found in the region of the retinal ganglion cells. Explants of E6 retina exposed to osteogenic protein-1 (OP-1/BMP-7), exhibited dense retinal fibre outgrowth. This suggests that BMPR-II may form a signalling receptor complex important for retinal development. OP-1 and related ligands may serve functions supplementary to those of neurotrophins.
To clarify the mechanisms of allodynia we have examined whether 'wind-up' of nociceptive withdrawal reflexes (NWR), a phenomenon characteristic of nociceptive C fiber spinal processing, can be mimicked by stimulation of tactile A beta fibers in monoarthritic decerebrate spinal rats. Knee joint monoarthritis was induced by carrageenan/kaolin under halothane anaesthesia 5 h before recordings. In arthritic, but not in control rats, wind-up of NWR of the semitendinosus muscle could be evoked by repeated stimulation of A beta fibres. By contrast, peroneus longus reflexes did not exhibit marked wind-up. Bicuculline (0.03-0.3 mg/kg, i.v.) dose-dependently inhibited this wind-up. Hence, reflex wind-up can be elicited by tactile A beta fibers in arthritis rats through a GABAA dependent mechanism.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei serve as the dominant circadian pacemaker in the mammalian brain, regulating daily behavioral, physiological and hormonal rhythms. In the ventrolateral parts of these nuclei, the receptor for the key immunoregulatory molecule interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) was detected in the rat brain. The cellular localization of the IFN-gamma receptor corresponded to neuronal elements. Expression of the receptor followed a diurnal rhythm with a peak at zeitgeber time 15. This peak coincided with an enhanced expression of janus kinase 1 and 2 as well as the signal transducer and activator of transcription 1, which constitute the main intracellular signaling pathway of IFN-gamma. This is the first study to show expression of the receptor of an immune modulatory molecule in the pacemaker of the biological clock, which, thus, may be influenced by immune system signal molecules.
Experiments described here show that in vivo glucose uptake is impaired in mice given 30 micrograms leptin by intraperitoneal injection 2 hours before an oral glucose tolerance test (GTT). When mice were infused for 7 days with 10 micrograms/day leptin, the 4-fold increase in circulating leptin caused a transient hypophagia, a sustained weight loss and significantly inhibited insulin release in response to an oral GTT. Adipocytes from these mice were not insulin responsive whereas insulin-stimulated muscle and liver glycogen synthesis were increased. In contrast, leptin added to 2 hour in vitro incubations had an insulin-like effect on muscle glucose utilization and augmented insulin stimulation of adipocyte lipid synthesis. Thus, normal mice treated chronically with leptin develop tissue specific changes in insulin sensitivity and compensate for inhibition of glucose-stimulated insulin release. The contrasting response to acute leptin exposure suggests these changes are not a direct effect of the protein.
The development of the dopamine D2R receptors (D2R) in the human basal ganglia (BG) and thalamus was investigated in 25 normal brains by means of an immunohistochemical method and Western blotting. Immunoreactivity to D2R was detected in the cytoplasm and dendrites of small and large neurons in the BG and thalamus. D2R-positive neurons were clearly observed at 19 weeks of gestation (GW) in the globus pallidus and thalamus, and at 21 GW in the striatum. The number of D2R-positive neurons gradually increased and reached a peak at 27 GW in the globus pallidus, at 39 GW in the thalamus, and at 1 month of age in the striatum. The number of D2R-positive large neurons in the globus pallidus and small neurons in the striatum decreased after 1 year and about 10 years of age, respectively. Western blotting confirmed the specificity of the immunohistochemistry. Our results suggest that the D2R protein begins to be synthesized at an early fetal stage in the BG and thalamus, and the development of D2R is mostly consistent with neuronal maturation in the BG. D2R may play an important role in regulating the neuronal development of the BG. The decrease in D2R-positive neurons may be related to D2R post-transcriptional regulation.
We investigated the effects of acute i.p. injections of the Ca2+-dependent K+ channel blocker, apamin, on water maze spatial navigation, Y-maze and passive avoidance behavior in intact and medial septal-lesioned mice. Apamin 0.02, 0.06 or 0.2 mg/kg (i.p.) administered 30 min before or immediately after the training did not affect the performance of intact mice. Apamin 0.02 or 0.06 mg/kg (i.p.) administered immediately after the daily training did not affect the performance of medial septal-lesioned mice. Apamin 0.02 and 0.06 mg/kg (i.p.) administered 30 min before daily training reversed the navigation failure present in medial septal-lesioned mice during the initial and reversal learning stages of the water maze task. Apamin had no effect on the cognitive performance in Y-maze or passive avoidance tests. The results indicate that blockade of Ca2+-dependent K+ channels may facilitate acquisition of spatial navigation performance, but has no effect on consolidation, inhibitory avoidance and spontaneous alternation behavior in mice.
Changes in the neuropeptide expression of sensory neurons, related to functional modulation, have been widely reported both following physical injury in vivo, and after toxic insult in vitro and in vivo. The current immunocytochemical study aimed to monitor the neuropeptide status of neuronal cultures prepared from adult mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRG), and to ascertain whether changes occurred following treatments with 0.1-1 microM methylmercury (MeHg). Proportions of both substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) containing neurons increased significantly, and were maintained throughout the 24 h exposure period. In contrast the numbers of somatostatin (SOM)-ir neurons decreased. Substance P- and CGRP-ir neuron increases may be related to nociceptive responses, whereas the decreases in SOM containing neurons could reflect a differential loss in this subset of sensory neurons.

Drosophila INAD, which contains five tandem protein interaction PDZ domains, plays an important role in the G protein-coupled visual signal transduction. Mutations in InaD alleles display mislocalization of signaling molecules of phototransduction which include the essential effector, phospholipase C-beta (PLC-beta), which is also known as NORPA. The molecular and biochemical details of this functional link are unknown. We report that INAD directly binds to NORPA via two terminally positioned PDZ1 and PDZ5 domains. PDZ1 binds to the C-terminus of NORPA, while PDZ5 binds to an internal region overlapping with the G box-homology region (a putative G protein-interacting site). The NORPA proteins lacking binding sites, which display normal basal PLC activity, can no longer associate with INAD in vivo. These truncations cause significant reduction of NORPA protein expression in rhabdomeres and severe defects in phototransduction. Thus, the two terminal PDZ domains of INAD, through intermolecular and/or intramolecular interactions, are brought into proximity in vivo. Such domain organization allows for the multivalent INAD-NORPA interactions which are essential for G protein-coupled phototransduction.
We characterized regulation of the human monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (hMCP-1) gene by IFN-gamma in astrocytoma cells, because astroglial cells express chemokines in several central nervous system inflammatory states. It was found that IFN-gamma-induced hMCP-1 transcription was rapid, transient, and mediated by a 213-bp promoter-proximal regulatory region of the gene. Our studies on both in vitro and in vivo states of the hMCP-1 regulatory region established requirement of an IFN-gamma-activated site (GAS) and the presence of IFN-gamma-inducible GAS-binding activity involving at least STAT-1alpha for IFN-gamma-induced hMCP-1 expression. Unexpectedly, in vivo genomic footprinting of the proximal regulatory region of the IFN-gamma-induced gene revealed protection of a GC-rich sequence (GC box) with the same temporal pattern as that seen at the GAS; in vitro, this GC-rich element is associated with nuclear factor Sp1. These observations suggested a cooperative interaction between the GAS and the GC box element. Interestingly, site-specific mutations that abolished GC-box or GAS-element function produced clearly disparate results. Disruption of the GC box did not affect fold induction by IFN-gamma but reduced promoter-reporter expression by half. Conversely, GAS mutation abrogated induction but did not affect the magnitude of expression. These results establish the importance of the GAS element for induction of hMCP-1 and further our understanding of IFN-gamma-mediated transcriptional induction by providing the first evidence in vivo for inducible signaling to the GC box by this cytokine.
The influence of overtraining on the magnitude of fear-conditioning deficits produced by neurotoxic lesions of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) was examined. Either 1 d before or 1 week after the administration of neurotoxic BLA lesions, rats received either 1 or 25 conditioning trials consisting of the delivery of unsignaled foot shock in a novel observation chamber; freezing served as the measure of conditional fear. In this conditioning paradigm, asymptotic performance is reached in five conditioning trials, and 25 conditioning trials constitutes an overtraining procedure. The results revealed that overtraining does not affect the magnitude of the contextual freezing deficits produced by post-training BLA lesions. Similarly, overtraining did not influence the level of reacquisition obtained by rats with post-training BLA lesions after 10 reacquisition trials. A similar pattern of results was observed in rats with pretraining BLA lesions. Neurotoxic BLA lesions did not alter either motor activity or shock reactivity. These results indicate that overtraining does not limit the important role of the BLA in the acquisition and expression of contextual fear conditioning.
Animals can locate their present position in relation to a starting point and return to that starting point using cues generated by self-movement, a navigation strategy called dead-reckoning. Because contemporary research on spatial navigation suggests that some aspects of spatial navigation depend on the integrity of the hippocampal formation, whereas others do not, the present study examined whether dead-reckoning is hippocampally dependent. The task capitalized on the proclivity of foraging rats to carry large food pellets to a shelter for eating. Control rats and rats with fimbria-fornix (FF) lesions left a hidden burrow to search for one piece of food located somewhere on a circular table. The accuracy with which they returned to the burrow with the food was measured. In three experiments, rats received probe trials in which they (1) started from novel locations, (2) wore blindfolds to obscure visual cues, and (3) foraged under a condition in which surface cues, e.g., odors left by their outward searches, were displaced. Both sighted control and FF rats preferentially used visual cues for guidance when foraging from a familiar location. Control rats were accurate and FF rats were impaired in returning to novel starting locations (1) when sighted, (2) when blindfolded, and (3) when blindfolded in tests in which surface cues were displaced. These results, as well as detailed observations on the behavior of the animals, are consistent with the hypothesis that rats can use dead-reckoning to solve spatial problems, and this ability depends on the integrity of the hippocampal formation.
We have recently shown that subdiaphragmatic vagotomy enhances bradykinin-induced hyperalgesic behavior and decreases baseline paw withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimulation of the hindpaw skin in rats by a peripheral mechanism. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, we studied whether lesions of efferent neuroendocrine pathways could prevent or reverse the potentiating effect of vagotomy. In groups of sham-vagotomized or vagotomized rats, we surgically removed or denervated the adrenal medulla. Bradykinin was injected intradermally into the skin of the dorsal surface of the rat hindpaw. Threshold of paw withdrawal to mechanical stimulation of the skin was measured. Vagotomy induced a decrease in mechanical baseline paw withdrawal threshold and enhancement of bradykinin-induced mechanical hyperalgesic behavior, both of which were maintained over the 5 week testing period. Adrenal enucleation or denervation of the adrenal gland by suprarenal ganglionectomy prevented vagotomy-induced decrease in baseline paw withdrawal threshold and enhancement of bradykinin-induced hyperalgesia. In animals that had a demonstrated decrease in baseline paw withdrawal threshold and enhancement of bradykinin-induced hyperalgesia 2 weeks after vagotomy, additional denervation of the adrenal medulla significantly reversed these effects over a 3 week period. These results imply that both the decrease in baseline paw withdrawal threshold and enhancement of bradykinin-induced hyperalgesic behavior after vagotomy are dependent on a hormonal signal released from the adrenal medulla and suggest a novel mechanism of sensitization of cutaneous nociceptors.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been implicated in the phase shifting of circadian rhythms in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Using long-term, multiple-neuron recordings, we examined the direct effects and phase-shifting properties of NPY application in rat SCN slices in vitro (n = 453). Application of NPY and peptide YY to SCN slices at circadian time (CT) 7.5-8.5 produced concentration-dependent, reversible inhibition of cell firing and a subsequent significant phase advance. Several lines of evidence indicated that these two effects of NPY were mediated by different receptors. NPY-induced inhibition and phase shifting had different concentration-response relationships and very different phase-response relationships. NPY-induced phase advances, but not inhibition, were blocked by the GABAA antagonist bicuculline, suggesting that NPY-mediated modulation of GABA may be an underlying mechanism whereby NPY phase shifts the circadian clock. Application of the Y2 receptor agonists NPY 13-36 and (Cys2,8-aminooctanoic acid5,24,D-Cys27)-NPY advanced the peak of the circadian rhythm but did not inhibit cell firing. The Y1 and Y5 agonist [Leu31,Pro34]-NPY evoked a substantial inhibition of discharge but did not generate a phase shift. NPY-induced inhibition was not blocked by the specific Y1 antagonist BIBP-3226; the antagonist also had no effect on the timing of the peak of the circadian rhythm. Application of the Y5 agonist [D-Trp32]-NPY produced only direct neuronal inhibition. These are the first data to indicate that at least two functional populations of NPY receptors exist in the SCN, distinguishable on the basis of pharmacology, each mediating a different physiological response to NPY application.
The principal nucleus of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BSTp) is larger in male rats and conveys olfactory information relevant for reproduction to the hypothalamus. In males, the BSTp provides a massive projection to the anteroventral periventricular nucleus of the preoptic region (AVPV), which in contrast to most sexually dimorphic nuclei contains more neurons in female rats. Injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the BSTp of adult female rats failed to demonstrate the strong projection to the AVPV observed previously in males. The ontogeny of this robust sex difference was examined by using the axonal marker DiI. The projection from the BSTp to the AVPV is established between postnatal day 9 (P9) and P10 in male rats and seems to be maintained during the juvenile period. Although labeled fibers extended from the BSTp toward the preoptic region in both male and female neonates, a similar connection with the AVPV was not apparent in female rats at any of the ages studied, and the density of labeled axons in the AVPV of P10 males was 20-fold greater than that of P10 females. A projection from the BSTp to the medial preoptic nucleus was also weaker in females but was much more substantial than that to the AVPV. These findings suggest that a sex- and region-specific activity influences the development of the projection from the BSTp to the AVPV, producing a sexually dimorphic architecture in pathways that convey olfactory information to the hypothalamus.
Although it is widely accepted that the electrical resonance seen in many types of auditory and vestibular hair cells contributes to frequency selectivity in these sensory systems, unexplained discrepancies in the frequency (f) and sharpness (Q) of tuning have raised serious questions. For example, enzymatically dissociated hair cells from bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) sacculus resonate at frequencies well above the range of auditory and seismic stimuli to which the sacculus is most responsive. Such disparities, in addition to others, have led to the proposal that electrical resonance alone cannot account for frequency tuning. Using grassfrog (Rana pipiens) saccular hair cells, we show that the reported discrepancies in f and Q in this organ can be explained by the deleterious effects of enzyme (papain) exposure during cell dissociation. In patch-clamp studies of hair cells in a semi-intact epithelial preparation, we observed a variety of voltage behaviors with frequencies of 35-75 Hz. This range is well below the range of resonant frequencies observed in enzymatically dissociated hair cells and more in tune with the frequency range of natural stimuli to which the sacculus is maximally responsive. The sharpness of tuning also agreed with previous studies using natural stimuli. In contrast to results from enzymatically dissociated hair cells, both a calcium-activated K+ (KCa) current and a voltage-dependent K+ (KV) current contributed to the oscillatory responses of hair cells in the semi-intact preparation. The properties of the KCa and the Ca2+ current were altered by enzymatic dissociation. KV and a small-conductance calcium-activated K+ current were apparently eliminated.
Miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) recorded in the Mauthner (M)-cell of zebrafish larvae have a broad amplitude distribution that is attributable only partly to the functional heterogeneity of postsynaptic glycine receptors (GlyRs). The role of the kinetic properties of GlyRs in amplitude fluctuation was investigated using fast-flow application techniques on outside-out patches. Short applications of a saturating glycine concentration evoked outside-out currents with a biphasic deactivation phase as observed for mIPSCs, and they were consistent with a rapid clearance of glycine from the synaptic cleft. Patch currents declined slowly during continuous applications of 3 mM glycine, but the biphasic deactivation phase of mIPSCs cannot reflect a desensitization process because paired-pulse desensitization was not observed. The maximum open probability (Po) of GlyRs was close to 0.9 with 3 mM glycine. Analyses of the onset of outside-out currents evoked by 0.1 mM glycine are consistent with the presence of two equivalent binding sites with a Kd of O.3-O.4 mM. Activation and deactivation properties of GlyRs were better described with a kinetic model, including two binding states, a doubly liganded open state, and a reluctant gating mode leading to another open state. The 20-80% rise time of mIPSCs was independent of their amplitude and is identical to that of outside-out currents evoked by the applications of a saturating concentration of glycine (&gt;1 mM). These results support the hypothesis that GlyR kinetics determines the time course of synaptic events at M-cell inhibitory synapses and that large mIPSC amplitude fluctuations are mainly of postsynaptic origin.
The relationship between extracellular Ca2+ concentration and EPSC amplitude was investigated at excitatory autapses on cultured hippocampal neurons. This relationship was steeply nonlinear, implicating the cooperative involvement of several Ca2+ ions in the release of each vesicle of transmitter. The cooperativity was estimated to be 3.1 using a power function fit and 3.3 using a Hill equation fit. However, simulations suggest that these values underestimate the true cooperativity. The role of different Ca2+ channel subtypes in shaping the Ca2+ dose-response relationship was studied using the selective Ca2+ channel blockers omega-agatoxin GIVA (omega-Aga), which blocks P/Q-type channels, and omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CTx), which blocks N-type channels. Both blockers broadened the dose-response relationship, and the Hill coefficient was reduced to 2.5 by omega-Aga and to 2.6 by omega-CTx. This broadening is consistent with a nonuniform distribution of Ca2+ channel subtypes across presynaptic terminals. The similar Hill coefficients in omega-Aga or omega-CTx suggest that there was no difference in the degree of cooperativity for transmitter release mediated via N- or P/Q-type Ca2+ channels. A model of the role of calcium in transmitter release is developed. It is based on a modified Dodge-Rahamimoff equation that includes a nonlinear relationship between extracellular and intracellular Ca2+ concentration, has a cooperativity of 4, and incorporates a nonuniform distribution of Ca2+ channel subtypes across presynaptic terminals. The model predictions are consistent with all of the results reported in this study.
Experimental thiamine deficiency results in a reproducible pattern of selective neuronal cell death. Events such as blood-brain barrier breakdown, N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, and increased reactive oxygen species have been implicated in thiamine deficiency-induced neural loss. L-deprenyl protects dopaminergic, noradrenergic, and acetylcholinergic neurons from neurotoxic, mechanical, and excitotoxic damage. In the present study, the effects of l-deprenyl on neuronal cell survival were examined in rats made thiamine deficient by daily administration of the central thiamine antagonist pyrithiamine (0.5 mg/kg s.c.). Rats assigned to thiamine deficient or control groups received daily injections of l-deprenyl (0.25, 0.5, or 1.0 mg/kg/day i.p.) or vehicle until they reached a state of severe thiamine deficiency (loss of righting reflex). At this stage, thiamine status was restored by daily injections of thiamine (10 mg/kg s.c.) for 3 days, after which the animals were killed, and their brains were processed for neuronal cell counts (cresyl violet staining), astrocytic proliferation [glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistry], and monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) activity. All rats receiving l-deprenyl (all doses) had significantly decreased neuronal cell loss in thalamic nuclei, in the inferior colliculus, and in the inferior olive and had a concomitant decrease in reactive astrocytic proliferation compared with the thiamine-deficient, vehicle-treated rats. The neuroprotective effects of l-deprenyl in thiamine deficiency induced brain damage most likely result from its properties other than its effects as an MAO-B inhibitor.
Increasing evidence suggests that the immune cytokine interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) plays a deleterious role in immune-mediated demyelinating disorders. To further understand the effects of IFN-gamma on oligodendrocytes, we have compared and quantitated the response of developing and mature oligodendrocytes in vitro to IFN-gamma and have observed several differences. Morphological changes and cell death occurred in developing cultures after 2 days in IFN-gamma, and in mature oligodendrocytes after 4-7 days. Developing oligodendrocytes underwent significantly increased apoptotic cell death in the presence of IFN-gamma, but mature oligodendrocytes exposed to IFN-gamma died of necrosis. Prior to morphological changes or cell death in mature oligodendrocytes exposed to IFN-gamma, steady-state levels of myelin-specific mRNAs and proteins were reduced. Thus, these results indicate that the sensitivity of oligodendrocytes to IFN-gamma is related to the developmental state of the cell. Such information is crucial for understanding the response of oligodendrocytes in immune-mediated demyelinating disorders and during remyelination in these diseases.
We have described a monoclonal antibody (mAb), 2B10, that identifies a cell-surface protein expressed only on oligodendrocytes, the myelin-forming cells in the vertebrate central nervous system. To examine the effect of mAb 2B10 on oligodendrocyte development and survival, purified antibody was added to dissociated cultures of neonatal rat spinal cord. Addition of mAb 2B10 induced significant cell death, with a reduction of approximately 70% in the number of differentiated oligodendrocytes. The number of astrocytes was unaltered. Addition of mAb 2B10 did not affect the proliferation or differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursors. MAb 2B10-induced death of differentiated oligodendrocytes was independent of complement but did require an environmental signal. In purified oligodendrocyte cultures, binding of the antibody to oligodendrocytes did not induce cell death. Conditioned medium and transwell coculture experiments indicated that the required environmental signals were not soluble. By contrast, when oligodendrocytes were cocultured with astrocytes, addition of mAb 2B10 specifically induced cell death of differentiated oligodendrocytes, suggesting that a locally acting cosignal from astrocytes was required to facilitate the cell death. This cosignal was provided by live astrocytes but not by fixed astrocytes, microglia, or fibroblasts. Such antibody-induced oligodendrocyte cell death may explain in part the loss of myelin-forming cells in demyelination conditions, such as multiple sclerosis.
1. Muscle receptors play an important role in our conscious perception of movement, but there are no published accounts of our ability to detect their signals during different motor tasks. The present experiments introduce a method to test muscular sense when humans move. 2. Muscle receptors were excited by an electrically induced twitch of the right extensor carpi ulnaris muscle. The muscle was stimulated via percutaneously inserted intramuscular electrodes or using surface stimulation through anaesthetized skin. Muscular sense was represented by the ability to detect the twitch and was compared between various tasks and stationary control trials. 3. Three hertz voluntary wrist movements significantly attenuated muscular sense to 37 % of control. This velocity-dependent attenuation was present over a range of twitch amplitudes suggesting it does not simply reflect a masking of low intensity stimuli. Perceptual ratings of twitch amplitude during fast imposed passive movements were reduced by 40 %, though this did not quite reach statistical significance. However, perceptual ratings of twitches evoked up to 2 s after the termination of the passive movements were significantly different from control. 4. Reaching with the stimulated, but not the contralateral, arm also significantly reduced muscular sense (to 40 %). 5. Attenuation to 58 % of control during cyclic stretching of the skin on the dorsum of the hand showed that signals from peripheral receptors may play a role. Attenuation prior to a single wrist flexion movement indicated that central sources can also contribute. 6. The results are consistent with current findings of a general attenuation of sensory feedback during movement and raise questions regarding the role of muscular sense in movement control.
1. In anaesthetized rats, using a focal recording technique, activity was recorded from single sympathetic postganglionic neurones innervating the lateral tail veins. On-going activity was examined in order to determine whether it had similar or different characteristics to those recorded from the caudal ventral artery in a previous study. 2. Animals were artificially ventilated, vagotomized, paralysed and given a pneumothorax. 3. The discharges of fourteen out of seventeen sympathetic postganglionic neurones were rhythmic. Such units had a mean firing frequency of 1.62 +/- 0. 70 Hz. The mean frequency of the dominant sympathetic rhythm under control conditions was 0.82 +/- 0.05 Hz. 4. The frequency of the dominant sympathetic rhythm was different from that of the phrenic rhythm in nine out of fourteen cases. 5. The mean frequency of the dominant sympathetic rhythm was: (i) not influenced significantly by hypocapnic apnoea, (ii) decreased by hyperthermia, which increased the frequency of the phrenic rhythm, (iii) in all cases different from that of the artificial ventilation cycle. 6. The above characteristics are similar to those recorded from the sympathetic supply to the caudal ventral artery of the same vascular bed under comparable conditions.
1. An investigation into the distribution of light intensity across the rat retina was carried out on excised, intact rat eyes exposed to Ganzfeld illumination from a helium-neon laser (543 nm). 2. Some of the light entering the eyes exits through the sclera where its intensity can be monitored with an optical 'pick-up' that samples the intensity coming from a small region of external sclera and underlying retina. The spatial resolution of the pick-up is such that it samples light that has passed through ca 2 % of the rods in the rat eye. 3. Some of the laser light is absorbed by the rod pigment, rhodopsin, which gradually bleaches. Bleaching in the retina, in turn, causes an exponential increase in intensity emanating from the sclera. By monitoring this intensity increase, we are able to measure two important parameters in a single bleaching run: the local rhodopsin concentration and the local intensity falling on the rods. 4. With an ocular transmission photometer, we have measured both the local intensity and the local rhodopsin concentration across wide regions of rat retina. Both pigmented and albino rats were studied. 5. The distributions of rhodopsin and intensity were both nearly uniform; consequently, the product, (rhodopsin concentration) x (intensity), was similarly nearly equal across the retina. This means that the initial rate of photon absorption is about the same at all retinal locations. 6. Interpreted in terms of photostasis (the regulation of daily photon catch), this means that the rate of photon absorption is about the same in each rod, viz. 14 400 photons absorbed per rod per second. Since this rate of absorption is sufficient to saturate the rod, one possible purpose of photostasis is to maintain the rod system in a saturated state during daylight hours.
The cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) is an activity-dependent transcription factor that is involved in neural plasticity. The kinetics of CREB phosphorylation have been suggested to be important for gene activation, with sustained phosphorylation being associated with downstream gene expression. If so, the duration of CREB phosphorylation might serve as an indicator for time-sensitive plastic changes in neurons. To screen for regions potentially involved in dopamine-mediated plasticity in the basal ganglia, we used organotypic slice cultures to study the patterns of dopamine- and calcium-mediated CREB phosphorylation in the major subdivisions of the striatum. Different durations of CREB phosphorylation were evoked in the dorsal and ventral striatum by activation of dopamine D1-class receptors. The same D1 stimulus elicited (i) transient phosphorylation (&lt;/=15 min) in the matrix of the dorsal striatum; (ii) sustained phosphorylation (&lt;/=2 hr) in limbic-related structures including striosomes, the nucleus accumbens, the fundus striati, and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis; and (iii) prolonged phosphorylation (up to 4 hr or more) in cellular islands in the olfactory tubercle. Elevation of Ca2+ influx by stimulation of L-type Ca2+ channels, NMDA, or KCl induced strong CREB phosphorylation in the dorsal striatum but not in the olfactory tubercle. These findings differentiate the response of CREB to dopamine and calcium signals in different striatal regions and suggest that dopamine-mediated CREB phosphorylation is persistent in limbic-related regions of the neonatal basal ganglia. The downstream effects activated by persistent CREB phosphorylation may include time-sensitive neuroplasticity modulated by dopamine.
Synapsins are a family of neuron-specific synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins that have been implicated in synaptogenesis and in the modulation of neurotransmitter release. In mammals, distinct genes for synapsins I and II have been identified, each of which gives rise to two alternatively spliced isoforms. We have now cloned and characterized a third member of the synapsin gene family, synapsin III, from human DNA. Synapsin III gives rise to at least one protein isoform, designated synapsin IIIa, in several mammalian species. Synapsin IIIa is associated with synaptic vesicles, and its expression appears to be neuron-specific. The primary structure of synapsin IIIa conforms to the domain model previously described for the synapsin family, with domains A, C, and E exhibiting the highest degree of conservation. Synapsin IIIa contains a novel domain, termed domain J, located between domains C and E. The similarities among synapsins I, II, and III in domain organization, neuron-specific expression, and subcellular localization suggest a possible role for synapsin III in the regulation of neurotransmitter release and synaptogenesis. The human synapsin III gene is located on chromosome 22q12-13, which has been identified as a possible schizophrenia susceptibility locus. On the basis of this localization and the well established neurobiological roles of the synapsins, synapsin III represents a candidate gene for schizophrenia.
In the retina, the glutamate transporter GLAST is expressed in Mller cells, whereas the glutamate transporter GLT-1 is found only in cones and various types of bipolar cells. To investigate the functional role of this differential distribution of glutamate transporters, we have analyzed GLAST and GLT-1 mutant mice. In GLAST-deficient mice, the electroretinogram b-wave and oscillatory potentials are reduced and retinal damage after ischemia is exacerbated, whereas GLT-1-deficient mice show almost normal electroretinograms and mild increased retinal damage after ischemia. These results demonstrate that GLAST is required for normal signal transmission between photoreceptors and bipolar cells and that both GLAST and GLT-1 play a neuroprotective role during ischemia in the retina.
Mature motoneurons interact with many cell types, including skeletal muscle fibres, Schwann cells, glia and various neurons. Each of these cell types is thought to provide trophic support to motoneurons, but it is not known whether the support provided by one cell type can fully substitute for the absence of a signal from another cell type. The ability of various growth factors to support motoneurons in the absence of muscle fibres, Schwann cells or long-axon synaptic input has been studied using in vivo models. However, these studies do not define the total needs of motoneurons, as local spinal influences have not been removed. In this paper, the total trophic requirement of mature motoneurons was assessed by culturing them at a low cell density, in the absence of all other cell types. Under these conditions, mature motoneurons die by apoptosis within 24 h, which is equivalent to the rate at which immature motoneurons die in vitro. This is consistent with the emerging view that mature cells are primed for apoptosis. Nine putative trophic factors (BDNF, CNTF, FGF2, GDNF, IGF I, IGF II, NT3, NT4, TGF-beta2), either alone or in combination, were unable to prevent the rapid death of the cultured motoneurons, even though some of these factors are able to attenuate the affects of less severe injuries such as axotomy or avulsion. The survival of mature motoneurons may therefore be dependent on a combination of growth factors, with at least one of the factors being distinct from the above mentioned factors.
Application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) to the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SON) generates clustered firing that may be important in hormone release. However, synaptically evoked EPSPs recorded from SON neurons exhibit varying contributions from NMDA receptors. We used the high resolution of single-channel recording to examine the receptor and ion channel properties of NMDA receptors expressed by SON neurons in 'punch' culture. Biocytin introduced into individual neurons during patch clamp recording revealed large (32.1+/-3.3 micron), oblong somas and bipolar extensions typical of magnocellular neuroendocrine cells (MNCs). Rapid application of NMDA (100-300 microM) in the presence of 10 microM glycine to outside-out macropatches resulted in openings with an average conductance of 46. 9 pS and reversal potential of +3.9 mV. Increasing glycine from 0.03 to 30 microM increased the apparent frequency, duration and occurrence of overlapping NMDA-elicited openings. NMDA responses were inhibited by Mg2+ in a voltage-dependent manner and by the NMDA-site antagonist, D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D-APV). Application of saturating NMDA or glycine alone with the glycine-site antagonist, 5,7-dichlorokynurenate (DCK) or with D-APV, respectively, did not result in agonist-induced openings. NR1 immunoreactivity was observed in large neurons (&gt;25 micron) with MNC-like morphology. These single-channel and immunocytochemical data confirm the presence of functional NR1-containing NMDA receptors in MNCs.
To understand the functional relevance of the subiculum as a major distributor of hippocampally processed information, detailed information about its neuronal organization is necessary. A striking feature of the subiculum is that it can be divided into four different areas, each characterized by a specific set of efferent connections. To establish whether the different areas of the subiculum are similar with respect to the organization of the origin of their respective efferents, the double-fluorescence retrograde-tracing technique was used to study the degree of collateralization. Because CA1 gives rise to a major input to the subiculum but also projects to some of the targets reached by subicular projections, we compared the subicular degree of collateralization with that of CA1. Throughout CA1, the percentages of double-labeled cells were high, ranging from 17% to 39%. In contrast, the percentages of double-labeled cells in the subiculum were much lower, ranging from 0% to 12%, and no differences were noted between the four areas of the subiculum. This indicates that the four regions of the subiculum are organized in the same way with regard to the output connectivity. Because all four different regions of the subiculum share this paucity of collateralized projections, we conclude that subicular outputs generally originate as parallel projections. This characteristic organization is in line with a proposed function of the subiculum in information storage.

The effect of SB-224289 (2,3,6.7-tetrahydro-1'-methyl-5-2'-methyl-4'-[(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol e-3-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]carbonylFuro[2,3-F]-indole-3-spiro-4'-piperidine oxalate) (4 mg/kg i.p., 5-HT1B receptor antagonist), GR 127935 (N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-1-piperizinyl)phenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-me thyl-1,2,4-oxadiazole-3-yl)[1,1'-biphenyl]-carboxamide) (0.3 mg/kg i.p., 5-HT1B/1D receptor antagonist), and paroxetine (10 mg/kg p.o.) were investigated on extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels in the frontal cortex, striatum and dentate gyrus of the freely moving guinea-pig with microdialysis. In the frontal cortex and striatum (dorsal raphe innervated areas), GR 127935 evoked a significant decrease in extracellular 5-HT, reaching minima of 41+/-12% and 32+/-6% of basal, respectively. This decrease may be explained by antagonism of inhibitory 5-HT1B/1D receptors on raphe cell bodies, leading to a local increase in 5-HT, which, in turn, stimulated 5-HT1A receptors to decrease cell firing, and hence 5-HT release from terminals. In contrast, SB-224289 had no effect on 5-HT levels in either region. In the dentate gyrus (median raphe innervated area), GR 127935 and SB-224289 significantly increased extracellular 5-HT, reaching maxima of 146+/-11% and 151+/-19% of basal, respectively. The ability of both compounds to increase 5-HT levels in the dentate gyrus suggests a lack of 5-HT1B/1D receptors in the median raphe nucleus. Paroxetine produced a small but non-significant increase in extracellular 5-HT in the frontal cortex, and a small decrease in the dentate gyrus. The lack of effect of paroxetine in terminal areas may be due to the limiting effects of cell body 5-HT autoreceptors. In summary, the above data demonstrate that 5-HT1B/1D receptor antagonists increase 5-HT levels in the dentate gyrus, implying that acute administration of 5-HT1B/1D receptor antagonists will achieve a similar effect to chronic selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor treatment in median raphe innervated areas. This, in turn, suggests that such compounds may be efficacious in the treatment of depression.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the synthetic adrenocorticotropin-(4-9) (ACTH-(4-9)) analogue ORG 2766, HMet(O2)-Glu-His-Phe-D-Lys-Phe-OH, which has been shown to have beneficial effects on both the recovery from experimentally induced lesions of the central nervous system and peripheral nerve degeneration, has a protective effect on focal ischemic neuronal damage. The NMDA receptor antagonist dizolcipine (MK-801), a very potent neuroprotective drug, was used as positive reference compound. Isoflurane-anesthetized rats had the middle cerebral artery occluded using either an intravasal or an extravasal technique, because pilot experiments had shown differences in the severity of ischemia for the two middle cerebral artery occlusion techniques. MK-801, 500 microg kg(-1) min(-1), or saline was administered i.v. 30 min after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. In the ACTH-(4-9) analogue/saline group, 10 and 150 microg/kg of the analogue, or saline was injected s.c. both directly after and 24 h after occlusion. The ACTH-(4-9) analogue treatment had no effect on the infarction volume in either model of middle cerebral artery occlusion, whereas MK-801 caused a significant reduction in the volume of cortical infarction in both models. We conclude that, although ORG 2766 is known to enhance the recovery from experimentally induced lesions of the central nervous system through a neurotrophic action and has proven to have significant beneficial effects on peripheral nerve regeneration, it did not prevent ischemic neuronal damage after intravasal or extravasal middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. The results with MK-801, which caused significant reductions in the volume of cortical infarction in both models of middle cerebral artery occlusion, with clearly the largest reduction in the intravasal middle cerebral artery occlusion model, again indicate that there are differences in the severity of the cerebral ischemia which the two models produce in the rat brain.
The ability of adenylyl cyclases to be regulated by physiological transitions in Ca2+ provides a key point for integration of cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and cAMP signaling. Ca2+-sensitive adenylyl cyclases, whether endogenously or heterologously expressed, require Ca2+ entry for their regulation, rather than Ca2+ release from intracellular stores (Chiono, M., Mahey, R., Tate, G., and Cooper, D. M. F. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270, 1149-1155; Fagan, K., Mahey, R., and Cooper, D. M. F. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 12438-12444). The present study compared the regulation by capacitative Ca2+ entry versus ionophore-mediated Ca2+ entry of an endogenously expressed Ca2+-inhibitable adenylyl cyclase in C6-2B cells. Even in the face of a dramatic [Ca2+]i rise generated by ionophore, Ca2+ entry via capacitative Ca2+ entry channels was solely responsible for the regulation of the adenylyl cyclase. Selective efficacy of BAPTA over equal concentrations of EGTA in blunting the regulation of the cyclase by capacitative Ca2+ entry defined the intimacy between the adenylyl cyclase and the capacitative Ca2+ entry sites. This association could not be impaired by disruption of the cytoskeleton by a variety of strategies. These results not only establish an intimate spatial relationship between an endogenously expressed Ca2+-inhibitable adenylyl cyclase with capacitative Ca2+ entry sites but also provide a physiological role for capacitative Ca2+ entry other than store refilling.
The cGMP-gated cation channel mediating phototransduction in retinal rods has recently been shown to be inhibited by calcium-calmodulin, through direct binding of the latter to the beta-subunit of the heterotetrameric channel complex. Here, we report the characterization of this inhibition and the identification of a domain crucial for this modulation. Heterologous expression of the alpha- and beta-subunits of the human rod channel in HEK 293 cells produced a cGMP-gated current that was highly sensitive to calcium-calmodulin, with half-maximal inhibition at approximately 4 nM. In biochemical and electrophysiological experiments on deletion mutants of the beta-subunit, we have identified a region on its cytoplasmic N terminus that binds calmodulin and is necessary for the calmodulin-mediated inhibition of the channel. However, in gel shift assays and fluorescence emission experiments, peptides derived from this region indicated a low calmodulin affinity, with dissociation constants of approximately 3-10 microM. On the C terminus, a region was also found to bind calmodulin, but it was likewise of low affinity, and its deletion did not abolish the calmodulin-mediated inhibition. We suggest that although the identified region on the N terminus of the beta-subunit is crucial for the calmodulin effect, other regions are likely to be involved as well. In this respect, the rod channel appears to differ from the olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated channel, which is also modulated by calcium-calmodulin.
The human homologue of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (hVAChT) and the neuronal isoform of the vesicular monoamine transporter (hVMAT2) are differentially targeted to two populations of regulated secretory organelles when expressed in PC12 cells. Western blot analysis of subcellular fractions from sucrose equilibrium density gradients and glycerol velocity gradients of homogenates from stably transfected cells revealed hVAChT immunoreactivity in fractions that contain synaptophysin, a marker of synaptic vesicles, while hVMAT2 immunoreactivity was confined to heavy fractions containing chromogranin B, a marker of large dense core vesicles. In cells treated with nerve growth factor, hVAChT immunoreactivity alone co-localized with synaptophysin and was abundantly expressed on synaptic vesicle clusters. Chimeras between hVMAT2 and hVAChT were utilized to identify the domain of hVAChT required for its expression on synaptic vesicles and which would shift the expression of hVMAT2 from large dense core vesicles to synaptic vesicles. Biochemical, immunocytochemical, and electron microscopic analyses revealed that a chimera in which the cytoplasmic tail of hVMAT2 was replaced with hVAChT sequences was now preferentially targeted to synaptic vesicles. In addition, hVAChT expression on synaptic vesicles was nearly abolished when the hVMAT2 cytoplasmic tail was present. Thus, structural information resides within the terminal cytoplasmic domain of VAChT, which specifically targets it to synaptic vesicles.
The behavioral effects of pharmacologically desynchronizing neuronal firing in the brain of the honeybee provide new evidence that the oscillatory synchronization of neuronal activity plays an important role in fine olfactory discrimination.

The mismatch negativity (MMN), a component of event-related potentials (ERP), was used to investigate the effect of attention on auditory stream segregation. Subjects were presented with sequences of alternating high and low tones that occurred at a constant rate, which they ignored. When subjects ignored the stimuli, the three-tone standard and deviant sequences contained within the high- and low-pitched tones did not emerge and no MMNs were obtained. Subjects were then instructed to attend to the high-pitched tones of the stimulus sequences and detect the within-stream deviants. When subjects selectively attended the high-pitched tones, MMNs were obtained to the deviants within both the attended and unattended streams. These results indicate that attention can produce segregation such that the sequences of low- and high-pitched tones are available to the automatic deviance detection system that underlies the generation of the MMN. Selective attention can alter the organization of sensory input in the early stages of acoustic processing.
cGMP-immunostaining in the islands of Calleja (ICj) in slices incubated in vitro partially co-localized with nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inside the ICj. No cGMP-immunostaining was found outside the ICj in unstimulated slices, whereas the NO-donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) stimulated cGMP in cells and fibers bordering on the ICj. These findings show an ongoing NO synthesis in in vitro slices and suggest a relatively restricted diffusion range for endogenously synthesized NO.
A brief period of rapidly recurring hippocampal seizures can lead to the progressive development of a permanent increase of seizure susceptibility over several weeks, so-called 'delayed kindling'. We have analyzed seizure parameters critical for the induction of delayed kindling in two strains of rats characterized by fast and slow rates of traditional kindling, respectively. Forty seizures were produced during about 3 h by electrical kindling stimulations every 5 min in the ventral hippocampus. The fast rats displayed several generalized convulsions and had long periods of epileptiform activity, whereas the slow animals only exhibited brief, focal seizures. Changes in excitability were determined after 4 weeks using five test stimulations, and 2 weeks later by subjecting all animals to traditional hippocampal kindling. The fast rats showed clearly enhanced responsiveness at these time points, whereas no evidence of permanently increased seizure susceptibility was obtained in the slow rats. Our data indicate that the long-lasting stimulus-evoked seizures are mainly responsible for inducing delayed kindling, whereas the number of seizure events or generalized convulsions, and the total duration of epileptiform activity are less important. We hypothesize that long seizure episodes may be necessary to trigger the cascade of gene changes regulating the development of epilepsy.
Considerable evidence suggests that reactive oxygen species mediate the neurotoxic effects of ionotropic glutamate receptor activation. Accordingly, we have examined neuronal degeneration resulting from intrastriatal injection of quinolinic acid, an NMDA receptor agonist, and kainic acid in gene targeted and transgenic mice that under- or over-express copper, zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD; SOD-1). Elevated SOD-1 activity significantly protects against quinolinic acid and kainic acid neurotoxicity in the mouse striatum whereas reduced activity appears to potentiate neurotoxicity. Thus a 'gene-dose' effect of SOD-1 has been demonstrated with regard to excitotoxic mechanisms.
We have identified a novel generally expressed homologue of the erythrocyte membrane cytoskeletal protein 4.1, named 4.1G, based on the interaction of its COOH-terminal domain (CTD) with the immunophilin FKBP13. The 129-amino acid peptide, designated 4.1G-CTD, is the first known physiologic binding target of FKBP13. FKBP13 is a 13-kD protein originally identified by its high affinity binding to the immunosuppressant drugs FK506 and rapamycin (Jin, Y., M.W. Albers, W.S. Lane, B.E. Bierer, and S.J. Burakoff. 1991. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 88:6677- 6681); it is a membrane-associated protein thought to function as an ER chaperone (Bush, K.T., B.A. Henrickson, and S.K. Nigam. 1994. Biochem. J. [Tokyo]. 303:705-708). We report the specific association of FKBP13 with 4.1G-CTD based on yeast two-hybrid, in vitro binding and coimmunoprecipitation experiments. The histidyl-proline moiety of 4.1G-CTD is required for FKBP13 binding, as indicated by yeast experiments with truncated and mutated 4.1G-CTD constructs. In situ hybridization studies reveal cellular colocalizations for FKBP13 and 4.1G-CTD throughout the body during development, supporting a physiologic role for the interaction. Interestingly, FKBP13 cofractionates with the red blood cell homologue of 4.1 (4.1R) in ghosts, inside-out vesicles, and Triton shell preparations. The identification of FKBP13 in erythrocytes, which lack ER, suggests that FKBP13 may additionally function as a component of membrane cytoskeletal scaffolds.
The dynamins comprise an expanding family of ubiquitously expressed 100-kD GTPases that have been implicated in severing clathrin-coated pits during receptor-mediated endocytosis. Currently, it is unclear whether the different dynamin isoforms perform redundant functions or participate in distinct endocytic processes. To define the function of dynamin II in mammalian epithelial cells, we have generated and characterized peptide-specific antibodies to domains that either are unique to this isoform or conserved within the dynamin family. When microinjected into cultured hepatocytes these affinity-purified antibodies inhibited clathrin-mediated endocytosis and induced the formation of long plasmalemmal invaginations with attached clathrin-coated pits. In addition, clusters of distinct, nonclathrin-coated, flask-shaped invaginations resembling caveolae accumulated at the plasma membrane of antibody-injected cells. In support of this, caveola-mediated endocytosis of labeled cholera toxin B was inhibited in antibody-injected hepatocytes. Using immunoisolation techniques an anti-dynamin antibody isolated caveolar membranes directly from a hepatocyte postnuclear membrane fraction. Finally, double label immunofluorescence microscopy revealed a striking colocalization between dynamin and the caveolar coat protein caveolin. Thus, functional in vivo studies as well as ultrastructural and biochemical analyses indicate that dynamin mediates both clathrin-dependent endocytosis and the internalization of caveolae in mammalian cells.
Sympathetic and sensory neurons form distinct axonal arborizations in several peripheral targets. The developmental mechanisms responsible for partitioning sympathetic and sensory axons between potential target tissues are poorly understood. We have used rodent footpads to study this process because three populations of peripheral axons innervate topographically segregated targets in the footpad; cholinergic sympathetic axons innervate sweat glands, noradrenergic sympathetic axons innervate blood vessels, and sensory axons form a plexus at the epidermal/dermal junction. To examine how nerve growth factor (NGF), a trophic and survival factor for sympathetic and some sensory neurons, may contribute to the generation of the patterned distribution of axons among targets, we studied transgenic mice (K14-NGF mice) in which NGF expression was significantly increased in the epidermis. Whereas the temporal sequence in which sensory and sympathetic fibers arrived in the footpad was not affected, the normal partitioning of axons between target tissues was disrupted. The two sympathetic targets in footpads, sweat glands, and blood vessels lacked substantial innervation and instead a dense plexus of catecholaminergic sympathetic fibers was found commingled with sensory fibers in the dermis. Those sympathetic fibers present in sweat glands expressed an abnormal dual catecholaminergic/cholinergic phenotype. Our findings indicate that overexpression of NGF in skin interferes with the segregation of sensory and sympathetic axonal arbors and suggests a role for target-derived NGF in the establishment of distinct axonal territories. Our data also suggest that by determining where axon arbors form, NGF can indirectly influence the phenotypic properties of sympathetic neurons.



The TrkB receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) is a high affinity receptor for the neurotrophins brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5). Following exposure to BDNF or NT-4/5, TrkB is autophosphorylated on five cytoplasmic tyrosines: Y484, Y670, Y674, Y675, and Y785. Based on crystallographic analyses for others RTKs, TrkB tyrosines Y670, Y674, and Y675 are expected to lie within a putative kinase activation loop. Phosphorylation of these activation loop tyrosines is postulated to be a conserved event required for complete RTK activation. Here, we have assessed the importance these activation loop tyrosines play in regulating TrkB autophosphorylation, cytoplasmic signal transduction, and cell proliferation. We show that while tyrosine 670 is dispensable for BDNF-inducible TrkB autophosphorylation and the activation of certain signal transduction events, it is required for complete TrkB-mediated cellular proliferation. Combinatorial mutagenesis of tyrosines 674 and 675 only moderately affects TrkB autophosphorylation, but significantly impairs the BDNF-inducible stimulation of cytoplasmic signaling events and cellular proliferation. The combined mutation of all three activation loop tyrosines results in an inactive receptor, which is unable to autophosphorylate, stimulate signaling events, or induce mitogenesis. The data highlight the varying degrees of importance of the three activation loop tyrosines in TrkB mediated biological responses.
Autonomic neuropathy is a common and severe complication of diabetes mellitus that leads to dysfunction of the cardiovascular system. The reduced ability to finely regulate heart rate is attributed to an impairment of cardiac parasympathetic regulation, but it is not known whether this is due to parasympathetic neuropathy and/or direct cardiac impairments. Therefore, we recorded the electrocardiogram of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats under basal conditions and during electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve. We used the neurotrophic agent Org 2766, an adrenocorticotropic hormone [ACTH]-(4-9) analogue, to investigate the involvement of a neurogenic component in the altered vagal control of heart rate. The R-R interval was increased and atrioventricular transmission time unchanged 1 week after diabetes induction and remained so until 20 weeks. Treatment with Org 2766 could not prevent the bradycardia. After bilateral vagotomy, both diabetic and non-diabetic rats had the same R-R and P-R interval. The response of the R-R interval to electrical stimulation of the right vagus nerve was impaired, and this impairment was not reversed by Org 2766 in diabetic rats. These results suggest that neurogenic factors are of little or no importance in the impaired parasympathetic control of heart rate seen in experimental diabetes.
Our previous studies have shown the presence of substantial amounts of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive nerve fibres in the anterior pituitary of the monkey, dog and rat. Furthermore, synaptic relationships have been demonstrated between these nerve fibres and the gland cells in the dog and rat. The substance P and calcitonin gene-related nerve fibres increase in number following adrenalectomy and ovariectomy, respectively. The present study was aimed to investigate the galanin-containing nerve fibres in the anterior pituitary of normal and adrenalectomized rats. The results showed only a small amount of galanin-like immunoreactive nerve fibres in the normal anterior pituitary, which were present among the gland cells as well as along the blood vessels. Following adrenalectomy, the number of galanin-like immunoreactive nerve fibres increased and ramification appeared more frequently. The results substantiate our hypothesis of a dual neural-humoral regulation of the mammalian anterior pituitary gland.
This report concerns an autopsy case of megalencephaly exhibiting a unique combination of physical and brain malformations. A 4-year-old boy had a peculiar face, a severe reduction of subcutaneous adipose tissue, severe growth failure and frequent hypoglycemic episodes. These clinical features were compatible with leprechaunism; however, the absence of hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance prevented the diagnosis of leprechaunism. The autopsy disclosed complex cardiac and brain malformations. Although hydrocephalus coexisted, the brain weight after complete removal of the cerebrospinal fluid was 2260 g, which was greater than the average brain weight of normal Japanese children of the same age. The neuronal density in the cerebral cortex was decreased, while the surface area of the cerebral cortex and white matter were greater than those in an age-matched control. There was cortical dysplasia in the frontal and parietal lobes. Endocrine tests and immunohistochemical analysis of the brain did not demonstrate any abnormalities in the hypothalamus-pituitary system. Megalencephaly can be associated with dwarfism, and this case is important for consideration of the interrelationship between neuronal proliferation and physical growth.
The immunoreactivity to the free radical-related enzymes, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and superoxide dismutase (SOD), was examined in brain tissue in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). To determine the relationship between the immunoexpression of these enzymes and tau-positive, argyrophilic cytoplasmic inclusions, which are constantly present in PSP brains, double-label immunohistochemistry was applied. We demonstrated for the first time that strong inducible NOS-like immunoreactivity (iNOS-ir) was detected in tau-positive astrocytes that bore tufts of abnormal fibers (TAF), but not in oligodendrocytes containing argyrophilic/tau-positive coiled bodies nor in microglia. No brain NOS-ir was detected in neurons with neurofibrillary tangles. MnSOD-ir was also detected in tau-positive astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Nitrotyrosine-ir of variable intensity was observed in astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and neurons. Our results indicate: (1) that TAF-bearing astrocytes may be a major source of excessive NO in PSP brains; (2) that after the induction of iNOS by unknown stimulating factors, TAF-bearing astrocytes produce an excessive amount of NO that exceeds the detoxification capability of SOD; and (3) that peroxynitrite and excessive NO, both cytotoxic, may be present in astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and neurons. Although the precise relationship between NO production and neuronal cell death in PSP remained uncertain, based on the specificity of TAF for PSP brains, our results indicated a possible mechanism of NO-mediated cytotoxicity that may contribute to the neuronal and glial cell damage followed by abnormal tau accumulation in this disease.

The objective of this study was to evaluate the features and calculate the frequency of sex-reassigned subjects who had applied for reversal to their biological sex, and to compare these with non-regretful subjects. An inception cohort was retrospectively identified consisting of all subjects with gender identity disorder who were approved for sex reassignment in Sweden during the period 1972-1992. The period of time that elapsed between the application and this evaluation ranged from 4 to 24 years. The total cohort consisted of 218 subjects. The results showed that 3.8% of the patients who were sex reassigned during 1972-1992 regretted the measures taken. The cohort was subdivided according to the presence or absence of regret of sex reassignment, and the two groups were compared. The results of logistic regression analysis indicated that two factors predicted regret of sex reassignment, namely lack of support from the patient's family, and the patient belonging to the non-core group of transsexuals. In conclusion, the results show that the outcome of sex reassignment has improved over the years. However, the identified risk factors indicate the need for substantial efforts to support the families and close friends of candidates for sex reassignment.
Cognitive neuroscience has provided strong support for the idea that there are multiple memory systems. Recent evidence suggests that remembering and knowing may be two types of recognition with different neural substrates. The remember/know distinction is not equivalent to the explicit/implicit distinction because both remembering and knowing are impaired after damage to medial temporal lobe structures. A number of converging lines of evidence suggest that the relationship between remembering and knowing is one redundancy, with &quot;knowing&quot; processes also active during remembering. Remembering appears to depend additionally on frontal lobe functioning.

The objective of this study was to determine the long-term effects of neonatal ethanol exposure on the cholinergic neurons in the medial septum (MS) of the rat. On postnatal day 4 (P4) pups were assigned to one of three groups: an ethanol-receiving, gastrostomized group (EtOH); a pair-fed, gastrostomized control group (GC); and a dam-reared suckle control group (SC). Gastrostomized pups were infused with ethanol-containing or control diet as a 9.1% v/v solution for two feedings on each day from P4 to P10. Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunocytochemistry was analyzed at P60. Ethanol treatment resulted in long-lasting microencephaly in P60 EtOH animals. Ethanol exposure did not directly reduce ChAT-expressing (ChAT+) neuronal number, nor were changes noted in MS volume, mean area/section, or cell density as a result of ethanol treatment. Ethanol exposure reduced ChAT+ neuronal size in EtOH males compared with GC males but not SC males. No differences in ChAT+ neuronal size were noted in females. Thus, neonatal ethanol exposure, whereas producing long-lived microencephaly, has little effect on the cholinergic neurons of the adult rat MS.
The present study examined mice selectively bred for sensitivity to ethanol withdrawal for differences in the conditioned place preference (CPP) and conditioned taste aversion (CTA) paradigms. Withdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) and Withdrawal Seizure-Resistant (WSR) mice and High Alcohol Withdrawal (HAW) and Low Alcohol Withdrawal (LAW) mice were selectively bred for differences in chronic and acute ethanol withdrawal, respectively. For the CPP experiment, male HAW and LAW (generation 5) mice received four pairings of ethanol (2 g/kg), with a distinctive floor stimulus. On intervening days, mice received saline paired with an alternate floor type. During the preference test, all mice received an injection of saline before 60-min access to both floor types. HAW mice showed conditioned preference for the ethanol-paired floor, whereas LAW mice did not. For the CTA experiments, male HAW, LAW, WSP, and WSR mice were adapted to a 2-hr/day water restriction regimen and subsequently received ethanol injections (0, 2, 2.5, or 4 g/kg, i.p.) immediately after 1-hr access to a NaCl-flavored solution. Dose-dependent reductions in NaCl intake reflected the development of CTA in both HAW/LAW and WSP/WSR lines. However, a smaller magnitude of CTA was observed in WSP mice relative to WSR mice after the first ethanol-NaCl pairing. WSP/WSR mice showed similar reductions of NaCl intake on subsequent conditioning trials. Overall, these data suggest that HAW mice selectively bred for high sensitivity to acute ethanol withdrawal are more sensitive to the rewarding effects of ethanol in the CPP paradigm. This outcome is consistent with a previous study showing greater CPP in WSP mice relative to WSR mice. In the CTA paradigm, sensitivity to ethanol withdrawal in the HAW/ LAW selected lines does not appear to be genetically correlated with sensitivity to the aversive properties of ethanol. However, the difference in acquisition of CTA in WSP/WSR lines suggest that some genes determining ethanol withdrawal severity may also influence initial sensitivity to ethanol's aversive effects.
Lewy bodies (LBs) are hallmark lesions of degenerating neurons in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Recently, a point mutation in the gene encoding the presynaptic alpha-synuclein protein was identified in some autosomal-dominantly inherited familial PD pedigrees, and light microscopic studies demonstrated alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity in LBs of sporadic PD and DLB. To characterize alpha-synuclein in LBs, we raised monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) to LBs purified from DLB brains and obtained a MAb specific for alpha-synuclein that intensely labeled LBs. Light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical studies performed with this MAb as well as other antibodies to alpha-and beta-synuclein showed that alpha-synuclein, but not beta-synuclein, is a component of LBs in sporadic PD and DLB. Western blot analyses of highly purified LBs from DLB brains showed that full-length as well as partially truncated and insoluble aggregates of alpha-synuclein are deposited in LBs. Thus, these data strongly implicate alpha-synuclein in the formation of LBs and the selective degeneration of neurons in sporadic PD and DLB.
Depolarization elicited outward K+ currents from canine lower esophageal sphincter (LES) muscle cells, primarily through iberiotoxin (IbTX)- and tetraethylammonium-sensitive Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channels. Current magnitudes varied with pipette Ca2+ concentration (EC50 = 108.5 nM). NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA, 10(-4)M), IbTX (10(-8)M), or buffering intracellular Ca2+ to 8 nM decreased outward currents &gt; 80%. Sodium nitroprusside (NaNP, 10(-4)M) restored L-NNA-inhibited or low intracellular Ca2+ concentration (not IbTX)-inhibited currents. L-NNA or IbTX application depolarized LES cells from -43 to -35 mV. NaNP restored the membrane potential to -46 mV after L-NNA but not after IbTX application. Nifedipine (30 microM) reduced outward currents and abolished or reduced L-NNA or NaNP effects, respectively. Immunocytochemistry revealed the presence of both argininosuccinate synthetase and argininosuccinate lyase in LES muscle cells. L-Citrulline, like L-arginine, reversed L-NNA inhibition of outward currents; only L-arginine reversed inhibition of outward currents by an antibody to argininosuccinate synthetase. Therefore, endogenous nitric oxide production, activated by Ca2+ entrance involving L-type Ca2+ channels, may continuously enhance outward currents to modulate LES muscle cell membrane potential and excitability.
Mutations of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene have been associated with a number of male reproductive problems, including testis abnormalities and a reduction in germ cell quality and number. To establish at least one site of functional CFTR expression in the testis, we subjected cultured Sertoli cells to analysis of message, protein, and channel activity for CFTR. With reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, we obtained evidence for the presence of CFTR RNA when CFTR primers were used with RNA from cultured Sertoli cells. Western analysis performed with both anti-R and anti-C domain CFTR antibodies revealed immunoreactive material in extracts from primary Sertoli cell cultures that seemed consistent with CFTR previously identified in other cells and tissues. This led us to perform more detailed studies using the whole cell arrangement of the patch-clamp technique. Application of the membrane-soluble cAMP analog, 8-chlorophenyl-thio-cAMP, resulted in the activation of a Cl- current that displayed a permeability sequence of Br- &gt; I- &gt; or = Cl- and was blocked by diphenylamine-2-carboxylate and glibenclamide. In addition, a 13-pS conductance Cl- channel was measured in excised membrane patches exposed to the catalytic subunit of protein kinase A. When taken together, our findings of evidence of CFTR message, immunoreactive material that appeared consistent with CFTR, and Cl- channels with properties similar to those reported for CFTR provide strong evidence that Sertoli cells express a functional CFTR-like protein. The presence of CFTR in these cells may be needed to maintain the specific nutritional and fluid balance in the seminiferous tubule that is vital for normal spermatogenesis.
The neutralization of Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) was studied using JEV-specific neutralizing (NT) monoclonal antibody (MAb) 503 that recognizes the envelope glycoprotein. Analysis using radiolabeled JEV and observations by confocal laser microscopy and electron microscopy indicated that the NT and protection activities of MAb 503 did not result from the prevention of the first step of JEV infection, binding of virus to the cell surface. Treatment with MAb 503 strongly inhibited JEV-induced cell fusion and internalization of JEV into the cells, and resulted in enhanced release of JEV-RNA from the cells. These observations suggested that the NT activity of MAb 503 is involved in the later steps of JEV infection.

The innervation of the knee joint synovial membrane of the guinea pig, i.e., the synoviocyte layer, the subjacent connective tissue and the connective tissue region beneath, was analyzed with immunohistofluorescence and electron microscopy. A screening of the innervation with antibodies against the general axon marker -- protein gene product (PGP) 9,5 -- revealed the presence of nerve fibers distributed in various regions of the knee joint synovial membrane. Confirming previous studies, some of these nerve fibers stained with antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), neuropeptide Y (NPY), substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). In addition, dynorphin (DYN)-containing fibers were detected, which have not been reported previously in normal joints. In general, the immunoreactive fibers were observed close to the synoviocytes and at blood vessels. Fibers with colocalization of NPY- and TH-like immunoreactivities (LIs), as well as of DYN- and TH-LIs were demonstrated. In the electron microscope, bundles of unmyelinated fibers as well as single fibers were found in the connective tissue region below the synoviocytes. Varicose parts of the nerve fibers contained mainly small, clear vesicles. Small and large dense-cored vesicles were also seen, but less frequently. Denser portions of the plasma membranes of some axons were observed in these regions, facing the extracellular space. Myelinated fibers were also observed in some nerve bundles. These findings emphasize the complex innervation of the synovial membrane, with nerve fibers containing a host of neuroactive substances. Altogether, these fibers are probably involved in many functions such as vasoregulation and control of synovial secretion in addition to being a source of mediators in joint inflammation.

The fate of 15-mer phosphorothioate-modified antisense oligonucleotides to c-fos was followed after their microinjection into rat brain. Using radiolabeled oligonucleotides, it was demonstrated that the bulk of the material stays in the injected region but that a minor part is transported with the projection pathways to regions far away from the site of injection. Using tetramethylrhodamine-isothiocyanate (TRITC) labeling as well as fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) labeling, it was found that the oligonucleotides were taken up by a great number of cells within 30 minutes after the injection. A diffuse cytoplasmic staining and also nuclear staining were observed in these cells, which could be identified exclusively as neurons by double labeling for the neuron-specific protein NeuN. At later times (6, 24, and 48 hours), the appearance of the oligonucleotides changed gradually to a punctate cytoplasmic staining, which by electron microscopic analysis was shown to be caused by the presence of the oligonucleotides in intracellular vesicles. The pattern of intracellular fluorescence was changed when the oligonucleotides were injected together with the cationic lipid 1,2-bis(oleoyloxy)-3-(trimethylammonio)propane (DOTAP). A small number of astrocytes and microglial cells were found to be labeled by the oligonucleotides, but only at later times after the injection and exclusively in a punctate cytoplasmic manner. Thus, the uptake of oligonucleotides in the nerve and glial cell populations of the brain might involve different mechanisms, the one in the neurons appearing to be very rapid and potent.

Subcortical damage at birth often produces more severe deficits than similar lesions in an adult. In the present study, effects of unilateral electrolytic hippocampal ablations made on postnatal day 1 or in 3-month-old adult rats, were compared. Exploratory behavior and spatial navigation in the Morris water maze (MWM) were assessed 8 and 20 weeks after hippocampal damage. Rats with neonatal damage did not respond to novelty in the environment and did not learn to find the hidden platform in the MWM. Rats lesioned as adults did learn the water maze task, but slower than controls. We hypothesized that behavioral deficits observed in rats lesioned at birth, may be due, in part, to neurochemical dysfunction of the contralateral hippocampus. Specifically, cholinergic and GABAergic neurotransmission were assessed by measuring choline-acetyltransferase (ChAT) and GABAdecarboxylase (GAD) activity. In addition, nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA levels were assayed in the remaining (contralateral) hippocampus. Of these molecules, only BDNF gene expression was significantly reduced (by 30%) at 8 and 20 weeks after neonatal and adult unilateral ablation. The similar reduction in BDNF mRNA in both treatment groups does not correspond with the lesion's differential effect on memory function. However, the more severe learning impairment after neonatal lesion may reflect increased dependence on trophins during development.
Rats with bilateral, electrolytic lesions of perirhinal cortex (PRC), lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC), or combined lesions (PRLE) were impaired relative to controls (sham) during initial acquisition in the Morris water maze, although all groups were eventually able to learn to locate the platform. A further deficit in the performance of PRC and PRLE, but not LEC groups, was evident, however, when a probe trial was conducted 2 min (but not 24 hours) after training. When the performance of sham- and PRC-lesioned rats was tested with variable memory delays inserted between training and probe trials, lesioned rats displayed an increase in the rate of forgetting for information made available during the training trial. This finding suggests that the PRC normally stores information regarding the cue-platform relationship and transfers this information to related structures during water maze performance.
Electrical stimulation thresholds required to elicit eyeblinks with either pontine or cerebellar interpositus stimulation were measured before and after classical eyeblink conditioning with paired pontine stimulation (conditioned stimulus, CS) and corneal airpuff (unconditioned stimulus, US). Pontine stimulation thresholds dropped dramatically after training and returned to baseline levels following extinction, whereas interpositus thresholds and input-output functions remained stable across training sessions. Learning rate, magnitude of threshold change, and electrode placements were correlated. Pontine projection patterns to the cerebellum were confirmed with retrograde labeling techniques. These results add to the body of literature suggesting that the pons relays CS information to the cerebellum and provide further evidence of synaptic plasticity in the cerebellar network.
Odorant sensitivity and discrimination in the olfactory system appear to involve extensive neural processing of the primary sensory inputs from the olfactory epithelium. To test formally the functional consequences of such processing, we implemented in an artificial chemosensing system a new analytical approach that is based directly on neural circuits of the vertebrate olfactory system. An array of fiber-optic chemosensors, constructed with response properties similar to those of olfactory sensory neurons, provide time-varying inputs to a computer simulation of the olfactory bulb (OB). The OB simulation produces spatiotemporal patterns of neuronal firing that vary with vapor type. These patterns are then recognized by a delay line neural network (DLNN). In the final output of these two processing steps, vapor identity is encoded by the spatial patterning of activity across units in the DLNN, and vapor intensity is encoded by response latency. The OB-DLNN combination thus separates identity and intensity information into two distinct codes carried by the same output units, enabling discrimination among organic vapors over a range of input signal intensities. In addition to providing a well-defined system for investigating olfactory information processing, this biologically based neuronal network performs better than standard feed-forward neural networks in discriminating vapors when small amounts of training data are used.

Malignant glioma (glioblastoma and anaplastic astrocytoma) remain incurable despite extensive resection, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and experimental therapies. Few studies have addressed either the costs of various treatments for malignant glioma or their cost effectiveness. The aims of this study were to identify direct hospital costs of treating patients with biopsy proven malignant glioma. The study was carried out within the setting of a dedicated neuro-oncology clinic at a university teaching hospital and included 236 patients treated between 1989 and 1995. The study used the unit costing of each item of treatment according to NHS National Costing Project. The cost of treatment was broken down into its various components: bed days, investigations, surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and neuro-oncology out-patient follow-ups. The mean costs for each of the items based on 1995 figures for the 157 patients having surgery followed by radiotherapy were neuroradiological investigations (442 Pounds), neurosurgical bed days (2407 Pounds), neurosurgery (2068 Pounds), neuropathology (434 Pounds), radiotherapy (8832 Pounds), out-patients (1078 Pounds) and chemotherapy (440 Pounds). Total treatment costs per patient ranged from 1978 Pounds to 26,980 Pounds. Median costs of care decreased sequentially with worsening MRC Brain Tumour prognostic group. Management of patients with the best prognosis (MRC index score of 1-10) cost a median of 16,550 Pounds (range 4572-26,090 Pounds) whilst the median management cost of those in the worst prognostic group (MRC score 34-38) was 6514 Pounds (range 1978-18,360 Pounds). The median cost of each week of survival in the patients with the best outcome (MRC score 1-10) was &lt; 150 Pounds compared to 232 Pounds for each week of survival for patients in the worst prognostic group (MRC score 34-38). This study made no attempt to collect costs of supportive or community-based care. Prospective studies are required to collect such data, as well as assessing the costs effectiveness of alternative treatment strategies.
1. We examined the endothelin (ET) receptors mediating contractions to ET-1, ET-3 and sarafotoxin S6c (SX6c) in rat pulmonary resistance arteries by use of peptide and non-peptide ET receptor antagonists. Changes induced by pulmonary hypertension were examined in the chronically hypoxic rat. The effect of the mixed ET(A)/ET(B) receptor antagonist SB 209670 on endothelin-mediated contraction was also examined in human pulmonary resistance arteries. 2. In rat vessels, the order of potency for the endothelin agonists was SX6c = ET-3 &gt; ET-1 (pEC50 values in control rats: 9.12+/-0.10, 8.76+/-0.14 and 8.12+/-0.04, respectively). Maximum contractions induced by ET-3 and ET-1 were increased in vessels from chronically hypoxic rats. 3. The ET(A) receptor antagonist FR 139317 (1 microM) had no effect on the potency of ET-1 in any vessel studied but abolished the increased response to ET-1 in the chronically hypoxic vessels. The ET(A) receptor antagonist BMS 182874 (1 microM) increased the potency of ET-1 in control rat vessels without effecting potency in the pulmonary hypertensive rat vessels. 4. Bosentan (non-peptide mixed ET(A)/ET(B) receptor antagonist) increased the potency of ET-1 in control rat vessels but was without effect in the pulmonary hypertensive rat vessels. Bosentan (1 microM) inhibited responses to SX6c in control and chronically hypoxic rat vessels with pKb values of 5.84 and 6.11, respectively. The ET(B) receptor antagonist BQ-788 (1 microM) did not inhibit responses to ET-1 in any vessel tested but did inhibit responses to both SX6c and ET-3 (pKb values in control and chronically hypoxic rat vessels respectively: SX6c 7.15 and 7.22; ET-3: 6.68 and 6.89). BQ-788 (1 microM) added with BMS 182874 (10 microM) did not inhibit responses to ET-1 in control vessels but caused a significant inhibition of responses to ET-1 in chronically hypoxic preparations. 5. SB 209670 inhibited responses to ET-1 in both control and chronically hypoxic vessels with pKb values of 7.36 and 7.39, respectively. SB 209670 (0.1 and 1 microM) virtually abolished responses to ET-1 in the human pulmonary resistance artery. 6. In conclusion, in rat pulmonary resistance arteries, vasoconstrictions induced by ET-1, SX6c and ET-3 are mediated predominantly by activation of an ET(B)-like receptor. However, lack of effect of some antagonists on ET-1 induced vasoconstriction suggests that ET-1 stimulates an atypical ET(B) receptor. The increase in potency of ET-1 in the presence of some antagonists suggests the presence of an inhibitory ET(A)-like receptor. The influence of this is reduced, or absent, in the chronically hypoxic rats. Increased responses to ET-1 are observed in the chronically hypoxic rat and may be mediated by increased activation of ET(A) receptors. SB 209670 is unique in its potency against responses to ET-1 in both control and chronically hypoxic rats, as well as human, isolated pulmonary resistance arteries.
1. In accord with previous studies intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of ACTH1-24 (1 microg) induced a display of excessive grooming, and increased the plasma concentrations of ACTH and corticosterone. Pituitary-adrenal activation was blocked by pretreatment with dexamethasone, indicating that the effect of the (i.c.v.) injected peptide was not caused by a peripheral effect on the adrenal cortex. 2. Doses of 1 and 3 microg of a non-selective melanocortin-3/4-receptor antagonist (SHU 9119), or of 5 and 10 microg of a selective melanocortin-4-receptor antagonist ([D-Arg8]ACTH4-10), coadministered (i.c.v.) with 1 microg ACTH1-24, inhibited the ACTH1-24-induced activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal-axis and excessive grooming. 3. In addition, several doses of the selective melanocortin-3-receptor agonist Lys-gamma2-MSH were centrally administered, but neither neuroendocrine, nor excessive grooming responses were observed. 4. These results imply that the melanocortin-4-receptor, and not the melanocortin-3-receptor, is involved in the ACTH1-24-induced rise in plasma levels of ACTH and corticosterone, and excessive grooming.
1. In order to examine whether a recently developed allosteric potentiator for AMPA receptors, 4-[2-(phenylsulphonylamino)ethylthio]-2,6-difluoro-phenoxyaceta mide (PEPA), can be utilized as an indicator of AMPA receptor heterogeneity, the action of PEPA upon the increase of intracellular free calcium ion concentration ([Ca2+]i) elicited by AMPA was investigated in rat hippocampal cultures, and the action was compared with that of cyclothiazide, a well characterized allosteric modulator of AMPA receptors. 2. PEPA dose-dependently potentiated AMPA-induced increase of [Ca2+]i. In 90% (72 out of 80) of the cells in which cyclothiazide acts, PEPA potentiated the increased [Ca2+]i induced by AMPA with pronounced cell-to-cell variation in rat hippocampal cultures. 3. The ratio of the potentiation by PEPA to the potentiation by cyclothiazide (P/C ratio) also varied with cells between 0 and 2.15. It was found that the cultured hippocampal cells consisted of multiple populations with different P/C ratios. Among them two populations exhibited characteristic P/C ratios; low (0 to 0.15; 27 out of 80 cells, 34%) and high (&gt; or = 2.00; 1 out of 80 cells, 1%) P/C ratios. The P/C ratios of the other populations were between 0.25 and 1.20, and these cells constituted 65% (52 out of 80 cells) of the cells tested. 4. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis suggested that GluR2-flip, GluR1-flip, GluR2-flop, and GluR1-flop were abundantly expressed (in this rank order) in the cultures used. 5. In Xenopus oocytes expressing GluR1, GluR3, or these subunits plus GluR2, the potentiation of AMPA response by PEPA and by cyclothiazide varied with subunit and splice-variant combinations, and the P/C ratio was between 0.19 and 2.20. Oocytes with low P/C ratios (0.19 to 0.50) and low sensitivity to PEPA potentiation (1.9 fold to 6.41 fold) were those expressing flip variants predominantly, and oocytes with high P/C ratios (1.8 to 2.2) were those expressing flop variants predominantly. Oocytes with intermediate P/C ratios (0.51 to 1.20) were those expressing various combinations of flip and flop variants, and it was impossible to specify the relative abundance of flip and flop variants in these cells. Therefore, the P/C ratio can be used to infer subunit/splice variant expression only when the ratio is low or high. 6. These results suggest that the potentiation by PEPA alone reveals cell-to-cell heterogeneity of AMPA receptors, but a comparison of the actions of PEPA and cyclothiazide further facilitates the detection of the heterogeneity.
Biodegradeable &quot;controlled release&quot; inorganic polymer glass tubes can be manufactured to fit the dimensions of any nerve and their rate of solubility can be adjusted to encompass the time taken for nerve regeneration. They have been used in a number of biological applications. The facial nerve was repaired in a group of five sheep by entubulation with biodegradeable glass tubes. The sheep were assessed 10 months after repair and compared with a similar sized group of normal sheep. It was found that while there was a reduction in the peak velocity of conduction in the repaired nerves and in the range of conduction velocities, the minimum conduction velocity was within normal limits. There was a diminution in all of the measured variables of nerve morphometry but in no case did this reach statistical significance. These findings are consistent with the view that regeneration of the nerves had taken place to a degree at least as effective as that seen in nerves of a similar size repaired by conventional means.

Three patients with unilateral spatial neglect could detect the difference of length between the right and left segments when a line had a transection mark. To examine the effect of response mode, the manual line bisection task and a new &quot;line bisection task by fixation&quot; were given to the patients. In tasks that used lines with no landmark, they showed apparent rightward errors. The results suggest that line bisection is not a task that examines the ability of patients with neglect to compare the right and left extents of a line. Where to fixate as the subjective midpoint may determine the rightward errors of bisection, whether manual response is used or not.
We present a case of parietal lobe epilepsy, the epileptogenic focus of which was conspicuously demonstrated on magnetoencephalography (MEG). The remarkable fluctuation in the seizure frequency and the presence of atonic seizures were suggestive of atypical partial benign epilepsy of childhood (APBEC). An interictal positron emission tomography (PET) scan performed during the cluster of fits revealed hypermetabolism around the epileptogenic focus, which might be related to the marked tendency of clustering of seizures in this patient.
On dystrophin gene analysis by multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR), 76 of 130 (58.5%) Japanese patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy had a deletion or duplication in genomic DNA. Of the remaining 54 patients who had no identifiable gene mutations, muscle biopsy tissue was available in 16 for RNA extraction. The full length of the coding regions of dystrophin cDNA was amplified in 10 fragments by reverse transcription nested PCR (RT-PCR). Five of 16 patients (31%) had dystrophin cDNA of abnormal size. One patient had a deletion, and two duplications that were not covered by multiplex PCR, one an exon-skipping of exon 51 caused by a 5' consensus splice site mutation of intron 51, and one 172 bp or 202 bp insertion in the cDNA between exon 25 and 26. Nested RT-PCR from the total RNA extracted from muscle biopsy was useful for screening patients who had no identifiable gene abnormality by multiplex PCR.
The effects of cholinergic drugs and the interaction between cholinergic and dopaminergic compounds were studied on electrically evoked [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) overflow in slices of the rat neostriatum. Slices were prepared and loaded with [3H]GABA in the presence of beta-alanine and then superfused with Krebs-bicarbonate buffer containing aminooxyacetic acid and nipecotic acid to inhibit GABA uptake and metabolism, respectively. The nonselective muscarinic agonist oxotremorine (0.1-10 microM) increased the release of [3H]GABA and the selective M1 receptor agonist McN-A-343 (0.1-10 microM) exerted similar effect. The stimulatory effect of oxotremorine (10 microM) on [3H][GABA overflow was antagonized by the nonselective muscarinic antagonist atropine (1 microM) and the selective M1 receptor antagonist pirenzepine (0.1-1.0 microM). The M2 receptor antagonist methoctramine (1.0 microM) did not alter the stimulatory effect of oxotremorine. Of the muscarinic receptor antagonists atropine, pirenzepine, and methoctramine (1.0 microM) failed to affect [3H]GABA overflow. The M3 receptor antagonist p-F-HHSiD (1 microM) increased [3H]GABA overflow and p-F-HHSiD and oxotremorine were found to be additive in increasing this effect. The D2 dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride (10 microM) increased the electrical stimulation-induced [3H]GABA overflow, and this stimulation was counteracted by concomitant administration of atropine (1 microM). McN-A-343 and sulpiride also increased the KCl-induced [3H]GABA overflow from superfused neostriatal slices and tetrodotoxin (1 microM) did not affect these stimulations. These data indicate that the release of GABA in the neostriatum is under the control of M1 stimulatory and M3 inhibitory muscarinic receptors. Dopamine, which exerts inhibition on GABA release via D2 receptors, may counteract the M1 facilitation, and M1 and D2 receptors involved in the cholinergic-dopaminergic interaction may be located postsynaptically on medium-sized spiny GABAergic projection neurons.
We evaluated the cognitive effects of two moderate doses (30 mg/kg x 3 every 12 h and 20 mg/kg x 6 every 8 h, i.p.) of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-l,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in mice. The dose of 30 mg/kg x 3 caused about 60% depletion of striatal dopamine but did not reduce the levels of its metabolites. Mice treated with MPTP did not differ from controls in their motor behavior in the open field. Mice treated with MPTP were comparable to controls in T-maze delayed alternation with fixed delays but were impaired when trials with mixed 20 s and 120 s delays were presented, indicative of a spatial working memory impairment. Dexmedetomidine at 10 microg/kg (s.c.) slightly improved delayed alternation performance in all groups but also slowed initiation of the motor response. Mice treated with MPTP at the dose of 30 mg/kg x 3 were less sensitive to this adverse effect of dexmedetomidine. The impairment in spatial working memory after MPTP exposure in mice parallels the findings in monkeys, but the deficit is much less severe.
Intracranial self-stimulation was evaluated among CD-1 mice responding for brain stimulation from the dorsal and ventral aspects of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Intraventricular interleukin-2 (IL-2) administration (5 ng) in a 1-microl volume elevated the stimulation frequency required to effect half-maximal responding for brain stimulation from the dorsal A10 region 15 min, 24 h, 48 h, and 1 week following drug administration relative to vehicle-treated animals. Intraventricular IL-2 administration did not influence responding for brain stimulation from the ventral A10 area, and performance of these animals was indistinguishable from the performance of vehicle-challenged animals implanted with a stimulating electrode in the ventral A10 area. These data suggest that central IL-2 administration reduces the value of previously rewarding brain stimulation from subregions of the VTA. The implications of these data for behavioural pathology are discussed.
We studied the effects of nitric oxide (NO) on the Ca2+-dependent KCl-evoked release of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) by rat hippocampal synaptosomes, measured in the presence of 1-(2-(((diphenyl-methylene)amino)oxy)ethyl)-1,2,5, 6-tetrahydro-3-pyridine-carboxylic acid (NNC-711), which blocks the GABA carrier. Under these conditions, the NO donor, hydroxylamine, up to 1 mM, inhibited the Ca2+-dependent exocytotic GABA release, but did not affect the basal release. However, in the absence of NNC-711, hydroxylamine concentrations higher than 30 microM caused a two-fold increase in the basal release of GABA, and the KCl-evoked release of GABA was higher than in the presence of NNC-711 because both exocytotic and carrier-mediated release occur. Thus, it is expected that when both release mechanisms are operative, NO inhibits the exocytotic release and stimulates the carrier-mediated release, and the overall effect is an increased liberation of the neurotransmitter from the nerve terminals.
The transcript levels of the genes encoding for the different alpha1 (alpha1A-alpha1E) subunits of voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) were studied in the retina of the rat using RT-PCR, Northern blotting, and in situ hybridization. Abundant expression of alpha1A and alpha1B was found with RT-PCR and on Northern blots of total retina RNA, corresponding with high expression levels in all nuclear layers (outer and inner nuclear layers and the ganglion cell layer) of the retina. VDCC alpha1D mRNA was also present in all nuclear layers of the retina but at less abundant levels than alpha1A or alpha1B. Expression level of alpha1C in the retina was low as deduced from a faint Northern blot signal and a moderate yield after PCR amplification. VDCC alpha1E specific amplification of retinal cDNA yielded a longer product (designated alpha1E-L) than obtained from the hippocampus. Nucleotide sequencing of this PCR product revealed a 129 bp insert which is largely homologous (97%) with a previously described insert in the same position in human alpha1E cDNA. In situ hybridization in rat brain showed a differential expression pattern of the long and short variants of alpha1E mRNA. Northern blotting of retinal RNA confirmed the absence of the short variant (alpha1E-S), while alpha1E-L was present at low levels. In situ hybridization detected a significant level of expression of alpha1E-L in the inner nuclear layer. The prevalent expression of alpha1A and alpha1B, and to a lesser extent, of alpha1D, indicates that P/Q-, N-, and L-type calcium currents play a prominent role in the various cell types involved in the retinal signal-transduction pathway. The absence of alpha1C transcript in the retina suggests that the slowly inactivating L-type calcium currents involved in neurotransmitter release from the terminals of photoreceptors and bipolar cells may be encoded by the alpha1D isoform.

CPP32/apopain (Caspase-3), a protease of the Ced-3/ICE family, is a central mediator in the apoptosis induced by TNF or anti-Fas. In this study we demonstrate that wortmannin, an inhibitor of PI-3K, enhances the activation of CPP32 (Caspase-3) and DNA fragmentation in TNF-treated U937 cells and anti-Fas-treated Jurkat cells. Caspase-3-like activity, Ac-DEVD-MCA cleavage activity, is enhanced by wortmannin in the range of the concentration (1 - 100 nM) specifically inhibiting PI-3K. LY294002, another PI-3K inhibitor, also enhances Caspase-3-like activity, but inhibitors for myosin light chain kinase and calmodulin dependent kinase do not have any effect on the Caspase-3-like activity. Wortmannin (1 - 100 nM) enhances the processing of Caspase-3 (32K) into active form (17K) in TNF- or anti-Fas-treated cells, but not in untreated cells. These observations suggest that inhibition of PI-3K induces the activation of processing enzyme of Caspase-3 or increases the susceptibility of Caspase-3 to the processing enzyme. PI-3K seems to protect the cells from apoptosis by suppressing the activation of Caspase-3.
1. In this review the structure-function relationships of the different vasopressin prohormone domains are dated and discussed, with special reference to the neurophysin and glycopeptide domains. 2. The primary structures of the currently known neurophysins and glycopeptide sequences are compared and discussed. 3. The hormone-binding and aggregational properties of neurophysin are reviewed and related to a possible function within the regulated secretory pathway. 4. It is proposed, based on the properties reviewed here as well as our own data shown here, that the sorting of the vasopressin prohormone is initiated by hormone binding, which triggers aggregation of the prohormone into the characteristic dense cores of the regulated secretory pathway. 5. This may suggest that prohormone sorting into the regulated secretory pathway is, in general, determined by noncovalent, intramolecular interactions that promote aggregation.


Chemoreceptor cells in the vomeronasal and olfactory epithelium are replaced following experimentally induced degeneration. This study analyzes quantitatively the time course and degree of vomeronasal receptor cell replacement. Unilateral transection of the vomeronasal nerves in adult hamster was used to induce a retrograde degeneration of receptor cells in the vomeronasal organ. Histological measurement of both number of receptor cells and epithelial thickness were made for recovery times from 0 to 60 days. After nerve transection, there was a gradual degeneration of receptor cells, the number decreasing to 50% of control by day 2 and 16% by day 6. During days 7-15 maximum receptor cell replacement was observed. Cell number increased rapidly and reached a peak on day 15. At recovery times of 40-60 days, cell number returned to the control level. Epithelial thickness, however, decreased to 60-70% during the degeneration period (days 4-6) and did not return to control levels. After 40-60 days epithelial thickness remained at 70% of control. These results demonstrate that vomeronasal receptor cells are replaced following degeneration, but epithelial thickness does not return to control levels. These findings suggest that the number of replacement cells is not limited by the reduced thickness of the epithelium, and that recovery mechanisms may function to restore an optimum number of receptor cells.
Most thymic epithelial tumours that associate with MG express an epitope that resembles the sequence alpha373-380 from the cytoplasmic loop of the acetylcholine receptor (AChR). It has been proposed that sensitization to this linear epitope initiates autoimmunity to the AChR in thymoma-associated MG. We therefore tested whether MG/thymoma patients have T cell responses or antibodies to this region of the AChR. We found no significant recognition of the alpha309-417 region by their thymoma or peripheral blood T cells, or by their serum anti-AChR antibodies. Instead, the T cell epitopes that were recognized, like the previously characterized B cell epitopes, were in the extracellular AChR domain.
Currently, diagnoses of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and hyperkinetic disorder (HKD) are made on the basis of phenomenology, but information is accumulating from the neurosciences about the biological bases of these disorders. Recent studies addressing the neuropsychology, neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, and molecular biology of ADHD/HKD document abnormalities in well-defined neuroanatomical networks and neurochemical pathways. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have shown that some regions of the frontal lobes (anterior superior and inferior) and basal ganglia (caudate nucleus and globus pallidus) are about 10% smaller in ADHD groups than in control groups of children, and molecular genetic studies have shown that diagnosis of ADHD is associated with polymorphisms in some dopamine genes (the dopamine D4 receptor gene and the dopamine transporter gene).
Recordings of electrical and magnetic brain responses to sensory stimulation provide high-resolution measures of the time course of early perceptual processing. Spatio-temporal analyses of brain activity patterns during the first 200 ms after stimulus presentation have characterized the timing of attentional selection processes and different stages of feature encoding and pattern analyses. Recent studies that incorporate blood flow neuroimaging techniques provide support for mechanisms of early selection of attended visual inputs in extrastriate cortical pathways. The spatial tuning properties of early auditory selection have also been delineated. Electrical and magnetic responses that index the encoding of higher-order pattern information have been identified in both visual and auditory modalities and localized to specific cortical areas.

Opioid peptides are known to play a role in the function of the mammalian cardiovascular system in the newborn. To learn about mechanisms underlying the morphogenesis of the developing vasculature and the principles contributing to the organization and maintenance of adult blood vessels, we have investigated the expression of the opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met5]-enkephalin, and its receptor, zeta. Moreover, gene expression for preproenkephalin mRNA, which encodes OGF, was studied to determine the source(s) of this inhibitory growth factor. By using immunocytochemistry, both OGF and the zeta opioid receptor were detected at embryonic day (E) 16 in the mesenchymal cells of the aortic wall. Staining appeared to be abundant in endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and fibroblasts at E20 and in the neonate. Immunoreactivity was noted to decrease progressively from day 5 to 10, but by weaning (day 21) and continuing into adulthood intense staining for both the peptide and receptor were observed. Preproenkephalin mRNA was detected throughout the aortic wall at E16, and the number of silver grains increased up today. Message was progressively reduced at days 5, 10, and 21, but signal in the adult aorta was comparable to that observed at day 5. These results indicate that components related to an endogenous opioid system regulating growth are present in the embryo, display a distinct spatial and temporal pattern of ontogeny, and persist into adulthood. In addition, these data indicate that OGF is an autocrine produced growth factor that is related to the emergence of vascular architecture and the maintenance of homeostasis in blood vessels.
Cell fate decisions in early embryonic cells are controlled by interactions among developmental regulatory genes. Zebrafish floating head mutants lack a notochord; instead, muscle forms under the neural tube. As shown previously, axial mesoderm in floating head mutant gastrulae fails to maintain expression of notochord genes and instead expresses muscle genes. Zebrafish spadetail mutant gastrulae have a nearly opposite phenotype; notochord markers are expressed in a wider domain than in wild-type embryos and muscle marker expression is absent. We examined whether these two phenotypes revealed an antagonistic genetic interaction by constructing the double mutant. Muscle does not form in the spadetail;floating head double mutant midline, indicating that spadetail function is required for floating head mutant axial mesoderm to transfate to muscle. Instead, the midline of spadetail;floating head double mutants is greatly restored compared to that of floating head mutants; the floor plate is almost complete and an anterior notochord develops. In addition, we find that floating head mutant cells can make both anterior and posterior notochord when transplanted into a wild-type host, showing that enviromental signals can override the predisposition of floating head mutant midline cells to make muscle. Taken together, these results suggest that repression of spadetail function by floating head is critical to promote notochord fate and prevent midline muscle development, and that cells can be recruited to the notochord by environmental signals.
In the first part of a three-part series on the role of positron emission tomography (PET) in the study of neurodegeneration and aging in the human brain, the authors review the historical development of the in vivo measurement of brain function resulting in recent advances in PET technology. An overview is presented of the physical principles of PET scanning and the inherent limitations of this technology to set the basis for the critical interpretation of PET data presented in the second and third parts and in the ever-increasing number of PET studies on the brain in different physiological and pathological conditions. Finally, the authors describe the ability to measure in vivo regional cerebral glucose metabolism with [(18)F]-FDG PET, regional cerebral blood flow and the distribution and binding capacity of neuroreceptors. They conclude with future perspectives of PET technology and its relevance, especially for neuropsychiatric research.
Testosterone and its metabolites are the principal gonadal hormones responsible for sexual differentiation of the brain. However, the relative roles of the androgen receptor (AR) vs. the estrogen receptor in specific aspects of this process remain unclear due to the intracellular metabolism of testosterone to active androgenic and estrogenic compounds. In this study, we used an 35S-labeled riboprobe and in situ hybridization to analyze steady state, relative levels of AR messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in the developing bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial preoptic area, and lateral septum, as well as the ventromedial and arcuate nuclei of the hypothalamus. Each area was examined on embryonic day 20 and postnatal days 0, 4, 10, and 20 to produce a developmental profile of AR mRNA expression. AR mRNA hybridization was present on embryonic day 20 in all areas analyzed. In addition, AR mRNA expression increased throughout the perinatal period in all areas examined in both males and females. However, between postnatal days 4 and 10, sharp increases in AR mRNA expression in the principal portion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial preoptic area occurred in the male that were not paralleled in the female. Subsequently, males exhibited higher levels of AR mRNA than females in these areas by postnatal day 10. There was no sex difference in AR mRNA content in the lateral septum, ventromedial nucleus, or arcuate nucleus at any age. These results suggest that sex differences in AR mRNA expression during development may lead to an early sex difference in sensitivity to the potential masculinizing effects of androgen.
Elevated neuropeptide Y (NPY) levels in the hypothalamus have been reported during lactation in the rat. The increase in NPY neuronal activity may be important in modulating a number of changes in hypothalamic neuronal function that are associated with lactation. The aims of the present study were to determine 1) if NPY neurons in the hypothalamus can be activated by the suckling stimulus; and 2) the time course of the activation in response to the suckling stimulus. In the first experiment, lactating rats were deprived of their 8-pup litters on day 9 post partum for 48 h. On day 11, the animals were divided into three groups and exposed to the suckling stimulus for varying periods of time up to 24 h. NPY neuronal activity was assessed by measuring changes in NPY messenger RNA (mRNA) levels, using in situ hybridization. NPY mRNA levels in the caudal portion of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARH) were approximately doubled by 24 h of suckling. NPY mRNA levels in the rostral portion of the ARH were not affected by suckling throughout the time examined. In addition to increased NPY mRNA in the ARH, resuckling for as little as 3 h induced NPY mRNA expression in cells located dorsal and lateral to the compact zone of the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (DMH). NPY expression in these cells was not observed in the nonresuckled controls. These data demonstrate that the acute suckling stimulus activates two specific populations of NPY neurons in the hypothalamus: in the caudal portion of the ARH and in the DMH. The increased NPY neuronal activity may play an important role in modulating changes in hypothalamic regulation of hormone secretion and food intake.
We previously showed that 17beta-estradiol (E2) induces the somatostatin (SRIF) responsiveness of the rat anterior pituitary, which leads to inhibition of PRL secretion through E2-dependent SRIF receptors. To examine receptor subtypes regulated by E2, we determined the messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels of all subtypes using a semiquantitative RT-PCR and characterized pituitary membrane receptors using subtype-preferential SRIF analogs. Most of the SRIF receptor subtype mRNAs were sst5 and sst2A in ovariectomized rat pituitaries [sst5/glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) = 1.4 x 10(-2), sst2A/GAPDH = 0.4 x 10(-2)]. The expression pattern of the subtypes in ovariectomized rat pituitaries was similar to that of normal male and female rat pituitaries, although the mRNA levels of sst5 and sst2A in male rat pituitaries were higher than in females. Chronic administration (4 weeks) of E2 to the ovariectomized rats increased mRNA expression of sst2A, sst2B, sst3, and sst1 and drastically decreased expression of sst5; the transcripts of sst2 isoforms constituted 87% of total SRIF receptor subtype mRNAs (sst2A/GAPDH = 1.2 x 10(-2)), whereas the sst5 mRNA level was less than 1%. Receptor-binding studies revealed that in pituitaries from both ovariectomized rats and male rats, heterogeneous receptor types, probably sst5 and sst2, were expressed, whereas receptors from E2-treated rat pituitaries mostly exhibited characteristics of the sst2 subtype. The results demonstrated that sst5 and sst2A were the major subtypes expressed in normal rat pituitaries with a sex-dependent difference and that whereas E2 up-regulates the expression of sst2 isoforms, it down-regulates the expression of sst5, suggesting roles for these subtypes in the control of pituitary functions.

We investigated the role dopamine and noradrenaline in the modulation of attention in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. We observed that PD patients with mild and moderate motor disability did not differ in their attentional accuracy in easy tests, but the severe PD group was slightly disrupted in a more arduous test of attention. Attentional accuracy was not affected by withdrawal of dopaminergic drugs in mild or severe PD patients. The movements of severe PD patients were slower, and withdrawal of dopaminergic drugs aggravated motor slowing more in severe PD patients. Clonidine (0.5 and 2 microg/kg) retarded accuracy of performance in the most difficult attention test in mild PD patients, but had no effect in the severe PD group. Clonidine had no effect on movement times. These data suggest that a defect in noradrenaline release may contribute to the impaired accuracy of attention in severe PD patients and that dopamine may be important for maintaining rapid motor responding.
Lamprey spinal neurons exhibit a fast afterhyperpolarization and a late afterhyperpolarization (AHP) which is due to the activation of apamin-sensitive SK Ca2+-dependent K+ channels (KCa) activated by calcium influx through voltage-dependent channels during the action potential (Hill et al. 1992, Neuroreport, 3, 943-945). In this study we have investigated which calcium channel subtypes are responsible for the activation of the KCa channels underlying the AHP. The effects of applying specific calcium channel blockers and agonists were analysed with regard to their effects on the AHP. Blockade of N-type calcium channels by omega-conotoxin GVIA resulted in a significant decrease in the amplitude of the AHP by 76.2+/-14.9% (mean +/- SD). Application of the P/Q-type calcium channel blocker omega-agatoxin IVA reduced the amplitude of the AHP by 20.3+/-10.4%. The amplitude of the AHP was unchanged during application of the L-type calcium channel antagonist nimodipine or the agonist (+/-)-BAY K 8644, as was the compound afterhyperpolarization after a train of 10 spikes at 100 Hz. The effects of calcium channel blockers were also tested on the spike frequency adaptation during a train of action potentials induced by a 100-200 ms depolarizing pulse. The N- and P/Q-type calcium channel antagonists decreased the spike frequency adaptation, whereas blockade of L-type channels had no effect. Thus in lamprey spinal cord motor- and interneurons, apamin-sensitive KCa channels underlying the AHP are activated primarily by calcium entering through N-type channels, and to a lesser extent through P/Q-type channels.
Learning-related cellular modifications were studied in the rat piriform cortex. Water-deprived rats were divided to three groups: 'trained' rats were trained in a four-arm maze to discriminate positive cues in pairs of odours, 'control' rats were 'pseudo-trained' by random water rewarding, and 'naive' rats were water-deprived only. In one experimental paradigm, the trained group was exposed to extensive training with rats learning to discriminate between 35 and 50 pairs of odours. Piriform cortex pyramidal neurons from 'trained', 'control' and 'naive' rats did not differ in their passive membrane properties and single spike characteristics. However, the after-hyperpolarizations (AHPs) that follow six-spike trains were reduced after 'extensive training' by 43% and 36% compared with 'control' and 'naive', respectively. This effect was not observed in the piriform cortex of another group of rats, in which hyperexcitability was induced by chemical kindling. In another experimental paradigm rats were trained only until they demonstrated 'rule learning', usually after discriminating between one and two pairs of odours ('mild training'). In this experiment, a smaller, yet significant, reduction (20%) in AHPs was observed. AHP reduction was apparent in most of the sampled neurons. AHP remained reduced up to 3 days after the last training session. 5 days or more after the last training session, AHP amplitude recovered to pre-training value and did not differ between 'trained' rats and the others. Accordingly, training suspension for 5 days or more resulted in slower learning of novel odours. We suggest that increased neuronal excitability, manifested as reduced AHP, is related to the ability of the cortical network to enter a 'learning mode' which creates favourable conditions for enhanced learning capability.
We report here the identification of a gene, termed GFRalpha-3 (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor alpha-3), related to GFRalpha-1 and GFRalpha-2 (also known as GDNFR-alpha and GDNFR-beta), and describe distribution of GDNFalpha-3 in the nervous system and other parts of the mouse body during development and in the adult. GFRalpha-3 in situ hybridization signals were found mainly in the peripheral nervous system, with prominent signals in developing dorsal root and trigeminal ganglia. Sympathetic ganglia were also positive. Developing nerves manifested strong GFRalpha-3 mRNA signals, presumably generated by the Schwann cells. Olfactory ensheathing cells were also positive. Other non-neuronal cells appearing positive during development included chromaffin cells in the adrenal gland and small clusters of cells in the intestinal epithelium. In the central nervous system no robust signals could be detected at any stage investigated with the present probes. Compared with the previously described GFRalpha-1 and GFRalpha-2 mRNAs, which are widely distributed in the central nervous system and peripheral organs, the expression of GFRalpha-3 mRNA is much more restricted. The prominent expression in Schwann cells during development suggests a key role for GFRalpha-3 in the development of the peripheral nervous system. As Schwann cells are known to lack expression of the transducing RET receptor, we propose that a possible function of GFRalpha-3 during development could be to bind Schwann cell-derived GDNF-like ligands, thus presenting such molecules to growing axons.
The aim of this study was to investigate the dynamics of the horizontal functional connectivity within the visual cortex during spontaneous activity or during visual stimulation. Two arrays of 16 electrodes were inserted in the visual cortex of a rat. From these electrodes a depth profile was obtained of the local spiking activity. The cross-correlations between all electrodes were estimated. Three types of cross-correlation peaks were identified and classified as; 'thin peaks', 'fast waves' and 'slow waves'. Partialization was applied, a mathematical method to reduce the amount of common input in correlations, and its effect on the three types of correlation peaks was studied. Slow waves were found to be the most vulnerable to partialization and thin peaks the least. From these observations it was concluded that the three types of peaks represent synchronous neuronal assemblies of different magnitude; slow waves large, fast waves intermediate and thin peaks assemblies composed of small numbers of neurons. Large changes were observed in the types of cross-correlations and their spatial distribution within the set of interarray combinations of electrodes. These changes were spontaneous, and could not be related to the visual stimulation. Two states were identified; the 'thin-peak' state and the 'slow-wave' state. The 'thin-peak' state is interpreted as occurring at a light level of anaesthesia and is characterized by the presence of thin peaks in all combinations of electrodes. Thin peaks with the largest strength were found in the upper interarray electrode combinations. The 'slow-wave' state is interpreted as occurring at a deep level of anaesthesia and is characterized by the presence of exclusively slow waves, which were limited mostly to the middle and lower interarray combinations of electrodes. Activation of the cortex is thus associated with the appearance of synchrony between small groups of neurons (thin peaks) which, in contrast to the slow-wave state, include the upper layers of the cortex.
The basic membrane characteristics of neurons in layers II and III of the medial entorhinal cortex (MEA) were recorded using the intracellular current clamp technique in in vitro slices of the rat brain. Two types of cells were distinguished according to the presence of a time-dependent inward rectification (SAG current) with hyperpolarizing current pulses. The cells in which this inward rectification was not observed (No-SAG cells) had a larger input resistance, a more negative resting membrane potential and a more depolarized firing threshold. They more often displayed a strongly adapting firing pattern, and their action potentials had a slower decay rate and lacked a depolarizing afterpotential, compared with the SAG cells. SAG cells typically had a prominent rebound depolarization at the end of a hyperpolarizing current and membrane potential oscillations (7 Hz) upon subthreshold depolarizations. Cs+ blocked the time-dependent inward rectification. The rebound depolarization persisted, even in the presence of tetrodotoxin. Biocytin labelling showed that layer III consisted mainly of pyramidal-shaped cells. Most layer III cells were of the No-SAG type. All cells in layer II, stellate and pyramidal cells, were classified as SAG cells. We conclude that the cells in MEA layers II and III display different electroresponsiveness, but that this appears to be more related to the layer where they are located than to a specific morphology. As layer III consisted mainly of cells of the No-SAG type, we suggest that layer III cells are less excitable than the SAG type layer II cells.
In order to study the functional role of the trans-synaptic neuronal interaction between glutamatergic afferents and mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons in internal reward processes, BALB/c male mice were unilaterally implanted with a guide-cannula, the tip of which was positioned 1.5 mm above the ventral tegmental area (VTA). On each day of the following experimental period, a stainless steel injection cannula was inserted into the VTA in order to study the eventual self-administration behaviour of either the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, D(-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP-7) or the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid antagonist, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) (3 ng/50 nL) using a spatial discrimination task in a Y maze. Mice rapidly discriminated between the arm enabling a microinjection of either of these glutamatergic antagonists and the neutral arm of the maze, and a robust self-administration of either of these compounds was observed from the first session of acquisition. These data provide strong evidence that the intra-VTA microinjection of either of these subclasses of glutamatergic antagonist produces an effect which is interpreted centrally by the experimental subjects as being highly rewarding. Once the self-administration response had been fully acquired by the experimental subjects, preinjection of the dopaminergic D2 antagonist, sulpiride (50 mg/kg i.p.), 30 min before the test, produced a rapid extinction of the self-administration response. This latter result demonstrates the dopaminergic D2 receptor dependence of this intra-VTA self-administration of both of these subclasses of glutamatergic antagonist. We conclude that the different glutamatergic afferent neuronal inputs to the VTA globally exert, in vivo, via the mediation of interposed endogenous GABAergic interneurons, a tonic trans-synaptic inhibitory regulation of neuronal activity in the mesolimbic dopaminergic pathway and that this complex neuronal interaction in the VTA plays a significant functional part in the modulation of internal reward processes.
The dendritic field of pyramidal neurons in cortical layers IIIc and V of the prefrontal cortex in ageing humans was studied. The three-dimensional branching pattern of the basilar dendrites of Golgi-Cox impregnated neurons was analysed in the middle frontal gyrus (areas 9 and 46) in eight subjects between the ages of 49 and 90 years, all without a neurological or psychiatric disorder. The results revealed a significant regression of the layer V dendritic pattern with increasing age, but the layer IIIc neurons did not show any age-related changes. Together with our earlier data on the postnatal development of the same cell types in the prefrontal cortex, we hypothesize that the layer V neurons in the prefrontal cortex start to regress from the fifth decade onwards, in contrast to the layer IIIc neurons which remain stable from puberty on. We conclude that pyramidal cells in layer IIIc and V in a similar cortical region undergo a differential ageing effect.
The present studies have examined whether the neuropeptide galanin can modulate brain serotoninergic (5-HT) neurotransmission in vivo and, particularly, 5-HT1A receptor-mediated transmission. For that purpose, we studied the ability of galanin (given bilaterally into the lateral ventricle, i.c.v.) to modify the impairment of passive avoidance retention induced by the selective 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propyloamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) when injected prior to training. This impairment appears to be mainly related to activation of 5-HT1A receptors in the CNS. Galanin dose-dependently (significant at 3.0 nmol/rat) attenuated the passive avoidance impairment (examined 24 h after training) induced by the 0.2 mg/kg dose of 8-OH-DPAT. This 8-OH-DPAT dose produced signs of the 5-HT syndrome indicating a postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor activation. Furthermore, both the impairment of passive avoidance and the 5-HT syndrome were completely blocked by the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 (0.1 mg/kg). Galanin (0.3 or 3.0 nmol) or WAY 100635 (0.1 mg/kg) failed by themselves to affect passive avoidance retention. 8-OH-DPAT given at a low dose 0.03 mg/kg, which presumably stimulates somatodendritic 5-HT1A autoreceptors in vivo, did not alter passive avoidance retention or induce any visually detectable signs of the 5-HT syndrome. Galanin (0.3 or 3.0 nmol) given i.c.v. in combination with the 0.03 mg/kg dose of 8-OH-DPAT, did not modify passive avoidance. The immunohistochemical study of the distribution of i.c.v. administered galanin (10 min after infusion) showed a strong diffuse labelling in the periventricular zone (100-200 microm) of the lateral ventricle. Furthermore, in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus galanin-immunoreactive nerve cells appeared both in the dentate gyrus and the CA1, CA2 and CA3 layers of the hippocampus. In the septum only endogenous fibres could be seen while in the caudal amygdala also galanin-immunoreactive nerve cells were visualized far away from the labelled periventricular zone. At the level of the dorsal raphe nucleus a thin periventricular zone of galanin immunoreactivity was seen but no labelling of cells. These results suggest that galanin can modulate postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor transmission in vivo in discrete cell populations in forebrain regions such as the dorsal and ventral hippocampus and parts of the amygdala. The indication that galanin administered intracerebroventrically may be taken up in certain populations of nerve terminals in the periventricular zone for retrograde transport suggests that this peptide may also affect intracellular events.
This study examined the configuration of the vertebral column of the cat during independent stance and in various flexed positions. The range of motion in the sagittal plane is similar across most thoracic and lumbar joints, with the exception of a lesser range at the transition region from thoracic-type to lumbar-type vertebrae. The upper thoracic column exhibits most of its range in dorsiflexion and the lower thoracic and lumbar in ventroflexion. Lateral flexion is limited to less than 5 degrees at all segments. The range in torsion is almost 180 degrees and occurs primarily in the midthoracic region, T4-T11. Contrary to the depiction in most atlases, the standing cat exhibits several curvatures, including a mild dorsiflexion in the lower lumbar segments, a marked ventroflexion in the lower thoracic and upper lumbar segments, and a profound dorsiflexion in the upper thoracic (above T9) and cervical segments. The curvatures are not significantly changed by altering stance distance but are affected by head posture. During stance, the top of the scapula lies well above the spines of the thoracic vertebrae, and the glenohumeral joint is just below the bodies of vertebrae T3-T5. Using a simple static model of the vertebral column in the sagittal plane, it was estimated that the bending moment due to gravity is bimodal with a dorsiflexion moment in the lower thoracic and lumbar region and a ventroflexion moment in the upper thoracic and cervical region. Given the bending moments and the position of the scapula during stance, it is proposed that two groups of scapular muscles provide the major antigravity support for the head and anterior trunk. Levator scapulae and serratus ventralis form the lateral group, inserting on the lateral processes of cervical vertebrae and on the ribs. The major and minor rhomboids form the medial group, inserting on the spinous tips of vertebrae from C4 to T4. It is also proposed that the hypaxial muscles, psoas major, minor, and quadratus lumborum could support the lumbar trunk during stance.
This study examined the role of trunk extensor muscles in the thoracic and lumbar regions during postural adjustments in the freely standing cat. The epaxial extensor muscles participate in the rapid postural responses evoked by horizontal translation of the support surface. The muscles segregate into two regional groups separated by a short transition zone, according to the spatial pattern of the electromyographic (EMG) responses. The upper thoracic muscles (T5-9) respond best to posteriorly directed translations, whereas the lumbar muscles (T13 to L7) respond best to anterior translations. The transition group muscles (T10-12) respond to almost all translations. Muscles group according to vertebral level rather than muscle species. The upper thoracic muscles change little in their response with changes in stance distance (fore-hindpaw separation) and may act to stabilize the intervertebral angles of the thoracic curvature. Activity in the lumbar muscles increases along with upward rotation of the pelvis (iliac crest) as stance distance decreases. Lumbar muscles appear to stabilize the pelvis with respect to the lumbar vertebrae (L7-sacral joint). The transition zone muscles display a change in spatial tuning with stance distance, responding to many directions of translation at short distances and focusing to respond best to contralateral translations at the long stance distance.
Many studies have previously described changes in preproenkephalin-A (PPE-A) and preproenkephalin-B (PPE-B) gene expression in the striatum of the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease (both with or without dopamine replacement treatment). To date, these studies have either taken the striatum as a whole or have focused on a single subregion of the striatum. However, the striatum is organized into anatomically discrete parallel circuits serving different functions (motor, associative, and limbic). We have therefore employed in situ hybridization to examine the detailed topography of changes in opioid precursor expression following dopamine depletion and subsequent treatment with apomorphine (5 mg/kg twice daily for 10 days). In the untreated 6-OHDA-lesioned striatum PPE-A expression was elevated only in the dorsal (sensorimotor) caudate-putamen. Following apomorphine treatment PPE-A mRNA levels were further raised in the sensorimotor striatum (&lt;/=77%) and approximately doubled and tripled in the ventral caudate-putamen (associative) and nucleus accumbens (limbic), respectively. These subsequent elevations were mostly restricted to rostral portions of the striatum. Although unchanged following vehicle treatment, PPE-B gene expression in the lesioned caudate-putamen (sensorimotor and associative) was elevated some 30-fold by apomorphine treatment. A smaller rise (fivefold) was seen in rostral regions of the lesioned nucleus accumbens. Thus, differential regulation of opioid peptide transmission exists in motor, limbic, and associative regions of the striatum and may contribute to the generation of motor and cognitive disturbances following long-term treatment of the dopamine-depleted striatum.
After insult or trauma, astrocytes become activated and endeavor to restore the brain's delicately balanced microenvironment. An index of their activated state is that they become enlarged or hypertrophic. Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), a member of the alpha helical family of cytokines, is synthesized by astrocytes and is generally regarded to be an autocrine and paracrine injury signal. To determine whether CNTF might be an endogenous signal that stimulates astrocyte hypertrophy in vivo, we intracerebrally injected 200 ng of recombinant human CNTF into the adult rat neocortex. To study the astrocytes their cytosol was stained with antibodies against S100beta and their nuclei were stained with propidium iodide (PI). Fluorescent images of astrocytic nuclei and somas were acquired using a confocal laser-scanning microscope and their areas were measured using the NIH image software. Within 24 h of treatment, CNTF induced a volume increase of the somas and nuclei of protoplasmic and fibrous astrocytes in vivo, and this effect persisted for at least 48 h. To determine whether CNTF activates astrocytes directly, glial cultures were treated with CNTF (10 ng/ml) and were evaluated by measuring the area of PI stained nuclei. CNTF stimulation increased the size of both polygonal and process-bearing astroglia. Since our studies in vivo have shown that CNTF induces other key aspects of gliosis (S. W. Levison et al., 1996; Exp. Neurol. 141, 256), we conclude that CNTF is a powerful activator of astrocytes and that it is likely responsible for the persistent glial hypertrophy observed following injuries and diseases of the CNS.
Through its secretion of melatonin, the pineal complex of vertebrates exerts a range of physiological effects including regulation of circadian rhythms, seasonal reproduction, metamorphosis, and body color change. Little is known about phylogenetic differences in the distribution and characteristics of melatonin binding sites in fishes. We used in vitro autoradiography to examine binding of [2-125I]iodomelatonin (IMEL) in 20-micron frozen sections of amphioxus (Branchiostoma lanceolatum), Atlantic hagfish (Myxine glutinosa), larval and adult lamprey (Petromyzon marinus), little skate (Raja erinacea), and rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). Tissue was incubated with IMEL in the presence or absence of unlabeled melatonin (1 muM, in order to assess nonspecific binding). A concentration of 32 pM IMEL was used for single point assays and competition studies. No specific binding was found in hagfish or amphioxus, which lack a pineal complex. In the optic tecta of lamprey, skate, and trout, IMEL binding is highly specific (melatonin &gt; N-acetylserotonin &gt; 5- methoxytryptophol &gt; serotonin). Scatchard analysis revealed that the tectal binding sites are of high affinity (Kd = 36, 38, and 50 pM) and low capacity (Bmax = 8.1, 19.8, and 21.8 fmol/mg protein) in lamprey, skate, and trout, respectively. In adult lampreys, intense specific IMEL binding is found in the optic tectum (layer I &gt; II &gt; III) and preoptic nucleus (pars parvocellularis &gt; magnocellularis). Binding was less intense and consistent in the same areas of ammocoete brain. In skates and trout, intense specific binding is found in optic tectum, lateral geniculate body, diencephalic preoptic and suprachiasmatic nuclei, basal hypothalamus, and the medial pallium. These results indicate that specific melatonin binding sites are present in all craniate taxa examined except in hagfish. Although we cannot rule out the possibility that melatonin receptors are secondarily lost in hagfish, their absence in amphioxus makes this unlikely. We speculate that melatonin actions in early vertebrates may have included regulation of visual and endocrine responses to light.
1. Human stroke is a complex and heterogeneous phenomenon that may defy attempts to develop a unitary animal model with which to address all of the relevant issues. 2. Focal models are regarded by many to be the approach of choice, but both global and focal models of cerebral ischemia can be sources of useful and complementary insight. 3. Of the global models, four-vessel occlusion requires a preparatory operative procedure that may increase the risk of extraneous factors confounding the response to the ischemic insult itself. The procedures are only partly reversible, with the vertebral arteries remaining permanently occluded. 4. The two-vessel occlusion model is easier to perform in a single procedure, and the less-intrusive surgical intervention allows greater scope for recovery experiments. The occlusion is fully reversible. 5. Many classes of compounds with therapeutic potential have been identified in the laboratory, often on the basis of success in one class of animal model, but translating these successes into a clinical context has proved singularly difficult. If, in future, compounds of interest are tested across a range of the available models, the likelihood of subsequent clinical success may be enhanced.
The normal adult vertebrate nervous system is a relative quiescent tissue in terms of cell proliferation. However, astrocytes in many regions of the central nervous system (CNS) retain the capacity to undergo cell division. To examine the mechanisms that regulate the proliferation of astrocytes in the CNS we have utilized an in vitro assay in which astrocyte density and cellular environment could be regulated. We demonstrate that type 1 astrocytes derived from the cerebral cortex of developing rats exhibit a profound density-dependent inhibition of proliferation. This inhibition of proliferation was cell type specific, but not restricted to type 1 astrocytes. NIH 3T3 cells but not smooth muscle cells inhibited astrocyte proliferation, while contact-inhibited astrocytes did not inhibit oligodendrocyte proliferation. Co-culture of type 1 astrocytes with neurons from a variety of sources resulted in induction of a process-bearing astrocyte morphology and promoted glial cell proliferation. Thus, induction of a process-bearing astrocyte morphology does not lead to a cessation of proliferation. The inhibition of astrocyte proliferation did not appear to be mediated through the release or sequestration of soluble factors but rather could be induced by membrane-associated factors.
Recent reports suggest that immature hair bundles are observed following aminoglycoside-induced hair-cell loss in the mammalian utricle in vitro as well as in vivo. It is therefore important to document the initial morphological changes associated with both culturing and aminoglycoside application so that degeneration can be clearly distinguished from regeneration. In this study, utricles from adult guinea pigs were maintained in culture for either 3 or 8 days, half being exposed to neomycin for days 2 and 3. They were then processed for microscopical examination and compared with control utricles from animals of the same age. The numbers of hair-cell and supporting-cell nuclei were counted and hair-cell morphology assessed. Bundles were classified as having either stepped (SHB) or unstepped (UHB) stereocilia, and their density determined. The numbers of hair-cell, but not supporting-cell, nuclei declined significantly compared with controls in both untreated and treated explants, the greatest reduction occurring 5 days after neomycin administration. The density of SHBs also declined but there was no significant change in UHB density, resulting in a residual population of hair bundles of more immature appearance in both untreated and treated utricles in vitro than in vivo. Although degenerative events such as hair-cell ejection from, or retraction into, the sensory epithelium were observed, no evidence of regeneration was found.
The development and maturation of the endolymphatic sac (ES) and duct (ED) were studied in the newt Cynops pyrrhogaster. The ES first appears as an oval capsule at the dorsal-medial tip of the otic vesicle at stage 39, about 11 days after oviposition. The ES consists of polymorphous epithelial cells with a minimum of cytoplasm. The intercellular space (IS) between the epithelial cells is narrow and has a smooth surface. At stage 44, the size of the ES increases as many vacuoles in the IS become filled. At stage 46, 18 days after oviposition, the ES elongates markedly and a slit-like lumen is found in the ES. The epithelium contains a few cell organelles which are scattered in the cytoplasm. The vacuoles in the IS are fused, which expands the IS. Two days later (stage 48), floccular material (endolymph) is present in the expanded lumen. The IS dilates and has a wide and irregular appearance. At stage 50, approximately 26 days after oviposition, the ES extends and expands significantly and crystals (otoconia) can now be seen in the widened lumen of the ES. The cytoplasm of the cuboidal epithelial cells contains an abundance of vesicles surrounded by ribosomes and Golgi complexes. Intercellular digitations are formed in the expanded IS. At stage 54, the ES forms a large bellow-like pouch. Numerous otoconia accumulate in the lumen. Free floating cells and cell debris can be seen in the lumen at this stage. The epithelial cells contain numerous cytoplasmic organelles which are evenly distributed in the cytoplasm. Granules are found in the apical and lateral cytoplasm. The IS is loose and displays a labyrinthine appearance. The primitive ED first appears as a connection between the ES and the saccule but no lumen is present inside at stage 39. At stage 46, a narrow lumen is formed in the ED, which corresponds to the formation of the ES lumen. At stage 50, as the ED extends, floccular material is seen in the lumen. At stage 54, the ED bears numerous microvilli on its luminal surface. Otoconia and endolymph are present in the ED. Tight junctions between the epithelial cells are formed at stage 46. A fully developed intercellular junctional complex is produced at stage 54. Based on the development of the ES and ED, the maturation of function of the ES and ED are discussed.
Sounds arriving at the eardrum are filtered by the external ear and associated structures in a frequency and direction specific manner. When convolved with the appropriate filters and presented to human listeners through headphones, broadband noises can be precisely localized to the corresponding position outside of the head (reviewed in Blauert, 1997). Such a 'virtual auditory space' can be a potentially powerful tool for neurophysiological and behavioral work in other species as well. We are developing a virtual auditory space for the barn owl, Tyto alba, a highly successful auditory predator that has become a well-established model for hearing research. We recorded catalogues of head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) from the frontal hemisphere of 12 barn owls and compared virtual and free sound fields acoustically and by their evoked neuronal responses. The inner ca. 1 cm of the ear canal was found to contribute little to the directionality of the HRTFs. HRTFs were recorded by inserting probetube microphones to within about 1 or 2 mm of the eardrum. We recorded HRTFs at frequencies between 2 and 11 kHz, which includes the frequencies most useful to the owl for sound localization (3-9 kHz; Konishi, 1973). Spectra of virtual sounds were within +/- 1 dB of amplitude and +/- 10 degrees of phase of the spectra of free field sounds measured near to the eardrum. The spatial pattern of responses obtained from neurons in the inferior colliculus were almost indistinguishable in response to virtual and to free field stimulation.
The application of the techniques of modern molecular biology to the study of the genetic control of language development poses many significant challenges. Because language is a complex function, disruption of any of a number of systems can impair language development. The diagnostic classification of specific language impairment includes individuals with an apparently inherited form of disordered language development, and therefore some aspects of this clinical phenotype may be useful for positional cloning studies of genes related to language. Known genetic disorders with specific deficits in language functions may also serve to identify candidate genes for language development. In addition to these specific approaches, the current general strategies for positional cloning and candidate gene studies are reviewed.



To study whether high job stress has 'spill over effect' on other dimensions of life, subjective well being inventory (SWBI) and GHQ were administered to 201 policeman selected randomly from Bangalore city, India. Policemen scored significantly high in all dimensions expect in social support when compared to urban middle class men working in factories. The police who scored low in GHQ had significantly higher scores in all dimensions of SWBI except in social contact. The results indicate that various dimensions of SWB of police are not affected. Psychosocial and job related factors buffering job stress have to be studied and further strengthened.
A meta-analysis of 13 psychiatric epidemiological studies consisting of 33572 persons in 6550 families yielded an estimate prevalence rate of 58.2 per thousand population. Organic psychosis (prevalence rate 0.4), schizophrenia (2.7), affective disorders (12.3) contributed a rate of 15.4 for psychoses. The prevalence rate for mental retardation (6.9), epilepsy (4.4), neurotic disorders (20.7), alcohol/drug addiction (6.9; and miscellaneous group (3.9) were estimated. Higher prevalence for urban sector, females, age group of 35-44, married/widowers/divorced, lower socioeconomic status, and nuclear family members were confirmed. Epilepsy and hysteria were found significantly high in rural communities. Manic affective psychosis, mental retardation, alcohol/ drug addiction and personality disorders were significantly high in males. The findings indicated that there are 1.5 crore people suffering from severe mental disorders (psychoses) in India, and that severe diseases have higher representation at specialized as well as general hospital clinics. Among other things, the results aid in conducting morbidity surveys by more methodological approach.
Anxiety and depressive disorders occur across a broad spectrum, and each different disorder may involve distinct genetic and neurobiologica/neurochemical mechanisms. Many classes of drug are available for the treatment of these disorders and, as might be expected, these drugs exhibit a variety of biochemical actions. Paradoxically, the single-action selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are effective in a range of these disorders. However, the paradox may be resolved by an understanding of the distinct ways in which serotonin modifies the physiological coping mechanisms that become dysfunctional in these disorders.

Bursts of highly synchronized discharges of 4-7Hz sinusoidal wave activity can be recorded from the hippocampus during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. These rhythmic discharges, the hippocampal theta activity, are generated in the dentate granule cells and the pyramidal cell layers of the CA1 field of the hippocampus. The physiological function of the hippocampal theta activity is elusive. The occurrence of this rhythm throughout the REM sleep stage suggests that it is related to some fundamental neurophysiological phenomena associated with REM sleep, particularly consolidation of memory processes. Synchronous oscillations among a population of neurons are expected to yield stronger, more coherent associated magnetic fields which, through their influence back on the electrical fields via induction, would exert an independent effect on the electrical activity of hippocampal neurons and additionally, could foster and reinforce these oscillations through self-induction. The snail-shaped structure of the hippocampal formation, which resembles a solenoid embedded in the temporal lobe, would be expected to amplify these magnetic fields. Additionally, the discovery of large ferromagnetic particles in the human hippocampus suggests that it may function as a large iron-core electromagnet. It is proposed that memory traces may be encoded or decoded magnetically and analogous to a videotape, each encoding unit (i.e., synapse, set of synapses or glial cell) could be magnetized in one direction, or the other through the flow of a strong, AC magnetic field along the hippocampal formation. The encoding of memory traces in the hippocampal formation may ultimately reflect an electromagnetic phenomenon.
Visual evoked response (VER) studies have been utilized as supportive information for the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS) and may be useful in objectively monitoring the effects of various therapeutic modalities. Delayed latency of the VER, which reflects slowed impulse transmission in the optic pathways, is the most characteristic abnormality associated with the disease. Brief transcranial applications of AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) in the picotesla flux density are efficacious in the symptomatic treatment of MS and may also reestablish impulse transmission in the optic pathways. A 36 year old man developed an attack of right sided optic neuritis at the age of 30. On presentation he had blurring of vision with reduced acuity on the right and fundoscopic examination revealed pallor of the optic disc. A checkerboard pattern reversal VER showed a delayed latency to right eye stimulation (P100 = 132 ms; normal range: 95-115 ms). After he received two successive applications of AC pulsed EMFs of 7.5 picotesla flux density each of 20 minutes duration administered transcranially, there was a dramatic improvement in vision and the VER latency reverted to normal (P100= 107 ms). The rapid improvement in vision coupled with the normalization of the VER latency despite the presence of optic atrophy, which reflects chronic demyelination of the optic nerve, cannot be explained on the basis of partial or full reformation of myelin. It is proposed that in MS synaptic neurotransmitter deficiency is associated with the visual impairment and delayed VER latency following optic neuritis and that the recovery of the VER latency by treatment with pulsed EMFs is related to enhancement of synaptic neurotransmitter functions in the retina and central optic pathways. Recovery of the VER latency in MS patients may have important implications with respect to the treatment of visual impairment and prevention of visual loss. Specifically, repeated pulsed applications of EMFs may maintain impulse transmission in the optic nerve and thus potentially sustain its viability.
The aim of this study was to see whether brief intervention, a method used in the health care services, can be useful in the workplace. At routine health check-ups carried out by the occupational health service (OHS), employees were offered the opportunity to check their alcohol-use habits. Of the 333 employees who were offered alcohol-use screening, only six (2%) failed to participate. Of the remaining 327, 21% (n=68) screened positive for excessive alcohol consumption and were contacted by the OHS. The majority of these, 43 (62%), accepted a further check-up of their alcohol consumption. A much higher percentage of those who were contacted by telephone (80%) than those who were contacted by letter (17%) subsequently came to the OHS. One probable spin-off effect of the project was that 23 persons outside the screened group contacted the OHS about their alcohol abuse problems. The results indicate that it is feasible to use screening and secondary preventive methods at the workplace to discover alcohol abuse.

We describe the unusual case of a 63-year-old woman with a history of arterial hypertension who presented a sudden weakness of the lower limbs followed by mutism, akinesia and dyspraxia. Magnetic resonance images showed a bilateral medial frontal infarction. Digital subtraction angiography documented a right azygous anterior cerebral artery with severe stenosis in its sub-callosal tract; the left anterior cerebral artery showed mild hypoplasia with only sub-frontal and fronto-polar branches. No embolic source was documented. Afterwards the patient presented a gradual and partial recovery of both motor and cognitive functions.

The Annual General Meeting of the Anatomical Society of Great Britain and Ireland was held at Newcastle University Medical School, from 6th to 8th January 1998. It included a symposium on 'Developmental Neuroscience' on Wednesday 7th January. The following are abstracts of communications and posters presented at the meeting.
Gastroesophageal reflux has been indicated as an etiopathological factor in disorders of the upper airway. Upper airway collapsing pressure stimulates pressure-responsive laryngeal receptors that reflexly increase the activity of upper airway abductor muscles. We studied, in anesthetized dogs, the effects of repeated laryngeal instillations of HCl-pepsin (HCl-P; pH = 2) on the response of laryngeal afferent endings and the posterior cricoarytenoid muscle (PCA) to negative pressure. The effect of negative pressure on receptor discharge or PCA activity was evaluated by comparing their response to upper airway (UAO) and tracheal occlusions (TO). It is only during UAO, but not during TO, that the larynx is subjected to negative transmural pressure. HCl-P instillation decreased the rate of discharge during UAO of the 10 laryngeal receptors studied from 56.4 +/- 10.9 (SE) to 38.2 +/- 9.2 impulses/s (P &lt; 0.05). With UAO, the peak PCA moving time average, normalized by dividing it by the peak values of esophageal pressure, decreased after six HCl-P trials from 4.29 +/- 0.31 to 2.23 +/- 0.18 (n = 6; P &lt; 0.05). The responses to TO of either receptors or PCA remained unaltered. We conclude that exposure of the laryngeal mucosa to HCl-P solutions, as it may occur with gastroesophageal reflux, impairs the patency-maintaining mechanisms provided by laryngeal sensory feedback. Inflammatory and necrotic alterations of the laryngeal mucosa are likely responsible for these effects.

To identify components that contribute to word-fluency performance, 126 patients referred to a Memory Clinic for suspected cognitive impairment underwent a neuropsychological examination including the Controlled Oral Word Association test (FAS; Benton &amp; Hamsher, 1976). The number of words produced in the FAS test during six consecutive 10-s periods followed a negatively accelerated curve approaching an asymptotic level after about 30 s. The 18 FAS variables (3 letters x 6 periods) were entered into an exploratory factor analysis resulting in two factors. One factor, linked to a semiautomatic and rapid retrieval from semantic memory, loaded on the initial phase of the FAS test. A second factor, linked to an effortful and slow retrieval from semantic memory, loaded on the later phase of the FAS test. Thus, two retrieval modes of semantic memory contribute differently to the initial and later part of the FAS test, which may have theoretical and practical implications.
Previous reports have shown that McArdle's disease may occasionally present in older patients (i.e. greater than 40 years of age) as a progressive myopathy that is clinically and sometimes electrophysiologically indistinguishable from idiopathic polymyositis. We report two such patients who in addition had muscle biopsies showing inflammatory infiltrates compatible with polymyositis. However, subsequent enzyme histochemistry demonstrated complete myophosphorylase deficiency and, in the absence of an alternative explanation, may be the reason for the inflammatory changes seen. These cases highlight the importance of a thorough evaluation of patients with an 'inflammatory myopathy' and the occasional diagnostic confusion that may arise in differentiating metabolic myopathies from idiopathic polymyositis. Diagnostic clarification is important to avoid the use of incorrect and potentially toxic treatment.

The mast cell, which is a histamine-containing cell, has been found to have far more functions in skin inflammation than hitherto understood. To investigate the appearance of mast cells in prurigo nodularis, histamine immunohistochemistry in combination with nerve growth factor receptor (NGFr) double-staining as well as electron microscopic studies were performed. The results revealed that the histamine-containing cell number was increased in the lesional dermis. The mast cell size was also increased and the shape had become more dendritic. They tended to contact the epidermis and even infiltrated into it. In the histamine and NGFr double-staining, both an increased histamine-containing mast cell number and an increased number of NGFr-immunoreactive nerve fiber profiles were revealed in the upper dermis of the prurigo nodularis lesional skin. Mast cells were seen in close vicinity to NGFr-positive nerves and sometimes even seemingly to contact single nerve fibers. At the ultrastructural level, it is obvious that the mast cell bodies become larger, having more abundant cytoplasm and organelles (e.g. mitochondria), but comparatively fewer characteristic granules. Mast cells were often observed to sprout long dendrites, with or without granules. The cells were also frequently seen to contact other cell types, and a mast cell infiltration into the epidermis was also found. The statistical results of mast cell numbers showed a significant increase in prurigo nodularis lesional skin compared to the normal controls. The present results further indicate that mast cells, together with cutaneous nerve fibers, are actively involved in the pathogenesis of the disease.
Concussion in sports has caught the attention of the news media in recent years, primarily due to the high profile of certain athletes who have sustained traumatic brain injuries. Even though the management of concussion remains somewhat controversial, certain principles of neuroscience regarding mental status alterations and other symptoms resulting from concussion are well accepted by medical experts. Several authors have previously published management strategies for sports-related concussion based on their own experiences, but this article will describe the formal process of developing guidelines for the diagnosis and management of concussion in sports. The processes of literature review, evidence-based analysis, and consensus building are described. This article includes the grading scale, sideline evaluation, and management strategy adopted as a practice parameter by the American Academy of Neurology. Emphasis is placed on the need to detect mild forms of concussion through detailed observation and examination of athletes.

In this report we present and discuss an unpublished letter written by Santiago Ramon y Cajal in October 1904 in relation to his possible nomination for the Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine. This letter shows that Cajal was aware of his previous nominations for the Prize. He was convinced that these nominations had not been successful because neither anatomy nor histology were among the sciences included in the Nobel Statutes' definition of Physiology or Medicine. He gives a list of the merits he thought might be used for a new nomination, which included only works concluded during the previous five years.
The use of human brain tissue in neuroscience research is increasing. Recent developments include transplanting neural tissue, growing or maintaining neural tissue in laboratories and using surgically removed tissue for experimentation. Also, it is likely that in the future there will be attempts at partial or complete brain transplants. A discussion of the ethical issues of using human brain tissue for research and brain transplantation has been organized around nine broadly defined topic areas. Criteria for human brain tissue transplantation and laboratory use of brain tissue are proposed.
We have studied the temperature dependence of isometric force, rate of force development and maximal shortening velocity (Vmax) in skinned guinea-pig taenia coli smooth muscle. To eliminate the influence of temperature on activation mechanisms, maximally thiophosphorylated preparations were used. Isometric force in the range 2-35 degrees C was maximal at 22 degrees C with a decrease of 25% at 2 degrees C and 10% at 35 degrees C. Rate of tension development from rigor after photolytic release of ATP increased four-fold between 5 degrees C and 30 degrees C. Vmax increased with a Q10 of about 2 (1.6, range 5-15 degrees C, and 2.2, range 22-30 degrees C). The temperature dependence of the rate of tension development indicates rate-limitation by transitions into force-generating states or by the hydrolysis reaction. The temperature dependence of Vmax reflects effects of temperature on reactions (e.g. the ADP-release) associated with cross-bridge detachment. The small temperature dependence of steady-state force in smooth compared with skeletal muscle suggests differences in the cross-bridge reactions controlling the number of attached force-generating states in the two muscle types.
The molecular structure of insect gap junctions differs from that in vertebrates, and in Drosophila is possibly encoded by the shaking B (= Passover) locus. shaking B2 is a null allele that acts in the nervous system. In the shakB2 mutant, one site of action are gap junctions between photoreceptor terminals in the cartridges of the lamina, beneath the compound eye, which we assayed from the number of close-apposition profiles in thin-section EM. The number of profiles in the Canton-S (C-S) wild type is about 0.5 per cartridge per section in distal and mid-lamina depths, and significantly less, about one quarter this value, closer to the brain, in the proximal lamina. In shakB2, there are fewer profiles, approximately one quarter the number of appositions in distal and mid-lamina depths as in C-S, and their number does not differ significantly from those at the proximal depth in either the mutant or wild type. Thus mutant action is associated with a reduced number of appositions at distal and mid-lamina depths. We propose that R1-R6 gap junctions are partitioned into at least two strata, proximal and distal, and that two populations of gap junctions exist, one extending throughout the lamina that does not require shakB, and a second at distal and mid-depth levels, which does. The number of gap junctions is reduced in mutant shakB2, and surviving appositions at distal and middle lamina depths possibly have wider clefts than in C-S. Gap junctions are reduced equally between all R1-R6 terminals, so the two different types of junction proposed, shakB2- and non-shakB2-dependent, can apparently express in a single receptor terminal.
Here we report on the molecular characterization of the first molluscan NOS in the CNS of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. This Lymnaea NOS (Lym-nNOS) which is expressed preferentially in the CNS is most similar to mammalian neuronal NOS but contains tandem repeats of a seven amino acid motif not found in any other known NOS. We have localized Lym-nNOS to the serotonergic cerebral giant cells (CGCs) which modulate synaptic transmission within a neural network that generates feeding behavior. Our results suggest that the CGCs employ both NO and serotonin in the modulation of the central neural network underlying feeding.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) provides structural support to cells and tissues and is involved in the regulation of various essential physiological processes, including neurite outgrowth. Most of the adhesive interactions between cells and ECM proteins are mediated by integrins. Integrins typically recognize short linear amino acid sequences in ECM proteins, one of the most common being Arginine-Glycine-Aspartate (RGD). The present study investigated neurite outgrowth and adhesion of identified molluscan neurons on a selection of substrates in vitro. Involvement of RGD binding sites in adhesion to the different substrates was investigated using soluble synthetic RGD peptides. The cells adhered to native (i.e., nondenatured) laminin and type IV collagen, but not to native plasma fibronectin. Denaturation of fibronectin dramatically enhanced cell adhesion. Only the adhesion to denatured fibronectin was inhibited by RGD peptides, indicating that denaturation uncovers a RGD binding site in the protein. Laminin as well as denatured fibronectin, but not type IV collagen, induced neurite outgrowth from a percentage of the RPA neurons. These results demonstrate that molluscan neurons can attach to various substrates using both RGD-dependent and RGD-independent adhesion mechanisms. This suggests that at least two different cell adhesion receptors, possibly belonging to the integrin family, are expressed in these neurons. Moreover, the results show that vertebrate ECM proteins can induce outgrowth from these neurons, suggesting that the mechanisms involved in adhesion as well as outgrowth promoting are evolutionarily well conserved.
Protein tyrosine phosphorylation has been implicated in several aspects of neurite outgrowth regulation. To address specific roles in early neuronal morphogenesis, hippocampal neurons in culture were treated with the tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor orthovanadate. This treatment completely suppressed axon formation, yet enhanced formation of minor neurites. The inhibition of axonogenesis was dose dependent and occurred in parallel with a marked increase in cellular phosphotyrosine immunoreactivity, which was especially concentrated within neuritic growth cones and showed partial colocalization with f-actin. Both the blockade of axonogenesis and the elevation of phosphotyrosine were completely reversible. An additional and unexpected effect of orthovanadate was the appearance of many binucleate neurons. Immunoblotting experiments using a phosphotyrosine-specific antibody revealed an orthovanadate-induced reversible hyperphosphorylation of several protein bands, especially of two at 115 and 125 kD. These data suggest a potentially important role for tyrosine phosphatases and their phosphoprotein substrates in axonogenesis.
Lithium, a simple monovalent cation, is the mainstay in the treatment of manic-depressive illness, but despite extensive research, its mechanism of action remains to be elucidated. Because lithium requires chronic administration for therapeutic efficacy and because its beneficial effects last well beyond its discontinuation, it has been postulated that lithium may exert major effects at the genomic level. We have previously shown that lithium, at therapeutically relevant concentrations, increases gene expression through the activator protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor pathway in vitro. In the present study, we have sought to determine if lithium also increases the expression of endogenous genes known to be regulated by AP-1 and have therefore investigated the effects of lithium on tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) levels. Male Wistar rats were treated with LiCl for 9 days (subacute) or 4 weeks (chronic), and TH levels were measured in frontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum using immunoblotting. Chronic (but not subacute) lithium treatment resulted in significant increases in TH levels in rat frontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. Lithium (1 mM) also increased TH levels in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells in vitro, indicating that lithium increases TH levels in both rodent and human tissues, likely via a direct cellular effect. These effects are compatible with (but likely not exclusively due to) an effect on the DNA binding of the 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate response element to the AP-1 family of transcription factors.
Mild depolarisation (20 mM KCl) synergistically enhances the ability of a muscarinic agonist to activate phosphoinositide turnover and to elevate inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P3] in cerebellar granule cells in primary culture. The effects of lithium on this intense stimulation of phosphoinositide turnover was studied. Lithium causes depletion of cytoplasmic inositol and phosphoinositides, which results in the inhibition of phosphoinositide turnover within 15 min and the return of Ins(1,4,5)P3 to basal levels at this time. This inhibition could not be reversed by culturing and preincubating cerebellar granule cells in concentrations of inositol similar to those detected in the CSF. Inositol concentrations substantially in excess of those in the CSF not only reversed the effects of lithium on stimulated Ins(1,4,5)P3 levels, but significantly enhanced this level in comparison with stimulation in the absence of lithium. sn-1,2-Diacylglycerol elevation during stimulated phosphoinositide turnover was also disrupted by lithium, but in contrast to Ins(1,4,5)3, the presence of lithium resulted in a transient enhancement of the elevation evoked by carbachol plus mild KCl depolarisation, which was reversed by 500 microM inositol, but not by 200 microM inositol. The implications of these phenomena in relation to the mechanism of action of lithium in the treatment of manic depression are discussed.
A reporter epitope was inserted at 11 positions in a region encompassing proposed transmembrane segments S1 and S2 in the second repeat domain (D2) of the rat skeletal muscle type 1 sodium channel. All mutations produced full-length membrane-associated protein following transfection into cultured cells, although the level of expression varied with insertion position. Characterization of cognate cRNAs for each mutation in Xenopus oocytes by two-electrode voltage clamp defined a permissive region between the proposed transmembrane regions in which these large insertions did not interfere with channel function. Two of the mutations, in which the point of insertion was within the proposed S1-S2 loop, demonstrated extracellular membrane labeling when studied either by antibody binding in oocytes or by confocal analysis following transfection into primary muscle cells. Our results define the likely boundaries of an extramembrane region linking the S1 and S2 transmembrane segments in D2 and confirm the extracellular location of this S1-S2 loop predicted by current models of channel tertiary structure.
Endomorphin-1 is a peptide whose binding selectivity suggests a role as an endogenous ligand at mu-opioid receptors. In the present study, the effect of endomorphin-1 on mu receptor-coupled G proteins was compared with that of the mu agonist DAMGO by using agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in rat brain. [35S]GTPgammaS autoradiography revealed a similar localization of endomorphin-1- and DAMGO-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in areas including thalamus, caudate-putamen, amygdala, periaqueductal gray, parabrachial nucleus, and nucleus tractus solitarius. Naloxone blocked endomorphin-1-stimulated labeling in all regions examined. Although the distribution of endomorphin-1-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding resembled that of DAMGO, the magnitude of endomorphin-1-stimulated binding was significantly lower than that produced by DAMGO. Concentration-effect curves of endomorphin-1 and DAMGO in thalamic membranes confirmed that endomorphin-1 produced only 70% of DAMGO-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding. Differences in maximal stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding between DAMGO and endomorphin-1 were magnified by increasing GDP concentrations, and saturation analysis of net endomorphin-1-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding revealed a lower apparent Bmax value than that obtained with DAMGO. Endomorphin-1 also partially antagonized DAMGO stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding. These results demonstrate that endomorphin-1 is a partial agonist for G protein activation at the mu-opioid receptor in brain.
The effects of immobilization on the expression of immediate-early gene c-fos and nerve growth factor-inducible (NGFI)-B mRNAs, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) mRNA, CRF heteronuclear RNA (hnRNA), CRF receptor types 1 and 2alpha mRNA, and enkephalin hn/mRNA were investigated in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus of Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and borderline hypertensive rats (BHRs). Rats were deeply anesthetized 0, 30, 60, and 180 min after the beginning of the immobilization session (60 min maximum). BHR paraventricular nuclei displayed slight differences in their resting levels of NGFI-B mRNA and CRF hnRNA, both being significantly elevated compared with those of WKY rats. Conversely, basal levels of enkephalin primary transcript were significantly lower in BHRs. Immobilization, however, induced transient variations in the hybridization signals for all evaluated genes within the paraventricular nucleus (except for CRF 2alpha receptor). Immediate-early gene mRNA levels were higher and more prolonged in BHRs than in WKY rats. This heightened neuronal activation in the BHRs was associated with a more rapid increase in CRF mRNA expression (30 min) compared with that in WKY rats (60 min). It is interesting that a transient rise in CRF hnRNA levels was detected in stressed WKY rats, whereas the BHR group displayed a progressive decline in this transcript, being significantly below resting levels 180 min after the immobilization session. The stress-induced expression of CRF type 1 receptor mRNA was similar in both strains. Moreover, no significant differences were observed for enkephalin hn/mRNA in either strain during the immobilization session. Therefore, the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus appears to be involved in the functional hyperreactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal and autonomic axes to stress observed in BHRs, which may lead ultimately to a stress-induced hypertensive state.
Here we report the generation and characterization of two distinct monoclonal antibodies, G-90 and B-1531, specific to glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). ELISA results confirmed that G-90 and B-1531 both recognize GDNF. Western blots showed that G-90 recognized only the GDNF dimer, whereas B-1531 recognized both the monomer and dimer. Peptide competition ELISA (PCE) and BIAcore data suggested that G-90 and B-1531 recognize different epitopes: PCE confirmed that B-1531 binds to NH2-terminal peptides between amino acids 18 and 37, whereas G-90 does not; BIAcore data showed that B-1531 binds to the NH2 terminus of GDNF, whereas G-90 does not. G-90, in a concentration-dependent manner, completely neutralized the GDNF-induced increases of choline acetyltransferase in cultured motoneuron and of dopamine uptake and morphological differentiation in dopaminergic neuron cultures. B-1531 had no neutralizing effects. GDNF-induced Ret autophosphorylation in NGR-38 cells was completely neutralized by G-90, whereas B-1531 had a moderate effect. These data show that G-90 and B-1531 are specific antibodies to GDNF. The data also suggest that the NH2 terminus of GDNF is not critical for activity. Partial inhibition of Ret phosphorylation is insufficient to down-regulate GDNF-induced biological activity.
The lectin soybean agglutinin (SBA) from Glycine max binds to small-sized dorsal root ganglion cells and their central terminals in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Here we investigated the ability of SBA and SBA conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (SBA-HRP) to trace thin calibre afferents into the spinal cord from a peripheral nerve. Following injection into the sciatic nerve, labelled cells in the dorsal root ganglion were predominantly small-sized but some medium-sized cells were also labelled. Colocalization studies of transported SBA with various neuronal markers showed that all neurons that transported SBA-HRP showed SBA binding, indicating high uptake specificity for the conjugate. 15% were immunoreactive for RT97 indicating that some axons were myelinated, and 54% also expressed binding sites for isolectin B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia, a selective marker for a subpopulation of unmyelinated afferents. With regard to neurotransmitter content, 43% of the SBA cells contained calcitonin gene-related peptide, 33% contained substance P and 2.5% somatostatin. In addition, 3% contained carbonic anhydrase. Centrally, injection of SBA in the sciatic nerve resulted in labelled terminals in somatotopically appropriate regions of laminae I-II of the dorsal horn, and in the gracile nucleus. A few neurons in the dorsal horn were labelled indicating that some transneuronal transport of SBA had occurred. The results show that SBA can be used as a transganglionic tracer to label fine calibre primary afferents that project to laminae I-II of the spinal cord and the gracile nucleus. It appears to label more afferents than isolectin B4, including also a subpopulation of myelinated afferents.
This study assessed the observer variability for measurement of intracranial aneurysmal size visualized on color &quot;power&quot; Transcranial Doppler Ultrasound (TCD). Patients with recent subarachnoid hemorrhage underwent color &quot;power&quot; TCD blind to angiography. Identified aneurysms were measured from the frozen image (in real time or from video tape) using the trackball function. Two observers measured the maximum (systolic) and minimum (end diastolic) area of each aneurysm, and an adjacent reference artery. Each observer was blind to the other's results. Interobserver variability was assessed using the Bland and Altman technique. Thirty-nine aneurysms were identified in 32 patients in 10 months. The maximum cross-sectional area of the aneurysm was 38:41 mm2 (observer 1:observer 2), and the mean difference was -3 mm2 (95% confidence interval [CI] of the difference -5.4-1.46 mm2). The maximum cross-sectional area of the reference artery was 26:28 mm2 (observer 1:observer 2), and the mean difference was -2 mm2 (95% CI -5.7-1.2 mm2). Neither difference was significant. Intraobserver reliability also was good. The measurement of intracranial aneurysm and artery size with power TCD is reliable sufficiently for use in longitudinal studies of changes in aneurysm size.
Antibodies to neuronal antigens are found in a range of different neurological disorders, both central and peripheral, and often indicate the presence of particular underlying tumours. This conference and workshop was an opportunity to discuss the clinical associations of these antibodies, the relevance of new antibody specificities, and to establish protocols for their detection.
The relation between orientation for time and place and regional cerebral glucose metabolism was examined in 86 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease of minimal to moderate severity. Regional glucose metabolic rates in the posterior cingulate gyri and in the right middle temporal gyrus were significantly correlated with temporal orientation, and the glucose metabolic rate in the right posterior cingulate gyrus was significantly correlated with locational orientation irrespective of age, sex, education, and memory impairment. The results suggest that dysfunction of these structures plays an important part in producing disorientation in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Heat stroke is a thermal insult to the cerebral thermoregulatory system controlling heat production and heat dissipation. The thermal insult may be environmental as in 'classic heat stroke' or endogenous as in 'exertional heat stroke' in joggers or runners. The insult will lead to a steady rise in body core temperature to 40 degrees C or more, exhaustion of sweating with hot dry skin and central nervous system disturbances ranging from confusion to deep coma. Multisystem insult will follow leading to a fatal outcome, if not diagnosed and treated promptly. Rapid evaporative cooling and support of vital organs are the essential factors in the management of this condition. If treated early, no sequelae results, however, pancerebellar syndrome and spastic or flaccid paraparesis have been described in a few cases. Limited sun exposure, proper use of sunscreens, adequate fluid and electrolyte replacement and acclimatization are the key factors for prevention. Despite appropriate prevention and prompt treatment, heat stroke is unlikely to be totally prevented, but the mortality has improved dramatically to less than 10%.
The requirement of postsynaptic calcium influx via L-type channels for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) of mossy fiber input to CA3 pyramidal neurons was tested for two different patterns of stimulation. Two types of LTP-inducing stimuli were used based on the suggestion that one of them, brief high-frequency stimulation (B-HFS), induces LTP postsynaptically, whereas the other pattern, long high-frequency stimulation (L-HFS), induces mossy fiber LTP presynaptically. To test whether or not calcium influx into CA3 pyramidal neurons is necessary for LTP induced by either pattern of stimulation, nimodipine, a L-type calcium channel antagonist, was added during stimulation. In these experiments nimodipine blocked the induction of mossy fiber LTP when B-HFS was given [34 +/- 5% (mean +/- SE) increase in control versus 7 +/- 4% in nimodipine, P &lt; 0.003]; in contrast, nimodipine did not block the induction of LTP with L-HFS (107 +/- 10% in control vs. 80 +/- 9% in nimodipine, P &gt; 0.05). Administration of nimodipine after the induction of LTP had no effect on the expression of LTP. In addition, B- and L-HFS delivered directly to commissural/associational fibers in stratum radiatum failed to induce a N-methyl--aspartate-independent form of LTP, obviating the possibility that the presumed mossy fiber LTP resulted from potentiation of other synapses. Nimodipine had no effect on calcium transients recorded from mossy fiber presynaptic terminals evoked with the B-HFS paradigm but reduced postsynaptic calcium transients. Our results support the hypothesis that induction of mossy fiber LTP by B-HFS is mediated postsynaptically and requires entry of calcium through L-type channels into CA3 neurons.
Monosynaptic perforant path responses evoked by subicular stimulation were recorded from CA3 pyramidal cells of rat hippocampal slices. These monosynaptic responses were isolated by using low intensities of stimulation and by placing a cut through the mossy fibers. Perforant path-evoked responses consisted of both excitatory and inhibitory components. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were mediated by both alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acidreceptors (AMPAR) and N-methyl--aspartate receptors (NMDAR). Inhibitory postsynaptic currents consisted of gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA-) and -B (GABAB)-receptor-mediated components. At membrane potentials more positive than -60 mV and at physiological [Ca2+]/[Mg2+] ratios, &gt;30% of perforant path evoked EPSC was mediated by NMDARs. This value varied as a function of the membrane voltage and external [Mg2+]. Two types of responses were observed after low-intensity stimulation of the perforant path. The first type of response showed paired-pulse facilitation and was reduced by 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (AP4). The second type of response showed paired-pulse depression and was reduced by baclofen. Electrophysiological and pharmacological characteristics of these two types of responses are similar to the properties of lateral and medial perforant path-evoked EPSPs in the dentate gyrus.
This research focused on the response of neurons in the inferior colliculus of the unanesthetized mustached bat, Pteronotus parnelli, to apparent auditory motion. We produced the apparent motion stimulus by broadcasting pure-tone bursts sequentially from an array of loudspeakers along horizontal, vertical, or oblique trajectories in the frontal hemifield. Motion direction had an effect on the response of 65% of the units sampled. In these cells, motion in opposite directions produced shifts in receptive field locations, differences in response magnitude, or a combination of the two effects. Receptive fields typically were shifted opposite the direction of motion (i.e., units showed a greater response to moving sounds entering the receptive field than exiting) and shifts were obtained to horizontal, vertical, and oblique motion orientations. Response latency also shifted as a function of motion direction, and stimulus locations eliciting greater spike counts also exhibited the shortest neural latency. Motion crossing the receptive field boundaries appeared to be both necessary and sufficient to produce receptive field shifts. Decreasing the silent interval between successive stimuli in the apparent motion sequence increased both the probability of obtaining a directional effect and the magnitude of receptive field shifts. We suggest that the observed directional effects might be explained by &quot;spatial masking,&quot; where the response of auditory neurons after stimulation from particularly effective locations in space would be diminished. The shift in auditory receptive fields would be expected to shift the perceived location of a moving sound and may explain shifts in localization of moving sources observed in psychophysical studies. Shifts in perceived target location caused by auditory motion might be exploited by auditory predators such as Pteronotus in a predictive tracking strategy to capture moving insect prey.
Assessing the development of local circuitry in the hippocampus has relied primarily on anatomic studies. Here we take a physiological approach, to directly evaluate the means by which the mature state of connectivity between CA3 and CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells is established. Using a technique of comparing miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) to EPSCs in response to spontaneously occurring action potentials in CA3 cells, we found that from neonatal to adult ages, functional synapses are created and serve to increase the degree of connectivity between CA3-CA1 cell pairs. Neither the probability of release nor mean quantal size was found to change significantly with age. However, the variability of quantal events decreases substantially as synapses mature. Thus in the hippocampus the developmental strategy for enhancing excitatory synaptic transmission does not appear to involve an increase in the efficacy at individual synapses, but rather an increase in the connectivity between cell pairs.
Step-ramp target motion evokes a characteristic sequence of presaccadic smooth eye movement in the direction of the target ramp, catch-up targets to bring eye position close to the position of the moving target, and postsaccadic eye velocities that nearly match target velocity. I have analyzed this sequence of eye movements in monkeys to reveal a strong postsaccadic enhancement of pursuit eye velocity and to document the conditions that lead to that enhancement. Smooth eye velocity was measured in the last 10 ms before and the first 10 ms after the first saccade evoked by step-ramp target motion. Plots of eye velocity as a function of time after the onset of the target ramp revealed that eye velocity at a given time was much higher if measured after versus before the saccade. Postsaccadic enhancement of pursuit was recorded consistently when the target stepped 3 degrees eccentric on the horizontal axis and moved upward, downward, or away from the position of fixation. To determine whether postsaccadic enhancement of pursuit was invoked by smear of the visual scene during a saccade, I recorded the effect of simulated saccades on the presaccadic eye velocity for step-ramp target motion. The 3 degrees simulated saccade, which consisted of motion of a textured background at 150 degrees/s for 20 ms, failed to cause any enhancement of presaccadic eye velocity. By using a strategically selected set of oblique target steps with horizontal ramp target motion, I found clear enhancement for saccades in all directions, even those that were orthogonal to target motion. When the size of the target step was varied by up to 15 degrees along the horizontal meridian, postsaccadic eye velocity did not depend strongly either on the initial target position or on whether the target moved toward or away from the position of fixation. In contrast, earlier studies and data in this paper show that presaccadic eye velocity is much stronger when the target is close to the center of the visual field and when the target moves toward versus away from the position of fixation. I suggest that postsaccadic enhancement of pursuit reflects activation, by saccades, of a switch that regulates the strength of transmission through the visual-motor pathways for pursuit. Targets can cause strong visual motion signals but still evoke low presaccadic eye velocities if they are ineffective at activating the pursuit system.
The molluscan vasopressin/oxytocin-related neuropeptide conopressin activates two persistent inward currents in neurons from the anterior lobe of the right cerebral ganglion of Lymnaea stagnalis that are involved in the control of male copulatory behavior. The low-voltage-activated (LVA) current is activated at a wide range of membrane potentials, its amplitude being only weakly voltage dependent. The high-voltage-activated (HVA) current is activated at potentials positive to -40 mV only and shows a steep voltage dependence. Occurrence of both currents varies from cell to cell, some expressing both and others only the HVA current. In most neurons that have the LVA current, a conopressin-independent persistent inward current (INSR) is found that resembles the HVA current in its voltage dependence. The functional importance of the LVA and HVA currents was studied under current-clamp conditions in isolated anterior lobe neurons. In cells exhibiting both current types, the effect of activation of the LVA current alone was investigated as follows: previously recorded LVA current profiles were injected into the neurons, and the effects were compared with responses induced by conopressin. Both treatments resulted in a strong depolarization and firing activity. No differences in firing frequency and burst duration were observed, indicating that activation of the LVA current is sufficient to evoke bursts. In cells exhibiting only the HVA current, the effect of conopressin on the response to a depolarizing stimulus was tested. Conopressin reversibly increased the number of action potentials generated by the stimulus, suggesting that the HVA current enhances excitability and counteracts accommodation. Conopressin enhanced action potential broadening during depolarizing stimuli in many neurons. Voltage-clamp experiments performed under ion-selective conditions revealed the presence of transient sodium and calcium currents. Using the action potential clamp technique, it was shown that both currents contribute to the action potential. The calcium current, which is activated mainly during the repolarizing phase of the action potential, is augmented by conopressin. Thus conopressin may directly modulate the shape of the action potential. In summary, conopressin may act simultaneously on multiple inward currents in anterior lobe neurons of Lymnaea to affect firing activity, excitability, and action potential shape.
The functional organization and synaptic physiology of olfactory bulb glomeruli were studied in rat in vitro slice preparations stained with the voltage-sensitive dye RH-155. Optical signals were recorded with a 100-element photodiode array at high temporal resolution. Pharmacological and ionic manipulations were used to investigate synaptic responses to stimulation of the olfactory nerve layer (ONL). ONL stimulation evoked a sodium-mediated compound action potential that propagated across the ONL and invaded individual glomeruli. This presynaptic volley evoked calcium-dependent synaptic responses the amplitudes of which were largest within the glomerular layer (GL); smaller amplitude responses were recorded in deeper layers of the olfactory bulb. Synaptic responses in the GL were attenuated by the non-NMDA ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonist CNQX; the residual component was suppressed by the NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist AP-5. The GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide had little effect, whereas the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen dramatically attenuated ONL-evoked synaptic responses. The effects of baclofen were reversed by the GABAB receptor antagonist CGP35348. Paired-pulse depression of ONL-evoked synaptic responses in the GL was partially reversed by CGP35348. These findings suggest that olfactory nerve axons release glutamate to activate both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors on GL neurons, that GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition has little effect on these responses, and that GABAB receptor-mediated inhibition may act presynaptically on olfactory nerve axons to modulate their inputs to olfactory bulb neurons.
The effects of pergolide, a mixed D1/D2 receptor agonist, and bromocriptine, a selective D2 receptor agonist, were assessed in a visual delay task to further investigate the &quot;dopamine link&quot; of working memory in humans and to look for differential D1 versus D2 receptor contributions. Two groups of 32 healthy young adults (16 female) received either 0.1 mg of pergolide or 2.5 mg of bromocriptine in a placebo-controlled cross-over design. A pretreatment with domperidone, a peripherally active D2 antagonist, was performed in both groups to reduce side effects. Interindividual differences in pharmacokinetics were controlled by the time course of serum prolactin inhibition. The working memory paradigm was a visuospatial delayed matching task; the location of a randomly generated seven-point pattern had to be memorized and compared after 2, 8, or 16 sec with a second pattern that was either identical or slightly shifted within a reference frame. The task was designed with the intention to present unique stimuli at each trial and to require minimal motor demands. Practice effects between the two pharmacological test days were minimized by training sessions that preceded the tests. The paradigm showed significant error and reaction time increases with longer delays. After comparable doses, only pergolide, but not bromocriptine, facilitated visuospatial working memory performance as demonstrated by a significant drug-by-delay interaction. These findings are in accordance with the monkey literature as well as with neuroanatomical findings, and they confirm a preferential role of prefrontal D1 receptors for working memory modulation in humans.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) critically regulates the duration of the cellular actions of dopamine and the extent to which dopamine diffuses in the extracellular space. We sought to determine whether the reportedly greater diffusion of dopamine in the rat prefrontal cortex (PFC) as compared with the striatum is associated with a more restricted axonal distribution of the cortical DAT protein. By light microscopy, avidin-biotin-peroxidase immunostaining for DAT was visualized in fibers that were densely distributed within the dorsolateral striatum and the superficial layers of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. In contrast, DAT-labeled axons were distributed only sparsely to the deep layers of the prelimbic cortex. By electron microscopy, DAT-immunoreactive profiles in the striatum and cingulate cortex included both varicose and intervaricose segments of axons. However, DAT-labeled processes in the prelimbic cortex were almost exclusively intervaricose axon segments. Immunolabeling for tyrosine hydroxylase in adjacent sections of the prelimbic cortex was localized to both varicosities and intervaricose segments of axons. These qualitative observations were supported by a quantitative assessment in which the diameter of immunoreactive profiles was used as a relative measure of whether varicose or intervaricose axon segments were labeled. These results suggest that considerable extracellular diffusion of dopamine in the prelimbic PFC may result, at least in part, from a paucity of DAT content in mesocortical dopamine axons, as well as a distribution of the DAT protein at a distance from synaptic release sites. The results further suggest that different populations of dopamine neurons selectively target the DAT to different subcellular locations.
We have previously shown that a membrane-permeant analog of cAMP, 8-bromo-cAMP (8-br-cAMP), elicits a vigorous eating response when microinjected into the perifornical hypothalamus (PFH) or lateral hypothalamus (LH) of satiated rats, suggesting that increases in cAMP in these areas may be important in the neural control of eating. To determine the locus of this effect, we compared the ability of 8-br-cAMP (1-100 nmol/0.3 microl) to elicit eating after microinjection into the PFH, LH, or the following bracketing areas: the anterior and posterior LH, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, thalamus, and amygdala. 8-br-cAMP at 50 nmol elicited eating (&gt;/=3.4 gm in 2 hr) exclusively in the PFH and LH. At 100 nmol, 8-br-cAMP elicited a larger response in these areas and elicited a smaller, more variable response in the thalamus. We similarly mapped the feeding-stimulatory effects of compounds that increase endogenous cellular cAMP in naive rats. Combined microinjection of matched doses (300 nmol) of 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine and 7-deacetyl-7-O-(N-methylpiperazino)-gamma-butyryl-forskolin was effective exclusively in the PFH, eliciting an average 2 hr food intake of 8.4 +/- 2.0 gm. Collectively, these results suggest that increases in cellular cAMP within a specific brain site, the PFH, may play a role in the neural stimulation of eating.
We investigated the two-dimensional structure of area 3b neuronal receptive fields (RFs) in three alert monkeys. Three hundred thirty neurons with RFs on the distal fingerpads were studied with scanned, random dot stimuli. Each neuron was stimulated continuously for 14 min, yielding 20,000 response data points. Excitatory and inhibitory components of each RF were determined with a modified linear regression algorithm. Analyses assessing goodness-of-fit, repeatability, and generality of the RFs were developed. Two hundred forty-seven neurons yielded highly repeatable RF estimates, and most RFs accounted for a large fraction of the explainable response of each neuron. Although the area 3b RF structures appeared to be continuously distributed, certain structural generalities were apparent. Most RFs (94%) contained a single, central region of excitation and one or more regions of inhibition located on one, two, three, or all four sides of the excitatory center. The shape, area, and strength of excitatory and inhibitory RF regions ranged widely. Half the RFs contained almost evenly balanced excitation and inhibition. The findings indicate that area 3b neurons act as local spatiotemporal filters that are maximally excited by the presence of particular stimulus features. We believe that form and texture perception are based on high-level representations and that area 3b is an intermediate stage in the processes leading to these representations. Two possibilities are considered: (1) that these high-level representations are basically somatotopic and that area 3b neurons amplify some features and suppress others, or (2) that these representations are highly transformed and that area 3b effects a step in the transformation.
To characterize further the establishment of the opioid system during prenatal mouse development, we have examined the spatial and temporal expression patterns of mu, kappa, and delta opioid receptor mRNAs and find that the expression patterns of these mRNAs are distinct at all ages. Within the embryo, kappa is the first opioid receptor expressed, with transcripts detected in the gut epithelium as early as embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5). By E10.5, mu receptor expression is first detected in the facial-vestibulocochlear preganglion complex, whereas delta receptor mRNA is first detected at E12.5 in several peripheral tissues, including the olfactory epithelium, heart, limb bud, and tooth. In the brain, both mu and kappa mRNAs are first detected at E11.5 in the basal ganglia and midbrain, respectively. During mid-gestation and late gestation, the expression of both mu and kappa receptors extends to other brain regions that exhibit high expression in the adult, including the medial habenula, hypothalamus, pons, and medulla for mu and the basal ganglia, thalamus, hypothalamus, raphe, and ventral tegmental area for kappa. Thus by E17.5, many aspects of the adult expression patterns of mu and kappa receptors already have been established. Compared with mu and kappa, delta receptor mRNA expression in the brain begins relatively late, and the expression levels remain very low even at E19.5. In contrast to its late appearance in the brain, however, delta is the first opioid receptor expressed in the dorsal root ganglion, at E12.5, before its expression in the spinal cord begins at E15.5. Mu receptor is the first opioid receptor expressed in the spinal cord, at E11.5. These results extend previous ligand-binding data to significantly earlier ages and suggest that early developmental events in both neural and non-neural tissues may be modulated by opioid receptors. Several examples of possible autocrine and paracrine loops of opioid peptide and receptor expression have been identified, suggesting a role for these local circuits in developmental processes.
Neuronal and glial sodium-dependent transporters are crucial for the control of extracellular glutamate levels in the CNS. The regulation of these transporters is relatively unexplored, but the activity of other transporters is regulated by protein kinase C (PKC)- and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-mediated trafficking to and from the cell surface. In the present study the C6 glioma cell line was used as a model system that endogenously expresses the excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) subtype of neuronal glutamate transporter. As previously observed, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) caused an 80% increase in transporter activity within minutes that cannot be attributed to the synthesis of new transporters. This increase in activity correlated with an increase in cell surface expression of EAAC1 as measured by using a membrane-impermeant biotinylation reagent. Both effects of PMA were blocked by the PKC inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide II (Bis II). The putative PI3K inhibitor, wortmannin, decreased L-[3H]-glutamate uptake activity by &gt;50% within minutes. Wortmannin decreased the Vmax of L-[3H]-glutamate and D-[3H]-aspartate transport, but it did not affect Na+-dependent [3H]-glycine transport. Wortmannin also decreased cell surface expression of EAAC1. Although wortmannin did not block the effects of PMA on activity, it prevented the PMA-induced increase in cell surface expression. This trafficking of EAAC1 also was examined with immunofluorescent confocal microscopy, which supported the biotinylation studies and also revealed a clustering of EAAC1 at cell surface after treatment with PMA. These studies suggest that the trafficking of the neuronal glutamate transporter EAAC1 is regulated by two independent signaling pathways and also may suggest a novel endogenous protective mechanism to limit glutamate-induced excitotoxicity.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is present in aspiny neurons in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), which also contains moderate levels of ligand binding and mRNA for the Y1 receptor. To determine the potential functional sites for receptor activation, we examined the electron microscopic immunocytochemical localization of antipeptide antisera against the Y1 receptor in the rat NAc. We also combined immunogold and immunoperoxidase labeling to show that, in this region, Y1 receptors are present in certain somatodendritic and axonal profiles that contain NPY or that appose NPY containing neurons. The Y1-like immunoreactivity (Y1-LI) was seen occasionally along plasma membranes but was associated more commonly with smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) and tubulovesicular organelles in somata and dendrites of spiny and aspiny neurons. The mean density of immunoreactive dendrites and spines per unit volume was greater in the &quot;motor-associated&quot; core than in the shell of the NAc. Y1-LI was also seen in morphologically heterogenous axon terminals, including those forming asymmetric excitatory-type synapses, and in selective astrocytic processes near this type of junction. We conclude that Y1 receptors play a role in autoregulation of NPY-containing neurons but are also likely to be internalized along with endogenous NPY in NAc. Our results also implicate Y1 receptors in the NAc in post- and presynaptic effects of NPY and in glial functions involving excitatory neurotransmission. In addition, they suggest involvement of Y1 receptors in determining the output of a select population of neurons associated with motor control in the NAc core.
Alterations in neuronal connectivity of the mature central nervous system (CNS) appear to depend on a delicate balance between growth-promoting and growth-inhibiting molecules. To begin to address a potential role of the secreted chemorepulsive protein semaphorin(D)III/collapsin-1 (semaIII/coll-1) in structural plasticity during adulthood, we used high-resolution nonradioactive in situ hybridization to identify neural structures that express semaIII/coll-1 mRNA in the mature rat and human brain. SemaIII/coll-1 was expressed in distinct but anatomically and functionally linked structures of the adult nervous system. The olfactory-hippocampal pathway displayed semaIII/coll-1 expression in a continuum of neuronal structures, including mitral and tufted cells of the olfactory bulb, olfactory tubercle, and piriform cortex; and distinct nuclei of the amygdaloid complex, the superficial layers of the entorhinal cortex, and the subiculum of the hippocampal formation. In addition, prominent labeling was found in neuronal components of the motor system, particularly in cerebellar Purkinje cells and in subpopulations of cranial and spinal motoneurons. Retrograde tracing combined with in situ hybridization also revealed that the staining of semaIII/coll-1 within the entorhinal cortex was present in the stellate neurons that project via the perforant path to the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Like in the rat, the human brain displayed discrete expression of semaIII/coll-1. Among the structures examined, the most prominent staining was observed in the cellular islands of the superficial layers of the human entorhinal cortex. The constitutive expression of the chemorepellent semaIII/coll-1 in discrete populations of neurons in the mature rat and human CNS raises the possibility that, in addition to its function as repulsive axon guidance cue during development, semaIII/coll-1 might be involved in restricting structural changes that occur in the wiring of the intact CNS.
Cytokines have been recognized to play an important role both in normal development of the brain, when they act as neurotrophic factors, as well as following injury. While both the cytokines and their receptors are synthesized and expressed in the brain normally (albeit at low levels), it has become clear that elevated levels are associated with many neurological disorders. In this review, we have chosen to present the data for only a few of the cytokines, including interleukin-1beta, interleukin-3, interleukin-6, interferon-gamma, transforming growth factor-beta, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Data are presented that suggest roles they may play in human disorders, including stroke, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and several psychiatric disorders. The results in human disease are compared with results obtained in a variety of transgenic animal models. The mouse models have very different disorders depending on whether a cytokine is overexpressed either peripherally or in either astrocytes or neurons. The potential significance of this to the understanding of human disease is discussed.
The present series of experiments was performed to investigate the influence of acute intracranial hypertension on the upper limit (UL) of cerebral blood flow (CBF) autoregulation. Three groups of eight rats each--one with normal intracranial pressure (ICP) (2 mmHg), one with ICP = 30 mmHg, and one with ICP = 50 mmHg--were investigated. Intracranial hypertension was maintained by continuous infusion of lactated Ringer's solution into the cisterna magna, where the pressure was used as ICP. Cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP), calculated as mean arterial blood pressure (MABP)-ICP, was increased stepwise by continuous intravenous infusion of norepinephrine. CBF was calculated by the intracarotid 133Xe method. In all three groups the corresponding CBF/CPP curve included a plateau where CBF was independent of changes in CPP, showing intact autoregulation. At normal ICP the UL was found at a CPP of 141 +/-2 mmHg, at ICP = 30 mmHg the UL was 103+/-5 mmHg, and at ICP = 50 mmHg the UL was found at 88+/-7 mmHg. This shift of the UL was more pronounced than the shift of the lower limit (LL) of the CBF autoregulation found previously. We conclude that intracranial hypertension is followed by both a shift toward lower CPP values and a narrowing of the autoregulated interval between the LL and the UL.
We have cloned the human ionotropic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor GluR3 flip splice variant (hGluR3i) and developed a stable cell line expressing this receptor in HEK293 cells. Electrophysiological recordings demonstrated that glutamate-evoked currents desensitize rapidly, with a mean desensitization time constant of 5.4 ms. Robust glutamate-evoked increases in intracellular Ca++ ([Ca++]i) were observed in the presence of cyclothiazide, which attenuated receptor desensitization. [Ca++]i measurements were used to perform a detailed pharmacological characterization of hGluR3i with reference agonists and antagonists. The results of these studies showed that kainate and domoate were not fully efficacious agonists relative to glutamate. The binding affinities of agonists and competitive antagonists were determined in a [3H]AMPA competition binding assay. There was a good correlation between the functional data and the binding affinities obtained for competitive antagonists. However, the binding affinities of the agonists did not correlate with their functional EC50 values from [Ca++]i data, possibly because the binding assay predominantly measures the desensitized high-affinity state of the receptor. [3H]AMPA binding also was performed on membranes prepared from rat forebrain, and comparison of the data from HEK293 cells expressing hGluR3i and rat forebrain suggest that nearly all of the reference compounds show similar binding activities between the two membrane preparations, with the exception of fluoro-willardiine, kainate and 6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline-2-3-dione (NBQX). These data suggest that cells stably expressing recombinant hGluR3i represent pharmacologically valid experimental systems to study human AMPA receptors.
Chimeras between the human vesicular acetylcholine transporter (hVAChT) and the neuronal isoform of the human vesicular monoamine transporter (hVMAT2) have been constructed and stably expressed in a rat pheochromocytoma cell line (PC12) in an effort to identify cholinergic-specific domains of VAChT. Examination of the transport properties of a chimera in which the N-terminal portion (up to putative transmembrane domain II and including the lumenal glycosylated loop) of hVAChT was replaced with hVMAT2 sequences (2/V@NheI) revealed that its apparent affinity for acetylcholine (ACh) was reduced approximately seven-fold compared to wild-type. However, the affinity of this chimera for vesamicol did not significantly differ from hVAChT. Similarly, the 2/V@NheI chimera retained its preferential targeting to the small synaptic-like vesicles found in PC12 cells in agreement with our recently reported observations that the synaptic vesicle targeting domain resides in the cytoplasmic tail of VAChT.
Very early in the study of the mechanism of neuromuscular transmission in skeletal muscles, it was clear that the hydrolysis of acetylcholine by muscle cholinesterases within the time of the refractory period required a very high concentration of the enzyme near the motor terminals. David Nachmansohn and George B. Koelle and their collaborators obtained the first biochemical and histochemical data consistent with this prediction. Now that the various molecular forms of AChE have been satisfactorily described, it is possible to analyse the mechanisms by which they are anchored to the structures of the neuromuscular junction, and in particular, to the synaptic basal lamina.
The cholinergic nature of transmission at the electromotor synapse of Torpedo marmorata was established at Arcachon in 1939 by Feldberg, Fessard and Nachmansohn (J. Physiol. (Lond.) 97 (1939/1940) 3P-4P) soon after transmission at the neuromuscular junction had been shown to be cholinergic. In 1964, after a quarter of a century of neglect, workers in Cambridge, then in Paris, Gttingen and elsewhere, began to use this system, 500-1000 times richer in cholinergic synapses than muscle, for intensive studies of cholinergic transmission at the cellular and molecular level.

In this work we have studied the intracellular localization properties of the Gag and Env proteins of Moloney murine leukemia virus (MLV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons of rat. These neurons form thick bundles of axons, which facilitates protein localization studies by immunofluorescence analyses. When such neuron cultures were infected with recombinant Semliki Forest virus particles carrying the gag genes of either retrovirus, the expressed Gag proteins were localized to both the somatic and the axonal regions of the DRG neurons. In contrast, the Env proteins were confined only to the somatic region. When the Gag and Env proteins were coexpressed, the Gag proteins were also excluded from the axons. This effect of the Env proteins was shown to be dependent on the concentration of the Gag proteins in the neuron and also to be specific for homologous pairs of retrovirus proteins. Therefore, the results suggest that there are specific interactions between the Env and the Gag proteins of MLV and HIV in the DRG neurons.
The sympathetic nervous system plays an important role to maintain the homeostasis of vital functions in humans against environmental stimuli. Sympathetic nerve responses to environmental stimuli in humans have been assessed conventionally using rather indirect methods by analyzing the responses of effector organs or by measuring the changes in plasma norepinephrine level. Meanwhile, the microneurography technique has enabled us to approach the sympathetic nervous system in humans more directly. By applying this technique, it has become possible to investigate how the human sympathetic nervous system responds to different kinds of environmental stimuli. In this paper, the usefulness of microneurography as a research tool in environmental physiology is shown together with a review of microneurographic findings on sympathetic nerve responses to environmental stimuli in humans.
The precision of cerebral proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) measurements is critical both in the clinical setting and for research purposes. Marshall et al. have recently concluded that &quot;disappointing in vivo repeatability...is likely to limit&quot; the ability of MRS to detect modest changes. We present here a comprehensive study of the precision of short- and long-term metabolite peak area ratios and water referenced metabolite peak areas for long echo time point resolved spectroscopy (PRESS) spectra (repetition time (TR) = 2000 ms, echo time (TE) = 136 ms) acquired from the occipital lobes of normal volunteers and a phantom using a conventional whole body 1.5 T MR system and conventional acquisition and analysis protocols. Short-term in vitro precision determined by five repeat scans on five occasions was excellent as measured by a mean coefficient of variation (NAA/Cho = 1.3%, NAA/Cr + PCr = 1.0%, Cho/Cr + PCr = 1.6%, NAA/H2O = 0.5%, Cho/H2O = 1.2%, Cr + PCr/H2O = 0.8%). Long term in vitro precision using 100 spectra acquired over 2 years was also very good (NAA/Cho = 2.7%, NAA/Cr + PCr = 1.4%, Cho/Cr + PCr = 2.2%, NAA/H2O = 1.5%, Cho/H2O = 2.4%, Cr + PCr/H2O = 1.5%). Short-term in vivo precision determined by five repeat scans in a single scanning session on eight subjects was also excellent (NAA/Cho = 5.2%, NAA/Cr + PCr = 3.0%, Cho/Cr + PCr = 6.6%, NAA/H2O = 1.4%, Cho/H2O = 4.9%, Cr + PCr/H2O = 2.7%) and only worsened slightly for long-term in vivo precision determined by five repeat scans on eight subjects over 3 months (NAA/Cho = 5.2%, NAA/Cr + PCr = 4.8%, Cho/Cr + PCr = 7.7%, NAA/H2O = 2.5%, Cho/H2O = 6.4%, Cr + PCr/H2O = 3.8%). We attribute the excellent precision reported here to the use of highly automated techniques for voxel shimming, water suppression and peak area measurements. These results allow us to repudiate Marshall's assertion regarding disappointing repeatability of in vivo MRS.
Utrophin is normally present exclusively in synaptic regions of skeletal muscle fibers, although it is expressed extrasynaptically in certain pathological situations, where it has been proposed to compensate for the absence of dystrophin in Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients and mdx mice. Recently there have been conflicting reports regarding the preferential expression of utrophin mRNA at the neuromuscular junction. Using in situ hybridization with RNA probes, we show a clear accumulation of autoradiographic labeling at more than 90% of neuromuscular junctions (identified by histochemical demonstration of cholinesterase activity). The intensity of this labeling is proportional to the number of junctional myonuclei in the section. Some clusters of labeling were found associated with nonmuscle nuclei (e.g., blood vessels, nerves), where utrophin is present. In addition, labeling for utrophin mRNA was associated with about 25% of extrajunctional myonuclei, where the protein is not present. The mean labeling per nucleus at junctional myonuclei was at least 10 times greater than at extrajunctional myonuclei. We discuss the possible regulatory mechanisms involved in the heterogeneous expression of utrophin mRNA in skeletal muscle. Copyright 1998 Academic Press.
Utrophin is normally present exclusively in synaptic regions of skeletal muscle fibers, although it is expressed extrasynaptically in certain pathological situations, where it has been proposed to compensate for the absence of dystrophin in Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients and mdx mice. Recently there have been conflicting reports regarding the preferential expression of utrophin mRNA at the neuromuscular junction. Using in situ hybridization with RNA probes, we show a clear accumulation of autoradiographic labeling at more than 90% of neuromuscular junctions (identified by histochemical demonstration of cholinesterase activity). The intensity of this labeling is proportional to the number of junctional myonuclei in the section. Some clusters of labeling were found associated with nonmuscle nuclei (e.g., blood vessels, nerves), where utrophin is present. In addition, labeling for utrophin mRNA was associated with about 25% of extrajunctional myonuclei, where the protein is not present. The mean labeling per nucleus at junctional myonuclei was at least 10 times greater than at extrajunctional myonuclei. We discuss the possible regulatory mechanisms involved in the heterogeneous expression of utrophin mRNA in skeletal muscle.
Gaucher disease, the deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase (EC 3.2.1.45), is frequently encountered in the Ashkenazi Jewish population. Carrier screening for Gaucher disease by enzyme analysis performed during a routine pregnancy indicated that both Ashkenazi parents were carriers. Screening for four common Gaucher mutations was subsequently performed on fetal and parental DNA. None of the common Ashkenazi mutations were identified. However, when exons 9-11 were amplified and digested with NciI to detect the L444P mutation, it appeared that the mother and the fetus had an unusual allele and that the expected paternal allele was not present. When the fetal amniocytes were found to have less than 2% of the normal glucocerebrosidase activity and a fetal sonogram revealed hydrops fetalis, the pregnancy was terminated. The diagnosis of severe type 2 Gaucher disease was confirmed at autopsy. Ultrastructural studies of epidermis from the fetus revealed the characteristic disruption of lamellar bilayers, diagnostic for type 2 Gaucher disease. In subsequent studies of the fetal DNA, long-template polymerase chain reaction amplification revealed one appropriately sized band (approximately 6.5 kb) and one smaller (approximately 5.2 kb) band. Sequencing of the approximately 5.2-kb fragment identified a novel fusion allele resulting from recombination between the glucocerebrosidase gene and its pseudogene beginning in intron 3. This fusion allele was inherited from the father. The result was confirmed by Southern blot analysis using the enzyme S8tII. Sequencing of the 6.5-kb fragment identified a previously described, although rare, T-to-G splice junction mutation in intron 10 of the maternal allele, which introduced an NciI site. The couple had a subsequent pregnancy which was also found to be affected. This case study identifies a novel recombinant allele and an unusual splice junction mutation, and demonstrates that even in the Ashkenazi population, screening for common mutations may not accurately identify the most severe forms of the disease.

Glycoproteins play key roles in the development, structuring, and subsequent functioning of the nervous system. However, the complex glycosylation process is a critical component in the biosynthesis of CNS glycoproteins that may be susceptible to the actions of toxicological agents or may be altered by genetic defects. This review will provide an outline of the complexity of this glycosylation process and of some of the key neural glycoproteins that play particular roles in neural development and in synaptic plasticity in the mature CNS. Finally, the potential of glycoproteins as targets for CNS disorders will be discussed.
The ability to immortalize human mesothelioma cells in vitro with simian virus (SV) 40 and the fact that SV40 induces mesotheliomas in hamsters prompted us to look for SV40 deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequences in human mesotheliomas. In a previous study, we found that over half (29/48) of human malignant pleural mesotheliomas contained SV40-like sequences whereas only a few (3/47) control samples contained the same detectable sequences. The SV40 genome encodes the 90 KD nuclear large T-antigen (Tag) and the 17 KD small-t antigen (tag), responsible for SV40's transforming and oncogenic properties. These antigens block tumour suppressor gene products, such as p53. We considered the possibility of reverting this effect by adding exogenous wild-type p53 and thus restoring normal cell functions. For this purpose, we developed a recombinant adenovirus carrying complementary DNA (cDNA) for wild type p53 (AdCMV.p53) and infected mesothelioma cell lines with this virus. Inhibition of proliferation, halting of the cell cycle and massive apoptosis was observed in all mesothelioma cell lines tested. In addition, proliferation of human mesothelioma tumours into nude mice was inhibited by in vivo adenovirus-mediated p53 transgene expression. We also report preliminary evidence of expression, by immunoreactivity, of the extracellular matrix protein tenascin in human malignant pleural mesotheliomas. It was interesting to find predominant tenascin positivity at the tumour's invasive edge and in areas of tumour vascularization. This preliminary report suggests that adenovirus-mediated p53 hyperexpression counteracts transforming properties of the large T-antigen and suggests that gene therapy may be useful in treating human malignant mesothelioma.
In the monkey, reaction time in a precued delayed response task was found to be faster when the animals had to remember the precue than when it was continually available (Smyrnis, Taira, Ashe, &amp; Georgopoulos, 1992). We investigated whether this reflects a general principle that applies to all types of precued tasks. However, we found the opposite result in a simpler task in humans. Our findings suggest that the beneficial effect of a memory requirement on reaction time in the monkey may reflect an effect of task difficulty, rather than a fundamental process involved in all precued movement tasks.
The effect of foreperiod length on reaction time in memorized (MM) and nonmemorized (NM), precued, delayed responses was investigated. Six subjects participated in one long and one short foreperiod schedule testing session. An aiming task, using elbow supination/pronation, in response to a visual stimulus was employed. In the MM condition, target spatial information was available for a fraction of the foreperiod duration. In the NM condition, target information was available continuously until the subject attained the target position. Subjects responded with a significantly longer latency in the long foreperiod schedule. Within each foreperiod schedule, the shortest foreperiod resulted in significantly longer reaction time. However, the absolute value of foreperiod did not have a major effect on reaction time latency. Memorization and nonmemorization conditions did not affect reaction time.
A motor point stimulation protocol was carried out on the tibialis anterior of myotonic dystrophy (MyD) patients. The surface myoelectric signal was monitored to record average rectified value (ARV), median frequency of power spectrum (MDF), and conduction velocity (CV) parameters. The ARV curve showed a decreasing trend that reveals a reduction in the M-wave amplitude during stimulation. MDF presented a significant decrement in the first seconds of sustained contraction, probably caused by abnormal lengthening of the depolarization zone. CV was significantly lower in patients, suggesting reduced mean fiber size.
We have identified proteins in adult chicken skeletal muscle whose phosphorylation can be used as markers for the mature fast and slow muscle phenotype. These include phosphorylase, phosphorylase kinase, and a cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP)-stimulated, calmodulin-inhibited 28-kDa band (markers for fast muscle), a calmodulin-stimulated 50-kDa band, and two cAMP-stimulated bands at 44 and 46 kDa (markers for slow muscle), and the relative concentrations of the regulatory subunits of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (RI and RII). After denervation the pattern of phosphorylation in fast muscle changed to resemble that of slow muscle: phosphorylation of the fast phenotype markers decreased; the slow phenotype markers, barely detectable in normal fast muscle, appeared as significant phosphoproteins; and the concentration of RII increased with no change in RI. This is consistent with denervation-induced changes observed using other phenotypic markers and indicates the potential for using these phosphoprotein markers in studies of muscle development and pathophysiology.
The role of cyclosporin A (CsA) in the treatment of resistant chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) was retrospectively reviewed in 19 patients who had failed to respond adequately to corticosteroids, plasmapheresis, intravenous immunoglobulin, and in some cases other immunosuppressive agents. Patients were subdivided into progressive or relapsing types according to the course of disease and response to therapy graded at follow-up by clinical and electrophysiological criteria. In the progressive group, the mean disability status declined from 3.8+/-0.7 to 1.8+/-1.1 grades on a 5-grade scale following CsA therapy (P&lt;0.001). In the relapsing group, the mean annual incidence of relapse declined from 1.0+/-0.5 to 0.2+/-0.4 after commencement of CsA (P&lt;0.05). Dose-dependent, reversible nephrotoxicity was the most serious complication of therapy, and necessitated cessation of CsA in 2 patients. In conclusion, CsA is an efficacious and, with appropriate monitoring, safe therapy for patients with CIDP.
Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies are collectively termed dystrophinopathy. Dystrophinopathy and severe childhood autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy (SCARMD) are clinically very similar and had not been distinguished in the early 20th century. SCARMD was first classified separately from dystrophinopathy due to differences in the mode of inheritance. Studies performed several years ago clarified some immunohistochemical and genetic characteristics of SCARMD, but many remained to be clarified. In 1994, the sarcoglycan complex was discovered among dystrophin-associated proteins. Subsequently, on the basis of our immunohistochemical findings which indicated that all components of the sarcoglycan complex are absent in SCARMD muscles, and the previous genetic findings, we proposed that a mutation of any one of the sarcoglycan genes leads to SCARMD. This hypothesis explained and predicted various characteristics of SCARMD at the molecular level, most of which have been verified by subsequent discoveries in our own as well as various other laboratories. SCARMD is now called sarcoglycanopathy, which is caused by a defect of any one of four different sarcoglycan genes, and thus far mutations in sarcoglycan genes have been documented in the SCARMD patients. In this review, the evolution of the concept of sarcoglycanopathy separate from that of dystrophinopathy is explained by comparing studies on these diseases.
In chordate phylogeny, changes in the nervous system, jaws, and appendages transformed meek filter feeders into fearsome predators. Gene duplication is thought to promote such innovation. Vertebrate ancestors probably had single copies of genes now found in multiple copies in vertebrates and gene maps suggest that this occurred by polyploidization. It has been suggested that one genome duplication event occurred before, and one after the divergence of ray-finned and lobe-finned fishes. Holland et al., however, have argued that because various vertebrates have several HOX clusters, two rounds of duplication occurred before the origin of jawed fishes. Such gene-number data, however, do not distinguish between tandem duplications and polyploidization events, nor whether independent duplications occurred in different lineages. To investigate these matters, we mapped 144 zebrafish genes and compared the resulting map with mammalian maps. Comparison revealed large conserved chromosome segments. Because duplicated chromosome segments in zebrafish often correspond with specific chromosome segments in mammals, it is likely that two polyploidization events occurred prior to the divergence of fish and mammal lineages. This zebrafish gene map will facilitate molecular identification of mutated zebrafish genes, which can suggest functions for human genes known only by sequence.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the accumulation of cerebral plaques composed of 40- and 42-amino acid beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides, and autosomal dominant forms of AD appear to cause disease by promoting brain Abeta accumulation. Recent studies indicate that postmenopausal estrogen replacement therapy may prevent or delay the onset of AD. Here we present evidence that physiological levels of 17beta-estradiol reduce the generation of Abeta by neuroblastoma cells and by primary cultures of rat, mouse and human embryonic cerebrocortical neurons. These results suggest a mechanism by which estrogen replacement therapy can delay or prevent AD.
A simple model of correlation-based synaptic plasticity via axonal sprouting and retraction (Elliott, Howarth, &amp; Shadbolt, 1996a) is shown to be equivalent to the class of correlation-based models (Miller, Keller, &amp; Stryker, 1989), although these were formulated in terms of weight modification of anatomically fixed synapses. Both models maximize the same measure of synaptic correlation, subject to certain constraints on connectivity. Thus, the analyses of the correlation-based models suffice to characterize the behavior of the sprouting-and-retraction model. More detailed models are needed for theoretical distinctions to be drawn between plasticity via sprouting and retraction, weight modification, or a combination. The model of Elliott et al. involves stochastic search through allowed weight patterns for those that improve correlations. That of Miller et al. instead follows dynamical equations that determine continuous changes of the weights that improve correlations. The identity of these two approaches is shown to depend on the use of subtractive constraint enforcement in the models of Miller et al. More generally, to model the idea that neural development acts to maximize some measure of correlation subject to a constraint on the summed synaptic weight, the constraint must be enforced subtractively in a dynamical model.
The aim of this study was to determine whether culture-conditioned medium (CCM) can prevent neuronal damage caused by excitotoxicity or by &quot;chemical ischemia&quot; in cultured chick retina cells. Excitotoxic conditions were obtained by incubating retina cells with glutamate or kainate and &quot;chemical ischemia&quot; was induced by metabolic inhibition. In this case, cultures were briefly exposed to sodium cyanide, to block oxidative phosphorylation and iodoacetic acid, to block glycolysis. The assessment of neuronal injury was made spectrophotometrically by quantification of cellularly reduced MTT. Stimulation of retina cells with glutamate or kainate in serum deprived culture medium (BME-FCS), lead to a decrease in the MTT metabolism that was dependent on the time of exposure to the toxic agents. CCM prevented cell damage, either when present during the stimulation period or during the recovery period. This protection was more prominent in the case of kainate-induced neuronal death. &quot;Chemical ischemia&quot; also lead to a decrease of the MTT metabolism in a time-dependent manner and CCM protected retina cells from &quot;ischemia&quot;-induced lesions when present during the stimulation period and during the recovery period. The protective effect of CCM was partially decreased by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, genistein, when the cells were stimulated with kainate, but not with glutamate, or when the cells were subjected to &quot;chemical ischemia&quot;. CCM protected retina cells against both the acute and the delayed toxicity induced by either glutamate or kainate, or by &quot;chemical ischemia&quot;, when present during both the insult and the recovery period. The presence of survival factors in the media may effectively inhibit the cell death signals generated by glutamate receptor activation or by &quot;chemical ischemia&quot;.
The cholinergic agonist, arecoline, was used to examine the effects of cholinergic stimulation upon incorporation of radiolabeled arachidonic acid from blood into cerebral microvessels of awake rats. Animals received a single i.p. injection of arecoline (1 mg/kg) followed 3 to 5 minutes later by a 5 minute intravenous infusion of [1-14C]arachidonic acid (AA) (170 microCi/kg) via the femoral vein. Timed arterial blood samples were collected over 20 minutes following the start of infusion, after which the animal was killed, and the brain was removed. The incorporation coefficient k* for [1-14C]AA was approximately 2-fold higher in microvessels isolated from arecoline-injected than from sham-injected animals. The data demonstrate in an in vivo paradigm, that activation of cholinergic pathways within the rat CNS stimulates arachidonic acid turnover in cerebral microvessels. This suggests a direct involvement of this fatty acid in second messenger function within microvessel endothelial cells and possibly attached pericytes.
The level of lipid peroxidation reflects the degree of free radical-induced oxidative damage in brain tissue of the elderly. We examined the effects of Manda, a product prepared by yeast fermentation of several fruits and black sugar, on lipid peroxidation in the senescent rat brain as model of aging. Senescent rats were provided with a diet containing 50 g/100 g Manda for 8 days, supplemented on day 8 with an intragastric administration of Manda (6.0 g/kg body wt.) twice daily. The hydroxyl radical scavenging activity was generated by the FeSO4-H2O2 system and analyzed by electron spin resonance spectrometry. Using this method, the addition of Manda (2.88 mg/ml) to brain homogenates of adult rats (0.06 mg/ml) had an additive inhibitory effect on lipid peroxidation compared with control adult rats not treated with Manda. Incubation of brain homogenates with Manda for 2 h and 3 h, significantly inhibited the increase in lipid peroxides (malondialdehydes and 4-hydroxyalkenals) levels in aged rats due to auto-oxidation. In addition, oral administration of Manda significantly suppressed the age-related increase in lipid peroxidation in the hippocampus and striatum, although such change was not observed in the cerebral cortex. Although Manda contains trace level of alpha-tocopherol, the level of alpha-tocopherol in Manda did no correlate with its antioxidant effect. Our results suggest that Manda protects against age-dependent oxidative neuronal damage caused by oxidative stress and that this protective effect may be due, in part, to its scavenging activity against free radicals.
The outcome of 703 patients who underwent surgery following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage were analyzed with regards to age, associated medical conditions, vasospasm and clinical status at the time of operation. Patients with Hunt and Hess grade I, II, and III had a 96%, 90% and 93% favorable (good and fair) outcome respectively. In contrast only 58% of patients with grade IV had the same result. The outcome was unfavorable in 13% of the patients who were older than 60 years of age and only in 9% of the patients between 30-59 years of age. All the patients younger than 30 years old had a good outcome. Associated medical condition increased the incidences of poor outcome (7% vs. 12%). Patients harboring vertebro basilar aneurysms had a poorer outcome, as opposed to those with aneurysms located in the anterior circulation (20% vs. 8%). The presence of angiographic vasospasm alone did not influence outcome. A proposed point value was given for each of the adverse factors and from this the optimal surgical time was determined for each individual patient. This concept of Risk Score Estimation approach may improve the management outcome of patients with ruptured intracranial aneurysms.
We examined CSF levels of markers of neuronal degeneration and astrogliosis-the light subunit of the neurofilament triplet protein (NFL) and the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-in 65 patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). NFL was increased sixfold (864 +/- 1,538 [mean +/- SD] versus 156 +/- 81 ng/L; p &lt; or = 0.001) and GFAP twofold (1,116 +/- 1,085 versus 637 +/- 295 ng/L; p &lt; or = 0.01) in NPH patients compared with neurologically healthy age-matched controls. No correlation was found between any particular symptom or sign and GFAP levels in CSF. The levels of NFL, on the other hand, were higher in patients with severe symptoms compared with those with moderate or no symptoms. Furthermore, there was a correlation between a high level of NFL and gait disturbance, incontinence, psychometric incapability, and social dysfunction. A high preoperative NFL level was associated with favorable outcome after shunt surgery. This indicates that NFL is a marker of ongoing and possibly still-reversible axonal damage in NPH.
We investigated blood-brain barrier (BBB) function in relation to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VAD) in the very elderly. Sixty-five 85-year-old persons from a population-based sample were followed for 3 years; 29 were demented at age 85 (13 with AD, 14 with VAD, and 2 with other dementias), 7 developed dementia during follow-up, and 29 remained nondemented. CSF/serum albumin ratio was used as as a measure of BBB function. Dementia was defined according to the DSM-III-R, AD according to the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria, and VAD according to the NINDS-Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (AIREN) criteria. Mean CSF/serum albumin ratio was higher in all dementias (8.5 +/- 4.3; p = 0.007) and in the subtypes AD (8.9 +/- 5.3; p = 0.046) and VAD (8.7 +/- 3.5; p = 0.002) than in nondemented individuals (versus 6.5 +/- 2.0), but it was not related to dementia severity. Nondemented women at age 85 (n = 3) who developed dementia during the follow-up had a higher CSF/serum albumin ratio than those not developing dementia (10.4 +/- 2.0 versus 6.0 +/- 1.9; p = 0.007). Nondemented individuals lacking the apolipoprotein E epsilon3 allele (n = 4) had a higher CSF/serum albumin ratio (9.3 +/- 0.8 versus 6.6 +/- 2.1; p = 0.029) than other individuals. A relative BBB dysfunction is associated with both AD and VAD among very elderly individuals. This finding is possibly found early in the disease before the onset of clinical dementia.
Little is known about the physiology of neurons in Caenorhabditis elegans. Using new techniques for in situ patch-clamp recording in C. elegans, we analyzed the electrical properties of an identified sensory neuron (ASER) across four developmental stages and 42 unidentified neurons at one stage. We find that ASER is nearly isopotential and fails to generate classical Na+ action potentials. Rather, ASER displays a high sensitivity to input currents coupled to a depolarization-dependent reduction in sensitivity that may endow ASER with a wide dynamic range. Voltage clamp revealed depolarization-activated K+ and Ca2+ currents that contribute to high sensitivity near the zero-current potential. The depolarization-dependent reduction in sensitivity can be attributed to activation of K+ current at voltages where it dominates the net membrane current. The voltage dependence of membrane current was similar in all neurons examined, suggesting that C. elegans neurons share a common mechanism of sensitivity and dynamic range.
A signaling pathway by which calcium influx regulates the expression of the major activity-dependent transcript of BDNF in cortical neurons has been elucidated. Deletion and mutational analysis of the promoter upstream of exon III reveals that transactivation of the BDNF gene involves two elements 5' to the mRNA start site. The first element, located between 72 and 47 bp upstream of the mRNA start site, is a novel calcium response element and is required for calcium-dependent BDNF expression in both embryonic and postnatal cortical neurons. The second element, located between 40 and 30 bp upstream of the mRNA start site, matches the consensus sequence of a cAMP response element (CRE) and is required for transactivation of the promoter in postnatal but not embryonic neurons. The CRE-dependent component of the response appears to be mediated by CREB since it is part of the complex that binds to this CRE, and since dominant negative mutants of CREB attenuate transactivation of the promoter. A constitutively active mutant of CaM kinase IV, but not of CaM kinase II, leads to activation of the promoter in the absence of extracellular stimuli, and partially occludes calcium-dependent transactivation. The effects of CaM kinase IV on the promoter require an intact CRE. These mechanisms, which implicate CaM kinase IV and CREB in the control of BDNF expression, are likely to be centrally involved in activity-dependent plasticity during development.
The PSD-95/SAP90 family of proteins has recently been implicated in the organization of synaptic structure. Here, we describe the isolation of a novel Ras-GTPase activating protein, SynGAP, that interacts with the PDZ domains of PSD-95 and SAP102 in vitro and in vivo. SynGAP is selectively expressed in brain and is highly enriched at excitatory synapses, where it is present in a large macromolecular complex with PSD-95 and the NMDA receptor. SynGAP stimulates the GTPase activity of Ras, suggesting that it negatively regulates Ras activity at excitatory synapses. Ras signaling at the postsynaptic membrane may be involved in the modulation of excitatory synaptic transmission by NMDA receptors and neurotrophins. These results indicate that SynGAP may play an important role in the modulation of synaptic plasticity.
The effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were investigated on synaptic transmission and two forms of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), in visual cortex slices prepared from young (P21 -28) rats. The slices treated for 2-5 h in BDNF showed no difference from control slices when a 'strong' tetanus was used (theta-burst stimulation) to elicit a maximal level of LTP but displayed significantly greater synaptic potentiation in response to a 'weak' (20 Hz) tetanus. The BDNF-treated slices also showed significantly less LTD in response to a 1 Hz tetanus. Thus, BDNF treatment alters the relationship between stimulation frequency and synaptic plasticity in the visual cortex, shifting the modification threshold to the left. The effects of BDNF on LTP and LTD induction may be attributed to the significant enhancement of synaptic responses that was observed during conditioning stimulation. These data suggest that one role of BDNF during development of the visual cortex may be to modulate the properties of synaptic plasticity, enhancing synaptic strengthening and reducing synaptic weakening processes which contribute to the formation of specific synaptic connections.
Reward information is processed in a limited number of brain structures, including fronto-basal ganglia systems. Dopamine neurons respond phasically to primary rewards and reward-predicting stimuli depending on reward unpredictability but without discriminating between rewards. These responses reflect 'errors' in the prediction of rewards in correspondence to learning theories and thus may constitute teaching signals for appetitive learning. Neurons in the striatum (caudate, putamen, ventral striatum) code reward predictions in a different manner. They are activated during several seconds when animals expect predicted rewards. During learning, these activations occur initially in rewarded and unrewarded trials and become subsequently restricted to rewarded trials. This occurs in parallel with the adaptation of reward expectations by the animals, as inferred from their behavioral reactions. Neurons in orbitofrontal cortex respond differentially to stimuli predicting different liquid rewards, without coding spatial or visual features. Thus, different structures process reward information processed in different ways. Whereas dopamine neurons emit a reward teaching signal without indicating the specific reward, striatal neurons adapt expectation activity to new reward situations, and orbitofrontal neurons process the specific nature of rewards. These reward signals need to cooperate in order for reward information to be used for learning and maintaining approach behavior.
Based on the converging evidence supporting the view of domain specific object and spatial working memory processes, the question was addressed whether the property of domain specificity holds equally for temporal information. Using a selective interference paradigm the objective was to test a dissociation of the processing of temporal duration and spatial location information in working memory of intact human subjects. Subjects performed a temporal and a spatial memory task in which they were required to indicate whether the study and the test stimuli were the same or different in duration (temporal memory) or in location (spatial memory) as primary tasks. Both primary tasks were combined with three types of interference tasks, a spatial classification memory task, a temporal classification memory task and a non-interference baseline task--to be performed in-between the presentation of study and test stimuli. Memory for temporal duration was shown to be impaired by the temporal classification task but not by the spatial classification task; memory for spatial position showed the opposite pattern of impairment. These data thus provide evidence for the view that temporal and spatial working memory contents are subject to selective interference, reflecting a functional dissociation in the processing of temporal duration and spatial location information. The results are interpreted as evidence for the domain specificity in the processing of temporal information in working memory.
Three-dimensional motion analyses were performed on trajectories of repetitive &quot;slicing&quot; gestures by 4 participants with left-hemisphere lesions and limb apraxia, 6 participants with right-hemisphere lesions, and 7 neurologically intact participants. Left hemispheric lesioned participants with apraxia, but not right hemispheric lesioned participants showed impaired coupling of spatial and temporal aspects of wrist trajectories and deficits in interjoint coordination. Both groups of brain-lesioned participants differed from control participants in the 3-D plane of the wrist motion. The deficits of some right hemispheric lesioned participants in controlling the plane of wrist motion may be a consequence of left hemispatial neglect with rightward deviations. In contrast, the deficits of apraxic participants in controlling wrist trajectories and coordinating joint motions seem to reflect a deficit in these participants for the movement plan.
The present study was conducted to test the hypothesis that individuals with substance abuse disorder exhibit structural deficits in the prefrontal cortex. Volumes of the prefrontal lobe in subjects with histories of polysubstance abuse (n = 25) were measured and compared with those in normal volunteers (n = 14), using high-resolution volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The research participants were men, 22 to 41 years of age. Polysubstance abusers were abstinent from drugs of abuse (except nicotine) for at least 15 days before MRI scanning. The total volumes of the prefrontal lobe (left and right hemispheres) were significantly smaller in the substance abuse group than in the control group. When the prefrontal lobe was segmented for gray and white matter, the deficit in the substance abusers was seen as significantly smaller volumes of gray but not of white matter. These results indicate that hypoplasia and/or atrophy in the prefrontal cortex accompany substance abuse and suggest that structural deficits in the prefrontal cortex may play an essential role in the neuropathological basis of functional impairments in substance abuse disorder, as demonstrated by functional brain imaging and cognitive studies.
The influence of muscle cells on the development of voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents was investigated in Xenopus spinal neurons grown in neuron muscle co-cultures or in muscle-free cultures. Whole-cell currents were separated into low- and high-voltage-activated currents. Developmental changes were assessed by comparing the results obtained at two different periods after plating: 5-10 h (young neurons) and 20-30 h (mature neurons). Our results show a drop in the incidence of low-voltage-activated Ca2+ current with time in both environments: the fraction of young versus mature neurons expressing this current was 67% and 36% in neuron-muscle co-cultures, and 69% and 23% in muscle-free cultures. In both neuron muscle and muscle-free cultures, the density of low-voltage-activated Ca2+ current (when expressed) did not change during the development. In contrast, the density of high-voltage-activated Ca2+ currents increased more than two-fold during the first 30 h in neuron muscle co-cultures, but remained unchanged in muscle-free cultures. This difference was not related to neuronal growth since the increase in neuronal membrane capacitance with time was similar in the two environments. In addition, direct cell-cell interaction through the establishment of functional neuron-muscle synaptic contacts did not further modify the overall expression of high-voltage-activated Ca2+ currents. In conclusion, these results suggest the presence of diffusible factors in neuron muscle co-cultures which up-regulate the expression of high-voltage-activated Ca2+ currents during neuronal development, but do not have any effect on low-voltage-activated Ca2+ currents.
Long-term hypoxia elicits functional changes in the cat carotid body which are manifest as altered chemosensitivity in response to hypoxia. Previous studies have suggested that these functional adjustments may be mediated by changes in neurotransmitter levels in chemosensory type I cells. Neurotransmitter metabolism in the carotid body has also been shown to be regulated by the neural innervation to the organ. The present study using the cat carotid body demonstrates profound changes in the levels of immunoreactivity of the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase, and the neuropeptide, substance P, in response to a two-week exposure to hypoxia (10% O2 in 90% N2). Furthermore, these changes were modulated both by sensory and sympathetic denervation of the organ. For TH, the intensity of immunostaining in type I cells was markedly increased by long-term hypoxia in both normal and chronic carotid sinus nerve-denervated carotid bodies, but this effect was blocked following chronic sympathectomy. Substance P immunoreactivity in type I cells was dramatically attenuated by hypoxia in both intact and chronic carotid sinus nerve-denervated preparations, but this effect was reduced following chronic sympathectomy. Tyrosine hydroxylase- and substance P-positive axon terminals were observed to innervate type I cells. These axons were also present in chronically sympathectomized preparations, but they disappeared following chronic carotid sinus nerve-denervation suggesting that they very likely arise from sensory neurons in the petrosal ganglion. Our data indicate that chronic chemoreceptor stimulation by hypoxia elicits multiple neurochemical adjustments in the cat carotid body. These changes suggest that catecholaminergic enzymes and neuropeptides play a significant role in the adaptive mechanisms of chemoreceptor function which occur in response to chronic physiological stimulation. Furthermore, the data suggest that neurotrophic mechanisms may influence neurotransmitter metabolism in chemosensory type I cells.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide is a new member of the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide family of peptides which is present in the brain as well as neuronal elements of a number of peripheral organs. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide occurs in two forms, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-38 and the C-terminally truncated 27 amino acid form, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-27, both derived from the same precursor which in addition gives rise to a structurally-related peptide, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-related peptide. Using specific radioimmunoassays for pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-38, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-27 and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-related peptide we found that all three pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-precursor-derived peptides were present in tissue extracts from the ureter, the urinary bladder and the urethra. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-38 was the dominating peptide with the highest concentration in the ureter. When extracts from the urinary bladder were fractionated by reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography immunoreactive components corresponding to synthetic pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-38, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-27 and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-related peptide were identified with the respective antisera. By immunohistochemistry, using a specific monoclonal mouse anti-pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide antibody, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-immunoreactivity was shown to have a widespread distribution in the rat urinary tract, localized exclusively to nerve fibres. No immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies were observed in any of the tissues. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide was shown to be located in varicose nerve fibres associated with blood vessels and smooth muscle. The majority of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-positive nerve fibres and bundles were, however, present in subepithelial plexuses from which delicate varicose nerve fibres entered the urothelium. Double immunostaining for pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide and a marker for sensory neurons, calcitonin-gene related peptide, disclosed that the two peptides were almost completely co-localized while the co-existence between pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide and the structurally related peptide vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, was scarce. Neonatal capsaicin-treatment caused a marked reduction in the concentration of immunoreactive pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide in all regions of the rat urinary tract, being most prominent in the ureter. By immunohistochemistry it was shown that the sensory neurotoxin caused a reduction in the number and intensity of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-immunoreactive nerve fibres in all organs of the urinary tract which was most prominent in the epithelial and subepithelial layers. Identical changes were observed for the calcitonin-gene related peptide-containing nerve fibres, while vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-positive nerve fibres were unaffected by capsaicin-treatment. In conclusion pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide is present in the rat urinary tract mainly in the form of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide-38. Immunoreactive nerve fibres were associated with the epithelium, blood vessels and smooth musculature. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide was almost completely co-localized with calcitonin-gene related peptide and by neonatal capsaicin treatment the two peptides were identically affected. The findings suggest that pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide is a sensory neurotransmitter in the rat urinary tract.
The effects of novel substance P (NK-1) receptor antagonists LY303870 and LY306740, as well as LY306155, the enantiomer of LY303870, were tested on the responses of nociceptive spinal dorsal horn neurons to iontophoretically applied substance P and to peripheral noxious stimuli. The peripheral stimuli included noxious thermal and pinch stimuli applied to the cutaneous receptive field in the hind paw and stimulation of the superficial peroneal nerve with a train of high-intensity electrical stimuli. Extracellular recordings were obtained using multi-barrel electrodes from L4-L7 segments of the spinal cord in cats anaesthetized with alpha-chloralose and spinalized at the L1 level. The antagonists were given i.v. (0.5-4.0 mg/kg). Responses to substance P were inhibited by LY303870 and by LY306740 in a dose-related manner, but were not affected by LY306155. Responses to peripheral noxious thermal stimulation were inhibited in a dose-related manner by LY303870 and LY306740, and only at higher doses (2 mg/kg or more) by LY306155. Responses to pinch stimuli were inhibited by LY303870 and LY306740. LY306155 lacked consistent effects on pinch responses. LY303870 selectively inhibited the late component of the response to electrical stimulation of the superficial peroneal nerve. When these three drugs were tested against the responses of dorsal horn neurons to the excitatory amino acid, N-methyl-D-aspartate, the responses were unaffected. These data suggest that LY303870 and LY306740 pass from the circulation into the spinal cord where they antagonize dorsal horn neuronal responses to substance P and nociceptive inputs.
To study the role of the sympathetic nervous system in the induction of inflammatory cytokines elicited by central lipopolysaccharide, sympathetic chemical denervation was performed by intraperitoneal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine. Rats received the neurotoxin according to the following schedule: 50 mg/kg on days 1 and 2, 100 mg/kg on days 3, 4 and 7. On day 8, lipopolysaccharide (2.5 microg/6 microl/rat) was injected intracerebroventricularly and rats were killed 2 h later. 6-Hydroxydopamine reduced noradrenaline and dopamine content in the spleen by 88.7% and 88.8% respectively, without affecting striatal contents indicating that the chemical sympathectomy had been effective and selective. In sympathectomized rats, lipopolysaccharide raised interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 serum levels more than in control rats given the vehicle. Tumour necrosis factor-alpha serum levels in sympathectomized rats were no different from those in vehicle-treated rats. Interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 messenger RNA expression, measured by northern blot analysis, was clearly detectable in adrenals and spleen of rats given lipopolysaccharide. Sympathectomy increased lipopolysaccharide-induced interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 messenger RNA in adrenals and spleen. Corticosterone basal levels were raised by central lipopolysaccharide and not further changed by sympathectomy. The present study shows that sympathetic nervous system denervation enhances the synthesis and production of peripheral interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 in rats given central lipopolysaccharide and suggests a tonic inhibitory control of the sympathetic nervous system on these inflammatory cytokines.
The aim of the present experiment was to evaluate the role played by aspartic acid and glutamic acid of frontal cerebral cortex during the hyperthermia induced by prostaglandin E1. Two groups of six Sprague Dawley male rats were anaesthetized with ethyl-urethane. The frontal cortical concentrations of aspartic and glutamic acids, the firing rate of the sympathetic nerves to the interscapular brown adipose tissue, the colonic and interscapular brown adipose tissue temperatures were monitored both before and after an intracerebroventricular injection of prostaglandin E1 (500 ng) or saline. Aspartic and glutamic acids were collected using a microdialysis probe placed in the frontal cortex. Concentrations of aspartic and glutamic acids were measured by high-pressure liquid chromatography with fluorescence detector. Prostaglandin E1 induced an increase in the concentrations of aspartic and glutamic acids, in the firing rate of sympathetic nerves and in the colonic and interscapular brown adipose tissue temperatures. The findings of the present experiment indicate that an intracerebroventricular injection of prostaglandin E1 causes release of aspartic and glutamic acids in the frontal cortex.
A number of viral vectors are currently being evaluated as potential gene therapy vectors for gene delivery to the brain. As well as evaluating their ability to express a transgene for extended periods of time it is also essential to examine any cytotoxic immune response to such vectors as this may not only limit transgene expression but also cause irreparable harm. This work describes the effect of inoculating a gamma34.5 mutant of herpes simplex type 1 (1716lacZ) into the brain of different strains of rats and mice. Animals were monitored for weight loss and signs of illness, and their brains were evaluated for inflammation, beta-galactosidase expression and recoverable infectious virus. We report that there is (i) a powerful immune response consisting of an early non-specific phase and a later presumably T-cell-mediated phase; (ii) significant weight loss in some animals strains accompanied by severe signs of clinical illness and (iii) transient reporter gene expression in all animal strains examined. To be useful for gene therapy we suggest this virus requires further modification, it should be tested in several animal strains and the dose of virus used may be critical in order to limit damage.
The neural mechanisms underlying idiopathic dystonia are currently unknown. Genetic animal models, such as the dt(sz) hamster, a model of idiopathic paroxysmal dystonia, may be helpful to providing insights into the pathophysiology of this common movement disorder. Recent metabolic mapping studies in the hamster model, using 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography, demonstrated altered 2-deoxyglucose uptake in motor areas such as the striatum, ventral thalamic nuclei, red nucleus, and deep cerebellar nuclei, during dystonic attacks. Whereas the 2-deoxyglucose method is thought to reflect mainly acute alterations of synaptic activity, determination of cytochrome oxidase activity has been suggested as a method of choice to examine sustained baseline changes in neuronal activity. Therefore, in the present study quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry was used to identify chronic regional alterations in the absence of dystonic attacks in mutant hamsters. For comparison with recent 2-deoxyglucose studies, cytochrome oxidase activity was also determined during a dystonic attack, which was induced by mild stress. Cytochrome oxidase was determined in 109 brain regions of dystonic hamsters and non-dystonic, age-matched control hamsters. In the absence of a dystonic attack, a tendency to decreased cytochrome oxidase activity was found in most brain regions, possibly due to retarded brain development in mutant hamsters. Significant decreases in cytochrome oxidase activity were found in motor areas and limbic structures, such as hippocampus, piriform cortex, fundus striatum, globus pallidus, substantia nigra pars reticulata, mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus, ventral pallidum, and interpositus nucleus of the cerebellum. After induction of a dystonic attack, the trend of decreased cytochrome oxidase activity disappeared, except in globus pallidus and interpositus nucleus of the cerebellum. Although the significant alterations in cytochrome oxidase activity in the absence of a dystonic attack were moderate, the data are in line with previous findings in the mutant hamsters, indicating that dysfunctions of the basal ganglia and their output nuclei are involved in the dystonic condition. Altered neural activity in limbic structures, found in the absence of dystonic attacks in mutant hamsters, may contribute to the stress-susceptibility of the animals.
The present work was aimed to study the immunocytochemical localization of the calcium-binding protein, calretinin, in the rat thalamus from embryonic day 14 to the third postnatal week. In the adult rat thalamus, calretinin immunoreactivity is intensely expressed in some intralaminar and midline nuclei, as well as in selected regions of the reticular nucleus. At embryonic day 14, calretinin was expressed by immature and migrating neurons and fibres laterally to the neuroepithelium of the diencephalic vesicle in the region identified as reticular neuroepithelium. At embryonic day 16, immunoreactive neurons were present in the primordium of the reticular nucleus and in the region of the reticular thalamic migration, where neurons showed the morphology of migratory cells. At the end of embryonic development and in the first postnatal week, calretinin-positive neurons were observed in selected region of the reticular nucleus and it was intensely expressed in some intralaminar and midline nuclei. Bands of immunopositive fibres were also observed crossing the thalamus. During the second postnatal week, the immunolabelling in the reuniens, rhomboid, paraventricular and central medial thalamic nuclei remains very intense while a decrease of immunoreactivity in mediodorsal, centrolateral and laterodorsal nuclei was observed. The immunostaining of fibres, particularly evident in the perinatal period, progressively decreased and it was no longer visible by the end of the second postnatal week when the distribution and intensity of calretinin immunostaining was similar to that observed in the adult rat thalamus. The present findings indicate that the immunolocalization of calretinin can be used to identify subsets of thalamic neuronal population during pre- and postnatal maturation allowing also the detection of the migratory pattern of early generated reticular thalamic neurons.
Serotonin has been shown to affect the development of the mammalian nervous system. The serotonin transporter is a major factor in regulating extracellular serotonin levels. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry the rat serotonin transporter messenger RNA was localized during embryogenesis, the first four weeks postnatally and adulthood. Three general classes of serotonin transporter messenger RNA expression patterns were observed: (i) early detection with continued expression through adult age, (ii) transient expression colocalized with vesicular monoamine transporter 2 messenger RNA but with no detectable tryptophan hydroxylase immunoreactivity, and (iii) transient expression in the apparent absence of both vesicular monoamine transporter 2 messenger RNA and tryptophan hydroxylase immunoreactivity. For example, hybridization for serotonin transporter messenger RNA was strong in serotonin cell body-containing areas beginning early in gestation, and remained intense through adulthood. Immunoreactivity for tryptophan hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in serotonin synthesis, was completely overlapping with the presence of serotonin transporter messenger RNA in raphe nuclei postnatally. Sensory relay systems including the ventrobasal nucleus (somatosensory), lateral and medial geniculate nuclei (visual and auditory, respectively) as well as trigeminal, cochlear and solitary nuclei were representative of the second class of observations. In general, the limbic system expressed serotonin transporter messenger RNA in the third pattern with various limbic structures differing in the timing of expression. Septum, olfactory areas and the developing hippocampus contained serotonin transporter messenger RNA early in the developing brain. Other regions such as cingulate and frontopolar cortex exhibited hybridization peri- and postnatally, respectively. Several hypothalamic nuclei and pituitary transiently expressed serotonin transporter messenger RNA either postnatally or perinatally, respectively. If the observed patterns correlate with functional protein expression, distinct classes of serotonin transporter messenger RNA expression may reflect different functional roles for the serotonin transporter and serotonin, itself. Since the serotonin transporter is a target for a number of addictive substances including cocaine and amphetamine derivatives as well as antidepressants, transient expression of the serotonin transporter might suggest a window of vulnerability of associated cells to fetal drug exposure. Re-uptake, storage and re-release from non-serotonergic neurons might serve as a feedback mechanism from target neurons to serotonergic neurons. Alternatively, the transient expression of serotonin transporter messenger RNA may reflect critical periods important for tight regulation of extracellular serotonin in several brain regions, and may indicate previously unappreciated roles for serotonin as a developmental cue.
Brain microdialysis was used to study changes in dopamine in the nucleus accumbens and the dorsal striatum during associative learning between two neutral stimuli, flashing light and tone, presented on a paired schedule during stage 1 of a sensory preconditioning paradigm. The tone was subsequently paired with mild footshock using standard aversive conditioning procedures and the formation of a conditioned association between the flashing light and the tone in stage 1 was assessed by measuring the ability of the flashing light to elicit the same conditioned response as the tone when presented at test. The first experiment used behavioural monitoring only, to establish stimulus parameters for subsequent microdialysis experiments. Animals receiving paired presentation of the light and tone in stage 1 showed a conditioned suppression of licking to the light as well as to the tone, indicating that associative learning between the flashing light and the tone had occurred during stage 1, whilst in a separate group of animals given the same stimuli over the same time period but on an explicitly non-paired schedule, the conditioned emotional response was seen to the tone, but not to the light, showing that no association had been formed between the two stimuli during stage 1. In dialysis experiments using the same procedure, we measured a two-fold rise in dopamine in the nucleus accumbens during paired presentation of flashing light and tone, but not during non-paired presentation of the two stimuli. On subsequent test presentation of the two stimuli, we saw increases in accumbal dopamine on presentation of the tone in both groups, reflecting the formation of an association with the footshock in both. However the flashing light elicited an increase in dopamine only in the group which had received paired presentation at stage 1. Thus accumbal dopamine release at test is correlated to the ability of the stimulus to evoke a conditioned response measured behaviourally. Hypotheses of the behavioural function of the mesolimbic dopamine system centre on its role in mediating the effects of biological reinforcers, both rewarding and aversive, conditioned and unconditioned. The present results, showing increases in extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens when an association is formed between two stimuli of which neither is a biological reinforcer nor, prior to formation of the association, affects dopamine levels, suggest a role for accumbal dopamine in the modulation of associative learning in general, not only that involving reinforcement.
Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we identified a novel voltage-activated chloride current that was selectively expressed in glioma cells from 23 patient biopsies. Chloride currents were identified in 64% of glioma cells studied in acute slices of nine patient biopsies. These derived from gliomas of various pathological grades. In addition, 98% of cells acutely isolated or in short-term culture from 23 patients diagnosed with gliomas showed chloride current expression. These currents, which we termed glioma chloride currents activated at potentials &gt;45 mV, showed pronounced outward rectification, and were sensitive to bath application of the presumed Cl- channel specific peptide chlorotoxin (approximately 600 nM) derived from Leiurus scorpion venom. Interestingly, low grade tumours (e.g., pilocytic astrocytomas), containing more differentiated, astrocyte-like cells showed expression of glioma chloride currents in concert with voltage-activated sodium and potassium currents also seen in normal astrocytes. By contrast, high grade tumours (e.g., glioblastoma multiforme) expressed almost exclusively chloride currents, suggesting a gradual loss of Na+ currents and gain of Cl- currents with increasing pathological tumour grade. To expand on the observation that these chloride currents are glioma-specific, we introduced experimental tumours in scid mice by intracranial injection of D54MG glioma cells and subsequently recorded from tumour cells and adjacent normal glial cells in acute slices. We consistently observed expression of chlorotoxin-sensitive chloride channels in implanted glioma cells, but without evidence for expression of chloride channels in surrounding &quot;normal&quot; host glial cells, suggesting that these chloride channels are probably a glioma-specific feature. Finding of this novel glioma specific Cl- channel in gliomas in situ and it's selective binding of chlorotoxin may provide a way to identify or target glioma cells in the future.
Cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) is a transcription factor that has been implicated in the activation of protein synthesis required for long-term memory. Since memory deficits are manifest following seizure, we undertook the present study to investigate the effects of hypoglycemia-induced seizure on CREB-immunoreactive neurons in several brain regions. We induced generalized seizures in male Long Evans rats (n=5) by injecting them with insulin (30 IU/kg, i.p). Animals were recovered by administration of 3 ml of 30% glucose within 5 min of the occurrence of seizure. Control animals (n=3) were injected with saline instead of insulin. All animals were perfused 90 min after recovery and the brains processed for CREB immunohistochemistry. Cell counts were determined for CREB-positive neurons using a computer-assisted program. When compared to control animals there was a 50% decrease (P&lt;0.0001) in CREB-positive neurons in the CA1 region of the experimental animals. In the CA3 and dentate gyrus there was a 36% (P&lt;0.001) and 25% decrease (P&lt;0.001), respectively. Given the importance of hippocampus in memory-related processes and evidence that CREB is critical for memory formation, it is possible that seizures interfere with memory by disrupting CREB-dependent transcription.
The role of endogenous glucocorticoids in facilitating the postnatal innervation of septohippocampal cholinergic projections was examined. Septohippocampal cholinergic innervation was determined using two methods. One method involved measuring the optical density of acetylcholinesterase, a marker of cholinergic fibres in the hippocampus. In the other method, acetylcholinesterase-positive fibre counts were made in the hippocampus. Both methods revealed that 14-day-old rats adrenalectomized at 10 days of age have significantly lower densities of acetylcholinesterase in the hippocampal dentate gyrus molecular layer and in the regio inferior when compared to sham-operated control rats. This reduction in hippocampal acetylcholinesterase did not occur when 10-day-old adrenalectomized rats were either injected daily with exogenous corticosterone (0.3 mg/100 g body weight) or when adrenalectomy was conducted at later postnatal ages. In addition, unlike the developing hippocampus, the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala, which is also highly innervated by cholinergic fibres, showed no significant changes in acetylcholinesterase density after adrenalectomy. These observations suggest that glucocorticoids play an important role in supporting the development of cholinergic projections to the hippocampus. Cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus appears especially sensitive to the action of glucocorticoids occurring before the conclusion of the second postnatal week. Furthermore, this glucocorticoid influence is directed rather specifically to the hippocampus in comparison to the basolateral amygdala.
This study examines dose-related effects on sleep produced by low-volume and low-dose carbachol microinjections in the ventral part of the cat nucleus reticularis pontis oralis. Carbachol microinjections (0.04, 0.08, 0.8 or 4 microg; volume 20 nl) in this location triggered paradoxical sleep with a very short dose-unrelated latency. The four carbachol doses effectively generated all the polygraphic and behavioral signs of paradoxical sleep when microinjected at any level within the ventral part of the nucleus reticularis pontis oralis (AP 0.5 to -3.5, L 0.5-3.5, V 3.5-5.0, on the Reinoso-Surez atlas [Topographischer Hirnatlas der Katze (1961); Merck, Darmstadt]). The dose-related increase of total paradoxical sleep time was due to the increase in both the duration and number of paradoxical sleep episodes. This paradoxical sleep increase was associated with a dose-related decrease in the amount of time spent in both slow wave sleep and drowsiness, but not with any decrease in total wakefulness. The lengthening of the latency to slow wave sleep onset was dose related. These results show that the ventral oral pontine tegmentum is a very sensitive site for the induction and maintenance of paradoxical sleep.
A single microinjection of the cholinergic agonist carbachol into the feline caudolateral parabrachial nucleus produces an immediate increase in state-independent ipsilateral ponto-geniculooccipital waves, followed by a long-term rapid eye movement sleep enhancement lasting 7-10 days. Using retrogradely-transported fluorescent carbachol-conjugated nanospheres and choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry, afferent projections to this injection site for long-term rapid eye movement sleep enhancement were mapped and quantified. Six regions in the brain stem contained retrogradely-labelled cells: the raphe nuclei, locus coeruleus, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, parabrachial nucleus, and the pontine reticular formation. The retrogradely-labelled (rhodamine+) cells in the pontine reticular formation and pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus contributed the predominant input to the parabrachial nucleus injection site (34.3 +/- 5.3% and 28.4 +/- 5.6%, respectively), compared to the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (5.8 +/- 3.8%), parabrachial nucleus (13.5 +/- 3.1%), raphe nuclei (12.9 +/- 2.7%), and locus coeruleus (5.1 +/- 2.4%). By comparison with findings of afferent input to the induction site for short-latency rapid eye movement sleep in the anterodorsal pontine reticular formation, the parabrachial nucleus injection site is characterized by a similar proportion of afferents, except that the raphe nuclei were found to provide more than a two-fold greater input. Retrogradely-labelled neurons quantified in these nuclear regions consisted of 21.5% double-labelled (rhodamine+/choline acetyltransferase+) cholinergic and 78.5% noncholinergic (rhodamine+/choline acetyltransferase-) cells. The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus contributed the predominant (51.7 +/- 8.2%) cholinergic input, compared to laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (20.7 +/- 10.2%), parabrachial nucleus (23.1 +/- 7.5%), and pontine reticular formation (4.4 +/- 2.1%). A comparative analysis of the total retrogradely-labelled cells within each nuclear region which were also double-labelled showed the highest proportion in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (76.2 +/- 7.5%) compared to pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (39.4 +/- 3.6%), parabrachial nucleus (37.3 +/- 2.8%), and pontine reticular formation (3.2 +/- 2.1%). These data indicate that while pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus neurons exert a powerful cholinergic influence on the injection site for long-term rapid eye movement enhancement, a major component of the afferent circuitry is non-cholinergic. Since the non-cholinergic input includes contributions from the locus coeruleus and raphe nuclei, it is probable that the caudolateral parabrachial nucleus contains cholinergic and aminergic afferent systems that participate in the long-term enhancement of rapid eye movement sleep.
The nucleus tractus solitarius is a key brain centre involved in the regulation of numerous autonomic functions. The present study has employed in vitro autoradiography and in vivo microdialysis to investigate the presence and function of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors located in the medial nucleus tractus solitarius of the rat. Autoradiography using [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin (0.5 nM) enabled visualization of binding sites on sections of rat and monkey brainstem. Specific binding was highest in the medial nucleus tractus solitarius. The presence of binding sites was also apparent on sections of rat nodose ganglia/vagus nerve and human inferior vagal ganglia. Subsequent to unilateral ligation of the vagus nerve in the rat, an accumulation of binding sites was visualized adjacent to the ligature. Unilateral nodose ganglionectomy in the rat caused an approximate 97% reduction in [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding site density in the medial nucleus tractus solitarius from 814 +/- 183 to 27 +/- 2 d.p.m./mm2. Microdialysis results indicated that local administration of nicotine (1 mM) into the nucleus tractus solitarius of the rat resulted in increases of extracellular L-glutamate of 146 +/- 9% of basal levels. This effect was not reproducible following a second stimulation and was also blocked by prior and co-administration of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist mecamylamine (100 microM). Extracellular levels of L-aspartate exhibited a similar pattern although results were not significant. Taken together, these results are supportive of the presence of a population of [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites located presynaptically with respect to vagal afferent terminals in the medial nucleus tractus solitarius of the rat. It is possible that these binding sites are the site of action of locally administered nicotine on extracellular levels of L-glutamate, the favoured neurotransmitter at primary baroreceptor afferent fibres. These data are discussed in relation to the functional pharmacology of acetylcholine and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in this region of the brain.
From indirect evidence we have proposed that cholinergic versus non-cholinergic neurons in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus can be distinguished with the duration of their extracellularly recorded action potentials, &quot;broad&quot; spikes for the former, &quot;brief&quot; for the latter. To test this assumption more directly, we labelled single neurons recorded extracellularly in and around the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus with biocytin or neurobiotin, and processed the sections with reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase, a proven marker for cholinergic neurons in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus. Biocytin or neurobiotin which was deposited at the site of recording was incorporated into single neurons. Among 171 trials (91 for broad-spike and 80 for brief-spike neurons), marking was successful in 68 cases (29 for broad-spike and 39 for brief-spike neurons). Almost all (21/22) of the broad-spike neurons located within the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus were positive for reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase staining, i.e. they were cholinergic, while all of the brief-spike neurons in and outside of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus lacked the diaphorase activity, and were thus non-cholinergic. The present study shows that, after extracellular labelling of single neurons by biocytin or neurobiotin, cholinergic neurons in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus are confidently distinguished from non-cholinergic ones in the corresponding area with their spike shapes. It is also shown that the cholinergic neurons distinguished by this criterion are characterized by their tonic firing at slightly lower rate and larger cell size than the brief-spike non-cholinergic ones.
The cerebellum is organized in a series of parasagittal compartments: in C1-C3 and C2 compartments Purkinje cells receive climbing fibre afferents from the rostral part of the accessory olives, and project their axon to the nucleus interpositus anterior and posterior, respectively. Within these compartments electrophysiological studies have shown that the cutaneous input carried by climbing fibre afferents is topographically organized so as to design a map of peripheral body districts. The body map is replicated over the anterior lobe-pars intermedia and the paramedian lobule, and anatomical studies have indicated that the replication is partly due to the axonal branching of olivocerebellar neurons. The aim of this study was to analyse the presence of a somatotopic organization and of a branching pattern in the nucleocortical projections, in relation to the replicated body maps within C1-C3 and C2 compartments. By using double retrograde neuronal tracing we explored, in the cat, the topographic distribution of single- and double-labelled cells in the interposed nuclear subdivisions, after tracer injections into forelimb or hindlimb regions of the anterior lobe-pars intermedia, paramedian lobule and hemisphere (medial crus II). Most of the nucleocortical neurons were found in ipsilateral nucleus interpositus posterior, with smaller numbers in the ipsilateral nucleus interpositus anterior. Nucleocortical neurons projecting to forelimb- or hindlimb-related areas are completely segregated, the forelimb neurons being located laterally and the hindlimb neurons medially in the nucleus interpositus posterior. Within their respective domains both the forelimb and hindlimb populations projecting to the anterior lobe-pars intermedia are partly segregated from those projecting to the paramedian lobule, in that the two populations are slightly shifted along the dorsoventral axis of the nucleus. Although mostly different, some of the cells are common to the two forelimb populations, since they send axonal branches to the homologous areas of the anterior lobe and paramedian lobule. Contralateral fastigial or interposed nucleocortical projections are restricted to the anterior lobe-pars intermedia, and their neurons of origin are different from those that project to the ipsilateral cerebellar cortex: i.e. they are not a bilateral, but a separate contralateral component.
Inhibitory synaptic transmission is of fundamental importance during the maturation of central auditory circuits, and their subsequent ability to process acoustic information. The present study investigated the manner in which inhibitory transmission regulates intracellular free calcium levels in the gerbil inferior colliculus using a brain slice preparation. Inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic potentials were evoked by electrical stimulation of the ascending afferents at the level of the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. Pharmacologically isolated inhibitory synaptic potentials were able to attenuate a calcium rise in collicular neurons that was generated by depolarizing current injection. In addition, GABA(A) and glycine receptor antagonists typically led to an increase of calcium in collicular neurons during electrical stimulation of the ascending afferent pathway at the level of the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. Bath application of GABA or muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, evoked a brief hyperpolarization followed by a long-lasting depolarization in inferior colliculus neurons. This treatment also induced a transient calcium increase that correlated with the membrane depolarization phase. Baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist, had no effect on either membrane potential or calcium levels. Ratiometric measures indicated that the muscimol-evoked rise in calcium was approximately 150 nM above basal levels. The muscimol-evoked responses were completely antagonized by bicuculline and attenuated by picrotoxin. Together, these results suggest that inhibitory synaptic transmission participates in the regulation of postsynaptic calcium during the developmental period. Inhibitory transmission may attenuate a calcium influx that is evoked by excitatory synapses, but it can also produce a modest influx of calcium when activated alone. These mechanisms may help to explain the influence of inhibitory transmission on the development of postsynaptic properties.
Neurons in the ventral partition of the medial geniculate body are able to fire high-threshold Ca2+-spikes. The neurons normally discharge such spikes on low-threshold Ca2+-spikes after the action potentials of a burst. We studied membrane mechanisms that regulate the discharge of high-threshold Ca2+-spikes, using whole-cell recording techniques in a slice preparation of rat thalamus. A subthreshold (persistent) Na+-conductance amplified depolarizing inputs, enhancing membrane excitability in the tonic firing mode and amplifying the low-threshold Ca2+-spike in the burst firing mode. Application of tetrodotoxin blocked the amplification and high-threshold Ca2+-spike firing. A slowly inactivating K+ conductance, sensitive to blockade with 4-aminopyridine (50-100 microM), but not tetraethylammonium (2-10 mM), appeared to suppress excitability and high-threshold Ca2+-spike firing. Application of 4-aminopyridine increased the low-threshold Ca2+-spike and the number of action potentials in the burst, and led to a conversion of the superimposed high-threshold Ca2+-spike into a plateau potential. Application of the Ca2+-channel blocker Cd2+ (50 microM), reduced or eliminated this plateau potential. The tetrodotoxin sensitive, persistent Na+-conductance also sustained plateau potentials, triggered after 4-aminopyridine application on depolarization by current pulses. Our results suggest that high-threshold Ca2+-spike firing, and a short-term influx of Ca2+, are regulated by a balance of voltage-dependent conductances. Normally, a slowly inactivating A-type K+-conductance may reduce high-threshold Ca2+-spike firing and shorten high-threshold Ca2+-spike duration. A persistent Na+-conductance promotes coupling of the low-threshold Ca2+-spike to a high-threshold Ca2+-spike. Thus, the activation of both voltage-dependent conductances would affect Ca2+ influx into ventral medial geniculate neurons. This would alter the quality of the different signals transmitted in the thalamocortical system during wakefulness, sleep and pathological states.
The effects of substance P and related tachykinins on intrinsic membrane properties and synaptic responses of neurons in cortical slices were determined. Substance P had no detectable effect on membrane properties of principal neurons in layer II or V of the rat medial entorhinal cortex or on neurons in either layer of the anterior cingulate cortex. Specific agonists at the neurokinin1-receptor were also without effect as were agonists at both neurokinin1- and neurokinin3-receptors. Substance P hyperpolarized a small number of principal neurons. These responses were weak and desensitized with repeated applications. Similar effects were seen with other neurokinin1-receptor agonists. Excitatory synaptic potentials mediated by either alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate- or N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptors in principal neurons of the entorhinal cortex were unaffected by substance P. Responses of entorhinal neurons to iontophoretically applied glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate were also unaffected. Inhibitory synaptic potentials mediated by either GABA(A)- or GABA(B)-receptors in entorhinal neurons were slightly but consistently enhanced by substance P. Neurons identified as interneurons on the basis of their firing characteristics were consistently depolarized by substance P. These responses also desensitized with repeated applications. Spontaneous epileptiform discharges evoked in entorhinal cortex by perfusion with a GABA(A)-receptor antagonist (bicuculline), were reduced in frequency and, sometimes, in duration by substance P. This effect was mimicked by other neurokinin1-receptor agonists and blocked by neurokinin1-receptor antagonists. It was also mimicked by neurokinin A but not by a specific neurokinin1-receptor agonist. The reduction in frequency of discharges was also mimicked by a GABA(B)-receptor agonist, L-baclofen, and blocked by the GABA(B)-receptor antagonist, CGP55845A. Neurokinin B, and a specific neurokinin1-receptor agonist (senktide), increased the frequency and (sometimes) duration of epileptiform discharges. Substance P could also increase frequency but this usually succeeded or preceded a decrease in frequency. The effect of neurokinin B was reduced by a metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist. Substance P appears to have little direct effect on principal neurons of the entorhinal cortex but may hyperpolarize them indirectly by activating interneurons and releasing GABA. This indirect inhibition may be responsible for the ability of substance P to reduce the frequency of epileptiform discharges in the entorhinal cortex and may suggest that neurokinin1-receptor agonists have potential as anticonvulsant drugs.
Previously, we found that cytochrome oxidase-rich zones in the supragranular layers of the macaque striate cortex had more asymmetric, glutamate-immunoreactive synapses than the surrounding, cytochrome oxidase-poor regions. A major glutamate receptor family is N-methyl-D-aspartate, which is implicated in the stimulation of nitric oxide synthase and in the production of nitric oxide, a gaseous intra- and inter-cellular messenger. To determine if energy-generating and energy-utilizing enzymes bore any spatial relationship with neurochemicals associated with glutamatergic neurotransmission in the monkey visual cortex, serial cortical sections were processed histochemically for cytochrome oxidase and NADPH-diaphorase, and immunohistochemically for sodium/potassium-ATPase, nitric oxide synthase, and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 protein, respectively. The general patterns were similar among the five neurochemicals, with layers 4C, 6 and supragranular puffs being labelled, although the intensity of labelling differed among them. Monocular impulse blockade with tetrodotoxin for two to four weeks induced a down-regulation of all five neurochemicals not only in deprived layer 4C ocular dominance columns, but also in deprived rows of puffs. Thus, the regulation of all five neurochemicals in the mature visual cortex is activity-dependent. Combined cytochrome oxidase histochemistry and nitric oxide synthase immunohistochemistry in the same sections revealed that double-labelled cells were primarily medium-sized non-pyramidals in various cortical layers. Likewise, those that were double-labelled by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 immunohistochemistry and nitric oxide synthase immunogold silver staining in the same sections were of the medium-sized non-pyramidal neurons. At the ultrastructural level, combined cytochrome oxidase cytochemistry and postembedding immunogold labelling for nitric oxide synthase showed that immunogold particles for nitric oxide synthase were more heavily concentrated in cytochrome oxidase-rich type C cells. These medium-sized non-pyramidal cells were previously found to be gamma aminobutyric acid-immunoreactive and received both gamma aminobutyric acid- and glutamate-immunoreactive axosomatic synapses. Thus, our results are consistent with an enrichment of excitatory synaptic interactions in metabolically active regions of the primate visual cortex that involves glutamate-related neurochemicals, such as N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and nitric oxide synthase. These interactions impose a higher energy demand under normal conditions and are down-regulated by retinal impulse blockade.
The maturational profile of the firing characteristics of 217 layer V pyramidal neurons of rat sensorimotor cortex, injected with biocytin for morphological reconstruction, was analysed by means of intracellular recordings made between postnatal day (P)3 and 22. Starting from the onset of the second postnatal week, the pyramidal neurons could be differentiated as adapting or non-adapting regular spiking on the basis of the presence or absence of spike frequency adaptation. The percentage of non-adapting regular spiking neurons was very high during the second postnatal week (53%) and progressively decreased with age, concurrently with the appearance of the new class of intrinsically bursting neurons (beginning of the third week) whose percentage progressively increased from 23%, found in P14-P16 rats, to 46% in adult rats. Non-adapting regular spiking neurons were found to share with intrinsically bursting neurons several physiological characteristics comprehending faster action potentials, more prominent effect of anomalous rectification and consistent depolarizing afterpotentials, that differentiated them from the adapting regular spiking neurons. Moreover, intrinsically bursting and non-adapting regular spiking neurons were characterized by a round-shaped distribution of basal dendrites and expanded apical dendritic arborization, that differentiated them from the adapting regular spiking neurons showing a simpler dendritic arborization. These morphological hallmarks were seen in immature intrinsically bursting neurons as soon as they became distinguishable, and in immature non-adapting regular spiking neurons starting from the onset of the second postnatal week. These findings suggest that a significant subpopulation of immature non-adapting regular spiking neurons are committed to becoming bursters, and that they are converted into intrinsically bursting neurons during the second postnatal week, as soon as the ionic current sustaining the burst firing is sufficiently strong. The faster action potentials in both immature non-adapting regular spiking and intrinsically bursting neurons suggest a higher density of Na+ channels in these neuronal classes: the maturational increase in Na+-current, namely of its persistent fraction, may represent the critical event for the conversion of the non-adapting regular spiking neurons into the intrinsically bursting ones.
Previous studies have demonstrated that partial cortical devascularization results in increased levels of nerve growth factor protein within the tissue immediately surrounding the infarcted region. In the present study, we have used this lesion model to further characterize the nerve growth factor increase by investigating: (i) the time course for this phenomenon; (ii) the impact of the devascularizing lesion on cortical regions not directly impinged upon by the lesion; and (iii) the response of nerve growth factor-sensitive nucleus basalis neurons providing afferent cortical innervation to the increased availability of nerve growth factor within their target territory. Our results indicate that, within the infarcted cortex, nerve growth factor levels increase rapidly following the lesion (up 51% by one day post lesion), reach a maximum of 136% above controls by three days and undergo a slow decline back to baseline levels by 23 days. Within the frontal and cingulate cortices, which are not devascularized by the lesion and show no signs of pathological damage, nerve growth factor levels increase over a similar time course, and with a similar magnitude, to those in the lesioned cortex. Nerve growth factor-sensitive nucleus basalis neurons on the side ipsilateral to the lesion respond to increased cortical nerve growth factor levels with an increased accumulation of nerve growth factor within their cell bodies (revealed by nerve growth factor immunohistochemistry and quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) which was apparent at three days following the lesion, but no longer discernible at seven or 14 days or later. The present study investigated a model of cortical devascularization for its ability to alter nerve growth factor levels within the cortex. Nerve growth factor levels were rapidly increased within the infarcted cortical tissue beneath the lesion but were also elevated to a similar extent, and with a similar time course, in cortical regions not directly impinged upon by the lesion. The retrograde impact of elevated cortical nerve growth factor levels was demonstrated by an increased accumulation of nerve growth factor within the cell bodies of nucleus basalis neurons providing innervation to the cortex. This lesion model should provide a potential avenue for investigating the functional role(s) of nerve growth factor in the intact and lesioned adult central nervous system, as well as the internal mechanisms for regulating its synthesis, release, uptake, and degradation.
The formation of neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease shows a preferential involvement of certain cytoarchitecturally defined cortical areas suggesting systematic differences in regional neuronal vulnerability. The cellular and molecular nature of this selective neuronal vulnerability that follows a certain hierarchy of structural brain organization is largely unknown. In the present study, we compared the regional pattern of tangle density in Alzheimer's disease with systematic regional differences in neuronal plasticity that can be observed both during ageing and in Alzheimer's disease. Changes in dendritic length and arborization of Golgi-impregnated pyramidal neurons were analysed after three-dimensional reconstruction in 12 cortical areas. The intensity of dendritic remodelling that was observed during ageing as well as in Alzheimer's disease was regionally different and decreased in the following order: transentorhinal region &gt; limbic areas (entorhinal region, hippocampus) &gt; non-primary association areas (37, 40, 46) &gt; primary sensory association areas (7, 18, 22) &gt; primary sensory and motor cortex (17, 41, 4). These regional differences of neuronal plasticity follow the same pattern as the regional vulnerability to tangle formation in Alzheimer's disease. The results of the present study provide evidence that a high degree of structural neuronal plasticity might predispose neurons to tangle formation.
Synaptic vesicle recycling is a critical feature of neuronal communication as it ensures a constant supply of releasable transmitter at the nerve terminal. Physiological studies predict that vesicle recycling is rapid and recent studies with fluorescent dyes have confirmed that the entire process may occur in less than a minute. Two competing hypotheses have been proposed for the first step in the process comprising endocytosis of vesicular membrane. The coated vesicle model proposes that vesicular membrane components merge with the plasma membrane and are subsequently recovered and possibly sorted in coated pits. These pinch off as coated vesicles that either fuse with a sorting endosome from which new vesicles emerge or uncoat to become synaptic vesicles directly. The alternative &quot;kiss-and-run&quot; model proposes that &quot;empty&quot; vesicles are retrieved intact from the plasma membrane after secretion occurs via a fusion pore; they are then immediately refilled with transmitter and re-enter the secretion-competent pool. This article summarizes the data for both models and focusses on new information that supports the kiss-and-run model. In particular, the phenomenon of rapid endocytosis, which may represent the key endocytotic step in recycling, is discussed. Rapid endocytosis has time-constants in the order of a few seconds, thus is temporally consistent with the rate of vesicle recycling. Moreover, rapid endocytosis appears to be clathrin-independent, thus does not involve the coated vesicle pathway. We present a model that accommodates both types of endocytosis, which appear to coexist in many secretory tissues including neurons. Rapid endocytosis may reflect the principal mechanism operative under normal physiological rates of stimulation while coated vesicles may come into play at higher rates of stimulation. These two processes may feed into different populations of vesicles corresponding to distinct pools defined by studies of the kinetics of transmitter release.
Dopaminergic axons arising from midbrain nuclei innervate the mammalian and avian telencephalon with heterogeneous regional and laminar distributions. In primate, rodent, and avian species, the neuromodulator dopamine is low or almost absent in most primary sensory areas and is most abundant in the striatal parts of the basal ganglia. Furthermore, dopaminergic fibres are present in most limbic and associative structures. Herein, the distribution of DARPP-32, a phosphoprotein related to the dopamine D1-receptor, was investigated in the pigeon telencephalon by immunocytochemical techniques. Furthermore, co-occurrence of DARPP-32-positive perikarya with tyrosine hydroxylase-positive pericellular axonal &quot;baskets&quot; or glutamate decarboxylase-positive neurons, as well as co-occurrence of tyrosine hydroxylase and glutamate decarboxylase were examined. Specificity of the anti-DARPP-32 monoclonal antibody in pigeon brain was determined by immunoblotting. The distribution of DARPP-32 shared important features with the distribution of D1-receptors and dopaminergic fibres in the pigeon telencephalon as described previously. In particular, DARPP-32 was highly abundant in the avian basal ganglia, where a high percentage of neurons were labelled in the &quot;striatal&quot; parts (paleostriatum augmentatum, lobus parolfactorius), while only neuropil staining was observed in the &quot;pallidal&quot; portions (paleostriatum primitivum). In contrast, DARPP-32 was almost absent or present in comparatively lower concentrations in most primary sensory areas. Secondary sensory and tertiary areas of the neostriatum contained numbers of labelled neurons comparable to that of the basal ganglia and intermediate levels of neuropil staining. Approximately up to one-third of DARPP-32-positive neurons received a basket-type innervation from tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibres in the lateral and caudal neostriatum, but only about half as many did in the medial and frontal neostriatum, and even less so in the hyperstriatum. No case of colocalization of glutamate decarboxylase and DARPP-32 and no co-occurrence of glutamate decarboxylase-positive neurons and tyrosine hydroxylase-basket-like structures could be detected out of more than 2000 glutamate decarboxylase-positive neurons examined, although the high DARPP-32 and high tyrosine hydroxylase staining density hampered this analysis in the basal ganglia. In conclusion, the pigeon dopaminergic system seems to be organized similar to that of mammals. Apparently, in the telencephalon, dopamine has its primary function in higher level sensory, associative and motor processes, since primary areas showed only weak or no anatomical cues of dopaminergic modulation. Dopamine might exert its effects primarily by modulating the physiological properties of non-GABAergic and therefore presumably excitatory units.
A common cause of hearing impairment is exposure to loud noise. Recent research has demonstrated that the auditory mechanosensory cells are essential for normal hearing sensitivity and frequency selectivity. However, little is known about the effect of noise exposure on the mechanical properties of the auditory sensory cells. Here we report a significant reduction in the stiffness and cell length of the outer hair cells after impulse noise exposure, suggesting that mechanical changes at the cellular level are involved in noise-induced hearing loss. There is a recovery of the cellular stiffness and cell length over a two-week period, indicating an activation of cellular repair mechanisms for restoring the auditory function following noise trauma. The reduced stiffness observed at the cellular level is likely to be the cause for the downward shift of the characteristic frequency seen following acoustic trauma. The deterioration and the recovery of the mechanical properties of outer hair cells may form important underlying factors in all kinds of noise-induced hearing loss.
The pro-inflammatory mediator bradykinin plays an important role in hyperalgesia during inflammatory conditions. Here, we used unilateral ligation of the sciatic nerve to investigate whether the expression of bradykinin binding sites in isolated rat dorsal root ganglion neurons is changed following nerve injury. Under control conditions, the percentage of neurons expressing bradykinin binding sites increased from 52% at day 0.8 in culture to 93% at day 1.8 and decreased to 67% at day 3.8. Following nerve ligation either two or 10 days prior to the isolation of the somata, the percentage of neurons from ipsilateral ganglia that expressed bradykinin binding sites was already 87% and 86%, respectively, at day 0.8 in culture; this level was maintained at day 1.8 and decreased slightly at day 3.8. In control neurons, high densities of bradykinin binding sites on individual neurons were observed no sooner than at day 1.8, but already at day 0.8 following nerve ligation, due to a &quot;de novo&quot; expression of B1 receptors and augmentation of B2 receptors. Neurons from the contralateral side responded similarly to ipsilateral neurons after a two day nerve ligation, however, after either a 10 day ligation or a sham operation neurons responded similarly to control neurons. These data are the first evidence that expression of B1 receptors is induced and expression of B2 receptors is enhanced in sensory neurons following nerve ligation. Under pathophysiological conditions, increased expression of subtypes of bradykinin receptors in sensory neurons could contribute to chronic pain conditions.
